July 3, 2020||Goa||Goa registers biggest single-day rise in Covid cases||PANAJI: Goa registered yet another biggest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases with 95 people testing positive on Thursday, taking its tally of active cases to 744 even as 64 patients were cured and discharged. 32 people tested positive in a single day at Zuarinagar in Vasco which has emerged as a hotspot in the last three to four days, taking its count to 80. After Mangor hill, Zuarinagar has reported the highest number of cases. Another hotspot in port town, Baina reported a total 54 till Thursday. The locations which have seen Covid-19 cases during the last few days witnessed a spike, while new cases were also reported from Mardol, Marcel, Goa Velha and Valpoi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-registers-biggest-single-day-rise-in-covid-cases/articleshow/76758584.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 3, 2020||Patna||Patna: Thieves strike at 4 flats in sealed apartment||PATNA: Thieves decamped with valuables from four flats in Patligram Apartment at Bajrangpuri under the Alamaganj police station area in the city on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. The apartment was sealed recently after one of its occupants was tested positive for coronavirus. Police said it’s still unclear what the thieves have stolen from the locked flats. “Thieves broke open the main doors of the four flats. According to locals, one of the flat owners lives in USA and the three others had left the city after the government eased lockdown,” sub-inspector Rakesh Ranjan, who reached the apartment for investigations, said. Ranjan said there is no boundary wall in the backside of the apartment. “The apartment also does not have a CCTV camera,” he said, adding the Covid-19 positive patient lived in F Block of the apartment. “The theft took place in D Block,” Ranjan said. SHO of Alamganj police station Sudhir Kumar said police were awaiting return of the flat owners to get details about stolen valuables. Meanwhile, though the apartment falls in a containment zone, the police personnel reached there without wearing PPE kits. “PPE kits were not used, but we sanitised ourselves before going to the spot and after returning from there,” Ranjan said. The SHO said police vehicles were also sanitized after the teams returned from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/thieves-strike-at-4-flats-in-sealed-apartment/articleshow/76756790.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 3, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj youngsters drawn to cycling during lockdown||PRAYAGRAJ: As lockdown restrictions have been eased and public transport is not preferred due to fear of the spread of Covid-19, cycling in groups has become a latest fad among the young residents of the city. The limited passenger policy in public vehicles has also made many residents either buy a cycle or repair their old ones for daily commute. City resident Vineet Dwivedi has decided to ride his bicycle, which had been lying idle since he left college. He repaired his bicycle and now pedals at least 30km daily to keep himself fit and healthy. Dwivedi, a city-based educationalist, also encourages his students for the same. He said, "I, along with my group of friends, pedal at least 30km." All the cyclists carry masks and maintain a distance from each other while cycling. Nikhil Malang, a city-based trader dealing in retail medicine business, too loves to cycle at least 25 km everyday. He said, "I am a cyclist and have completed Manali to Leh to Khardungala ride in the past." Malang added, "Group cycling has undoubtedly turned into a latest fad among citizens, and as a result, there has been a shortage of bicycles in the city recently. Entrepreneur Vinay Mehrotra said, "Cycling is the best way to keep ourselves fit and healthy amid the coronavirus pandemic. It has become a routine of his life."W Banker Ashutosh said, "With gyms still shut, we find cycling the best option to keep ourselves fit in these trying times. I cycle along with my friends every morning." Manoj Kapoor, owner of a prominent bicycle store in the city, said, "With curbs being relaxed, the sale of bicycles has picked up and reached 25 to 30%. But currently, fresh lot of cycles is not arriving from Punjab and Tamil Nadu, and hence there's a shortage in supply while the demand is high. "The strength of bicycle lovers has increased to a major extent in the city, and many can be spotted cycling in morning and evening hours," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/prayagraj-youngsters-drawn-to-cycling-during-lockdown/articleshow/76758674.cms||Kapil Dixit
July 3, 2020||India||Private companies to run trains by April 2023||NEW DELHI: Rail passengers will have the option to board trains operated by private players by April, 2023. The routes of 109 pairs of such trains have been identified to ensure that all important cities and major tourist and pilgrimage destinations are connected. Railway board chairman V K Yadav on Thursday claimed this is being done to increase availability of trains as he dismissed any speculation that this would lead to job cuts in railways and the poor getting hit. “These (trains) will constitute only 5% of the mail and express trains that we operate. So, the rest 95% will be operated by railways,” he added. According to the railway ministry, a maximum of 18 pairs of such trains will be operated under Mumbai clusters (regions), followed by 13 pairs each under Delhi and Prayagraj regions. As per the bid document, 12 pairs of such trains will be operated under Chennai region, 10 each under Howrah, Patna and Secunderabad clusters and nine each under Jaipur and Chandigarh regions. Only five pairs of trains will be operated under Bengaluru region. Responding to whether the private players will hike the fares exorbitantly for trains operated by them, Yadav said these trains will compete with flights and air-conditioned buses as well. “So, the market will determine the fares,” he said. Watch Private players to run 5% trains, operations likely from April 2023: Railway board chairman||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/private-companies-to-run-trains-by-april-2023/articleshow/76758683.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Sangrur: Elderly woman dies after testing positive for Covid-19||PATIALA: A 60-year-old woman from Malerkotla died on Thursday, a few days after she was tested positive of Covid-19 infection. With the latest fatality, the Covid-19 toll in Sangrur district rose to 14. Health authorities said that the elderly woman was suffering from hypertension and other chronic ailments. The patient had gone to Civil Hospital in Ludhiana from where she was referred to CMC where she died at 3.30am. Meanwhile, Sangrur reported 16 new coronavirus patients during the day, taking district's tally to 515 cases, health department officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sangrur-elderly-woman-dies-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76758885.cms||Bharat Khanna
July 3, 2020||India||India-China border row: A minor cool-off, but LAC’s still hot||NEW DELHI: There has been a slight reduction of troops at the four friction zones on the Line of Actual Control but there is no let up in concentration and mobilisation of forces by India and China. The lengthy discussion between top Indian and Chinese military commanders held earlier this week is expected to continue and seek to define the disengagement process in greater detail. In the light of the June 15 Galwan Valley clash, the Indian side has sought more specific measures to establish de-escalation at a particular area. The discussions, despite their “positive” trajectory, are expected to be a long haul and the entire process of disengagement, if it comes along, may well stretch into the winter, sources said. The confrontation has acquired a high profile internationally and the Chinese leadership would be wary of a de-escalation that is read as a ceding of ground to Indian pressure. The Indian government is determined that there will be no compromise on territory and that PLA will need to pull back from the LAC into its areas of influence. It was pointed out that while Chinese forces have pitched in at the ‘Finger 4-8’ area at Pangong Tso, the patrol routes have become more contentious in recent years. Earlier, lack of infrastructure on the Indian side gave Chinese forces considerable leeway in movement. Watch Galwan valley clash: A minor cool-off, but LAC’s still hot||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-minor-cool-off-but-lacs-still-hot/articleshow/76759000.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Dental exams to start from July 7||LUDHIANA: Even after Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh stated that the decision of exams will be taken after July 15, more than 3,000 students of as many as 14 dental colleges across the state are worried as their exams will commence from July 7. There are total 14 dental colleges in state. These include Baba Jaswant Singh Dental College Hospital and Research Institute, Ludhiana; Christian Dental College, Brown Road ; Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha Dental College, VPO Sarabha, Ludhiana; Genesis Institute of Dental Sciences and Research (Dental College and Hospital),Ferozepur-Moga Road, Ferozepur; Government Dental College, Amritsar; Government Dental College, Sangrur Road, Patiala; Guru Nanak Dev Dental College and Research Institute, Patiala-Bathinda Road, Sunam; Luxmi Bai Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital, Sirhind Road, VPO Baran, Patiala; National Dental College, VPO Gulabgarh, Tehsil Dera Bassi, Mohali ; Rayat Bahra Dental College, Village Daon Majra, Tehsil Kharar, Mohali ; Desh Bhagat Dental College, Mandi Gobindgarh; Dasmesh Institute of Research and Dental Sciences, Talwandi Road, Faridkot ; Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Dental Sciences and Research, G.T. Road,Amritsar and Sri Sukhmani Dental College and Hospital, Dera Bassi, Mohali. Representatives of the Dental Students' Association of Punjab have written to CM for postponement of exams. The letter states, "We don't demand cancellation of exams or promotion to the next class. All the students seek is the exams be postponed till normalcy is restored in the state. The number of Covid-19 cases as well as the death rate has been increasing each day and June 30 had record of the maximum deaths in a day. There are students, who are still stuck in other states. No assurance had been given by colleges regarding infection of anyone during exams." A BDS student of Christian Dental College has sent an email to the Dental Council of India and the Punjab government stating, "We have been told that Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, will hold exams from July 7 and I am scared that if I travel to take my exams I might get infected. If other exams like UPSC, IIT Bombay, IIT Kanpur are either taking online exams or have extended dates and have cancelled their first three-year paper, then why colleges in Punjab can't do the same? It should be a unanimous decision from the Union health ministry in concern of students to either extend the dates of every university exams or take online paper for first three-year students. Healthy youth is important not corona pass out graduates. Hope our government will take this matter seriously" A mail was also sent to the state health minister, but the students are yet to receive any response. Principal of Christian Dental College, Brown Road, Dr Abi M Thomas, too, has written to controller of examinations Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, Dr SP Singh a month ago giving suggestions regarding conduct of theory and practical examinations of dental courses (both undergraduates and postgraduates) session May and June "The Bachelors in Dental Sciences (BDS) theory examinations are difficult to conduct as out-of-state candidates require 14-day quarantine on arrival and they need a separate place for this. This is difficult for most of the institutions. Therefore, to have theory examinations on regular pattern is difficult and practically impossible. In this context, 70% marks can be given based on theory internal assessment and the rest 30% can be given based on theory viva by an external and internal examiner through online video conference with each candidate," the letter had stated. Hardeep Singh, parent of a fourth-year student pursuing BDS, said, "We have received a message from the college stating that they have made representation to the university with regards to the examinations, but the DCI and the university have decided to go ahead with the exams. They have attached three letters for our reference. In fact, all parents have raised one question and that is who will take responsibility if something happened to our children. To this, they have replied that in these trying times everyone should be responsible and conduct themselves well. With regards to the university exams, we have been told to contact the controller of examinations of the university if we had any concerns." Many students are stuck in different parts of the country and those from Delhi, Mumbai and Madhya Pradesh are already under quarantine as family members of some have contacted the virus. They won't be able to come back before July 31 as the pandemic is not yet over and the parents are not going to take the risk of sending them anywhere now. Dr Thomas said, "We have 110 students of second, third and fourth year, out of some are day scholars while most reside in hostels and we will follow the university protocol during the exam." Dr DL Kalsi, principal of Baba Jaswant Singh Dental College Hospital and Research Institute, Ludhiana, said, "We have approximately 100 students per class and we will follow the instructions. We have enough space to accommodate the students and follow physical distancing during the conduct of exam." Controller of examinations Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, Dr SP Singh, said, "Advisories have been issued for examinations centers and institutions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the principals and management have been advised to allow the entry of the students in their hostels in a phased manner. Besides, thermal screening at the entry of the examination halls is compulsory. In case of necessity, sufficient separate isolation facility should be made available by the institute." Om Parkash Soni, state minister of medical education and research said, "I have told vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur to conduct the exam after July 15. If the CM has instructed them, then they should follow the rules. I will take up the matter with the CM directly."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dental-exams-to-start-from-july-7/articleshow/76759446.cms||Mehak Jain
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||568 new Covid-19 cases, 15,000-mark breached in Haryana||CHANDIGARH/KARNAL: With 568 fresh cases of Covid-19 in Haryana in the past 24 hours, the total number of cases in the state crossed the 15,000 count on Thursday evening. According to health bulletin released by the state health department, Haryana has recorded 15,509 cases till date. Besides, with 11 deaths reported on Thursday, the casualty has reached 251. Among the 15,509 cases in the state, 10,511 are males, 4,996 females and two transgenders. The total active cases are 4,239, while 11,019 have recovered. The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in the state has been recorded to be 16 days. Till Thursday, 2,77,031 persons in the state tested. Around 46,025 persons in the state are presently under surveillance. As many as 41 patients are currently on oxygen support and 18 on ventilators. In overall highest cases in districts, Gurgaon is leading with 5,569 cases, followed by Faridabad with 4,028 cases and Sonipat with 1,339 cases. On Thursday, Karnal reported two deaths and 41 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the number of confirmed cases to 359 in the district. A 67-year-old man of Sector 14 and a 65-year-old woman of Sector 7 died at Mullana Medical College in Ambala district on Thursday morning. Both patients tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Karnal chief medical officer Dr Ashwini Ahuja confirmed the development. According to information, they were admitted at a private hospital in Karnal. After their reports came positive for Covid-19, they were shifted to the Mullana Medical College on Wednesday, where they were on ventilators. On Thursday morning, they succumbed to the deadly virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/568-new-cases-15k-mark-breached-in-hry/articleshow/76759506.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Efforts on for smooth industrial ops: Arora||Fatehgarh Sahib: Punjab government is working hard for the smooth working of industry and is committed to resolve problems faced by it, state industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora said while speaking to media in Mandi Gobindgarh on Thursday. He said due to Covid 19, all the sectors, including industry, was affected but the government was taking various steps to bring development back track. Arora said the government will extend the deadline for adoption of piped natural gas (PNG) by the industry and the matter regarding price variation within the state would be resolved. He said the government was upgrading industrial focal points and developing new focal points. Also, 125 acre land at Wazirabad village of Fatehgarh Sahib district has been allocated especially for pharmaceutical industry, he added. A focal point for small scale industry will be developed at Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib and all issues regarding the Invest Punjab would be resolved on priority basis, he said. Arora said the government had announced Rs 15 crore for the facilitation of Mandi Gobindgarh industry and that Rs 2 crore installment would be released soon. He also announced Rs 56 lakh for the steel chamber and directed the officials to provide space for industrial associations at DIC, Mandi Gobindgarh. He also assured the industrialists of looking into the problems faced by them regarding GST.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/efforts-on-for-smooth-industrial-ops-arora/articleshow/76759507.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 35 cases, breaches 1k count||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported 35 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, including 17 from Kinnaur district, six from Shimla, three each from Hamirpur and Una, two from Kangra, beside one each from Sirmaur, Bilaspur, Lahaul-Spiti and Mandi. Total number of positive cases in the state has now reached 1,014. Of these 359 cases are active, while 632 have recovered, 13 have migrated out of state and eight have died of Covid-19. In the state, 15 positive patients have also recovered, including five from Hamirpur district, three each from Solan and Una districts, two from Una district and one each from Shimla and Kangra districts. Among those tested positive on Thursday are 23 jawans of ITBP, including 17 from Jangi in Kinnaur and six from Jeori in Rampur sub-division of Shimla district, all of them were in institutional quarantine in their respective centres. In Lahaul-Spiti district, a 22-year-old migrant labourer from Jharkhand, who had reached Keylong from Delhi on June 16 to work with a private construction company, has tested positive. In Sirmaur district, an Army jawan, who had come to Kandaiwala from Delhi recently and was in home quarantine, has been tested positive. In Mandi district, a positive case has been detected in Jogindernagar sub-division. In Kangra district, a 65-year-old woman of Ghamala village and a 22-year-old woman from Sanot village, who had returned from Kyrgyzstan on June 14, have tested positive. Both have been shifted to Dedicated Covid Care Centre at Dadh. In the state maximum, 280 positive cases have been reported from Kangra district, of which 108 are active. In Hamirpur district, total 253 positive cases have been reported, of which 85 cases are active; while 110 cases each have been reported from Solan and Una districts, of which 47 and 23 cases are active. A total of 58,887 persons were put under surveillance in the state till Thursday, of them 39,283 have completed their 28 days of surveillance, while 19,604 are under active surveillance. So far, 83,553 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of which 82,435 have been tested negative, while results of 104 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-reports-35-cases-breaches-1k-count/articleshow/76759509.cms||---
July 3, 2020||India||Transgenders in central police forces soon||NEW DELHI: In a major gender reform, the home ministry is set to allow induction of transgenders as ‘third gender’ into the central armed police forces. The ministry is at the concluding stage of consultations with central paramilitary forces — BSF, CRPF, ITBP, CISF and SSB — on incorporating transgender, along with male and female, in the rules for the recruitment examination for assistant commandants in central forces, starting this year. The move follows enactment of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, in December last year. The Act prohibits discrimination against a transgender person in matters like education, employment, healthcare services, accommodation, right to acquire property and other public services and facilities. In a circular on April 20, the department of personnel and training had requested all central ministries and departments to modify examination rules and provide for inclusion of ‘transgender’ as a separate category of gender, in conformity with the Act. Once formalised, the decision will mark a breakthrough for transgender rights, particularly in the tradition-bound paramilitary. The move can be expected to spur recruitment of transgenders in other areas, including the armed forces and police organisations. Last year, Chhattisgarh had announced that transgenders would be eligible for police jobs. In a letter to inspectors general (personnel) of BSF, CRPF, ITBP, SSB and CISF a few weeks ago, the home ministry had sought comments regarding the proposed inclusion of ‘third gender’ as an option for applicants for the CAPF (assistant commandants) examination, 2020. While BSF submitted a positive feedback soon after, CRPF, ITBP, SSB and CISF had not responded till June 30. On Wednesday, the MHA sent a reminder to CRPF, ITBP, SSB and CISF, asking them to respond by 9am on July 2, so that a final view could be reached. The central paramilitary forces have a combined strength of over 10 lakh personnel. The Modi government has taken several steps for inclusion of the transgender community, for long-denied government jobs as candidates could apply and appear for recruitment exams only in male or female category. As per Clause 9 of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, no establishment shall discriminate against any transgender person in any matter relating to employment, including but not limited to, recruitment, promotion and other related issues. The first transgender officer to be inducted in the police forces was sub-inspector K Prithika Yashini in Tamil Nadu in 2017. She had applied for the post of sub-inspector but was rejected. She challenged the rejection in Madras HC, which ordered a written test for her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/transgenders-in-central-police-forces-soon/articleshow/76759435.cms||Bharti Jain
July 3, 2020||India||Male or female, urban or rural, over 50% Indians 25 years or older||NEW DELHI: For the first time, more than half of India’s population, irrespective of gender or whether it’s in urban or rural areas, is now 25 years or older. This was revealed in the Sample Registration System 2018 report released recently by the registrar general and census commissioner of India. As India’s fertility rate goes down steadily along with a rise in life expectancy, the proportion of its young population is shrinking and the median age has been increasing. The report showed that even among rural men, the proportion of those below 25 years of age had fallen to 49.9% from 50.2% in 2017. In all other categories — urban women, urban men and rural women — those under 25 already constituted less than half the population. Overall, the under-25s in 2018 constituted 46.9% of the population. However, there are still several states, those that continue to have high fertility rates, where this proportion is much higher. Thus, Bihar, with the highest fertility rate of 3.2, had the highest proportion of its population below 25 years, 57.2%, followed by UP with the second-highest fertility rate of 2.9, where the under-25 year population was 52.7%. The longer a state has had low fertility rates and relatively high life expectancy, the smaller the proportion of its population below 25 years. That explains why though many states now have lower fertility rates than Kerala, since Kerala has had low fertility over a long period of time, it had 37.4% or just over a third of its population, below 25 years. Kerala’s fertility rate had fallen to 1.8 as early as 1991. Though TN, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, J&K, HP and Punjab now have a lower fertility of 1.6 compared to Kerala’s 1.7, the fertility rates of these states was more than 3 in 1991, barring TN with 2.2. As a result, they have a higher proportion of under-25s than Kerala. Since fertility is lower in urban areas, the proportion of those under 25 years is less in urban areas than in rural areas. Migration for work to urban areas could also be playing a part in this. Higher life expectancy among women and, in some states, declining sex ratios over decades also means that in most states, the proportion of under-25s among women is lower than among men. Nationally, 46.3% of the female population was below 25 years of age compared to 47.4% of males. Watch TOI daily: Male or female, urban or rural, over 50% Indians 25 yrs or older||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/male-or-female-urban-or-rural-over-50-indians-25-yrs-or-older/articleshow/76759847.cms||Rema Nagarajan
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||Unlocked: Adda at Coffee House||When the iconic landmark on College Street reopened after over three months on Thursday with fewer seats, regulars rushed back for a taste of nostalgia more than its altered 12-item menu ‘The soul of Coffee House stays intact’ The moment I read the news about Coffee House reopening on Thursday, I couldn’t resist paying a visit. I took a bus from Dum Dum to reach here. This place has been an important part of my life since four years. However, when they scanned my temperature at the entrance and asked me to sanitise my hands, it did feel a bit different from the Coffee House I’ve known. But after settling down and placing the order, it felt like nothing has really changed. The soul of Coffee House remains intact despite the superficial changes. — Tirthendu Banerjee, an aspiring cinematographer ‘we’ll get used to the changes soon’ I’ve been coming here for the last thirty years. Half of the tables are gone now and there are very few options on the menu, but this place has always embraced change. There was a time when every table had an ashtray, but that disappeared in the last few years. People got used to it. We’ll get used to thermal checks, sanitisers and disposable cups too. These things really don’t matter; what matters is being in the company of the same old friends. — Sailendra Nath Dutta, a retired schoolteacher Limited menu for the time being The regular menu that featured over 70 items has been replaced with a temporary menu with just 12 items for the time being. Apart from hot and cold coffee, they are serving quick preparations like pakoda, sandwiches and eggs. “Currently, we are not making Chinese, Indian and Mughlai dishes because we are not sure how the demand will be like. We will be gradually adding more options, depending on the footfall,” said Jahid Hussain, the manager. A few patrons we spoke to did admit that they were missing all-time favourites like chicken Afghani, cutlet, chilli chicken and fish fry. Waiters ready yet cautious The waiters here, who call themselves bearers, are nothing short of the lifeline of Coffee House. While their white uniform and headgear stay on, each of them is now required to wear masks and gloves too. “Out of more than 18 waiters who work here, just seven are on duty at present. Many of them haven’t returned yet, but since the number of tables has halved, the authorities are not in a hurry to get them back,” said Pradip Adhikari, who has been waiting tables at Coffee House for 31 years. Despite their safety gear, a few of them are cautious when it comes to disposing of used dishes and cutlery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unlocked-adda-at-coffee-house/articleshow/76759959.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
July 3, 2020||India||MP: Scindia’s 12 in Shivraj’s expanded cabinet of 28||BHOPAL: The Jyotiraditya Scindia impact was clear in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet on Thursday as 28 MLAs took oath in a much-delayed expansion. With 12 of them from Team Scindia, the Rajya Sabha MP thundered, “Tiger zinda hai”. These were the exact words Chouhan had uttered on December 20, 2018, after losing the assembly polls, and had asserted that the Congress government would not last its full term. The Madhya Pradesh cabinet now has 34 members, including the chief minister. Former Congress MLAs who propelled BJP back to power now make up 41% of the cabinet. As many as 14 of the 22 (64%) Congress MLAs who broke away with Scindia in March, toppling the Kamal Nath government, have been made ministers ahead of make-or-break bypolls. In contrast, only about 19% of BJP’s 107 MLAs made it into the cabinet. Among those left out on Thursday were six of the old guard who had been with Chouhan in his earlier cabinets. Mendola — a confidant of BJP stalwart Kailash Vijayvargiya — was seen as a strong candidate but lost out. In fact, no one from Vijayvargiya’s team has made it to the ministry. The same goes for former CM Uma Bharti. Watch MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan expands cabinet, 28 ministers take oath||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-scindias-12-in-shivrajs-expanded-cabinet-of-28/articleshow/76759972.cms||---
July 3, 2020||India||Pulwama case: Aide of IED-maker in NIA net||NEW DELHI: NIA has arrested a resident of Budgam, J&K, for having facilitated the movement of Pakistani IED maker and Jaish e Mohammad terrorist Muhammad Umer Farooq, who assembled the vehicle-borne IED used Pulwama terror attack of February 2019, after the latter had infiltrated into India in April 2018. Mohd Iqbal Rather -- resident of Futlipura, Charar-e-Shareef in Budgam and sixth accused to be arrested in the Pulwama attack case -- was part of the Jaish transportation module and had assisted Umer Farooq in his onward journey via National Highway near the international border in Jammu region to south Kashmir. Muhammad Umer Farooq was killed along with another Pulwama terror attack accused Kamran in an encounter with the security forces on March 29, 2019. Iqbal Rather, 25, was in constant touch with Pakistan-based leadership of Jaish e Mohammad and was communicating with them using secure messaging applications. He was already in judicial custody since September 2018 -- some six months after he facilitated Umer Farooq following his infiltration from across Pakistan -- in another Jaish case investigated by NIA. This other case — titled Jhajjar-Kotli encounter case — relates to a September 2018 gunfight in which three Pakistani terrorists were killed in Jammu’s Reasi district. Iqbal Rather had facilitated these terrorists after they crossed over from Pakistan. Rather was on Thursday produced by the jail authorities in the NIA special court in Jammu, which granted NIA his 7-day custody. NIA had earlier made five arrests in the case. On February 28, it arrested overground worker Shakir Bashir Magrey who had allegedly provided shelter to suicide bomber Adil Ahmad Dar and even drove him to the attack spot in the car used for the attack. Later on March 3, 2020, NIA arrested Tariq Ahmed Shah and his daughter Ishan Jan, both residents of Hakripora, Pulwama. Tariq, NIA said, disclosed that his house was used as shelter for bomber Adil Ahmed Dar, Umar Farooq & Kamran, as well as Sameer Ahmed Dar, a Jaish terrorist from Pulwama, and Mohd. Ismail, on 15 occasions during 2018-19. Insha Jan was in constant touch with Umar Farooq and was in communication with him over telephone and other social media applications. On March 6, NIA arrested two more accused Waiz ul Islam and Mohd Abbas Rather. Waiz disclosed that he used his Amazon online shopping account to procure chemicals for making IEDs, batteries and other accessories used in Pulwama attack. Accused Mohd Abbas Rather is an old overground worker of JeM who gave shelter at his home to Jaish terrorist Mohd Umar (IED expert). Further, he also harboured JeM terrorists namely Adil Ahmad Dar, Sameer Ahmed Dar and Kamran (Pakistani) at his house a number of times in the run up to the Pulwama attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pulwama-case-aide-of-ied-maker-in-nia-net/articleshow/76760088.cms||Bharti Jain
July 3, 2020||India||Tuticorin case: Told truth according to my conscience, TN woman cop says||TUTICORIN: The role played by Sathankulam head constable Revathy in exposing the torture unleashed by her fellow police personnel on P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks has now turned crucial to the progress of the case. Her testimony before the judicial magistrate turned out to be the first person account of the torture the victims suffered for two days before their death. “I spoke according to my conscience. I am ready to say it anywhere,” she told reporters. Hailed as a hero when her male colleagues were party to the crime or had decided to stay silent, the cop, has now sought protection for her and her family. She said she was aware that she would be questioned in connection with the issue when the victims died. “I hope those involved get their due,” she said adding that she has sought protection for herself, her husband and two daughters from the Madras HC and Tuticorin district collector Sandeep Nanduri. Recalling the incident, her husband Santhosh told reporters that on June 19 his wife started from home at 7pm. On reaching the station at 8.30pm, she told him, “I am yet to enter the station but they are beating someone.” Around 10pm, he called her again when she said the cops were beating a man and his son. “The father (Jeyaraj) asked for water and she gave,” he said. He recalled that around midnight he spoke to her again when she said that they were beaten again and were bleeding. After the duo died, she was worried as she was on station duty that night and was sure to be questioned. “We are ready to speak the truth. The worst case is they could dismiss her from service. I asked her not to worry and to tell the truth,” he said. District collector Sandeep Nanduri told TOI that the SP has provided one constable each to the head constable and her husband for protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tuticorin-case-told-truth-according-to-my-conscience-tn-woman-cop-says/articleshow/76760128.cms||---
July 3, 2020||India||Panel OK with plan to include salary in OBC ‘creamy layer’ test||NEW DELHI: In an about face, the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) is learnt to have dropped its opposition to the government proposal to include “salary” in the “income test” to decide if an OBC belongs to the “creamy layer”, setting the stage for a major review of the criteria for availing Mandal reservations. In recent internal meetings, NCBC agreed with the proposal which states that “salaries” will be factored in for the “income test” to decide “creamy layer” — the category of OBCs which is seen as “well off” and thus ineligible for 27% job and education quotas. Presently, as per the 1993 official memorandum which lays down the norms for creamy layer, “salary” and “agricultural income” are not part of the “income test”. The tweaking of the criteria to decide the “well-off” among the OBCs will mark a watershed in the Mandal reservations. Calculating “gross family income” based on “salary” will make a backward breach the threshold beyond which he is ineligible for quotas. A final decision is likely to be taken soon after which NCBC will convey its view on the cabinet note moved by the ministry of social justice and empowerment. Curiously, NCBC viewed the proposal in March as inimical to the interests of the backward castes and conveyed to the government its hostile view in a detailed note. At the same time, the Centre proposes to increase the annual income ceiling for determining the “creamy layer” from the present Rs 8 lakh to Rs 12 lakh, a move which will be favourable for the OBCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/panel-ok-with-plan-to-include-salary-in-obc-creamy-layer-test/articleshow/76760236.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
July 3, 2020||Business||If buyer opts out, builder must refund most amount||NEW DELHI: A home-buyer will have to forfeit only the earnest money paid at the time of booking a flat and the builder has to refund the rest of the amount if the buyer decides not to take possession of a flat, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) has ruled. It also said one-year delay in completion of a housing project is reasonable and a buyer cannot seek refund of money on that ground. While adjudicating a dispute between real estate company Emmar MGF and a home-buyer who refused to take possession of a flat in its housing project in Gurgaon and sought refund of money, a bench of Justice V K Jain said the company cannot enforce its agreement as per which it was allowed to define the forfeit money and deduct other charges while refunding the amount. The NCDRC said such agreement was not enforceable as it was “one-sided” in favour of the builder at the cost of the interest of homebuyers. It held that only the amount paid at the time of booking should be non-refundable and the builder has to refund the rest of the amount. In this case, a couple had booked a flat worth around Rs 1.68 crore and paid Rs 10 lakh at the time of booking in 2013. They subsequently paid over Rs one crore through bank loan, but decided to get the money refunded when the builder offered possession in 2018 after a delay of 14 months. “The complainants paid an initial amount of Rs 10 lakh to the builder for booking a residential flat allotted to them. The said amount being the initial deposit made by them would constitute earnest money despite definition to the contrary given in the buyer agreement executed between the parties. The builder, in my opinion, should deduct only a sum of Rs 10 lakh out of the total amount received by it,” Jain said in his order. “As regards the terms of the agreement executed between the complainant and the builder, such agreements being wholly one-sided constitutes an unfair trade practice and, therefore, cannot bind the flat buyer,” it said. It, however, rejected the plea of the home-buyer who sought refund with interest for delay of around 14 months in completion of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/if-buyer-opts-out-builder-must-refund-most-amount/articleshow/76760329.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
July 3, 2020||World||Instability stalks Nepal as calls for Oli’s resignation grow||NEW DELHI: Nepal on Thursday seemed to be headed for instability as calls for PM K P Oli’s resignation mounted from his own ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) even as he looked to dig in his heels as he met President Bidhya Devi Bhandari to get her to prorogue the ongoing budget session of parliament after a recommendation from his cabinet. The move is being read in Kathmandu as a desperate attempt by the beleaguered PM to avoid a floor test. Reports from Nepal suggested that he was also buying time to split his party and survive in office. The latest trigger point was his remarks that India was plotting against him, a claim that saw senior party members demand that he produce evidence. The Pushpa Kamal Dahal Prachanda-led faction in the ruling NCP has demanded the resignation of Oli from the post of PM and also co-chair of the party. The prorogation of parliament will also allow Oli to introduce an ordinance, a report in the Kathmandu Post said. “In April, Oli had introduced a controversial ordinance that was aimed at making it easier for parties to split. The ordinance was withdrawn after vociferous criticism. Many believe that Oli could reintroduce the ordinance and split the party,” it said. Senior members asked Oli to step down for his failure to handle a host of issues including the Covid-19 situation in Nepal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/instability-stalks-nepal-as-calls-for-olis-resignation-grow/articleshow/76760420.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||New startup policy for Goa on anvil||Panaji: With the existing Goa Startup Policy set to lapse in 2020, the state has started working on a revamped policy that will address regulatory bottlenecks and enhance funding avenues for startups. The draft of the new Goa Startup Policy 2020 will be uploaded on the Goa Online Portal to gather further inputs from stakeholders, officials said. The Startup Promotion Cell (SPC) has already begun work on the new policy by taking the learnings from the existing startup policy and inputs by startups. According to officials, the revised startup policy will focus institutional support, finance support, access to talent, skill development and thought leadership. “SPC is very soon going to launch the challenge hackathon for public procurement. This hackathon is dedicated to enable the government department to source their products, services and solutions from local startups,” said IT department officials. The SPC said that 21 startups have received financial assistance..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-startup-policy-for-goa-on-anvil/articleshow/76759297.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Business||Tatas to put Rs 2,600 crore into Tata Power||MUMBAI: Tata Sons will infuse Rs 2,600 crore into Tata Power to strengthen the electricity generator’s balance sheet. It will route the funds by subscribing to Tata Power’s 49.05 crore equity shares at Rs 53 apiece. After the subscription, the Tata Sons stake in Tata Power will increase by 10% to 45%. The fund infusion move by Tata Sons comes after Sebi eased pricing rules for preferential issues and allowed promoters to acquire up to 10% of a listed company through the preferential route without having to make an open offer. Sebi gave the temporary relaxation to enable entities to raise capital fast after businesses came under financial stress due to the Covid-19-triggered slowdown. The capital infusion into Tata Power — the largest by the Tata Group promoter into an operating company this fiscal — comes after six years when Tata Sons participated in the Rs 1,993-crore rights offer of the electricity producer. Tata Power will use the money to pare its Rs 44,000-crore debt and to execute its long-term growth strategy. At the consolidated promoter level, the Tata Group’s stake in Tata Power will increase to 47% from 37%. The group had previously stated that it wants its stake in key operating companies to be at least 50%. TCS is the only listed company in which the group holds the highest stake of 72%. Tata Power will seek shareholders’ approval for the allotment of equity shares on a preferential basis to Tata Sons on July 30. The company said that the preferential issue price of Rs 53 is at a 15% premium to its Wednesday closing price. Besides the capital-raise from Tata Sons, Tata Power plans to mobilise Rs 3,000 crore by divesting non-core assets including overseas investments. This amount too will be used to deleverage the balance sheet. In addition to these, Tata Power plans to bring its renewable energy business under an infrastructure investment trust (InvIT) to unlock value.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-to-put-rs-2-6k-cr-into-tata-power/articleshow/76758072.cms||Reeba Zachariah
July 3, 2020||Business||HUL’s ‘Glow & Lovely’ sparks brand row with rival Emami in men’s segment||MUMBAI/KOLKATA: Even before Hindustan Unilever’s (HUL’s) rebranded ‘Glow & Lovely’ (erstwhile Fair & Lovely) could hit stores, its newly christened men’s range ‘Glow & Handsome’ may have hit a trademark hurdle, with rival Emami claiming it has already launched ‘Emami Glow & Handsome’ digitally. Within a couple of hours of HUL announcing the new name for Fair & Lovely, its flagship skincare product, Emami issued a statement expressing shock over the decision to rename the men’s range as ‘Glow & Handsome’. Emami has termed HUL’s move as an “unfair business practice”. Emami director Mohan Goenka, who looks after the brand, told TOI, “We will surely take legal action.” Launched in 2004, Emami’s Fair & Handsome created the men’s fairness category in India, even while Fair & Lovely was a dominant fairness cream in the market. Market research revealed that men were frequent users of fairness creams, which were otherwise targeted at women. HUL then came up with a range of products for men under ‘Fair & Lovely Men’. The men’s fairness market size is now approximately Rs 450-500 crore, and Emami is a leader with 65% share.  Emami said, “We are shocked to learn of HUL’s decision to rename its men’s range of Fair & Lovely as ‘Glow & Handsome’. Emami, maker of ‘Fair and Handsome’ brand of men’s grooming products, is the market leader in men’s fairness cream with legal ownership of the trademarks. We have already launched a week ago our brand ‘Emami Glow & Handsome’ digitally and necessary application has already been made to the relevant authorities.” Emami said HUL’s move (to brand its men’s range as ‘Glow & Handsome’) “goes to prove Fair and Handsome’s strong brand equity in the market that the competition is wary of”. In response to TOI’s query on the matter, an HUL spokesperson said, “We don’t wish to make any comment on the statement made by them (Emami). We are fully conscious of our rights and our position. We will protect it fully in all appropriate forums.”MZM Legal managing partner Zulfiquar Memon said, “Emami’s objection to HUL’s using of the name stems from the fact that Emami claims ownership to the trademark. It would be interesting to know at what stage is Emami’s trademark application for the said name at the moment. It is only after that can one ascertain how good a case Emami has to protect the brand. HUL, on the other hand, can only put up a strong defence to this objection if they already have the said trademark registered in their name or if they have filed for this name, before Emami. The respective legal teams will need to notify each other and probe into this further.” Sources said Emami applied for the trademark ‘Emami Glow & Handsome’ over a month ago. It was only two weeks ago, on June 17, that HUL had approached the Controller General of Patent Design & Trademark to register the name ‘Glow & Lovely’, as reported by agencies earlier. In the statement announcing the new brand name for Fair & Lovely, HUL said the name change is the next step in the evolution of its skin care portfolio to “a more inclusive vision of positive beauty”. “Over the next few months, Glow & Lovely will be on the shelves, and future innovations will deliver on this new proposition,” the company said. Following growing criticism against racism, Johnson & Johnson decided to discontinue its fairness range, while Unilever and L’Oreal said they would stop using words like ‘fair/fairness’, ‘white/whitening’ and ‘light/lightening’ for their personal products. Over the last couple of years, HUL had changed the proposition of Fair & Lovely from fairness to ‘glow’. It had removed the cameo with two faces as well as the shade guides from the packaging of Fair & Lovely. HUL CMD Sanjiv Mehta reiterated at the company’s annual general meeting on Tuesday that the move to rebrand Fair & Lovely was a well thought-out decision, which was in the works for a while now. Fair & Lovely has an over 40% share of the face care market, and it is among the top five brands in HUL’s portfolio, the others being Lifebuoy, Surf Excel, Wheel and Brooke Bond. The market for face creams in India is roughly Rs 6,000 crore. Beauty and personal care, which houses the Fair & Lovely brand, contributes 45% to HUL’s annual revenues for approximately Rs 39,000 crore. With Emami launching ‘Emami Glow & Handsome’ digitally, the company too appears to be moving away from words like ‘fair’ in its product range. However, this could not be independently confirmed. Last week, when TOI asked Emami whether it would follow HUL’s move to drop ‘fair’ from the product name, an Emami spokesperson had said, “We, as responsible corporate citizens, value consumer sentiments and take cognizance of the holistic approach that is required to be taken to address their needs. We are studying all implications currently and evaluating internally to decide our next course of action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/huls-glow-lovely-sparks-brand-row-with-rival-emami-in-mens-segment/articleshow/76758505.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Patna||‘Tough life in corona hubs’||PATNA: Apart from the constant scare of contracting the Covid-19 virus, people living in containment zones in the state capital claim to be facing hardship due to non-availability of resources, including daily grocery items, as movement is highly restricted in these areas. Many residents living in containment zones even claimed that their neighbourhoods are neither sanitised nor disinfected regularly. “Every time I made calls to senior officials, I was asked to call somebody else. Besides, there are no restrictions here. Even though, the apartment has been sealed, people are roaming around for unnecessary things. And yet regular services are unavailable,” said North Mandiri resident Renu Devi. Her apartment block was sealed a few days ago after a Covid-19 positive case was reported from her building. The 48-year-old alleged that residents had to get the building sanitized on their own as it wasn’t done by officials concerned. Shristy Sonal, another resident of North Mandiri, claimed that people easily cross the sealed area and go to offices, markets and other places. Several residents in other containment zones in the city said that they are facing problems in getting essential commodities such as milk or grocery items. Rehan Ahmed of Muradpur lane said, “There are nearly eight houses in this area but no shops. It’s a big hassle for us to arrange ration and everything as home delivery is also banned. As I cannot go outside, I ask my newspaper vendor to bring milk and other things.” He added that the unhygienic condition of the streets is posing threat to people, especially the diabetic patients. “We are maintaining cleanliness as much as possible but it’s not in our hands to keep the streets clean. Despite cleaning to the authorities, we did not get any response,” Ahmed said. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said only essential commodities shops are allowed to remain opened in the containment zones. “We are in the unlock phase now and lockdown has been imposed only in containment zones. Prior to the unlock when the entire city was under lockdown, we circulated contact numbers of shops for home delivery services, but continuing it now can increase the chances of spread of the virus,” he said. He added, “We are, however, arranging delivery facilities in big containment zones like we did in Khajpura.” The DM has also directed officials to ensure proper barricading in containment zones. “Banners will also be put up in the areas to inform people. Besides, medical teams have been asked to stay active and look after contact tracing. Strict directions have also been given to sanitize and disinfect the areas,” he said. As per information shared by the state health department on Wednesday, there are currently 1,056 containment zones in the state. “Altogether 1,272 containment zones have been made in Bihar up-till now, of which 216 have been denotified,” a senior official in state health department said. The state capital has a total of 72 containment zones, with 29 in main Patna, 18 in Patna City, 15 in Danapur, eight in Paliganj and two in Masaurhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tough-life-in-corona-hubs/articleshow/76757047.cms||Archi Rani
July 3, 2020||Patna||Congress tries to forge a middle path amid CM face tussle||PATNA: In an attempt to forge a middle path amid the raging tension in the opposition camp over the CM face of the Mahagathbandhan, Congress Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil on Thursday said Mahagathbandhan leaders should work together because people of Bihar had been cheated by the NDA rule in the state and were looking for a viable option. “One has to leave behind ego and selfishness and sit together and sort out smaller issues. The good thing about Mahagathbandhan is that we all have same ideology, unlike BJP-JD (U), which are ideologically different. Now responsibility is on our shoulders,” Gohil told TOI over phone after the launch of his party’s digital membership drive in Bihar. When asked whom he was asking to leave behind “ego and selfishness”, Gohil replied, “I am asking everyone, including myself.” Meanwhile, senior BJP functionary and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) took a dig at the opposition alliance. SuMo tweeted on Thursday evening about the relationship between RJD chief Lalu Prasad and Congress. “Lalu may have made a name for himself in the JP movement against Congress’s corrupt and family politics but after coming into power, he not only joined hands with Congress, but even adapted their wrongdoings. And on the other hand, after 1995, Congress is carrying the burden of RJD. Now Congress does not have any self-respect to give reply to RJD’s ego and leave the alliance with other smaller parties. Should Congress not fulfil the vacuum of a responsible opposition in Bihar?” SuMo tweeted. Replying to SuMo’ statement, Gohil said, “We do not need any suggestion from him. He should be more concerned about (LJP chief) Chirag Paswan, than us. We have never taken his suggestion and even in future, we will not take his suggestions.” Gohil further hit at NDA in Bihar, saying, “Sushil Modi is holding hands of same Nitish Kumar, who had once said Mitti Me Mil Jayenge, BJP Me Nahi Jayenge.” Digital membership drive: Congress launched its digital membership drive at Sadaqat Ashram, the party’s state headquarters here on Thursday. Before launching of the drive, party functionaries paid obeisance to Galwan martyrs. Gohil, who was addressing the party members through a video conference, requested people to join Congress through the digital medium in large numbers to boos the party’s chances in the assembly election. State Congress president Madan Mohan Jha, who formally launched the drive, said this digital medium was being used keeping in mind Covid-19 pandemic. “Anyone can join the party through a mobile app or by giving a missed call.” All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Virendra Singh Rathore, AICC social media president Rohan Gupta and IT cell president Praveen Chakravarti attended the event. Congress Legislature Party leader Sadanand Singh and other state leaders, including state Congress working president Ashok Kumar and Shyam Sunder Singh Dheeraj, party MLC Prem Chandra Mishra, state women cell president Amita Bhushan, media cell president HK Verma, state spokesperson Rajesh Rathore and research department president Anand Madhab were present at party office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-tries-to-forge-a-middle-path-amid-cm-face-tussle/articleshow/76757035.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 3, 2020||Patna||All is well, claim people living in China||PATNA: Several natives of Bihar — students, professionals and researches — living in China have claimed that all is well. Despite the recent India-China standoff in Ladakh, most of them are staying away from inflammatory news items and trying to keep themselves busy. Yunnan Minzu University student Ravi Raj, who hails from Ara, has many Chinese friends. “Now that the university has reopened, we are only focusing on studies. We hardly discuss border issues or conflicts. In fact, I’ll miss my friends after I return home because my visa will expire soon,” Ravi told this reporter over the phone on Thursday. Tabassum, a postgraduate student of Tongji University, spends most of her time in the laboratory. She said, “My parents, who live in Patna, were worried because of the India-China conflict, but I convinced them that all is well here.” A third-year MBBS student at Wuhan University’s School of Medicine, Faizal Aftab, claimed that he had not witnessed anti-Indian sentiments in China. The Motihari resident said, “Issues like standoffs concern the governments of both the countries, not us.” Professionals working with construction, steel manufacturing or telecom firms in China pointed out that boycotting Chinese products would do no good to India. National Institute of Technology-Patna alumnus Aman Gupta, who works with a private company in Hong Kong, said, “The Chinese give utmost importance to their work. There is no hostility among us.” Deepak Kumar, the employee of a tile company in Shanghai, also asserted that he had “never experienced anti-Indian sentiments” at his workplace or in his neighbourhood in China. Gaya resident Aarav Singh decided to stay at Sang Yang in China after finishing his studies and getting a job in a private telecom company two years ago. “I returned home due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but I had never faced any discrimination in China. Most of the locals, especially the girls, are friendly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-is-well-claim-people-living-in-china/articleshow/76757216.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 3, 2020||Bhopal||Shera & Rambai still hopeful of getting ministerial berths||Bhopal: Independent MLA Surendra Singh alias Shera bhaiya and BSP MLA Rambai still hope they would be inducted in Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet soon. Though Shera was present at the Raj Bhavan during the oath-taking ceremony on Thursday, Rambai missed the occasion. Talking to TOI, Burhanpur MLA Shera said, “I am sure, I would be made a minister. If not today, I am sure tomorrow. If not this month, maybe next month”. He reiterated, “I am pretty much sure that I will be made a minister.”Shera said, “They (BJP leaders) would make me a minister for my innovative ideas to generate revenue for the development of Madhya Pradesh”. Incidentally, when the political crisis was unfolding in the state in March, Shera had also gone “missing” before he resurfaced again on March 7, saying, “I am with the Kamal Nath government”. Shera never hid the fact that he wanted to be a minister and had even said that he would be made the home minister by Kamal Nath. On the other hand, Rambai, the BSP MLA from Patharia assembly constituency in Damoh said, “I am hopeful, I would be made minister”. Sounding unhappy after not inducted in the cabinet, she said, “I was promised a ministerial berth. I am sure they would give me some important position soon.” Rajesh Shukla, the lone SP MLA who had extended support to BJP in the recently concluded Rajya Sabha elections said, “I never asked for a minister’s post neither from Congress nor from BJP”. Bijawar MLA Shukla was suspended from SP after voting for BJP in Rajya Sabha.Independent MLA Pradeep Jaiswal, who was a minister in the Kamal Nath’s cabinet was unreachable. He had also supported BJP after the fall of the Congress government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shera-rambai-still-hopeful-of-getting-ministerial-berths/articleshow/76758491.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Business||Banks bring back charges waived during lockdown||Mumbai: Many banks have withdrawn the freebies that they offered during the initial weeks of the Covid-19 lockdown and are reintroducing earlier charges. The two key charges that are being restored are the ones for usage of ATM beyond four times a month, and for not maintaining minimum balance. Axis Bank said that charges have been introduced to discourage use of cash transactions. The bank said it will start charging customers for non-home bank branch cash transactions above Rs 25,000 per day. Exceeding that amount, Rs 5 per Rs 1,000 or Rs 150 — whichever is higher — will be charged. The bank has also said that it will allow five free cash transactions, or cash transactions up to Rs 2 lakh, whichever is earlier. Bankers say that the charges were aimed at promoting alternate channels during the lockdown to prevent pressure on bank branches as many employees could not travel to work. The charges were also aimed at increasing usage of alternate channels by those who have minimum balance accounts. The government had used the Jan Dhan Yojana accounts to transfer benefits under the Garib Kalyan Yojana to crores of accounts. Also, with restoration of public transport in many cities, most bank branches are now operational. Soon after the imposition of the lockdown in end-March, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced that customers would be allowed to use their debit cards to withdraw cash from any bank’s ATM. She had also asked banks to do away with the charge for not maintaining minimum balance requirement. These relaxations were intended for the first quarter until the end of June 2020. Some banks had also voluntarily relaxed other charges for use of alternate channels and for banking through non-home branches. SBI had also waived the SMS charges for all its customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-bring-back-charges-waived-during-lockdown/articleshow/76758769.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 3, 2020||Surat||First community isolation centre set up in Katargam||Surat: A day after Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) announced setting up of Covid care centres in community halls, the Samast Patidar Samaj has set-up a 100-bed facility at the Patidar Bhavan in Katargam for the isolation of the patients with mild or moderate symptoms, Founder trustee of Samast Patidar Samaj, Mathur Savani said, “We have dedicated a floor in the hall for Covid-19 patients. About 100 beds have been set-up for the patients who don’t require hospitalisation”Savani added, “We have a dedicated team of doctors who will be visiting the patients twice a day and they will be provided medicines, food and other facilities free-of-cost.”On Thursday, Surat city recorded 191 more cases while three more patients died. About 133 patients were also discharged. Principal secretary (health), Jayanti Ravi, who has been camping in Surat since Tuesday, said a meeting was held with several community leaders who were urge to provide their halls to set up isolation facilities.“Surat will be a model for the country in creating a community isolation centres for Covid-19,” she told reporters.Around 50 non-government organizations (NGOs) have also agreed to volunteer for community surveillance in the city.Paan shops closure loomsSurat: At the same time, she has also warned of strict action against those violating Covid-19 rules in the cluster containment zones. “Rules in containment zones will be implemented ruthlessly as this is necessary to contain the virus spread,” Paan kiosks to be shut in areas where positive cases are reported. She also urged people to purchase pulse oximeters to gauge oxygen levels which will determine the condition of the family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/first-community-isolation-centre-set-up-in-katargam/articleshow/76758625.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Members appointed to academies||Mangaluru: The department of Kannada and culture, in continuation with its orders dated October 15, 19, 2019, announced members to eight academies and two authorities. While Kishore from Bengaluru has been appointed to the Kannada Development Authority, Yathindranath and Raghavendra Patil from Shivamogga and Dharwad respectively were appointed to Kuvempu Basha Bharathi. Appointments to various academies include eight members to Karnataka Sahitya Academy, six each to Karnataka Arebhashe Sahitya-Samskruthika Academy and Karnataka Lalitakala Academy, five each to Karnataka Janapada Academy, Karnataka Sangeetha-Nritya Academy and Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy, four each to Karnataka Nataka Academy and Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/members-appointed-to-academies/articleshow/76756356.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Patna||Centre’s Udan scheme a slow starter in state||PATNA: The Centre’s ambitious regional connectivity scheme, Udan (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik), is still a far-fetched dream in Bihar as apart from Darbhanga, the work has not even started on another airstrip in Purnia. The progress of development of a civil enclave at Bihta airbase in Patna is also sluggish. Officials have blamed lockdown due to Covid-19 for the delay in initiating the bidding process. The detailed project report of Bihta airport was prepared last year and finalised by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). The two-floor terminal building is supposed to be constructed with an expenditure of more than Rs 500 crore. K S Vijayan, general manager (engineering), projects, AAI Patna, said though the proposal has already been sent to the AAI for the bidding process, it may get delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic. “Bihta airbase will be the second airport in Patna to cater to the needs of rising number of flyers,” he said. The AAI officials said as the Bihta airport project involved an expenditure of more than Rs 500 crore, it first got clearance from the ministry of finance. “The project is now pending with NITI Aayog. Once it is cleared, the bidding process will be initiated by the AAI headquarters,” Vijayan added. The drone-shaped terminal building of Bihta airport will have the departure lounge on the first floor and arrival area on the ground floor. The state government has already given 108 acres of land for civil enclave and auxiliary buildings. An additional 8-acre-land for parking bays for big aircraft has also been given. Meanwhile, CM Nitish Kumar recently visited Darbhanga airport to review the ongoing construction work. The civil enclave structure and the re-carpeting work at Darbhanga are expected complete in next two months. Earlier in May, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri had announced that civil enclave at Darbhanga airport would be ready by October, following which the commercial flights will start operating to Mumbai, New Delhi and Bengaluru from Darbhanga under UDAN. The AAI-Patna official said 55% re-carpeting of airstrip has been done and it would be completed in next two months while the porta-cabin was ready for the passengers. “For permanent civil enclave, 31 acres of land will be given to the Indian Air Force (IAF) on the eastern side of the Darbhanga airbase by the state government and in lieu of that the IAF will give 31 acres of land to the AAI on the southern side of the airbase,” the official said. As far as Purnia airbase is concerned, no work has been done so far. Purnia DM Rahul Kumar said the project would see light the day once the hurdles in land acquisition are cleared. Patna airport director Bhupesh C H Negi had earlier said that the DPR of Purnia airport will be made once the state government hands over the land to the AAI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/centres-udan-scheme-a-slow-starter-in-state/articleshow/76756413.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 3, 2020||Surat||Gujarati girl selected for prestigious Diana Award||Surat: A 21-year-old MBBS student hailing from Surat has been selected for the prestigious ‘Diana Award’ in recognition of her contribution towards uplifting the rural communities of South Gujarat.Meera Mehta, a third-year student, who lives in Mumbai, is a volunteer at Shrimad Rajchandra Love and Care, a multi-speciality rural hospital in Dharampur town in Valsad district where her mother Dr Bijal serves as ophthalmologist.Established in memory of Princess Diana of Wales, the award is given out to young persons aged between nine years -25 years for their humanitarian work. "Meera has raised over Rs 1.5 crores in charity for various projects in health and education over her 10 years of fund raising journey. Some of these projects include support for the Dharampur hospital, Shrimad Rajchandra Vidyapeeth, a science college for tribal youth, tree plantation drives and skill development programme for village women in South Gujarat. During Covid-19 pandemic too, Meera raised Rs. 33 lakh to support the vulnerable community. She sponsored two buses for migrant workers to return to their hometown in Bihar, provided meals to lakhs of daily wagers and distributed PPE kits and masks to frontline workers, Dr Bijal said.“While I continue to raise funds, I am also studying hard to become a doctor and serve tribal children better,'' Meera told TOI. Meera was also selected as an ‘Inspirational Change Agent’ at the Mumbai Marathon 2019, alongside the eminent boxer Mary Kom, for her fund-raising endeavours||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujarati-girl-selected-for-prestigious-diana-award/articleshow/76758793.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
July 3, 2020||Business||KKR to buy 54% stake in JB Chemicals for Rs 3,109 crore||BENGALURU: American buyout major KKR has said it will buy 54% stake in JB Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals. This includes a buyout of 39% from the promoter Mody family and an open offer to acquire the remaining shares for Rs 3,109 crore or $411 million. After the open offer, the Mody family will have the option to sell about another 11% stake to KKR, increasing the PE firm’s ownership to 65%, for another Rs 620 crore or $82 million. The transaction will be one of the largest and rare control private equity deals in India’s pharmaceutical space. It comes after Carlyle’s deal to pick up a 20% stake in Piramal’s pharmaceutical business for $490 million last week. The deal involves KKR initially buying a 39% stake from the Mody family, which owns 56% in the company, in two tranches. It will then make an offer for another 26% stake for all the public shareholders of the company. The shares are being acquired for Rs 745 each, which is at an over 4% premium to the closing share price of the company on Thursday. JB Chemicals is involved in making domestic formulations and branded generic exports, besides APIs across chronic and acute therapeutic segments like cardiovascular, gastrointestinal and anti-infective. The company, founded in 1976, reported an 8% increase in revenues to Rs 1,775 crore and 40% increase in profit after tax to Rs 272 crore in FY20. In the past, KKR had invested in Gland Pharma, a pure-play generic injectable pharmaceutical products company, where it sold its $200-million investment in 2014 for about $500 million in 2018, making it one of its more profitable exits. This year, KKR has been sewing up deals, including a $1.5-billion infusion in Reliance Jio, besides buyout of renewable assets from Shapoorji Pallonji for over $200 million. “We believe JB Chemicals has an opportunity to accelerate its growth and leverage its strengths to enter into new therapeutic areas. We look forward to working with the management team to build on the company’s strong foundation,” said KKR India CEO Sanjay Nayar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kkr-to-buy-54-stake-in-jb-chemicals-for-rs-3109cr/articleshow/76758612.cms||Madhav Chanchani
July 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar government’s revenue up, says Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Thursday said there has been a significant rise in revenue collection for the government after resumption of economic activities in the state. “Revenue collection through state’s own sources increased from Rs 1,785.33 crore during the lockdown period of April and May to Rs 2,387.09 crore following implementation of Unlock 1.0 in June,” Modi said. He added that the revenue generation through commercial taxes also increased from Rs 950.11 crore in April and May to Rs 1, 217 crore in June alone. “Similarly, revenue generation through registration increased from Rs 64.78 crores in April-May to Rs 334.48 crore in June. The revenue collection through transport related taxes and other sources increased from Rs 91 crore in the lockdown period to Rs 195 crore in June,” he said. The deputy CM said positive impact of relaxations in lockdown was visible in vehicle sales too. “The number of vehicles sold in the state increased from 14,562 in April and May to 96,302 in June,” he said. Modi said resumption of construction and other activities has led to increase in sales of construction materials and other commodities. “The net worth of commodities coming to Bihar for sale in the local markets after paying e-way bill increased from Rs 13,704 crore in April and May to Rs 13,662 crore in June. These commodities mainly included cement, iron, medicine, vehicles, clothes and electric equipment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govts-revenue-collection-up-sumo/articleshow/76756988.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Amritsar||India to send medical experts to assess mental condition of Indian prisoners in Pak||Amritsar: New Delhi has sought Pakistan visas for a team of Indian medical experts who want to visit Pakistani jails to assess the mental condition of Indian prisoners. India has also asked the neighbouring country to organise a visit of joint judicial committee with regards to release of Indian fishing boats. India put forward its demands on Wednesday during biannual exchange of lists of civilian prisoners and fishermen in each other’s custody. “Our government has asked Pakistan to expedite visas to the members of the medical team and facilitate their visit to Pakistan to assess the mental condition of Indian prisoners lodged in different jails of Pakistan, to organise early visit of the joint judicial committee to Pakistan, and to organise early visit of the four-member team to Karachi in connection with release and repatriation of Indian fishing boats,” said Jatin Desai, former secretary of Pakistan India People’s Forum for Peace and Democracy, to TOI on Wednesday. According to spokesperson of ministry of external affairs (MEA), India has handed over lists of 265 Pakistan civilian prisoners and 97 fishermen in India’s custody to Pakistan while the Pakistan has shared lists of 54 civilian prisoners and 270 fishermen in its custody through diplomatic channels. Under the provisions of the 2008 Agreement, both countries exchange list of civilian prisoners and fishermen in their custody every year on January 1 and July 1. “We have been demanding that all the fishermen, women prisoners need to be released immediately. The fishermen are innocent. They inadvertently cross the territorial waters and enter other country’s waters,” said Desai adding that Pakistan must immediately nominate four members to the judicial committee on prisoners and convene its meeting . “The last meeting was held in India in October 2013. India has already nominated its four members in May 2018. It is high time that both countries send a team of doctors to each other’s country to medically check their country’s prisoners,” he said. Spokesperson of MEA has also called for early release and repatriation of civilian prisoners and missing Indian defence personnel. “Pakistan has been asked to expedite the release of seven civilian prisoners and 106 fishermen to India,” said the spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/india-to-send-medical-experts-to-assess-mental-condition-of-indian-prisoners-in-pak/articleshow/76759300.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Maize farmers ready to battle armyworms||COIMBATORE: The agriculture department has launched initiatives to curb the fall armyworm menace ahead of the maize cultivation season here. The invasive pest, which originated from the Americas, had struck Tamil Nadu in 2017-18, when it damaged almost half of the total 3.86 lakh hectares of maize crops across the state. After the crop was damaged last year, the state government gave a compensation of Rs 2.15 crore to the farmers. While the peak cultivation of maize is in September, a communication from the Coimbatore collector said the pest was spotted in maize cultivated as summer crop. The department has been creating awareness among input dealers, an official said. “We have instructed them not to sell pesticides and instead opt for the integrated management package we recommended. We have also been conducting webinars and awareness sessions for farmers,” he said. As the district is receiving summer showers, farmers have been asked to plough deeply to expose and kill the pest’s pupae, said a release from the department. At the last round of ploughing, they have been asked to apply 250kg of neem oil cake per hectare. They should mix every kilogram of maize seeds with 10gram of beauveria bassiana, a fungus that acts as a natural pesticide. Seeds should be planted far enough apart. Pulses such as cowpea, flowers such as marigold and oilseeds such as gingelly should be planted as border crops as they nourish the insects, which prey on fall armyworms. Farmers should use pheromone traps, destroy the eggs and worms by hand and apply microbial pesticides such as Metarhizium anisopliae. The department has also recommended judicial use of synthetic pesticides such as novaluron, spinetoram and flubendiamide. Maize is cultivated on 11,250 acres in the district, in areas such as Sultanpet, Sulur, Thondamuthur, Karamadai, Annur and Pollachi North.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/maize-farmers-ready-to-battle-armyworms/articleshow/76759298.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Business||E-tailers must label ‘country of origin’ at earliest: Govt||BENGALURU/NEW DELHI: The department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) has told e-commerce players like Amazon India and Flipkart to start displaying ‘country of origin’ for new listings of products on their platforms, and rectify existing ones “at the earliest possible”. This decision, which comes amid a border conflict with China in Ladakh, intends to help consumers make informed decisions at a time when the anti-China sentiment has risen in the country. The country of origin will first start reflecting on new products coming on the platforms, and sellers who do not provide details can be taken off, said government officials. According to three sources aware of the matter, DPIIT has told e-tailers to act on the issue and had sent a letter on Wednesday. “Making field of ‘country of origin’ compulsory for new listings can be immediately started once the change in technology platform is made,” the DPIIT note, reviewed by TOI, said. According to industry executives, they will hold another meeting with government officials next week and by then a timeline needs to be given detailing by when existing products would show their country of origin on these platforms. “The government has told it has to be done. We are checking internally how long it might take for existing products to reflect the changes. We will accordingly update the government next week,” this person said, adding it could take a few months given the large volume of listings. Amazon India, for instance, has 180 million products and Flipkart has over 150 million products listed on their platforms. Last week, TOI reported that Amazon India and Bigbasket had started collecting ‘country of origin’ data from their sellers and brands. “I sell electronics largely. Now, most of them are made in China, but some of them are also imported from the US. If we put made in the US, consumers and platforms may still complain. Doing this for each unit will be an arduous task,” an online seller, with over one lakh listings on Amazon India, said. Bigbasket has mandated brands to mention each country in the listing, in case a product is manufactured in more than one place. Emails sent to Flipkart and Amazon India did not elicit a response till the time of going to press, while Snapdeal declined to comment on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-tailers-must-label-country-of-origin-at-earliest-govt/articleshow/76758686.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 3, 2020||Patna||Online classes still a distant dream for many collegians in Bihar||PATNA: Virtual classes are still a distant dream for many postgraduate (PG) and undergraduate students of different universities in the state, claim academics. A number of colleges, according to them, are unable to impart online education either because of the lack of infrastructure or trained teachers. Besides, the institutes, which have been conducting few virtual classes during the last three and a half months, have witnessed poor turnout of students. Patna Science College principal S R Padmadeo told this newspaper on Thursday that only the BCA teachers had conducted some online classes during the lockdown period. “Others have been uploading e-content to the website of the college, but none of them has organized any online class,” he said. Even in the PG departments of Patna University (PU), only some online classes have been conducted. While most teachers have not uploaded their video lectures, some have put up study materials in PDF format. PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha pointed out that the students’ grievance cell had received innumerable complaints from pupils, particularly from rural areas, regarding unavailability of smart phones or laptops and poor Wi-Fi connectivity. “At some places, students do not even have regular power supply. Hence, they are unable to attend online classes,” said Jha. An MA student of PU, Prashant Kumar, rued, “I have no idea if online classes are being organized for the students of my batch. Some course materials are available on the university’s website, but there is no one to clear the doubts.” Several universities also lack well-equipped media centres for production of e-content in the form of videos. Nearly a month ago, PU had interacted with some digital agencies for making arrangements for regular online classes. An MS Office team gave the officials an online demonstration on its e-learning device, but the university could not subscribe to its services because of the “lack of funds”. State’s former higher education director, Nageshwar Sharma, suggested that both the education department and the chancellor’s secretariat should take necessary steps for conducting online classes in all the universities after getting in touch with some noted agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/online-classes-still-a-distant-dream-for-many-collegians/articleshow/76757188.cms||B K Mishra
July 3, 2020||Patna||Professionals in Bihar worried as job losses become norm||PATNA: Coronavirus has not only cost too many lives, but is also wreaking havoc in the job markets. The employees of various private firms across the state have either been granted indefinite leaves without pay or experienced salary cuts and even layoffs. 42-year-old Akhilesh Singh and his family, who live in Gardanibagh, were shocked when his bosses sent him a letter on May 15, asking him to resign. He had been working with a private consultancy firm for the last 12 years and is looking for a new job now. “The company’s sudden decision shook me up, but I am trying to stay strong because I have to run a family and pay my daughter’s fee,” he rued. Gaya resident Ajit Upadhyay, who worked with a Kuwait-based construction firm, also lost his job two months ago. He said, “Since then, I have been looking for new and better opportunities. However, all the companies have asked me to reapply after December.” A mathematics teacher of a private school in Jaganpura told this newspaper that many of his colleagues were sacked for no reason last month. “We got a message from the school regarding submission of our resignation letters. We even tried discussing the matter with the management, but to no avail,” the teacher claimed. Patna girl Shreya Sinha, who was selected by a Pune-based IT firm in March, was told recently that the job offer had been cancelled. “They had promised me that there would be no job loss. However, my recruitment was put on hold and finally cancelled on June 1,” she said. Several other private firm employees are scared that they may lose their jobs soon. 27-year-old Firdaus, a native of Hajipur, works with a Delhi-based company that deals with foreign clients. She pointed out, “Our work has been disrupted and many of us are on an indefinite leave without pay since May. Considering the present scenario, I think things will not improve anytime soon.” Another private firm employee, Gaurav Verma, said, “My colleagues and I first experienced massive salary cuts. Later, we were granted leaves without pay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/professionals-worried-as-job-losses-become-norm/articleshow/76756822.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 3, 2020||Surat||Woman stopped for not wearing mask abuses cops, held||SURAT: A 30-year-old woman was arrested for abusing cops and preventing them from performing their duty on Thursday. The woman Dimple Shah, who claimed to be a media persons, was stopped by the cops near Vesu crossroads for not wearing mask in her car and was told to pay Rs 200 fine. The Ghod Dod road resident was booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to public servant), 188 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 504 (intentional insult), 188 (violation of order issued under public notification) and Epidemic Diseases Act. The complaint was lodged by police constable Ishwardan Gadhvi after Shah allegedly abused the cop on camera when he started recording her unruly behaviour. The incident happened when Gadhvi and other cops were on duty at Vesu crossroad. Shah was driving a car and another woman was seating next to her. Since Shah was not wearing mask police asked her to pay Rs 200 fine. This is when Shah started arguing and abusing the cops. “Shah’s unruly behaviour continued even when in police station. It ended after over two hours,” said a police officer at Umra police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-stopped-for-not-wearing-mask-abuses-cops-held/articleshow/76758768.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Patna||Education dept clerk shot dead in Gopalganj||PATNA: A 42-year-old clerk of the state education department was shot dead by unidentified armed criminals in Gopalganj district on Thursday, triggering protests by his family members and local residents. Police suspect the involvement of education mafia behind the incident, which took place around 9 am on NH-85 near Lachhwar village under the Thawe police station area, when the victim, Ajay Rai alias Ajay Kumar, was on way to the office in Gopalganj on his motorbike. Two assailants riding a motorbike, overtook him on the busy road and fired from close range. Rai, a resident of Mazirwa Khurd village under the Phulwaria police station area, was rushed to Goapalganj sadar hospital where he died during treatment. According to sources, the victim was on the target of education mafia ever since he had submitted some relevant documents related to fake appointment of school teachers to the vigilance bureau team. The deceased’s family members and local residents created a ruckus at the sadar hospital alleging that he had died due to the negligence of the doctors. The situation was brought under control after the intervention of senior police officers. Thawe police station SHO Vishal Anand said the reason behind the murder is yet to be ascertained. He, however, admitted that the victim’s colleagues revealed to the investigating officer that he was threatened by the education mafia operating in the district. “Incidentally, Rai never approached police for protection. Had he shared the information, police would have swung into action and nabbed those behind issuing threats,” the SHO said adding, “The case will be probed from different angles.” Police later conducted raids at different hideouts of the criminals. The vigilance bureau is probing the alleged fake appointment of 127 school teachers. They were appointed in different government primary and middle schools between 2007-08 and 2014-15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/education-dept-clerk-shot-dead-in-gopalganj/articleshow/76756327.cms||Ramashankar
July 3, 2020||Mysuru||Applications seeking govt service fall by 50%||Mysuru: The data compiled by the Sakala Mission have revealed that due to Covid-19 restrictions, the number of applications by the general public in all the 30 districts seeking various government services have come down by 50% since April. The number of disposals by various government departments also recorded a similar trend. Meanwhile in June, Chikkamagalur secured first place in the Sakala implementation. According to the data, in February, as many as 25,23,710 applications were submitted by the public seeking various services under Sakala, which guarantees service delivery in a stipulated period. It came down to 20,64,284 applications in March as Covid-19 fear hit people. In April it came down to just 2,68.441 applications. However, it jumped to 8,38,524 in the month of May and 8,14,068 in June. Government offices functioned with skeleton staff for most part of April. According to the data, in February, a total of 24,85,433 applications were disposed of by the various government departments. It was 22,48,132 applications in March, 4,49,351 in April, 7,87,591 in May and in June a total of 7,14,267 applications were disposed of. Meanwhile, in the latest district-wise ranking in delivery of government services to the applicants on time, Chikkamagalur district secured first rank. In June, the district secured first rank in Sakala performance. Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts secured second and third ranks respectively while Chamarajanagar district secured fourth rank. Mysuru is in 18th place. Bengaluru Urban district secured 22nd rank while Raichur district is in the bottom of the list. This ranking is decided based on the time disposal of the applications and receipts per one lakh population. Among the taluks, Honnavar taluk in Uttara Kannada district secured first rank in the performance. Additional mission director, Sakala, Varaprasad Reddy BN informed that the number of applications and disposals have picked up compared to initial days of lockdown. “We are bouncing back to normalcy. We are trying to bring more reforms and streamline the application disposal system,” he said. “Soon, a state level review meeting through a video conference will be carried out in this regard,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/applications-seeking-govt-service-fall-by-50/articleshow/76759650.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Surat||Closure looms on textile markets||Surat: After the diamond units, the textile markets located on Ring Road, Salabatpura and Sahara Darwaja have come under the scanner of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) following the sudden spike in Covid-19 infection among the workers and the textile shop owners. So far, in the month of June, about 350 positive cases were detected from the textile industry and that about 90% are related to those connected with the textile markets, officials said. Out of the 165-odd textile markets, 95 are operational in Surat at present. A senior health officer of SMC told TOI, “On an average, we are getting 10-12 cases daily from textile market areas. Like the diamond units, textile markets are turning into the Covid-19 hotspots. If the cases continue to rise, we may order the closure of the markets for a week.” In the last one month, about 70% of the textile markets in the city have reopened after the government relaxations. However, due to the weak demand of saris, dress material, kurtis and other fabrics in the domestic market, the traders open their shops for a few hours only. Market sources said that a meeting was held between the office-bearers of Federation of Surat Textile Traders’ Association (FOSTTA) and SMC officials on Wednesday. The FOSTTA office-bearers were told to convey all the textile market management in the city on taking necessary precautions to contain the spread of the virus or else the SMC would be forced to shut the markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/closure-looms-on-textile-markets/articleshow/76758718.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Business||Axis Bank to raise Rs 15k cr in new equity||Mumbai: The board of Axis Bank on Thursday approved raising Rs 15,000 crore through the issue of fresh equity. In a statement to the stock exchange, the private bank said the fund-raise could be through issue of equity shares, depository receipts, or convertible securities. The capital-raising plan will be put to shareholders for approval in the annual general meeting on July 31. Considering Thursday’s share closing price of Rs 424 on the BSE, the bank has a market capitalisation of nearly Rs 1.2 lakh crore. An issue of Rs 15,000 crore would result in an equity dilution of over 12%. ET had earlier reported, quoting sources, that $800 million to $1 billion of this issue is likely to be in the form of a qualified institutional placement. The report also said the bank is in talks with a clutch of private equity investors including Carlyle, Baine Capital, GIC (Singapore) and Fidelity. Most private banks are raising additional capital and taking advantage of the liquidity in the equity markets even as they prepare for additional provisions for anticipated bad loans due to the Covid-19 crisis. Last week, S&P Global Ratings lowered its ratings on Axis Bank, stating that economic risks have increased for lenders in India. S&P also said that Axis’s asset quality is superior to the Indian banking sector average, but its level of non-performing assets (NPAs) will likely remain high compared to international peers’. “Nevertheless, we expect the bank to maintain its strong market position and adequate capitalisation. The stable outlook reflects our view that our ratings on Axis already factor in some deterioration in the bank’s asset quality and performance over the next 12 months,” the rating agency had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/axis-bank-to-raise-rs-15k-cr-in-new-equity/articleshow/76758654.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: 8 of a family, 2 girls from shelter home among 16 new Covid-19 patients||PRAYAGRAJ: Eight members of a family and two inmates of Rajkiya Balika Balgriha were among the 16 persons who tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in the city on Thursday. With the new cases, the tally of novel coronavirus patients in Prayagraj district crossed the 300-mark and touched 312. A Covid-19 patient also died in the city on Thursday, taking the toll to 10. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “The eight members of a family who tested positive for the disease on Thursday live in GTB Nagar. They were primary contacts of a Covid-19 patient who was diagnosed last week. While the youngest member to test positive for Covid-19 from the family was eight years old, the oldest is 87 years old.” The patient who died of Covid-19 in Prayagaraj on Thursday was a 70-year-old woman who lived in Malviya Nagar. She was admitted to Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital on June 29 with respiratory failure, Type 2 diabetes mellitus and a renal disease, along with other ailments. Her sample was collected on June 29 and she tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. She was also on ventilator support. The new patients also included two inmates of Rajkiya Balika Balgriha located on Noorullah Road in Khuldabad. They are in the 18-19 age-group. Sahai said that the two inmates are asymptomatic and tested positive for Covid-19 during random sampling. Around 60 samples were collected from the shelter home. Besides, a 54-year-old man and a resident of Krishna Nagar in Kydganj also tested positive for the virus. “The elderly man tested positive while experiencing influenza-like symptoms. He is diabetic and has hypertension,” said Sahai A 35-year-old pregnant woman and a 22-year-old woman living in Dara Shah Ajmal area and Rajapur’s Unchva Gaddhi locality were among the new patients. While the pregnant woman tested positive for Covid-19 during one of tests conducted before delivery, the other woman was diagnosed while being tested a dialysis clearance. A 32-year-old health worker residing in Georgetown also tested positive for Covid-19. She was posted at Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital. A man living in Kareli area of the city also tested positive for the infection on Thursday. The 38-year-old man’s sample was collected as he was experiencing influenza-like symptoms. According to officials, 10 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals on Thursday after they recovered. Till now, 227 novel coronavirus patients have been discharged from hospitals in the city. The city currently has 75 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/8-of-a-family-2-girls-from-shelter-home-among-16-new-covid-patients/articleshow/76756426.cms||Kapil Dixit
July 3, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 cloud over girl child education efforts||Vadodara: The ripple effect of economic slowdown owing to Covid-19 has reached even those working for noble causes, including the much-needed girl child education. Ruing that donations for their cause have been hugely hit, a young woman from the city who supported education of thousands of poor girls along with her father, are blaming coronavirus for the poor show. Nishita and her father Gulab Rajput have been supporting such poor girls’ education since nine years now. They collect cheques from donors and directly submit these to schools and, in some cases, even the colleges where the girls study. “Last year, we were given cheques amounting to Rs 70lakh by donors including those staying outside the city and even NRIs. We could pay fees of 6,250 girls with that amount. When we were aiming to push up the figures this year, that seems impossible now owing to the pandemic taking a toll on the economy,” said Gulab Rajput. Rajput senior pointed out that besides individual’s finances being affected adversely, the other main reason for the immediate shortfall is that handsome donations that used to come from groups through inter coordination, has not been possible this time. “This is particularly true with NRI groups. But as they have promised help, we hope the funds come at a later stage,” he added. Nishita, however, said that despite difficulties, some have not staved off donating for the greater cause and are giving cheques. “We have collected Rs 19lakh, while another Rs 13lakh is in the pipeline. When things settle, a group from US has assured of donating Rs 17 lakh,” she said, adding that senior citizens with limited source of income too have been regular donors. “Some gave us lesser amounts this year, but did not defer paying,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-cloud-over-girl-child-education-efforts/articleshow/76756197.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mysuru||No secret meeting with ministers, Ashoka clarifies||Chikkamagaluru: Following allegations of his birthday celebrations on Wednesday having been a pretext for a meeting with ministerial colleagues CT Ravi and Jagadish Shettar, Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka on Thursday said that there was nothing political about the event that was held at a private resort in Chikkamagaluru. In addition to Shettar and Ravi, rural development and panchayat raj minister KS Eshwarappa, legislators Satish Reddy, Muniraju and Krishnappa were among the guests at the celebrations on Wednesday. The attendance of as many elected representatives and ministers at the party triggered speculations of the event having been more than an innocuous social gathering. Ravi denied allegations of any meeting having been held in secret at the resort. Furthermore, Shettar added that he did not meet Eshwarappa in Chikkamagaluru, but in Shivamogga. However, sources in the BJP said that those who attended the event at the resort in Chikkamagaluru had discussed chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s son BY Vijayendra’s interference in administrative matters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/no-secret-meeting-with-ministers-ashoka-clarifies/articleshow/76757537.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Patna||NDA in a bind as LJP sulks over two of 12 council seats||PATNA: The coming October-November assembly elections and CM Nitish Kumar’s efforts to fill the vacant 12 legislative council seats from the governor’s quota have brought into open the “fissures” in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state. Apart from JD(U) and BJP, LJP is the third NDA partner in the state. LJP secretary general Shahnawaz Ahmad Kaifi had on Wednesday removed from the party its Munger district president Raghvendra Bharti for claiming in the media that the Bihar NDA was intact. “None of our functionaries other than LJP president Chirag Paswan can speak anything related to party’s policy matters,” Kaifi said on Thursday. The JD(U) is not comfortable with the change in the posture that LJP president Chirag Paswan has adopted. “What can one say? His (Chirag’s) stance and demands are meaningless. It is nothing but pressure tactics and bargaining for more seats, which he has been doing,” a senior JD(U) functionary said. On Wednesday, BJP general secretary and incharge of the party’s Bihar affairs Bhupender Yadav, along with state president of the party Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal, called on Nitish at his official residence. On Sunday, Yadav had also held talks with Chirag in Delhi. It is being assumed that Yadav and Nitish also discussed matters related to Chirag’s demand for two of the 12 legislative council seats and also regarding ‘honourable seat-sharing’ for the assembly elections. Since the adoption of the ‘50:50 formula’ for the sharing of the 40 parliamentary seats in 2019 – BJP (17), JD(U) 17 and LJP (6) – Chirag has been demanding two council seats, insisting that the JD(U) and BJP should keep five each. The sharing of the 243 assembly seats has apparently become a tough exercise, as Nitish would like to have more seats than the BJP to remain an elder partner in the combine, keeping the LJP at an arm’s length and its ambitions whittled down. Obviously, the application of the old ‘50:50 formula’ would not work. In between, Chirag has been promoting himself to be a hard bargainer vis-a-vis Nitish. During his party outreach programme in February-March, he said Bihar needed more development, despite whatever had been achieved by CM Nitish Kumar. Both he and his father Ram Vilas Paswan said they would be with the BJP’s line on who it thinks should be the Bihar NDA’s CM face. “We want to make it clear that none should take the LJP lightly. We have base and no one should underestimate our strength,” a senior LJP functionary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-in-a-bind-as-ljp-sulks-over-two-of-12-council-seats/articleshow/76756983.cms||Abhay Singh
July 3, 2020||Patna||Anand to address Cambridge University webinar tomorrow||PATNA: Super 30 founder and mathematician Anand Kumar will address a live webinar on ‘Super 30 pearls of wisdom turning adversities into opportunities’, to be organised by the Cambridge University Bhartiya Society (CUBS), University of Cambridge, UK on July 4. “It feels good to get an opportunity to address a webinar organised by the Indian society in a reputed university, where I once dreamt to study,” the mathematician said. Anand said any invitation from University of Cambridge brings back his old memories, when he got the opportunity to study there, but could not due to financial problems. “Very few people get the golden opportunity to study at this reputed university. I had got this opportunity, but the financial crisis forced me to abandon my dreams. Later, I started Super 30, which again took me there,” he said. Krishna Sharma, co-founder of the society, said it will be a great honour to listen to the renowned mathematician. “Students and others here are excited to listen to him. Everyone knows him and his work for the students, especially for those from the underprivileged sections of the society,” he said. On November 24 last year, Anand had visited University on the invitation of the prestigious Cambridge Union, world’s oldest debating and free speech society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/anand-to-address-cambridge-university-webinar-tomorrow/articleshow/76757090.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Patna||Sister-in-law of Tej joins RJD||PATNA: Ahead of assembly polls, former chief minister Daroga Prasad Rai’s granddaughter Karishma Rai joined the RJD at a ‘Milan Samaroh’ organised at the party office on Thursday. Karishma, a dentist by profession, is the daughter of Rai’s elder son Vidhanchandra Rai. His another granddaughter, Aishwarya Rai, daughter of Chandrika Rai, who is an RJD MLA from Parsa, is locked into marital dispute with RJD supremo’s elder son Tej Pratap. According to party sources, the move to induct Karishma in the RJD is to counter Aishwarya, in case she contests the election. Sources added that Aishwarya may get a ticket from the JD(U). Both Aishwarya and Chandrika had been vocal against the Lalu family after relations became bitter with Tej Pratap. Chandrika had even praised JD (U) chief Nitish Kumar and announced his resignation from the party, though technically he is still with the RJD. However, Tej Patap was not at all happy with Karishma’s induction. He tweeted, “I have no faith on any member of that (Rai’s) family.” However, the tweet was later deleted. After joining RJD, Karishma said she was ready to fulfill any responsibility given by the party. “If I am a sister or a niece of someone, that does not mean that I cannot join politics. He (Chandrika) is my uncle and a father figure for me. But politics and personal relations should not be interlinked. Even BJP leader Nand Kishore Yadavji is my mami’s (aunt) father.” When asked if her entry had upset Tej Pratap, she said, “There is no truth in it.” She said she had joined RJD because the party was carrying forward the legacy of her grandfather. She said, “Dadaji used to work for the underprivileged and the poor. I have also immense respect for Laluji.” JD (U) Nalanda leader Anil Maharaaj also joined the RJD on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sister-in-law-of-tej-joins-rjd/articleshow/76757050.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 3, 2020||Business||Deepak Parekh: Why must RBI answer to SC on basic fin tenets?||MUMBAI: HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh has asked why the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) should be answerable to the Supreme Court on basic principles that the financial sector operates on. The veteran financier’s statement comes in the wake of a petition in the SC seeking a waiver on loan interest during the moratorium period. “The RBI has been at the forefront shouldering a huge burden to maintain financial stability. The saga of the highest court of law questioning the RBI on the moratorium was indeed unfortunate,” said Parekh in his annual letter to shareholders. Last month, the SC admitted a petition seeking a waiver of interest during the period of moratorium on loan repayments. The RBI had estimated a loss of Rs 2 lakh crore if the waiver was allowed, which would translate into 15% of all banks’ net worth. The All India Bank Depositors Association had also said that waiver of interest on bank loans would hurt the interest of depositors. “Why should a central bank have to be answerable to a court on basic principles which the financial sector operates on? Interest payments on borrowings and loans are contractual obligations. No laws are being violated. At this juncture, all efforts must be channelled towards economic recovery rather than getting into legal wrangles,” said Parekh. In his letter, Parekh said that HDFC’s position is considerably stronger than most of its peers due to the buffers that it has built up. “We are now emerging into a scenario where there may be inorganic opportunities for our group companies,” said Parekh. Adding that some subsidiaries will require capital for their expansion plans, he said that HDFC is putting its road map in place for future capital requirements. Parekh also made a strong pitch for a level playing field in permitting external commercial borrowings (ECBs). “With global interest rates being so low, there is an opportunity to raise large resources for affordable housing. The RBI has always had the necessary checks and balances on entities it deems fit to raise ECBs, so this should not warrant any concern.” Parekh also called for a one-time restructuring scheme for real estate loans, pointing out that even if lenders were willing to help, any modification in the terms of the loan, including additional funding, is considered to be a non-performing loan. “Allowing a restructuring of these loans and classifying them as standard assets will facilitate last-mile funding of these projects,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/parekh-why-must-rbi-answer-to-sc-on-basic-fin-tenets/articleshow/76758127.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: No offering of water, milk to Lord Shiva this Shrawan||PATNA: Mahavir Mandir Nyas Samiti on Thursday issued a statement, stating that gathering of people for offering water and milk to Lord Shiva will remain prohibited during the holy month of Shrawan in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Samiti’s secretary Acharya Kishor Kunal said restrictions would be in place for ‘rudrabhishek’ rituals as well. “Rudrabhishek is one of the rituals to express one’s dedication towards Lord Shiva and hundreds of people visit the temple to perform the ritual during Shrawan every year. It involves sacred bathing of Lord Shiva with milk, sugarcane juice and gangajal. Earlier four people, including ‘yajmaan’, were allowed to enter the premises. However, we have limited the number to two now. Wearing masks while performing the rituals will be mandatory,” Kunal said. He added those with tickets for conducting ‘rudrabhishek’ will be allowed to perform the rituals at the small temple, located behind the main temple. “Given the rising number of Covid-19 cases, it is necessary to take adequate steps to stop further spread of the virus. Hence, we have minimised crowding and implemented effective social distancing norms,” Kishore said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-offering-of-water-milk-to-lord-shiva-this-shrawan/articleshow/76756923.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Patna||Process to fill vacant posts begins: Munger University||PATNA: Munger University has begun the process of filling 38 vacant posts on contractual basis. The last date for receiving online applications in this regard is July 17. The posts include deputy registrar, programmer, assistant general, auditor, assistant finance officer, personal assistant to vice-chancellor (VC), librarian, assistant librarian (one each), assistant registrar (three), section officer (two), upper division clerk (seven), lower division clerk (15), and stenographer (three). Munger University VC Ranjit Kumar Verma told this newspaper that the step was being taken to streamline all activities at a time when “we are facing the brunt of the Covid-19 pandemic”. “The university also started the online process of admitting students to different undergraduate (UG) courses from June 27. The admissions will continue till July 31 in Arts, Science and Commerce streams in both regular and vocational modes,” the VC said. Candidates can submit their online applications to www.mungeruniversity.ac.in after paying Rs 300. Verma said, “If students face a problem while filling up the admission forms or depositing the fee, they can contact us at helpdesk@mungeruniversity.ac.in.” Covid-19 awareness campaign: The principals of constituent and affiliated colleges falling under the jurisdiction of Munger University have been told to launch a massive awareness campaign for maintaining hygiene and cleanliness on their campuses. “Volunteers of the National Service Scheme have formed a ‘Covid Control and Response Team’ to deal with the pandemic effectively in Munger,” the VC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/process-to-fill-vacant-posts-begins-munger-university/articleshow/76757148.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||Heavy rain lashes parts of state, firemen on toes||Panaji: The state experienced light to moderate rainfall at most places on Thursday, with heavy showers reported at isolated areas. Compared to the rest of the state, Ela, Old Goa and Canacona recorded the highest amount of rainfall of 7cm each. The department of fire services received 13 complaints of tree falls from 7am to 7pm on Thursday. The met department (IMD) has forecast moderate to heavy rain on July 3 and 4, with moderate rainfall at most places on July 5. Light to moderate showers are very likely at most places on July 6, IMD has stated. Wind speeds of 20-30 km/hour are likely over North Goa on July 2 and 3, while between July 4 and 6, wind speeds of 30-40 km/hr are likely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heavy-rain-lashes-parts-of-state-firemen-on-toes/articleshow/76759302.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Surat||Woman plots break-up of brother-in-law’s engagement, arrested in Surat||SURAT: Cyber Crime police on Wednesday arrested a 27-year-old woman for allegedly sending defamatory messages about a female jewellery designer in the city. Police and the victim’s family were surprised to find that the accused is the wife of the elder brother of the man to whom the designer is engaged to be married. Police arrested Zeel Raycha, a resident of Adajan, for alleged defamation, intentional insult and criminal intimidation by unknown communication under Indian Penal Code. She was also booked under IT Act. She was released on bail. She sent multiple messages to her brother-in-law on his Instagram and described defamatory details about his fiancé. The 21-year-old victim had lodged a police complaint on June 30 after repeated messages were being sent to her fiancé since February. The accused posed as a man to send him the online messages through multiple Instagram accounts. The accused had even threatened her brother-in-law of dire consequences if he got married to the complainant. The accused told the police that she didn’t approve the lifestyle of the designer and had even asked her family to drop the marriage plans. When she could not convince the family members who were planning an engagement of the duo, the accused decided to malign her sending the defamatory messages, said a officer at the cyber crime police station. Police traced the woman from her IP address. She created the social media accounts and sent the messages from her mobile phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-plots-break-up-of-brother-in-laws-engagement-arrested/articleshow/76758752.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 3, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Dog jumps to death after owner’s demise in Kanpur||KANPUR: In a stirring incident, a pet dog jumped to death from the fourth floor of the house after the woman doctor, who had rescued and reared her, died and her body came home from hospital. The incident was reported from the Barra-2 area of the city on Wednesday. Dr Anita Raj Singh, joint director, health, and a resident of Malikpuram in Barra -2 area, had found the dog in a pitiful condition on road 12 years ago, named her Jaya and adopted it. The puppy’s mother had abandoned her near Ursula Horsman hospital soon after giving birth. The puppy was in a very bad state and was infested with maggots all over. Dr Anita, who was passing in her car, saw the puppy and brought her home. “It was extremely thin and weak. My mother treated the puppy with utmost care and it survived. We adopted her and she became a family member,” Tejas, son of Dr Anita, told reporters. “My mother developed a kidney ailment and was unwell since past few months. She was undergoing treatment at a city hospital, where she breathed her last on Wednesday,” he added. “As soon as my mother’s body arrived from the hospital, Jaya started barking and wailing. She went upstairs and jumped off the fourth floor. We rushed her to a veterinary hospital, but she was declared brought dead. Her backbone had fractured,” Tejas said. She was depressed ever since mother was admitted to hospital and ate frugally, he added. The family buried the dog near their house soon after Dr Anita’s cremation. Ankit, an animal lover said, “It is a touching incident of bonding and emotions pets have with their owners.” Locals gathered as the news of the incident spread in the neighbourhood and city. Watch Tragic: Dog jumps to death after owner’s demise in Kanpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dog-jumps-to-death-after-owners-demise/articleshow/76759183.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 3, 2020||Amritsar||India plugs cracks in dhussi bund to prevent flooding||DERA BABA NANAK: To prevent flooding on its side, India has plugged a cleft in dhussi bund (temporary embankment) on the international border at Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district for the construction of a bridge, which is a part of the part of the Kartarpur corridor. While talking to TOI on Thursday, road construction company Ceigall India Limited’s vice-president Jeetendra Singh said they had filled the 30m cut which was made during the construction of bridge on the Indian side. There was need to plug the crack as there was possibility of floods during the rainy season, which could lead to submerging of fields under water in case Pakistan released water in the Ravi, he said. In the second phase of Kartarpur corridor, Pakistan is to construct 300m bridge to match the Indian bridge. However, Pakistan is yet to start work on second phase of the corridor. Meanwhile, Kartarpur (Ravi) Darshan Abhilakhi Sanstha, which had been pursuing the case of construction of religious corridor between the two nations, has demanded that the height of darshan sthal be raised for a better and clear ‘darshan’ of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartapur Sahib, about four kilometers inside the Pakistan territory. Sanstha general secretary Gurinder Singh Bajwa said they had come to know that ‘darshan sthal’ was being built on the dhussi bund. “But according to original plan, the ‘sthal’ has to be constructed at a height for better and clear ‘darshan’ of the gurdwara in Pakistan,” he said. For the last 18 years, they had been holding non-stop ‘ardas’ at the international border for the opening of Kartarpur corridor and had even approached successive prime ministers and presidents of Pakistan for its construction, he said. A ‘darshan stahl’ was constructed by Baba Gurcharan Singh Bedi Baba Jagdeep Singh Bedi Memorial Charitable Hospital and was inaugurated by then BSF inspector general, Punjab Frontier, Himmat Singh on May 6, 2008. A pair of binoculars was installed at the place to facilitate devotees for a clear and closer ‘darshan’ of the gurdwara. However, the ‘sthal’ was dismantled in April 2019 for the construction of the corridor. During construction of the first phase of Kartarpur corridor, there was a proposal to make a double story ‘darshan stahl’ with a lift. However, the plan was shelved. Meanwhie, a ‘darshan sthal’ is yet to be constructed at dhussi bund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/india-plugs-dhussi-bund-cracks-to-prevent-flooding/articleshow/76759294.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 3, 2020||Patna||13 districts account for over 50% cases in Bihar, Patna tops chart||PATNA: Thirteen districts have together accounted for more than half of the total Covid-19 cases in the state with Patna topping the chart with 822 cases. The number of coronavirus patients in the state had crossed 10,000-mark on Wednesday. As per the data released by the state health department, of the 10,392 Covid-19 positive cases registered in the state till Thursday evening, Patna accounted for 822 cases, Bhagalpur 515, Madhubani 479, Begusarai 459 and Siwan 438. Other districts which have registered large number of Covid cases are Munger (369), Samastipur (365), Muzaffarpur (353), Nawada (352), Rohtas (350), Katihar (348), Darbhanga (311) and Khagaria (305). If the figures are anything to go by, these 13 districts have registered 5,466 Covid-19 cases till Thursday evening. Asked about the strategy of the health department to curb Covid-19 cases, especially in these districts, state health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said, “We are focusing on contact tracing at the places where Covid-19 cases are on rise. In containment zones, only essential services are allowed.” Another official said Patna and Bhagalpur are densely populated urban areas where movement of people for commercial activities complicate the situation. “Chances of spread of the virus are more at these places,” he added. As far as active cases are concerned, Patna again tops the list with 399 cases, followed by Bhagalpur 156 and Mabhubani 129. However, Khagaria which ranked 13th in terms of number of coronavirus cases in the state, has only nine active cases. Other districts with least active cases are Lakihisarai (8), Sheohar (15), Sitamarhi (15) and Buxar (18). Least Covid-19 cases in state has been registered in Jamui, where only 85 people have so far tested positive for the virus, followed by Sheohar (93), Arwal (113), Araria and Lakhisarai (130 each).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/13-districts-account-for-over-50-cases-patna-tops-chart/articleshow/76756755.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 3, 2020||Patna||Vande Bharat Mission: 10,000 reach Bihar||GAYA: With the arrival of 466 natives of Bihar and Jharkhand by three special flights on Thursday, the number of foreign returnees by special flights under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ crossed 10,000 mark. According to Gaya airport director Dilip Kumar, altogether 10,041 foreign returnees have flown back under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ and special repatriation flights were operated by foreign airlines. The process began on May 18 with the arrival of 41 returnees, including 13 belonging to Jharkhand, who were stranded in UK following the lockdown. Since then, altogether 66 flights have landed at the Gaya airport till Tuesday. Of these 39 are of Air India, IndiGo and SpiceJet. The remaining 27 are foreign airlines like Fly Dubai, Jazeera Airways, Kuwait Airlines, Etehad, Qatar Airways, Air Arabia, Salam Airways, Thai Air Asia, Thai Smile, Myanmar National Airways and Myanmar Airways International among others. As per the break up released by the Airports Authority of India (AAI), the maximum number of foreign returnees are from UAE followed by Kuwait. From the UAE too, the maximum returnees are from Dubai, followed Abu Dhabi, Ras Al Khaimah and Sharjah. Whereas Dubai accounted for 2,269 returnees, the number of returnees from Kuwait has been put at 2,774. Sources said that the vast majority of returnees from the Middle East comprises low paid workers who have lost their jobs on account of the pandemic. Gaya airport director Dilip said, “Besides returnees from the Middle East, 849 persons have been evacuated from Bangladesh, followed by 268 from Kyrgyzstan (former USSR), 234 from Russia, 130 from Ukraine, 70 from Sri Lanka and 45 from Myanmar.” Though the number of people stranded who got themselves registered under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’, has not been officially released, sources put the number of people from Bihar and Jharkhand registered under VBM at more than 25,000. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said the returnees are mandated to remain under institutional quarantine for seven days followed by an equal number of days under home quarantine. Bihar origin returnees are quarantined in Bodh Gaya, while those from Jharkhand are sent to Ranchi for institutional quarantine. “Altogether 117 of the returnees hail from Gaya district,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vande-bharat-mission-10k-reach-state/articleshow/76757027.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Patna||Birthday party: 15 held for firing in air||PATNA: At least 15 youths were arrested by police from a market complex in Bhikhna Pahadi locality of Patna late on Wednesday night for allegedly firing more than six rounds in air during a birthday party celebration. The incident took place at Jamuna Market under the Kadamkuan police station area in the city. At least 40 youths had gathered to celebrate the birthday of one Ankit Sinha alias Shera, who runs a biker gang. Ankit was also arrested. Police sources said Ankit had invited his friends to the birthday party through social media. “The party had started at around 7pm and continued till late in the night till the police raided the spot,” police said. SHO of Kadamkaun police station Nishikant Nishi said four country-made pistols, including two semi-automatic ones, several empty bottles of liquor, seven empty cartridges of 7.65mm, two live cartridges of .315 bore and four costly sports bikes were seized from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/birthday-party-15-held-for-firing-in-air/articleshow/76756389.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Business||RBI may offer more relief to stressed sectors||NEW DELHI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) may unveil more relief measures for some of the stressed sectors of the economy, especially in the services segment, as efforts are stepped up to help them emerge from the bruising impact of the lockdown. Government sources said that such measures will likely be aimed mostly through the monetary policy side. “The government has announced a massive extension of the PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana till November-end. Now, the RBI is likely to announce measures for sectors such as hospitality, tourism and others,” said a source, indicating that the Centre would prefer to wait for now as far as large relief packages are concerned. Banking sources said discussions are under way on the possible relief steps. The RBI has already unveiled a series of steps to provide comfort to industry segments by announcing a moratorium on term loans till August-end. According to banking sources, the finance ministry has sought information on bank loans to the textile sector and is keen on some relief. “Revival of this sector is seen as key to providing relief not just to the industries but also the 45 million people who are directly employed in the sector.” However, the RBI has favoured a one-time non-discretionary and non-discriminatory relief package to stressed borrowers instead of a sector-specific scheme. Making the package a one-time relief will ensure that there is no ever-greening of loans and making it non-discretionary and non-discriminatory will remove subjectivity. Bankers point out that within each sector, there are strong and weak players. State Bank of India (SBI) has said that since Covid-19 defaults cannot be proceeded against in insolvency courts, restructuring is the only way out. Restructuring is possible even now but banks have to classify the loan as non-performing and make provisions out of their profits. One way out is to allow restructuring without classifying the loan as NPA. However, one of the key challenges in restructuring is getting all lenders to agree on one plan. While large lenders are willing to provide relief and write-off loans, some of the smaller ones are not in a position to do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-may-offer-more-relief-to-stressed-sectors/articleshow/76758698.cms||Surojit Gupta
July 3, 2020||Patna||‘Depressed’ jeweller hangs self in Patna||PATNA: A 57-year-old jewellery shop owner allegedly hanged himself at his Bajaj Gali home in Bakarganj area of the state capital on Thursday. According to the police, the deceased, Ramanand Prasad, was reportedly depressed as his shop at Bhikhna Pahadi area wasn’t doing well after remaining shut for nearly three months due to the lockdown. Prasad was found hanging inside his bedroom when the deceased’s 29-year-old son Ashutosh Kumar went to serve him tea in the morning, police said. The man was rushed to the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) where doctors at the emergency ward declared him dead. According to the statement given by his son to the police, Prasad was found hanging from a hook in the ceiling using a towel. “Kumar’s father used to remain depressed and frustrated due it. Since last one and half weeks, the jeweller had isolated himself from the rest of his family members. He had even stopped interacting with them and probably due to all these reasons he committed suicide,” PMCH police outpost in-charge Amit Kumar said quoting the son’s statement to the police. “The family members themselves rushed him to the PMCH. The body was handed over to the family members for cremation after conducting post-mortem,” he added. Since April this year, at least five suicides have taken place in the state capital allegedly due to financial crisis arising out of the lockdown prompted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Among those who took their lives are a private firm manager Dhananjay Kumar from Rupaspur who had lost his job due to the lockdown, two auto-rickshaw drivers Rajesh Pandey from Khajekala and Pradeep Kumar from Gopalpur and a 55-year-old restaurant employee living at CID colony in Jakkanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/depressed-jeweller-hangs-self-in-patna/articleshow/76757009.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Varanasi||Ganja worth Rs 4.50 crore recovered, 3 arrested||Varanasi: The Varanasi field unit of special task force (STF) arrested three smugglers with a consignment of 18.68 quintals of ‘Ganja’ from Jagatpur area under the limits of Rohania police station on Wednesday night. The cost of the recovered Ganja was estimated to be Rs 4.50 crores. The STF have intensified efforts to nab the kingpins of this gang who operate it from Kolkata, Andhra Pradesh and Varanasi. According to STF, upon getting a tip off, the team of its Varanasi field unit led by inspectors- Amit Srivastava, Punit Parihar and Arvind Singh conducted raids in Jagatpur area and caught two trucks carrying consignment of ganja in secret cavities. Following the recovery of ganja, the STF personnel arrested Amit Kumar Singh of Sivan, Mohd Saqib and Shivnath Kumar Ram of Mujaffarpur in Bihar. Both trucks were seized while three mobiles and cash worth Rs 16,000 were also recovered from their possession. During initial interrogation, the arrested persons divulged that the trucks were owned by Ram Manohar Yadav of Bihar and Ravindra of West Bengal. Secret cavities were created in both trucks especially for smuggling Ganja. They said Dabbu Singh and Prem Singh of Kolkata were the kingpins of this ganja smuggling gang. On their directive, these three used to visit Andhra Pradesh to collect consignments of ganja from one-Mathi Dada. The name and address of person, where it had to be delivered in Varanasi, was told by Dabbu and Prem. The trio confessed that apart from fare of transporation, they were paid Rs 80,000 for the delivery of each consignment. The STF handed over the trio to Rohania police after registering a case under sections of NDPS Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ganja-worth-rs-4-50-crore-recovered-3-arrested/articleshow/76758202.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Surat||VNSGU teachers threaten agitation for confirmation||Surat: Awaiting confirmation of their jobs even after three years of appointment, 14 teachers of various departments in Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) have announced that they will resort to protest with the support of eminent educationalists of south Gujarat, seeking justice if the issue does not get resolved soon.They have also written letters to the governor, chief minister, deputy CM, education minister and the higher education commissioner claiming that their probation period which as per the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines should have ended in a year after appointment has been extended thrice since 2019 for six month period. “As per VNSGU rules if no inquiry is ordered against any university teacher or no notice has been served within two years of appointment the teacher automatically gets confirmed. But the varsity has been extending their probation,” said Sanjay Desai, a syndicate member, who added that he has raised the issue multiple times to the university, and the appellate authorities.University had formed a three-member inquiry committee comprising C N Patel, principal of chemistry department at Sarvajanik Pharmacy College, Mehsana, V B Babariya, retired professor from Ahmedabad and Pruthul Desai, principal of P T Sarvajanik College of Science, Surat, which is yet to submit its report. “Inquiry over false charges has been ordered against us by the vice-chancellor without taking approval from the university syndicate. Yet, when we went to submit our reply to the committee, only one member was present,” one of the aggrieved teachers alleged. Issue of 10 other teachers too is gaining momentum. “Confirmation of these 10 teachers appointed three years ago has not been done by the varsity despite their completion of probation period,” said Ganpat Dhameliya, senate member. Some of these teachers have also approached different courts seeking their regular appointment. These teachers were appointed during term of previous vice-chancellor and they are now being victimised to settle political score between different groups at the university, sources in university informed. Despite multiple attempts VNSGU vice-chancellor Shivendra Gupta was not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vnsgu-teachers-threaten-agitation-for-confirmation/articleshow/76758733.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||Calls grow to allow return of long-term visa holders from Pakistan||Nagpur: Relatives of Pakistani citizens who were living in India on long-term visas (LTVs), but are stranded in Pakistan after going there for brief visits before the Covid lockdown, have sent SOS messages through videos. They are requesting authorities to be allowed to come back to India. Some of the stranded persons too have sent similar videos. The videos are addressed to member of Parliament from Indore Shanker Lalwani, who had championed the evacuation of Indian citizens stranded in Pakistan. Though the Indian nationals have come back home, there are another close to 800 persons, including over 30 from Nagpur, who had gone on no-objection return to India (NORI) visas, but have been unable to return. They had gone to meet their kin on three-month NORI visa — a facility available to LTV holders. They were stranded as borders were shut following the lockdown. The Pakistani nationals have applied for Indian citizenship and were hoping to get it under the CAA. There are cases of mothers being separated from their children aged two to four years, as they had gone for a quick visit and left them behind. Some elderly parents are also waiting for their children to return. The stranded also include people with illnesses, some of whom are not getting access to medical care as they are in remote areas of Pakistan. Rajesh Jhambhia, who heads the Sindhi — Hindi Panchayat, said both the governments should consider the issue on humanitarian grounds as the lockdown has left families split across each side of the border. Krishna Punjabi appears in one such video, appealing that his wife Mamta, who is a Pakistani citizen, should be allowed to come back to India. “She had gone to Sindh province to visit her parents with our two-and-a-half-year-old daughter and could not return due to the lockdown. She has gone into depression and cannot look after the child properly,” he says. Avinash, who had gone in February to get married, is also stranded. His family has been living in India on LTV for 20 years. An elderly Rajkumar Chawla from Aurangabad begs to be reunited with his son. “His mother has taken ill,” he says as his wife resting in a bed by his side is seen in the clipping. Nandlal Udasi from Nagpur is suffering from urine retention, and says he cannot access proper medical facility in Pakistan. “My cousin is a doctor in Nagpur. If allowed to return, I may get the right treatment,” he said. “He needs a catheter, which is leading to frequent infections,” said Dr Harish Udasi, Nandlal’s cousin. Lalwani told TOI orders to extend their visas have been issued. Their extended stay in Pakistan will not be counted as a break in their seven years’ of residence in India, which would have disqualified them from getting citizenship. On their evacuation, Lalwani said so far the priority was to bring back Indian citizens, but admitted the NORI visa holders were facing problems too. He said a meeting will be held between Union ministers of home, external affairs and health to decide on bringing NORI holders back. TOI also came across a letter by Lalwani requesting Union home minister Amit Shah to consider their case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/calls-grow-to-allow-return-of-long-term-visa-holders-from-pakistan/articleshow/76758487.cms||Shishir Arya
July 3, 2020||Surat||Paan shops may be told to shut||Surat: At the same time, the senior IAS officer has also warned of strict action against those violating Covid-19 rules in the cluster containment zones. “Rules in containment zones will be implemented ruthlessly as this is necessary to contain the virus spread. Paan kiosks to be shut in areas where positive cases are reported,” she said. She also urged people to purchase pulse oximeters to gauge oxygen levels which will determine the condition of the family members. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/paan-shops-may-be-told-to-shut/articleshow/76758688.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||Tree fall damages Balli temple, Rs 2L loss||Quepem: Following strong winds and heavy rain, a huge tamarind tree uprooted on the Shri Sati Devi Temple at Ghodkem, Balli, early Thursday morning. The slab of the temple has been damaged and cracks have developed on the main wall of the entrance, president of the temple committee, Rupesh Velip, said. Margao fire station personnel, who cleared the tree and debris, said that the loss has been estimated at around Rs 2 lakh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tree-fall-damages-balli-temple-rs-2l-loss/articleshow/76759313.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Salem||Salem reports 88 new cases, tally goes up to 1,034||Salem: The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Salem breached the 1,000-mark on Thursday when it reported 88 new cases. The district’s tally now stands at 1,034, Of these, 743 are active cases while the rest have been discharged after treatment. “We have 88 new cases, including 11 imported ones,” said Dr J Nirmalson, deputy director of health services. A sub-inspector attached to Salem town police station tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Following this, 15 police personnel at the station were sent for institutional quarantine for 14 days. Sanitary workers and health workers with the Salem Municipal Corporation (SMC) disinfected the police station and the quarters where the SI was residing. SMC officials have put strict containment measures in Chinnakadai Veedhi, the main bazaar street in the city on Thursday after five load men tested positive. The shops in the area will remained closed until further orders. In Erode district, officials recorded 17 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday. With this, the number of positive cases has risen to 191. “Of the total 191 cases, 107 are active,” said Dr S Soundammal, deputy director of health services. Krishnagiri district, which already had 146 cases, added 10 new cases on Thursday. The district currently has 111 active cases. Dharmapuri district on Thursday registered 7 new cases, taking its case tally to 93. Collector S Malarvizhi, after inspecting containment areas in the district, said they have sealed all entry points in the district. “We have strictly instructed the health officials to send all the people those who were entering the district to quarantine facility center in Chettikarai for Covid-19 test,” she said, adding that, if they tested negative, will be sent to their home. Namakkal district did not register any new case on Thursday, and maintained its tally of 97 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-reports-88-new-cases-tally-goes-up-to-1034/articleshow/76759306.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Sealed stations: Covid takes a toll on policing||Mangaluru: The rising number of police personnel testing Covid-19 positive in the district leading to the sealing down of police stations, will have serious repercussions on policing in the district, said police officials in Dakshina Kannada. “However, we are leaving no stones unturned,” they added. So far, 16 cops including an ACP rank official have tested positive in Mangaluru Commissionerate alone and are undergoing treatment at designated hospitals. About 14 police personnel are placed under home quarantine and police stations in Ullal and Bajpe are sealed down. In Dakshina Kannada District Police limits, Vittal Police Station was sealed down, while a staff from women police station in Puttur tested positive on Thursday. “We always mingle with people and now at this time it’s a risky affair. In spite of taking enough safety measures, both at work and personal level, there is no full guarantee that we are safe. With many of our colleagues testing positive for coronavirus, we are apprehensive, but we are not giving up,” says a senior police officer speaking on the condition of anonymity. A woman police officer said SOPs have been issued to police officials. “But it is difficult these days to arrest an accused and keep him at the police station. Once an arrested accused has to undergo mandatory test, till his results are out, he/she has to be housed at the jurisdictional station. It is like we are walking on a double edged sword. If an accused escapes, it puts us in trouble,” she added. Justifying her claims, it was only few days ago that a cop attached to Bajpe police station contracted Covid-19 from two men arrested on suspicion of cattle smuggling. Meanwhile, the sealing down of police stations is also causing inconvenience to the general public. However, top brass in Mangaluru city and DK District Police are confident that policing will not take a back seat. “Policing is a part of the civil society and it is necessary — be it during a law and order issue or pandemic. The police will make no compromise when it comes to quality of policing,” said Mangaluru city police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash. He said that apart from ensuring safety of police personnel, the department is also making sure their families are safe. “We are distributing masks, sanitisers and gloves to the families of our staff too,” added Vikash. SP B M Laxmi Prasad said the DK police are doing enough home work to stop criminal activities. “The recent burglaries reported in Dakshina Kannada are committed by locals. Most of the borders are sealed and there is no movement of trains or other public transport and so it is not easy to commit crimes and run away,” he stressed. In order to keep the cops safe, DK district police have adopted 10 days’ work and three days of holiday policy. “Under this policy, a team will work outdoors for 10 days and take three days of leave and the next team takes over. The teams will not mingle with staff who work inside the police stations,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/sealed-stations-covid-takes-a-toll-on-policing/articleshow/76757246.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 3, 2020||Bhopal||Corona cases cross 14,000-mark in MP||Bhopal: Covid-19 spread in northern areas of Madhya Pradesh continued to soar, as Gwalior, Bhind, Datia and Morena accounted for 106 of the 245 infections reported across the state on Thursday. Since the pandemic began, MP has reported 14,106 cases, with 589 deaths. Eight more people died due to the virus on Thursday. Morena has reported a spurt in Covid-19 cases. As many as 57 cases were reported on Thursday, as per the state health bulletin. In the last one week, 278 people have been infected with Covid-19 in Morena district and the administration has been forced to introduce several restrictions on interstate movement. Gwalior district reported 45 new cases, while Datia and Bhind reported 14 and 10 cases respectively. Indore district accounts for 4,753 positive cases and 236 deaths, followed by state capital Bhopal with 3,046 cases and 104 deaths. So far, since the outbreak began, Ujjain has reported 71 deaths and 862 positive cases, Burhanpur reported 401 cases and in Neemuch 447. Khandwa accounts for 320 positive cases while Khargone’s coronavirus tally stands at 298. Jabalpur, which reported the first Covid-19 case in March, has reported 412 cases. As many as 7,844 samples were tested across the state on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/corona-cases-cross-14000-mark-in-mp/articleshow/76758509.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Dental exams: HC notice to Pb, BFUHS||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court, on Thursday, issued a notice to the medical education department, Punjab, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) and Dental Council of India on a plea against holding MDS and BDS examinations. Baba Farid University has been directed to respond with reference to the central government notification directing all schools, colleges and institutions to remain closed till July 31. Since the varsity has scheduled examinations for July 7, the HC has fixed hearing for July 3 at 12pm. All parties have been asked to file a reply by Friday. Justice Nirmaljit Kaur of the HC passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by the Dental Surgeons Association of India. Petitioners are aggrieved by the examination notification issued by the BFUHS, which states that the examination for MDS and BDS courses are scheduled to commence from July 7. According to the petitioners, the notifications have been issued without appreciating ground realities and threats posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and the fact that no direction for opening of educational institutions have been issued by the central and state government. The petitioner’s association has sought directions for quashing the impugned examination notifications dated June 1 and 2, 2020 whereby the university has notified that the examination for MDS and BDS would commence from July 7. Directions have been sought to restrain Baba Farid University of Health Sciences from holding physical examinations until proper guidelines, arrangements and infrastructure are made available and the processes for unlocking of Universities and colleges are notified under the Disaster Management Act 2005 by the Central and state governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dental-exams-hc-notice-to-pb-bfuhs/articleshow/76759321.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||Decision on reopening oftemples likely on Sunday||Margao: Amid spike in Covid-19 cases across the state, nine major temples of Goa will meet at Mardol on Sunday to review the situation and decide over the reopening of the temples. At the last meeting held on June 7, it was decided that the temples would remain shut until at least June 30 and any decision about reopening them to the public thereafter would be taken after a review meeting. According to guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), places of worship were permitted to open from June 8. However, most temples in Goa deferred the reopening to a later date that would be announced following a review of the situation after a month. “At the meeting to be held on Sunday, we will review the current situation, deliberate on all aspects and after taking all factors into consideration, a decision will be taken,” president of Ramnath Devasthan, Pravas Naik, said. Representatives of the managing committees of Shantadurga Devasthan, Kavlem, Ramnath Devasthan, Ramnathi, Mahalsa Devasthan, Mardol, Nagesh Devasthan, Nagueshi, Mahalaxmi Devasthan, Bandora, Devki Krishna Devasthan, Marcel, Kamakshi Devasthan, Shiroda, Ramnath Damodar Devasthan, Zambaulim, and Mangesh Devasthan, Mangeshi are expected to attend the meeting. “It’s not that our temples are closed,” Naik said. “All rituals are being conducted by the purohits in the presence of a very limited number of devotees. If anybody wants to visit the temple and pay his obeisance to the god/deity, he is welcome to do so by taking prior permission of the purohit or the Devasthan authorities.” President of the Shantadurga Devasthan, Kavlem, Triloknath Borkar, said that the Devasthan committee will put forth its views at the Mardol meeting on Sunday. “Depending on the deliberations at the meeting, we will take an appropriate stand,” Borkar said. After the last meeting, Borkar had told TOI that as Covid-positive cases were detected in the temple’s vicinity, it was decided against opening the temple to the public. At the Mardol meeting last month, members were of the view that the standard operating procedure (SOP) laid down by the government on temple reopening were largely impractical to be implemented within a very short time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/decision-on-reopening-oftemples-likely-on-sunday/articleshow/76759317.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand government extends permission to pick up mining material from river banks till July 31st, environmentalists fear illegal mining||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday gave permission to the state geology and mining department for mining material to be lifted from river banks – a move much criticised by environmentalists. Earlier in May this year, the state government, on the plea of failure to collect sufficient riverbed material owing to lockdown, had sought permission from the environment ministry till June 30. However, the latest move to lift mining material till July 31 was not approved by the ministry. The order regarding the extension of permission was issued by additional chief secretary Om Prakash on June 30. According to environmentalists, ideally there is a routine pre-monsoon and post-monsoon study conducted by scientists before mining is done anywhere in the country. Now, however, rivers are being mined even in higher reaches of Uttarakhand, irrespective of ecological sensitivity of the area. Most of the mining is happening in the Bhabhar area, which is a crucial geographical location for groundwater recharge. “Without conducting any district survey – made compulsory by MoEF guidelines –the state government has been encouraging unsustainable riverbed quarrying practices. In a sheer invitation to disaster, the government has allowed mining within 1km reach of structures and bridges on the rivers, which was prohibited by the Nainital high court. It has also increased depth for mining from 1.5 metres to upto 3 metres, without even conducting the scientific replenishment study. Such brazen mining operations will aggravate flood situations,” said Bhim Singh Rawat of South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People (SANDRP). “The government is brazenly increasing the mining period amid the looming monsoon season and ongoing pandemic, undermining environmental norms ,” added Rawat. Meanwhile, the additional director of geology and mining department Suresh Lowrence Patrick said, “The permission has been extended for river training and not mining under the River Training Policy, 2020 and Disaster Management Act, 2005. The permit is only for clearing the previously existing riverbed material and not for digging fresh material, in order to safeguard embankments.” Environmentalists have also expressed fear over the possibility of illegal mining being conducted under the guise of lifting existing material from the river. Noted environmentalist Manoj Misra, convener of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, said, “It is good if the order is limited to lifting pre-existing or already quarried material. Fresh digging, however, should not happen. The move requires extensive and thorough monitoring.” Incidentally, the MoEF's Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) on April 23 this year had deferred the proposal of Uttarakhand to conduct mining in Yamuna and it had then asked the state government to 'submit a district survey report and conduct thorough study to assess the impact of such mining in upstream and downstream areas of river’. The Uttarakhand government had sought permission to conduct mining in about 64 hectares of area around Song river in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-government-extends-permission-to-pick-up-mining-material-from-river-banks-till-july-31st-environmentalists-fear-illegal-mining/articleshow/76757266.cms||Shivani Azad
July 3, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab to pay Rs 10L to family of farmer who died outside Bathinda thermal plant||Bathinda: The state government has agreed to provide a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the family of farmer Joginder Singh, who died near the gate of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant in Bathinda on Wednesday. The district administration also agreed to consider giving a job to one of the family members and to waive aside institutional debt of the family. This decisions were taken following marathon meetings between farmer organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) and Bathinda district administration on late Wednesday and Thursday. The district administration also handed over a cheque of Rs 5 lakh to the family, while Rs 5 lakh will be given in a week. Joginder (56), from Cheema village in Sangrur district, had arrived at the thermal plant early Wednesday morning on a motorbike and sat on the dharna at one of its gates. He had with him a placard reading ‘Guru Nanak Dev Bathinda itihasik shaan, mai karda haan is nu vechan to rokan lei jind qurban’ (Guru Nanak Thermal plant Bathinda is historic place, I am ending my life against the proposal to sell it), a farm organisation flag and a placard with photo of Guru Nanak Dev. A couple of hours later, he collapsed near the gate. His family had availed loans from central cooperative bank, Cheema agriculture cooperative society and from a money lender. His Kulwinder Singh (30) said his father got emotional over the state government’s move to sell the land of thermal plant, named after Guru Nanak Dev, to Punjab urban planning and development authority (Puda). The family has four acre land at Cheema village. Kulwinder, who has done diploma in computer applications after completing his 10+2, said he and his father used to till the family land. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) state secretary Shingara Singh said the administration conceded to all the demands, including “compensation, job to his son and waiving off the family debt”. The thermal plant employees federation president Gursewak Singh urged the employees not to let the the sacrifice of Joginder go waste and to join hands to fight against the handing over of land to Puda. Bathinda deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said compensation has been given and administration is looking into other demands. Though the officials have still not received the viscera report, the district administration is considered it a suicide case for providing compensation the family, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-to-pay-rs-10l-to-family-of-farmer-who-died-outside-bathinda-thermal-plant/articleshow/76759314.cms||Neel Kamal
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||New Khapri ROB to be complete by mid-Sept||Nagpur: After months of delay, the new railway overbridge (ROB) at Khapri is finally nearing completion. The portion over Nagpur-Wardha railway line has finally been laid and now concreting is going on. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has set a date of September 15 for its completion, according to project officer Abhijit Jichkar. There is good news for residents of Pardi too. Shekhar Ghadge, sub-divisional officer (SDO) of Nagpur, has promised to pass the award for acquiring about 3,500 square metre land needed for Pardi flyover this week. NHAI has set a deadline of June 2021 for the structure. The Khapri ROB was slated to be ready in March 2019, but got delayed due to several reasons. In 2020, the NHAI faced difficulties in meeting the simultaneous requirements of Airports Authority of India (AAI) and Central Railway (CR). The project got stuck after its initial launch scheme was rejected by Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) and hence a new scheme was initiated wherein girders were split to lower the weight. NHAI split the 55-metre-long girder into two — having 33m and 22m span. Another problem for the NHAI contractor was striking balance between AAI and CR operations. Khapri area falls near the runway of Nagpur airport and as per flight schedule, the AAI could provide slot from 1.30pm to 3.30pm to enable launching of girders and the railways also stopping train movement in the section during the period was a difficult job. The disruption in train services due to Covid-19 concerns provided a much-needed breather and CR readily provided an 18-day block in Khapri section enabling execution of the two works simultaneously. Pardi flyover project officer NL Yeotkar said now all hurdles in the way of the project have been removed and work would go ahead in full swing. Bhoomipuja for the flyover was performed in August 2014 and it was expected to be complete by 2017 end. However, it was dogged by problems right from the beginning, land acquisition being the major one. After land owners refused to part their land through negotiations with NHAI, the latter had to go for compulsory acquisition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-khapri-rob-to-be-complete-by-mid-sept/articleshow/76758540.cms||Ashish Roy
July 3, 2020||Business||Emami Agrotech sees 10% growth in edible oil biz||Kolkata: Emami Agrotech is expecting a 10% growth in its edible oil business despite a dip in sales to commercial establishments on account of restaurants and eateries being shut during the prolonged lockdown. The growth will come on the back of its sales to households that have seen a rise of 15%-20%, the company said. Emami group director Aditya V Agarwal, however, said that the company’s revenue this financial year is expected to be the same as that in the last fiscal — around Rs 12,000 crore. The expected profit of Rs 100-125 crore is also the same as recorded in the last financial year. Overall, the company has seen a “marginal sales” dip on account of the pandemic. The FMCG firm is also planning on ramping up its online presence. “At present, 7%-8% of our sales come from e-commerce platforms. We plan to take this figure to 12%,” Agarwal said. He was speaking at the launch of the brand’s new edible oil that, it has claimed, will boost immunity. “Smart Balance Immunity Booster Oil is the first of its kind in the country. It will be available in 1-litre pouches in stores across the country. Priced at Rs 140 per unit, this will contribute Rs 150 crore to our revenue this fiscal,” said Manish Goenka, director, Emami group. The company is also exploring export opportunities for its new product.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/emami-agrotech-sees-10-growth-in-edible-oil-biz/articleshow/76758518.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||Emergency meet held||Saligao: Villagers of Saligao, the local panchayat and the comunidade, at an emergency meeting on Wednesday, unanimously decided that the solid waste management plant in the village should not be expanded. General secretary of the Saligao civic and consumer forum Mario Cordeiro, said vehicles plying with garbage to the plant spill garbage and leachate along the route. Local MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar said that in the backdrop of the Covid-19 spread, expansion of the plant could worsen the situation. “Our wells are contaminated. There are reports from the health department that the water is not fit for human consumption,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/emergency-meet-held/articleshow/76759324.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Illegal hospital running for 10 years sealed||Jind: The health department sealed an illegal private hospital which had allegedly been running for the last 10 years. A team led by Jind deputy civil surgeon Dr Prabhu Dayal raided the spot with other health officials and initiated action. Dr Dayal said, “We received a complaint in the civil surgeon’s office alleging that a fake hospital has been running on the Jind-Bhiwani road for several years in which children and general patients are being treated despite the alleged doctor not having any valid medical degree. When the team rushed to the spot around 12:30pm, we found that it was being run illegally. The doctor and owner (40) of the hospital failed to produce any medical degree or diploma. We recorded the statement of a woman patient and two other children who came for treatment. We seized some allopathic medicines and other illegal items too. We have initiated an action according to the Indian Medical Council Act,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/illegal-hospital-running-for-10-years-sealed/articleshow/76759318.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mysuru||Woman succumbs to Covid||Mysuru: A 60-year-old woman from T Narasipura, who tested positive for Covid-19, died on Wednesday. She is the fourth victim and first woman to die of infection in Mysuru. The woman was admitted to KR Hospital with complaints of respiratory infection. She was on ventilator. She died at around 6.30pm on July 1. Mysuru on Thursday reported 17 fresh cases. Of them three have inter-state travel history, two are cops and one patient is a pregnant woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/woman-succumbs-to-covid/articleshow/76757294.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal Covid death toll crosses 100||Bhopal: The Covid death toll in the state capital crossed the 100-mark on Thursday — making Bhopal the second city in Madhya Pradesh to report over 100 coronavirus deaths. Due to unavailability of data, there is no analysis on the age and other factors that led to the death of patients. In the first 72 days of lockdown, Bhopal reported 59 deaths till May 31. During Unlock 1.0, 42 deaths were reported in 30 days.  Around 74% of total deaths till June 13 were of survivors of the Bhopal gas tragedy of 1984. This predisposed population has been the worst-hit in the Covid crisis. On Thursday, gas activist Sadana Karnik demanded that compensation of Rs1 lakh for each of the Covid-19 affected who were gas victims. “Everyone is well aware of the catastrophe of the Bhopal gas tragedy. They suffer from serious diseases of kidney, heart, lungs among others,” said Karnik in a press release. “The need of the hour is to make special plans and help the gas victims. All Covid positive, especially gas-affected families, should be given a special financial package of Rs1 lakh as relief,” she added. All welfare schemes of the government should be implemented specially for all gas victims, she said. Karnik also stressed on providing nutritious protein-rich food to the gas victims though the public distribution system. An analysis in May indicated that in Bhopal, 61% of people admitted for Covid-19 treatment died on the same day. More than 70% of Covid-19 deaths occurred in the first five days of the presentation of case, according to the analysis based on about 185 Covid-19 deaths that have taken place in Madhya Pradesh till first week of May. Most of these cases were from ‘containment zones’. Late presentation of cases is linked to time interval between onset of symptoms and date of admission to hospital. Besides, the level of care at the hospital and other factors like pre-existing conditions. Of the cases analysed, 31% of deaths were on day of admission, 13.74% died on the first day, 12.64% died on second day and 11% died on third day in hospital. The percentage of survival increases with a week of hospitalisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-covid-death-toll-crosses-100/articleshow/76758535.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Dhindsa’s supporters in Sunam return to SAD||Bathinda: In a jolt to Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, several of his supporters from Sunam area in Sangrur district have parted ways with him to return to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). On Thursday, they met SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal at his residence in Badal village of Muktsar district, in the presence of SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal. SAD Sangrur youth wing former president Khushpal Singh Birkalan and Parminder Singh Dhindsa’s former OSD Sukhwinder Singh Sukh said they had decided to part ways with the Dhindsas because the family has parted ways with the parent party and was now ready to form a new outfit. They claimed that SAD had always stood with farmers, labourers and employees, and they were also committed to same causes. They said though they were eager to meet SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal and Sukhbir for long, lockdown delayed the meeting. Among those who called on Sukhbir were 17 former sarpanchs, four former MCs, four former members block samiti and 20 former and present member panchayats from Sunam. They assured to abide by whatever decision was taken in the interest of the party. Sukhbir assured they would get due honour and recognition in the Akali Dal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dhindsas-supporters-in-sunam-return-to-sad/articleshow/76759327.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||PMLA case: Akalis allege Randhawa link||Jalandhar: After enforcement directorate (ED) attached the house of former District Congress Committee (DCC) president Sukhwinder Singh Lalli in a money laundering case, Youth Akali Dal (YAD) has alleged that he was used as a conduit by Punjab jail minister Sukhwinder Singh Randhawa to park his illgotten money abroad. Addressing a press conference here in the presence of SAD leaders of Jalandhar on Thursday, YAD president Parmbans Singh Roama alleged that Lalli was a relative of Randhawa and it was his (Randhawa) money which was sent abroad through illegal routes. When asked, Randhawa trashed the allegations, saying Akali leaders were desperately attacking him because he was consistently following the Bargari sacrilege issue. “This case is their raw nerve and I have been pressing it without any lapse. I was not even an MLA when the alleged transactions took place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pmla-case-akalis-allege-randhawa-link/articleshow/76759334.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Now, SAD struggles to retain ground on farmers’ issues||Jalandhar: Its core vote base, the Panthic turf, has turned slippery for Shiromani Akali Dal and now the party is facing similar perception battle in retaining its other core base — farmers. The issue of three recent ordinances pertaining to agriculture marketing is generating a lot of heat in the political field. The Bargari sacrilege and Behbal Kalan firing issues shifted a considerable chunk of Sikh voters towards Congress and they played crucial role in tilting the balance in favour of Congress in 2017 assembly and 2019 Parliament elections. Now, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh is attempting to dislodge Akalis from their last bastion. While there is a considerable overlapping in the two constituencies of the SAD – Sikhs and farmers – yet in the last over two decades Akali Dal appeared to be caring even more for economic issues of the farmers than traditional Panthic issues. Former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, when in power, had diluted the Panthic idiom but at the same time he intensified the focus on farmers’ interests. After 1997, when he became the CM for third time, and had also tightened his grip on Akali Dal, Badal had projected himself more as a messiah of framers. SAD’s political discourse has been revolving more around farmers’ economy than Panthic agenda and this helped to retain its core strength in rural areas, among Jatt Sikh farmers. Role reversal appears from another perspective also. Badals always built their politics by projecting Delhi as the enemy of Sikhs and Punjab. But now CM Amarinder is appropriating that idiom. Amarinder has managed to take farmers’ unions, including those with the ultra-left leanings, on board to attack union government on the issue of ordinances to build the discourse that they are anti-farmers. Even Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal), which has been working very closely with SAD, participated in CM’s video conference and lambasted union government. Other prominent unions of farmers of different ideological shades also backed the CM on the issue. Amarinder is also bringing another core theme of Akalis to his benefit – the federalism. SAD had built its narrative around more powers to the states and making India a real federal country. But now it is Amarinder who is speaking that language when he accused the BJP-led government for infringing upon states’ rights. In their defence, SAD president Suikhbir Singh Badal and other Akali leaders have already announced that farmers interests would be saved at any cost and have accused Punjab CM for misleading farmers. They have also clarified that the union government had already said MSP would stay. Yet these are finer nuances of the issues at hand and it is popular perceptions, even if they are not entirely based on facts, which influence political outcomes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/now-sad-struggles-to-retain-ground-on-farmers-issues/articleshow/76759325.cms||IP Singh
July 3, 2020||Amritsar||Despite decree, Pak Hindus to build temple for Lord Krishna||AMRITSAR: Despite the fatwa (religious decree) by a Lahore-based prominent Islamic seminary and threats of Muslims fundamentalists against construction of a new Hindu temple in Pakistan’s capital Islamabad, the tiny Hindu community has decided to go ahead with its plans. The 20,000 sq ft land plot was given by Pakistan government to the minuscule Hindu community of Islamabad, which decided to built a Sri Krishna Temple there. While talking to TOI over phone from Islamabad, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan-led Tehreek-e-Insaf’s member national assembly (MNA) Lal Chand Malhi said the construction of a new temple in Islamic Republic of Pakistan’s capital Islamabad was not only a matter of pride for Hindus of Pakistan or the Hindu community across the globe but was a shining example of freedom to practice one’s religion in the country. He said a handful of ‘mullahas’ (fundamental Islamic clerics) were opposing the construction but they didn’t have any solid grounds to do so. “There are others who dislike the construction of a Hindu temple for their own reasons, but they are quiet but not opposing,” he said. According to media reports, the fatwa had been issued by Lahore chapter of seminary Jamia Ashrafia ordering a ban on construction of a new temple but “permitting” the minority community to carry out the repair other houses of worship. The ground breaking ceremony of Sri Krishna Temple was held on June 23, and the Islamabad Hindu Panchayat had met Imran Khan on June 25, Malhi said. “The work for the construction of Sri Krishna Temple is going on in full swing and for this purpose,” he added. There were around 3000 Hindu’s living in Islamabad, the MNA said that the Islamabad Hindu Panchayat had been pursuing the cause of a new Hindu temple since 2017. He said the Capital Development Authority had in 2017 allotted the plot to the Hindu Panchayat for a temple and crematorium and it took nearly three years in completion of formalities, including approval of site plan, for the construction of a new temple. He said he had urged Imran Khan to sanction Rs 10 crore. “He immediately sanctioned Rs 10 lakh. If we get financial support from the government, the temple construction will complete soon else it could take some time,” he said. Malhi said Pakistan’s religious affairs minister Pir Noorul Haq Qadri had also assured all kinds of support to the Hindu community for the construction of the temple. There were two temples in the city, one at Sidhpur and other at Rawal Dam. “Sidhpur Hindu temple-cum-gurdwara has been turned into a tourist place, while Rawal Dam temple is under litigation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/notwithstanding-fatwa-hindus-to-go-ahead-with-construction-of-temple/articleshow/76759328.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Court lets off MLA as plaint filed after 4 years||MOHALI: Punjab minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu was freed of the charges of obstructing trains, as a local court observed that railways failed to file the complaint within the stipulated time. The court of chief judicial magistrate Deepika Singh passed the orders on Thursday. The court while allowing the application filed by MLA Sidhu seeking dismissal of the complaint filed by the railways accusing him under Section 174 in The Railways Act, 1989, which says if any person obstructs or attempts to obstruct any train is liable to be prosecuted and may face three years term if proven guilty. Ambala divisional railway manager (DRM) Gurinder Mohan Singh said, “We will take legal opinion of the judgement and then proceed further.” MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu and his nearly 300 supporters were accused of stopping trains at Lalru during nationwide agitation in May 2015 for over two hours, causing losses to railways. The incident occured on May 2, 2015, but the railways filed a complaint in the court four years later, on May 24, 2019. The court observed that it is not competent to take cognizance of the offence in view of bar under Section 468 CrPC, according to which ‘no court shall take cognizance of an offence after the expiry of the period of limitation’. In this case it was three years from the date of occurrence. Court further observed that the prosecution has not sought any extension of time during the investigation or before filing of the complaint under Section 473 CrPC. The court also said the prosecution has not properly explained or specified facts and circumstances that lead to the delay in filing the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/court-lets-off-mla-as-plaint-filed-after-4-yrs/articleshow/76759326.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 3, 2020||Goa||Cong threatens to stop expansion of Saligao waste treatment facility||Panaji: Objecting to the Rs 103.8-crore expansion of the solid waste treatment plant at Saligao, Congress on Thursday said that the state needs decentralised plants to treat garbage and not large capacity centralised facilities. The party said that it would galvanise locals to protest and block the plant’s expansion if the state government did not resolve the concerns raised by locals. “The issue is not about supporting or opposing the garbage plant,” said Congress spokesperson Tulio De Souza. “The remedy is what the National Green Tribunal (NGT) said, to set up smaller plants. We cannot say close down the facility because it is already there, but at least put it in order and we will support it.” The party said that contrary to the assurances given by the earlier state government to the NGT and locals that the plant will treat garbage of only two constituencies, mixed waste from several parts of north Goa makes its way to the Saligao plateau. “When the plant started, people were assured it would be a facility only for the constituencies of Calangute and Saligao and not for the entire North Goa belt. But quietly trucks from Mandrem, Pernem, Old Goa and everywhere else,” said De Souza. He said that the apprehensions raised by locals and environmentalists have proved to be right. With the state cabinet on Wednesday giving the nod for the expansion of the plant at a revised cost of Rs 103.87 crore, Congress suggested that locals may knock on the doors of the courts to stop the expansion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-threatens-to-stop-expansion-of-saligao-waste-treatment-facility/articleshow/76759331.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||ASI of Naroda police held after being seen drunk in video||AHMEDABAD: While the Gujarat police force is supposed to be enforcing the lockdown rules and night curfew, apart from prohibition and other laws, an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Naroda police, Jeetendra Patil, who has been on sick leave for two months, was arrested by Nikol police on Thursday afternoon after a video showing him drunk in a public place went viral on social media. Assistant commissioner of police, I division, N L Desai, said Patil was arrested based on the video. “In it, he confesses to being drunk and he was also drunk when we found him. He has been booked under prohibition laws,” added Desai. In the video, Patil seen sitting near VIP School in Nikol. He is heard saying that he has heart disease and that is why he is drinking. When he is asked why he is drinking near a school, the says ASI that everyone knows him and he goes on to name a prominent politician||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/asi-held-after-being-seen-drunk-in-video/articleshow/76758943.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Complaint over levelling work on land allotted to Petroleum University||Visakhapatnam: A complaint has been lodged with district collector Vinay Chand against the tahsildar of Sabbavaram mandal for reportedly violating court orders and taking up ground-levelling works at the site of the proposed Petroleum University, near Vangali village on the outskirts of the city. The complainant, CPM district secretary K Lokanatham, alleged that the tahsildar is forcibly carrying out the levelling works on the ‘disputed’ land despite opposition by local farmers. He further claimed that the high court had passed interim orders in 2017 and 2019 on the dispute over the land in survey numbers 109, 135, 240, 241 and 242, which was allotted to Petroleum University for its permanent campus. “It would amount to contempt of court if the revenue officer forcibly tries to occupy the land. The high court had specifically instructed revenue department authorities to not disturb farming work and maintain status quo in 2017. The court also stayed the notices issued to farmers in 2019,” Loknatham claimed. Reacting to the complaint, Sabbavaram tahsildar Ramadevi told TOI that 201 acres were allotted to the university, out of which a small portion is yet to be acquired as the farmers are bargaining for more compensation. “We will ensure that every person gets the best compensation amount. We have not taken up any ground-levelling work on the land. Petroleum University authorities are planning to construct a boundary wall,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/complaint-over-levelling-work-on-land-allotted-to-petroleum-university/articleshow/76757291.cms||Siva G
July 3, 2020||Bhopal||With lion’s share, Scindia roars ‘Tiger zinda hai’||Bhopal: BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia had his way in the cabinet expansion, managing to get 12 of his loyalists into the list of 28 sworn in on Thursday. Scindia got a rousing welcome at the state BJP HQ where he shared the dais with CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan and party state president VD Sharma. Buoyed by the success, he sent a message to former CM Kamal Nath and Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh. “I want to tell both of them, Tiger abhi zinda hai,” he said even as the packed hall erupted in cheers. Scindia said he is confident of winning all 16 seats in the Gwalior-Chambal region that go into bypolls. The BJP leader who arrived in the morning to attend the oath-taking ceremony attacked Congress on corruption and for “failing to keep its promises”. He dared Congress to an open fight. “There was injustice and corruption by the previous Congress government, which betrayed the public. It was the BJP government, led by Shivraj Singh Chouhan, which always followed the path of welfare and service. I am confident that BJP will make a clean sweep of all 24 seats in the upcoming by-elections and the public will give a befitting reply to them (Congress),” Scindia said. With 16 bypolls due in Gwalior-Chambal region, most of the new ministers come from this part of the state. Ten members of the cabinet are from Gwalior-Chambal. Aidal Singh Kansana, Hardeep Singh Dang and Bisahulal Singh had quit Congress because they had not been given ministerial berths, and supported Scindia in his fight against the Congress leadership. Congress didn’t let Scindia’s dare go unanswered. Former leader of Opposition Ajay Singh said, “In BJP’s circus, the number of tigers has increased. So far, there was one leader in BJP who claimed ‘Tiger zinda hai’, now traitors who stabbed in the back are also calling themselves ‘tiger’. A tiger attacks from the front. In the upcoming bypolls, people of this state will not tolerate those who formed a government through a deal. Then, the tiger will realise that he is alive, but that his place will not be bigger than a circus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-lions-share-scindia-roars-tiger-zinda-hai/articleshow/76758555.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb to carry drone-scale mapping of abadi areas||Chandigarh: The Punjab government has decided to carry out drone mapping of abadi (inhabited) in the rural areas for which an memorandum of understanding was signed between the state rural development and panchayat department with the Survey of India. Rural development and panchayat minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said detailed inventory of all properties within the lal dora (red line) of villages was a long-pending demand of the rural people. He said this survey will pave way to give ownership rights of properties falling in lal dora of villages. The minister said the initiative will provide rural people with the right to document their residential properties so that they can use their property for economic purposes such as applying for loans. This will also help in resolving property disputes. The scheme will enable creation of better-quality gram panchayat development plans (GPDPs).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-to-carry-drone-scale-mapping-of-abadi-areas/articleshow/76759337.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||Taleigao ryots challenge Babush to debate over land-filling issue||Panaji: Irked Taleigao farmers have challenged former Taleigao MLA and current Panaji MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate to an open debate on the veracity of the complaint filed by Candido Dias with the Goa Lokayukta on the vexed land-filling issue. “We are not against the building of a panchayat ghar. We just want the farmers of Taleigao, whose voices were stifled for 17 years, to be heard,” advocate Pundalik Raikar, who appeared in the matter on the farmers’ behalf, said. Raikar said that if anything put down in the complaint in the Lokayukta is false, Monserrate must come along with the best of his lawyers and they can debate it out in full public view. A complaint was filed by Dias before the Lokayukta last Friday following which there was a hearing. Goa Lokayukta Justice P K Misra (retd) had then ordered a stay on land-filling in the low-lying Taleigao fields which was being carried out by the local panchayat for the purpose of constructing a building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/taleigao-ryots-challenge-babush-to-debate-over-land-filling-issue/articleshow/76759339.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Cong leaders slam Kher for using guru’s words ‘to please political master’||Chandigarh: Congress leaders on Thursday slammed actor Anupam Kher for using Guru Gobind Singh’s sacred words “merely to please his political master” Sambit Patra. Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said that despite this act of Kher t o hurt the Sikh sentiments “under a well thought conspiracy”, the Akalis have preferred to stay mum about it. Kher had tweeted “Sawa lakh se ek bhida dun” while tagging Patra. His tweet came after Patra was being trolled on social media for posting a picture of a three-year-old boy sitting on the body of his grandfather who was killed in Jammu and Kashmir’s Sopore on Wednesday. Randhawa said that during the 2014 Lok Sabha election campaigning in Amritsar, then cabinet minister Bikram Singh Majithia had similarly insulted Gurbani just to praise BJP leader Arun Jaitley. If the leader of a so-called Panthic party can commit such a heinous crime, then what can be expected from their coalition partners, he added. Ludhiana Congress MP Bittu termed it a bid by the RSS to “dilute strong tenets of Sikhism”. Randhawa said Kher’s wife Kirron Kher represents Chandigarh in the parliament yet he had dared to hurt the sentiments of Sikhs, which the community would never tolerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-leaders-slam-kher-for-using-gurus-words-to-please-political-master/articleshow/76759343.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Varanasi||Proud of my son, says father of jawan who saved child in J&K||VARANASI: It was a proud moment for the family of CoBRA jawan Pawan Kumar Chaubey on Thursday when the commandant of the 95 Battalion of CRPF, to which Pawan belonged, called on the family and praised the bravery of the jawan who had rescued a three-year-old child from the gunfire of terrorists in Sopore district of J&K on Wednesday. “I am proud of my son who risked his life to save the child from the bullets of the terrorists,” said Pawan’s father Subhash Chaubey when CRPF commandant Narendra Pal Singh went to meet the family at its ancestral village Goldhamakawan in Chaubeypur area of the district. The commandant congratulated the family members for the “bravery and commitment to humanity shown by Pawan”. “We pray for the safety of my son and also other jawans fighting against the terrorists in J&K,” said Subhash, who has been busy receiving congratulatory messages since the news went viral on social media. “My eyes filled with tears after hearing the way my husband saved the little one. The entire family is proud of him,” said Pawan’s wife Shubhangi Chaubey. The family had also received a phone call from Pawan on Thursday morning, informing them about his well-being. Pawan has been involved in multiple operations in J&K since 2016. He had joined the force in 2010, and after dealing with Naxals he was transferred to J&K to tackle terrorism in 2016. Prior to serving in J&K, he was in 203 CoBRA of CRPF, which is an anti-Naxal battalion specially raised to deal with Naxalism. The terrorists had attacked a petrol party in Sopore on Wednesday. The child was reportedly travelling in a car with his grandfather when the gunfire erupted. The terrorists also opened fire at the car, killing the child’s grandfather on the spot. A CRPF personnel was also martyred in the encounter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/proud-of-my-son-says-father-of-jawan-who-saved-child-in-jk/articleshow/76758296.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||Greens see red over ‘diluted’ draft EIA rules, say they will doom Goa||Panaji: The Centre’s draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2020, with several amendments to the 2006 rules, has alarmed local environmentalists, as they say relaxations for mining, real estate and other sectors may spell more disaster for Goa’s beleaguered environment. The environmentalists and others have identified over 30 “dilutions” in the draft, which, they say, would signal large-scale environmental destruction in catering to profit-seeking ventures under the guise of “ease of doing business”. Some of the proposals include granting post-facto approval to projects, scaling down requirement for public hearings, and exempting environmental clearance (EC) from the Union environment ministry to mining of major minerals in less than 100 hectares of area and to projects with built-up area of less than 1.5 lakh sqm. Large-scale opposition to the draft is on the upsurge, as citizens and activists allege the changes are contradictory to the protective spirit of Environment Protection Act, 1986, and even the EIA Notification, 2006. “The draft, with its mala fide intentions, will dismantle the EIA process as it seeks to allow several dilutions and remove the need for public consultation for some industries,” Claude Alvares of Goa Foundation, said. The assessment of environmental damage to gauge its extent and propose mitigation measures was a critical part of the old regime. “Doing away with the need for a proper study will lead to complete destruction of Goa without knowing what we have lost. Polluting industries will come up and a host of other activities will be taken up sans proper assessment of impacts on environment and people,” Abhijit Prabhudesai of the Federation of Rainbow Warriors said. In a state battling the ills of open-cast mining, the draft lays down requirement of a prior EC for mining major minerals, including coal, to leases with 100ha area. “As most of the leases cover over 50ha but less than 100ha, the operators would have to only seek EC from the state environment impact assessment authority,” Prabhudesai said. Dump mining — excavation or handling of dump or waste material — is proposed to be exempted from ministry’s approval. Under existing rules, construction projects with a built-up area of more than 20,000 sq m require approval from the Centre. “By diluting well-established norms for EC related to large-scale construction activities, the desired goal of ease of doing business is unlikely to be achieved. This type of notification will only compromise our environment and people's participation at local level to strengthen success of such projects,” Tulio de Sousa, an architect, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/greens-see-red-over-diluted-draft-eia-rules-say-they-will-doom-goa/articleshow/76759344.cms||Paul Fernandes
July 3, 2020||Delhi||PG courses: Dual degree not allowed, clarifies DU||NEW DELHI: In its first-ever open house for PG admissions, Delhi University officials received a barrage of queries. While most of the applicants were eager to know if they could edit their forms, several others were worried about the PG entrance exams as National Testing Agency was yet to release the dates. The webinar saw over 1,600 applicants joining in through Google Meet and Facebook. At the start, the applicants were informed about the PG admissions and that there were two modes of getting admission—merit-based and entrance-based, with 50% of PG seats for each. Those from outside DU will have to go through the entrance test. Dean of admissions at DU, Shobha Bagai, however, stated that DU students can also opt for entrance-based admissions as there are several courses that only have entrance-based admissions. Bagai added that she and other members of the admission branch have been receiving several queries about editing of forms. “You should try to fill the form with focus so that you make no mistakes. If you don’t have certificates, you can upload old certificates for now but at the time of admissions, you will have to upload new certificates. We will inform you about the dates for that,” she explained. Many applicants were also keen on knowing if they could apply for multiple courses in DU. To this, Suman Kumar, admission branch member, said that “DU has not accepted the UGC’s directions of dual degrees. And the dual degree option will be valid only when you apply in two different universities. No student can take admission simultaneously in two courses at DU.” Clearing doubts about the admission process, senior PG admission official Ashutosh Bharadwaj stated that applicants need not visit any department or college for physical verification of their documents. “Due to Covid-19 situation, the process will be done online and applicants have to log into the portal, select the course and apply there. The department will verify their documents online.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pg-courses-dual-degree-not-allowed-clarifies-du/articleshow/76759342.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad staring Remdesivir shortage in the face||AHMEDABAD: Remdesivir, an antiviral administered to the Covid-19 patients in ICUs, is reported to be in short supply in the city and state. The medical organizations are going to make a representation before the state government and drug manufacturers in this regard. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that Remdesivir is one of the two antivirals – the other being Favipiravir – used in the Covid-19 treatment. “Remdesivir, however, is more in demand as it’s generally administered to the patients in ICUs,” Dr Gadhvi said. “For the past few days, it’s been difficult to get hold of the drug. When we approached the major dealers, we got to know that the next stock would take at least a week to arrive. We would be making representations to various fora to make the drug available,” added Dr Gadhvi. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in mid-June included the medicine in the treatment protocol for Covid-19 in India. Globally, the medicine is used for management of patients with severe symptoms, said experts. While two Indian manufacturers have licenses, supply will take some time, they added. Ankur Aggarwal, director of pharmacy chain Medkart, confirmed the shortage. “The stock of Remdesivir is low. If one asks for the drug over the counter with prescription, it’s difficult to find and the shortage might be addressed within a week with a new supply,” he said, adding, “Other Covid-19 treatment drugs, however, are well in stock.” Sources in the pharmacy sector said that one of the reasons for the shortage is the first claim of the government to the drug. “Several hospitals are stocking it and thus, the demand is high. But like in the case of Tocilizumab, it can be stabilized after a surge,” said a city-based dealer. The phenomenon, however, has resulted in profiteering by a few, doctors say. “We have come to know that some persons import the Bangladesh-manufactured Bemsivir and are selling it two-three times the printed price. We, however, discourage the practice,” said a city-based intensivist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-staring-remdesivir-shortage-in-the-face/articleshow/76758588.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chennai||No more cocooned: Covid wave spreads, engulfs TN districts||CHENNAI: Many districts seemed immune to Covid-19 as it hit Chennai and neighbouring districts in April, May and June. Not anymore. A new wave is spreading in districts where people hoped they would be shielded as they were away from urban areas and follow “natural social distancing”. The doubling period, the time it takes for the number of positive cases to double, is down to just five days in Madurai, which so far has 2,858 cases. And it’s just six days in a dozen other districts, including high-incidence Vellore and Ramanathapuram, which has around 1,000 cases. In contrast, the doubling period is 17 days in Chennai and Chengalpet, and 16 days in Tiruvallur. For Tamil Nadu as whole, it is 14 days. Tiruvannamalai with more than 2,000 cases had a doubling time of 16 days, and Tuticorin (1,000 cases) had 18 days. Namakkal and Karur had a doubling period of 44 and 48 days respectively. “This is not a new pattern,” said senior virologist Dr T Jacob John. “We saw this happen in the 1957 Asian flu pandemic and again in the 2009 H1N1 pandemic. The disease hits urban areas first and moves to rural areas. That trend is now seen in Covid19,” he said. By June-end, the positivity rate – proportion of those infected among those tested – in several districts increased by up to ten percentage points. National Institute of Epidemiology Deputy Director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur said with fewer restrictions in districts the increase in cases was expected. “Contact tracing linked many cases to market visits and travel on public transport,” she said. With increase in cases, there was increase in deaths across high incidence districts. On Thursday, cumulative Covid toll in Madurai was 43. It was 14 in Ramanathapuram, 11 in Tiruvannamalai and 16 in Villupuram. Yet people rural areas think they will remain untouched. On Thursday, a senior village health worker asked a customer at a market at Paramakudi in Ramanathapuram to wear a mask. The customer, a man in his 40s, turned around and said: ”This is Paramakudi, not Chennai for us to be scared of coronavirus.” But health officials worry that is exactly where their communities are heading. In the last one month, districts like Madurai and Ramanathapuram had a 10-fold increase in cases. Cases in Vellore went up from 47 on June 1 to more than 1,300 on July 1. “When that happens, there will be fewer hospital beds, ventilators and nurses to handle the onslaught in several districts,” Dr John said. In some areas, more than 70% of the population is dependent on government hospitals. “The focus now is to increase oxygen-supported beds in districts, promote home care wherever possible, and create more quarantine facilities,” said state health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “More than anything else, people in districts will need thousands of masks,” said former public health director Dr K Kolandasamy. “The only strong evidence over four months is that wearing a mask, washing hands with soap, and maintaining social distancing stops the virus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-more-cocooned-covid-wave-spreads-engulfs-tn-districts/articleshow/76759925.cms||Pushpa Narayan
July 3, 2020||Shimla||PM Narendra Modi will inaugurate Rohtang tunnel in September: Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram Thakur||MANALI: After visiting the 8.8 km Atal Tunnel, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Manali to inaugurate the tunnel in the first week of September. The CM held a meeting with officials of Border Roads Organisation (BRO) at Atal Tunnel headquarters near Solang valley and directed them to ensure completion of pending works by the end of August. Then he visited the tunnel with cabinet ministers Dr Ram Lal Markanda and Govind Thakur and took stock of ongoing works in the final stage. BRO officials briefed him on salient features of the tunnel. “The tunnel will be ready at a cost of Rs 3,500 crore. Pending works are in the final stage. BRO engineers have assured completion of the tunnel by the end of August. Most probably, PM Modi will inaugurate the tunnel in the first week of September. This tunnel not only has strategic importance for the country but it will also entirely change the lifestyle of people of Lahaul valley by giving them access to other parts of the state even during the winter months,” the CM said. Chef engineer, Atal Tunnel project Brig K P Purushothaman explained different devices and equipment being fitted into the tunnel. He talked about the ventilation system, emergency escape route, air monitoring system, broadcasting system, CCTVs, automatic incident detection system, fire hydrants, telephone and other facilities. “The tunnel will be a tourist attraction in future. It will ensure easy connectivity with Ladakh and bring prosperity to Lahaul valley. PM Modi shows his interest in early completion of the tunnel so that he can come for its inauguration,” the CM said. Thereafter, CM went to Lahaul valley and reached Sissu village, where he addressed a small public gathering. Works at Atal tunnel, formerly known as Rohtang tunnel, have been expedited in the wake of tension at the Indo-China border. Director general of BRO, who visited the tunnel last month, is expected to visit the tunnel again after a few weeks to take stock of work progress. Due to the impending visit of the PM, visits of top officials to the tunnel are also increasing. Once completed, the tunnel will cut the distance between Manali and Leh by 46km and will decrease travel time by about three hours. The 8.8km-long engineering marvel above 10,200ft is equipped with state of the art equipment. It will be the longest tunnel of the world at this altitude.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/pm-modi-will-inaugurate-atal-tunnel-in-september-cm/articleshow/76759338.cms||Suresh Sharma
July 3, 2020||Allahabad||Pandemic dashes another city tradition: Gehrebaazi horse races||Prayagraj: The crowds cheering horses as they race on MG Road, the rhythmic tap of horse shoes and the sharp commands of riders are just some of the sights which would be missing this year during the ekka race organised every Monday during the Hindu month of Shrawan in the city. The outbreak of Covid-19 has forced the district administration to shelve plans to organise ‘ghehrebaazi’ — horse-cart races which draw hundreds of residents to streets every Monday during Shrawan. The Hindu month of Shrawan will start from July 6 this year. The race is often cited as an example of the Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb which Uttar Pradesh is famous for as it attracts horse owners of both Hindu and Muslim community. The administration said the race had to cancelled as it would be difficult to follow the social distancing during the event. It is believed that the tradition started around 200 years ago by pandas of the Sangam City, who patronised it for years. Around 1940s, the zamindars of erstwhile Allahabad (Prayagraj’s old name) and neighbouring areas also started participating in this unique race. Although there is no cash prize for the winner of the race, but the applause of the spectators and their appreciation is enough for ‘saii’ (horsekeepers) to turn up every year. A unique thing about the race is that the participating horses are not engaged in commercial activity and are groomed solely for competing. Also, the horses can only canter during the race and not gallop. If a horse is seen galloping, the referee immediately disqualifies it from the race. Horse breeders in the city say that Sindhi horses (those belonging to Sindh province of Pakistan) are the best choice for this race because they move fast on sand and do not gallop. However this year, the preparations of around 80 participants who had been grooming their horses for months would be dashed. “Protecting ourselves during this pandemic is more important than the race. I think it is for the first time that the race is not being organised,” said Badre Alam (67) a horsebreeder, who has been participating in gehrebaazi since the last 10 years. The participants said that their carts are especially manufactured in Delhi and its wheel and riding platform are made of shisham wood. Another regular at the ekka race, Lalji Yadav, said, “It is really sad that there won’t be any races this year, but it is better than putting so many people at risk of contracting the disease.” The horses competing in the race are also given a special diet, for which breeders spend Rs 30,000-35000 every month. Their daily diet includes 4kg of gram, 2kg of jaggery, 5 liter of cow milk, 250gm of almonds, 250gm ghee, murabba and apples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pandemic-dashes-another-city-tradition-gehrebaazi-horse-races/articleshow/76756462.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hospitals fined for dumping Covid waste||Ahmedabad: The solid waste department of the AMC on Thursday fined Tapan Hospital in Amraiwadi and Sharda Hospital in Nikol for not disposing of their Covid wastes as per the prescribed norm. The hospitals had left syringes and other Covid wastes in the open instead of keeping them in separate dustbins. Director of the department Harshad Solanki said that their team had found syringes, needles and other materials lying in the open. “The rule is to keep them in three dustbins in black garbage bags. The garbage has to be disposed of as per the prescribed rules,” said Solanki. Tapan Hospital was fined Rs 1.5 lakh as the quantity of garbage was more and Sharda Hospital was fined Rs 50,000. Earlier, the AMC had issued notices to Aditya Multi Speciality Hospital, Ghatlodia, for disposing of bio-hazardous waste in routine garbage. A senior officer said a couple of councillors from the ruling party had tried to intervene, but the officer said that the fine will be issued. Soon after the incident, in the standing committee meeting it was made clear that councillors will not interfere in actions related to Covid-19 and will not put pressure on any officer. Even the BJP office-bearers informed the officials that they should act in accordance with the law and if any councillor or party office-bearer stops them from doing their job, the matter should be brought to their notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hospitals-fined-for-dumping-covid-waste/articleshow/76758580.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||SEC withdraws e-voting option in Gujarat civic body polls||GANDHINAGAR: Even as the governments at state and Centre have been promoting and even insisting on the use of online methods in transactions due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Gujarat state election commission (SEC) has discontinued the option of online voting for this year’s urban local body polls. The SEC has contended that the contract with the private company which was providing the software and support for online voting has ended. No voter in any of the six municipal corporations, namely Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Jamnagar, which are going to polls in November, will be able to e-vote this year. M V Joshi, secretary and spokesperson of the state election commission said, “The contract with TCS is over, so we consulted National Informatics Centre (NIC) for the e-voting project. NIC has however informed us that they are experimenting online voting systems for the Election Commission of India (ECI).” He added that the SEC has decided to wait until the NIC develops a new online voting system and hence, the 2020 local body polls will not have the e-voting option. The Gujarat SEC first used the online voting system in the 2010 urban local body elections, and subsequently in the 2011 and 2015 local body polls. However, the response to e-voting was not very encouraging in any of these three elections, as the process of registration as an electronic voter and the e-voting itself were complex procedures. The SEC had paid Rs 26 crore to Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) for software development and almost spent another six crore rupees for an advertising blitzkrieg to promote slogans like – “Break the Line, Enter Online - Now Go for E-Voting' in 2010. Since 2010, the SEC has spent a sum of over Rs 40 crore on the e-voting project. When social distancing norms and other safety precautions were not in place in 2010 and 2015, the SEC had made a big push for online voting and encouraged people to vote online. Now, with the government having advised people to stay indoors and strictly observe social distancing norms, the SEC has decided to discontinue online voting for local body polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sec-withdraws-e-voting-option-in-civic-body-polls/articleshow/76758581.cms||Kapil Dave
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir writes to Modi on ration embezzlement||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has urged the Centre to order a probe into “embezzlement of ration by Congressmen in Punjab”, besides alleging favouritism in distribution of foodgrain and pulses. Sad president Sukhbir Singh Badal has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging that ration being sent under the extended Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) scheme be monitored stringently through central observers so that it was not pilfered and sold in the open market or distributed among Congress supporters again. He also urged the PM to ensure necessary measures were taken to ensure the poor were not discriminated against during distribution of central foodgrain relief. Sukhbir alleged that even though the Centre had sent 70,725 metric tonnes of grain besides 10,000 metric tonnes of pulses to Punjab, the same was not distributed among the people. “Only 1% of the entire foodgrain stock was distributed in April when curfew was imposed in Punjab and people needed the ration the most. Later, the Punjab government abrogated its responsibility towards the people and handed over the ration to Congressmen for distribution. Subsequently, a major part of the central ration was embezzled by Congressmen even as they distributed part of it to their supporters only,” he claimed. It had worsened the plight of the poor and weaker sections of society who had to rely on social and religious organisations, including the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee for basic food items. The Akali Dal chief urged the Prime Minister to constitute a special team to probe the entire scam. He said the team could come to Punjab for probe, besides asking the Congress government in Punjab to submit an audit of the entire food stock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhbir-writes-to-modi-on-ration-embezzlement/articleshow/76759345.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||Ponda police register two unnatural deaths||Ponda: Police in Ponda registered two unnatural deaths on Wednesday. In the first case, Rohit Kamat, 66, a resident of Duler, Mapusa, allegedly committed suicide at the Banastarim sluice gate. His body was subsequently retrieved and has been preserved in the GMC’s mortuary for an autopsy. In another case, Prakash Kavlekar, 48, a resident of Old Goa, succumbed at the GMC to injuries that he had sustained in an accident that occurred on the Dhavali-Farmagudi bypass road on June 21. His motorcycle had skidded off the road after he braked suddenly upon spotting cattle sitting on the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ponda-police-register-two-unnatural-deaths/articleshow/76759347.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kanpur||Woman stops wedding of man, claims to be her wife; man booked||Kanpur: A woman stopped the wedding ceremony of a bridegroom from taking place by showing his family members photographs of her wedding with the same man on Thursday in Mangalpur area of Kanpur Dehat. The woman who was going to marry the man, immediately called off the wedding. After finding out the matter, Kotwali police booked him under relevant sections of IPC. The woman, hailing from Shivrajpur area of Kanpur Nagar, entered the marriage procession and claimed that the groom was her husband and is going to marry for the second time. Amid the chaos, Kotwali police reached the venue and detained the groom after stopping the marriage function. The woman alleged that the man was hiding facts of his marital status. Eyewitnesses said that the groom, a native of Laljipurwa of Mangalpur town, had barely started heading towards Pukhraya for the marriage ceremony when the woman appeared in the scene and claimed to be his wife. An Argument followed between her and the groom’s family members when she she showed photographs of her marriage with the man, they added.. The groom and his family members claimed that they did not know her but the woman stood her ground. The groom even tried to flee but couldn’t as the woman alerted the local police. Kotwali SSI Vishnukant Tiwari confirmed that there was a dispute over the man’s second marriage that was going to take place. “We have detained and booked the groom on charges of disrupting law and order of the area,” he said. Meanwhile, family of the bride whom the man was going to marry, said the girl had refused to marry the disputed man, informed police sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-stops-wedding-of-man-claims-to-be-her-wife-man-booked/articleshow/76759198.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Cong,AAP misleading Pb farmers’||Patiala: Accusing the ruling Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of misleading farmers in the state, Punjab BJP office-bearers said all the three ordinances passed by the Union government led by PM Narendra Modi were made keeping in mind the recommendations of the Swaminathan committee. Dubbing the recent statements of Punjab Congress president Sunil Jhakhar and AAP’s Bhagwant Mann as totally “fabricated and malicious,” BJP leader Anil Sareen said the Union government under the ste wardship of Prime Minister Modi is committed to uplift of the economic status of the agricultural sector. “The Congress party was in rule for 10 long years and Manmohan Singh did not bother to implement the Swaminathan panel report on agriculture. While the BJP has taken the considerations and suggestions of the long forgotten report and tried its best to come up with plans to address the duress in the agrarian sector,” he said. Sareen added, “It is ironic that Congress, which is harping against the ‘pro-farmer’ ordinance, is actually guilty of letting Pepsi loot and harass farmers of Punjab in its previous regime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/congaap-misleading-pb-farmers/articleshow/76759346.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Madurai||Is Madurai becoming another Chennai?||CHENNAI: Fewer people on roads, no public transport, most shops shut by 2pm and Tasmac outlets closed – Madurai city under “intense lockdown” largely resembles Chennai. But what is sending district officials into a tizzy is the district’s epidemic chart. On July 1, Madurai registered around 2,800 cases from around 1,400 on June 26. Chennai’s epidemic map between May 2 and 7 peaked the same way when cases climbed to about 2,600 from 1,300. While Chennai’s positivity rate was 6.53%, Madurai’s is 15%. “The intensity of this virus wasn’t so high even in mid-June in Madurai, when cases were rapidly increasing in Chennai. It took 25 days for the city to add 150 cases to double its tally from May 16. Chennai did that in 12 days,” said a National Institute of Epidemiology scientist. Now, Madurai district officials are desperate to break the chain, or at least slow down the curve. The disease began to spread in Madurai corporation limits when many from Chennai returned and almost all wards have some cases. “It is not contained in any one cluster. We see sporadic cases spread across rural areas of the district as well,” said special monitoring officer B Chandramohan. The district, experts say, has fewer people compared to densely populated Chennai. Yet, the social interaction density in the district is much less. Evidence was seen in contact tracing – more cases were from funerals and family gatherings. Officials say they have learned lessons from Chennai. Also, unlike Chennai, Madurai did not see large-scale clusters. A micro cluster at Paravai market, which contributed to spread, was contained after the market was shifted and vendors quarantined. On June 1, with 268 cases it had less than 1% of the state tally. A month later, when cases jumped nearly 10-fold to 2,858, its share of the state tally was 10%. On a comparative scale, Chennai’s share reduced from 67% on June 1 to 64% on July 1.  “Chennai even sent some asymptomatic people to hospitals. Now, we know they can be managed at home. We are strengthening home monitoring systems so we can reserve limited beds and human resources in Madurai region for the critically ill. But like Chennai, we will initiate more tracking and testing so people can be isolated quickly,” Chandramohan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/is-madurai-becoming-another-chennai/articleshow/76760830.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Gwalior-Chambal has 12 ministers, Mahakaushal just 1||BHOPAL: Given the fact that Jyotiraditya Scindia has been able to get a ministerial berth to 10 of his supporters, who resigned with him from the Congress and joined the BJP, predomination of Gwalior-Chambal region in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan Cabinet was only obvious. Seven of the 10 Scindia supporters, who are part of the Shivraj council of ministers, come from Gwalior-Chambal region. Besides, BJP leaders, the party itself, is not weak in the region either with Narottam Mishra, who is undisputed next-in-command after the chief minister in his cabinet or Yashodhara Raje Scindia or the emerging power centre in the party — Arvind Bhadoriya — also hail from the Chambal region only. Still, the BJP leadership has been able to strike a semblance of regional balance in the Cabinet otherwise except for an apparent lack of representation to Mahakoshal region, from where only one MLA from Balaghat district — Ramkishore Kanware — has taken oath as minister of state. BJP has 13 MLAs out of a total of 38 MLAs from the region and there were faces like Gaurishankar Bisen, Ajay Vishnoi and Sanjay Pathak, who have been “ignored”. In the previous Congress government, a lot of powerful ministers including the chief minister, Kamal Nath came from the region. Since loyalty to one leader or the other has played a major role in the formation of the Cabinet, there are examples that representation from one region may appear to be enough but most of the leaders in the Cabinet come from one district only. There are three ministers each from Gwalior and Sagar. On the other hand, aspirants from districts like Jabalpur, Rewa and to an extent from Bhopal and Indore have not been considered. The 33 members of council of ministers come from only 24 districts of the state, which now has 52 districts in all. There are three ministers each from Sagar and Gwalior, two each from Indore, Morena, Bhind, Shivpuri, and Mandsaur and one each from Guna, Ashok Nagar, Panna, Umaria, Harda, Raisen, Bhopal, Khandwa, Balaghat, Badwani, Dhar, Neemuch, Anuuppur, Shajapur, Ujjain, Datia and Satna. The region-wise equation shows 12 ministers from Chambal-Gwalior region, 10 from Malwa-Nimar region, 4 from Bundelkhand region, 3 from central region, 3 from Vindhya region and one from Mahakoshal. As far as caste balance is concerned , the Cabinet is far more balanced in this sense rather than region balance as Brahmin, Thakurs, Vaishyas (business community), OBCs, SC/ST all appear in the Cabinet in smaller or greater numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chambal-reigns-mahakoshal-gets-a-raw-deal/articleshow/76758566.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chennai||Is Madurai becoming another Chennai?||CHENNAI: Fewer people on roads, no public transport, most shops shut by 2pm and Tasmac outlets closed – Madurai city under “intense lockdown” largely resembles Chennai. But what is sending district officials into a tizzy is the district’s epidemic chart. On July 1, Madurai registered around 2,800 cases from around 1,400 on June 26. Chennai’s epidemic map between May 2 and 7 peaked the same way when cases climbed to about 2,600 from 1,300. While Chennai’s positivity rate was 6.53%, Madurai’s is 15%. “The intensity of this virus wasn’t so high even in mid-June in Madurai, when cases were rapidly increasing in Chennai. It took 25 days for the city to add 150 cases to double its tally from May 16. Chennai did that in 12 days,” said a National Institute of Epidemiology scientist. Now, Madurai district officials are desperate to break the chain, or at least slow down the curve. The disease began to spread in Madurai corporation limits when many from Chennai returned and almost all wards have some cases. “It is not contained in any one cluster. We see sporadic cases spread across rural areas of the district as well,” said special monitoring officer B Chandramohan. The district, experts say, has fewer people compared to densely populated Chennai. Yet, the social interaction density in the district is much less. Evidence was seen in contact tracing – more cases were from funerals and family gatherings. Officials say they have learned lessons from Chennai. Also, unlike Chennai, Madurai did not see large-scale clusters. A micro cluster at Paravai market, which contributed to spread, was contained after the market was shifted and vendors quarantined. On June 1, with 268 cases it had less than 1% of the state tally. A month later, when cases jumped nearly 10-fold to 2,858, its share of the state tally was 10%. On a comparative scale, Chennai’s share reduced from 67% on June 1 to 64% on July 1.  “Chennai even sent some asymptomatic people to hospitals. Now, we know they can be managed at home. We are strengthening home monitoring systems so we can reserve limited beds and human resources in Madurai region for the critically ill. But like Chennai, we will initiate more tracking and testing so people can be isolated quickly,” Chandramohan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/is-madurai-becoming-another-chennai/articleshow/76759928.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Vadodara||LRD jawan dies after falling off lockdown violator’s scooter||Vadodara: A trainee LRD jawan attached to Fatehgunj police station on Wednesday night succumbed to injuries he had suffered in an accident on June 30 night. The deceased cop Pratik Solanki had fallen off the scooter of a man accused of lockdown violation while taking him to the police station.Solanki, a trainee with lok rakshak dal, was asked to take Khushwant Dhotra to the police station after the latter was found roaming near Fatehgunj circle on the night of June 30. An offence was to be registered against the Dhotra and his scooter was to be seized, so Solanki was sent with him to complete the procedure. “We have registered an offence of rash driving and attempt to commit culpable homicide and have detained Dhotra. His samples for Covid test were submitted and he will be arrested after the reports arrive,” said a police official.Solanki had joined as a trainee around a year ago and was posted at Fatehgunj police station during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lrd-jawan-dies-after-falling-off-lockdown-violators-scooter/articleshow/76757191.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Varanasi||Sumer Sagar Lake to berevived, buildings razed||Gorakhpur: After the remarkable transformation of Ramgarhtal Lake into a picturesque tourist spot, it’s time now for a change of fortunes for the Sumer Sagar Lake also in Gorakhpur. The lake in the heart of the city has been completely encroached by land mafia over the years with permanent structures and even a road being constructed on it and doesn’t have even a drop of water now. Gorakhpur administration has decided to revive the Sumer Sagar Lake spread in more than 18 acre of land for bringing it back in its original form for water conservation, joint magistrate Gaurav Singh Sogarwal told TOI. The administration has already razed 90% of commercial buildings and encroachment on the lake’s land and sent notices to shops and residential buildings to vacate the place. Joint magistrate Sogarwal has ordered investigation as to how the lake was encroached, buildings were constructed and registries were done and even the map of some buildings was passed by Gorakhpur Development Authority. He has also ordered an investigation against the municipal corporation which constructed a road on the lake’s land. The entire lake has disappeared and buildings are constructed on it. “The lake will be revived to its original form and will be developed for tourism. I have already contacted the Jal Shakti ministry for the purpose. The lake will also resolve the waterlogging problem in the city to a great extent. As per orders of the Supreme Court, high court, and NGT, water bodies should be conserved in their original forms.” “As per Google Maps, the lake existed in its original form in 1996, but in the map of 2019, it disappeared completely. More than 220 structures came up on the lake’s land. 70% of the lake’s land was used for commercial purpose and people were using it as godowns and warehouses. Shops and houses were constructed on the rest of the land. 90% of the land used for commercial purpose is now encroachment free. We had already given time of four months to house and shop owners to vacate the place. Now, seven days’ time has been given to them after which the buildings will be demolished,” said Sogarwal. Gorakhpur Development Authority will probe how the maps of buildings in Sumer Sagar area and Jatepur were approved. GDA secretary Ramsingh Gautam said all the maps which have been wrongly approved will be cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sumer-sagar-lake-to-berevived-buildings-razed/articleshow/76758305.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Varanasi||Unlock-2: Varanasi bans tobacco, paan exempted||Varanasi: The district administration on Thursday reimposed ban on the sale of paan masala and tobacco in the district in view of a sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. Though sale of Banarasi paan has been exempted from the ban, it could only be consumed at home. The decision came along with many restrictions on the lines of Lockdown-1, as the district administration introduced new guidelines for Unlock-2. Public parks have been sealed once again while coming out of home without genuine reason will land one in a quarantine centre. After the stat issued directives for Unlock-2, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma finalised the plan keeping in view the ground realities and rise in the frequency of detection of Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday night. The effects were visible in the city markets and roads from Thursday morning, as police were seen in action at almost all the crossings to ensure that nobody moved out without masks and guidelines of social distancing were followed. The DM told TOI that, “Health department officials have claimed high consumption of tobacco and spitting it in public had a key role in Covid rise. Thus, it was decided to ban sale of paan masala for one month.” P2||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/unlock-2-varanasi-bans-tobacco-paan-exempted/articleshow/76758271.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||NU colleges to have CSR fund for poor students||Nagpur: In a development that would bring smiles on faces of poor students, Nagpur University on Thursday decided to set up a ‘College, Students Responsibility (CSR)’ fund in every college. The amount collected would be used to help poor students, who frequently cannot afford to pay college or examination fees. However, the scheme would be completely optional for colleges and even for teachers, management and non-teaching staff, from whom funds would be collected. The NU Management Council granted approval to create this unique fund in its meeting. A skill development scheme for students, who will be taught by NU teachers, was also cleared. It was decided to increase remuneration of PhD examiners and interviewers to Rs2,000 each, which was a long pending demand. The meeting would continue on Friday. The CSR scheme is a brainchild of vice chancellor (acting) Murlidhar Chandekar, who put up the proposal in the meeting along with various others schemes for students’ welfare. All those were unanimously cleared by the members while appreciating the VC’s initiative. “The scheme would be beneficial for poor students from rural areas, particularly children of farmers, who can’t afford to pay even exam, library and other fees. Many a times, such students take a drop or leave education halfway. The funds would come handy for colleges to help such needy students,” senior member Rajesh Bhoyar said, while clarifying that failure students wouldn’t be considered for this scheme. Explaining the scheme, Vishnu Changde said there will be separate CSR accounts of all colleges in banks of their choice. “The principal, teaching and non-teaching staff, and even alumni association members, could contribute to this account directly. They can start with Rs50 or 100 per month, which is a negligible amount. All this would be entirely optional for all stakeholders and NU would have no role to play in it,” he said, adding that the objective was to send a message to the society that teaching and non-teaching staff care for their students. Box No online UG admissions this year One of the important decisions taken in the meeting was to drop the proposal to conduct online undergraduate admissions. Earlier pro-VC (acting) SR Choudhari had informed that this year UG admissions would be conducted online like the postgraduate ones. But members took strong objection, saying that such decisions can’t be taken unilaterally without seeking consent of colleges and without being discussed in the statutory bodies. The NU administration then clarified that UG admissions would be conducted at the college level only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-colleges-to-have-csr-fund-for-poor-students/articleshow/76758578.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 3, 2020||Goa||Kamat: Check for chemical fruit ripening||Margao: Leader of the Opposition Digambar Kamat on Thursday urged the Food and Drugs Administration to carry out immediate inspection of the fruit vendors’ godowns to check whether any artificial methods are used by them to ripe bananas and other fruits. He urged health minister Vishwajit Rane to direct FDA officials to inspect all such godowns. I have also spoken to South Goa collector Ajit Roy and asked him to keep a check on all such fruit vendors and their godowns, Kamat statement read. Kamat’s move came after a viral video on social media showed some workers washing bananas in a container suspected to be some fruit-ripening chemical agent, and filling them in plastic crates in a location that is believed to be in Margao. The MLA also inspected some overflowing sewage chambers at Vidyanagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kamat-check-for-chemical-fruit-ripening/articleshow/76759352.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Bhopal||14 of 33 ministers not MLAs: Former MP CM Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Thursday afternoon congratulated all new ministers sworn in as members of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan council of ministers. Kamal Nath tweeted, “I congratulate and send my good wishes to all new ministers on the formation of the state government cabinet and hope that everyone will work together for the development of the state.” In another tweet, Kamal Nath said, “I am personally saddened not being able to find the names of many worthy, experienced and dedicated senior BJP MLAs. In the history of the democracy, Madhya Pradesh cabinet is one in which out of 33 ministers, 14 are presently not sitting MLAs. This is a major intrusion with constitutional provisions and a prank played on the people of the state.” I will only congratulate team BJP & team frm congress for becoming ministers :: But will never offer them best wish… https://t.co/b51rnZi2If— Vivek Tankha (@VTankha) 1593674552000Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha uploaded a video on his twitter account in which he said that he congratulates the minister sworn-in since he knows many of them, but cannot give his best wishes because the government has been formed unethically. He also tweeted, “I will only congratulate team BJP and team from Congress for becoming ministers. But will never offer them best wishes. People who achieve power by unethical means will never receive my best wishes. It’s not an elected government but a manufactured government.” In yet another tweet, Tankha said, “Has the BJP forgotten that the Mahakaushal, Vindhya, Narmada regions are also part of Madhya Pradesh. Those areas have been left leaderless. There is no representation of Jabalpur, Narsinghpur, Hoshangabad, Mandla, Dindori, Damoh, Chhindwara and Balaghat. Is this just the government of Gwalior-Chambal and Malwa? This step-motherly behaviour is unacceptable and consequences will be far reaching.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/14-of-33-ministers-not-mlas-nath/articleshow/76758576.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||Not a single tree felled in wildlife area: Forest dept||Panaji: Not a single tree has been cut for any of the three projects in either the Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife sanctuary or Mollem National Park. The tree felling pictures circulated on social media are not from the sanctuary, said additional principal chief conservator of forests, Santosh Kumar on Tuesday. “Not a single tree has been cut inside Mollem forests for any of these three projects. The news on social media is wrong and (is done) to create nonsense,” he said. The government has permitted the four-laning of a highway and laying of a LILO transmission line in the Western Ghats. The highway and transmission line will be passing through the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife sanctuary and Mollem National Park in Goa. There is a third project — double tracking of the railway line from Castle Rock to Collem — which is also being considered. Environmental activists, some of whom have visited the site, have written to the government condemning the incidents of tree-felling to accommodate the projects. However, Kumar said trees cannot be cut without approvals. “This is not a private project. This is being done for the railways so how can anyone fell trees without obtaining approvals. They have not got approvals,” he said. Kumar, however, maintained that there have been no FIRs filed against NGOs and environmental activists for circulating the images. “We are not perturbed by what they’re doing, but it is wrong information that there is tree felling in Mollem. If they can show it to us in the national park, then we can understand,” he said. However, when the work commences, Kumar said that some disturbances are likely. “This is a national interest project. The little disturbance will happen during the phase of construction, however, in the long run, the national park is not going to be affected. Already there is a line, the other line will be parallel to it, so it will not affect the animals as much,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/not-a-single-tree-felled-in-wildlife-area-forest-dept/articleshow/76759350.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kanpur||Jalaun DM initiative helps underprivileged girls pass class X board exams with flying colours||Jhansi: The first batch of 19 girls studying under Kishori Samadhan Yojna in Jalaun district passed class X state board exams with flying colours in the recently declared results. All the 19 girls, who hail from the poor families of labourers and marginal farmers from various parts of the district, were all set to discontinue further studies after class VIII as their parents could not afford to spend on their education. Barring one, all 18 girls secured first division, most of them scoring above 70%. It all began two years ag. The girls, after passing class VIII from Kasturba Gandhi School which provides free education along with boarding for girls from class VI-VIII, had no other option but to return to their home as their parents could not afford their further education. When the matter came to the knowledge of Jalaun DM Mannan Akhtar Khan, he undertook an innovative crowd-sourced initiative called ‘Kishori Samadhan Yojana’. Under this scheme, he motivated people to adopt girls who after they pass out of Kasturba schools and sponsor their future education along with their boarding and other expenses. A district education trust was also formed under the leadership of Jalaun DM for the purpose. The trust gets funds mostly through crowd sourcing and has led to community participation. It encourages people to adopt the girls and sponsor their education in order to help them achieve self-dependency. Laxmi, who passed from Jalaun Balika Vidyalay and has scored 80% marks in class X state board exams, belongs to village Mirjapur and her father is a marginal farmer. “I had lost all hopes of further studies after class VIII due to financial constraints. But then, this golden opportunity came my way and I was able to continue my studies. I heartily thank DM sir for his initiative,” said Laxmi, who wants to be a teacher in future. DM Akhtar said, “The idea of this initiative came up two years when we realised that so many girls drop out each year due to lack of money. Now, through Kishori Samadhan Yojana, sources of funds have been arranged whci help the girls continue their studies at least till class XII.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jalaun-dm-initiative-helps-underprivileged-girls-pass-class-x-board-exams-with-flying-colours/articleshow/76759219.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Audit in women’s college triggers conspiracy theory||NEW DELHI: A day after deputy CM Manish Sisodia asked the Directorate of Higher Education to conduct an audit at Bhagini Nivedita College over allegations of financial irregularities, a governing body (GB) member sent a letter to Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi alleging that the audit was initiated to threaten the college into making the government nominee the GB chairperson. In the letter accessed by TOI, GB member Anoop Gupta alleged that Pawan Sharma, the Delhi government nominee, was “trying to declare himself chairman of the governing body without any elections by unfair means and with the support of other members of the Delhi government panel.” “When the principal and the other members didn’t agree, he tried to intimidate them by the audit. The timing of the audit reflects the strategy of bullying the college administration. The college is scheduled to have a proper elections soon, but this type of bullying is being done by Delhi government and Sharma to hamper the process,” Gupta further alleged. Gupta has requested DU to send an observer for the elections “to prevent mischief and unruly behaviour of Sharma and other members of the Delhi government panel.” Speaking to TOI, he questioned the timing of the audit and said that steps were being taken to push for illegal GB elections. Responding to the allegations, Sharma said, “No such threat has been given and it’s the responsibility of the government to investigate corruption if someone is misusing public funds. The action was taken after the government got several complaints. The college is trying to manipulate the election results that took place on June 9. The results have been delayed.” A Delhi government source said that the audit had nothing to do with the GB elections. “Usually, complaints of financial irregularities are looked into by the GB. However, since the body doesn’t exist, the government is taking it up. There is no question of any threat as the allegations of corruption are against the principal, who does not vote in the GB elections. The two issues are not connected in any way,” added the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/audit-in-womens-college-triggers-conspiracy-theory/articleshow/76759351.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||CM discusses Covid strategy with experts||Gandhinagar: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday held a meeting with an expert committee of doctors to discuss the strategy for the next 30 days to control spread of Covid-19 in the state. The expert group of doctors took note of the successes in controlling the Covid-19 spread in Ahmedabad city and advised the government to focus more on creating awareness among people along with strict enforcement of social distancing rules and other safety measures. The expert group also discussed recent developments in treatment of Covid-19 and the new national and international guidelines. Chief secretary Anil Mukim, K Kailashnathan, chief principal secretary to CM and other senior officers also took part in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-discusses-covid-strategy-with-experts/articleshow/76758684.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Senior officials of civic body fined for mask violations in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Those who are expected to strictly enforce the mask rule in the city to keep the Covid-19 at bay are sometimes caught flouting the rule themselves. A senior officer of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority, G J Patel, on Thursday paid Rs 200 for not wearing mask in a public place. Recently, minister of state Ishwarsinh Patel had to cough up Rs 200 for not following the rule. If sources are to be believed, AMC standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt too was caught without mask just before a meeting on Thursday. Though Bhatt denied that he was penalized for flouting the mask rule, sources said the incident happened just before the virtual standing committee meeting on Thursday. “Bhatt’s car was about to enter the AMC office in Usmanpura where cars were being checked for the mask rule. When an official came close to the car, he found the standing committee chairman inside. Without any delay, Bhatt took out Rs 200 and paid the fine,” said a source. If sources are to be believed, the receipt was issued in the name of another person. When contacted, Bhatt denied being fined for flouting the mask rule. “The fine was issued in the name of a friend of mine Ashish Shah,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/senior-officials-of-civic-body-fined-for-mask-violations/articleshow/76758681.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||New genus & new species of royal Maharaja barbs from the Western Ghats found||MUMBAI: A new genus and a new fish species of the royal Maharaja barbs of the Western Ghats has been discovered after collaborative research by scientists from the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS), Modern College, Pune and the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) – Pune. The new research was published in the international journal, ZooTaxa, on Monday. Maharaja barbs are a group of small cyprinid fishes found in the high-altitude mountainous rivers of the northern and central parts of the Western Ghats. The group of fish was known only from a single species, Puntius sahyadriensis (now Waikhomia sahyadriensis) described in 1953, from Yenna (Venna River), a tributary of Krishna River, near Mahabaleshwar. They are popular among aquarium hobbyists around the world, because of their majestic appearance and beautiful colouration. The study has also led to the description of a new species, Waikhomia hira, popularly known as Kohinoor Barb, which appears to be distributed only in the Kali River basin of Karnataka. “The high endemism we are recognising among small barbs, at species and the generic level, will pave the way for improved conservation prioritisation and attention for these least studied fish,” said Unmesh Katwate, Fish Scientist at the Freshwater Research Unit of the Bombay Natural History and PhD student at KUFOS, lead author of the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-genus-new-species-of-royal-maharaja-barbs-from-the-western-ghats-found/articleshow/76759944.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||99-year-old returns home after virus victory in Kolkata||DIAMOND HARBOUR: He was born just after the Spanish flu, the pandemic that struck the world in 1920, and lost both his parents when he was seven years old to an epidemic: cholera. On Thursday, 99-year-old Sripoti Naiban, who is India’s oldest Covid patient to recover from the dreaded disease, returned home after doctors said he was past the danger. Three of his family members have also been infected by the disease that has claimed the lives of many senior citizens. Sripoti is also the third nonagenarian to recover in the state. On returning to his Diamond Harbour home on Thursday, Sripoti was felicitated by senior district administration officials, including the SDO and CMOH as well as one from Swasthya Bhawan. Though his recovery from Covid-19 ought to have resulted in a cheery atmosphere back home, the fact that three others from the family down with Covid-19 are in the hospital marred the celebrations. Born in 1921, three years after the Spanish flu, Sripoti was raised by his grandfather. Sripoti had a stint in the army before taking up a clerical job at the Diamond Harbour court. A father of seven sons and three daughters, Sripoti is the head of a joint family comprising four of his sons and their families. His sixth son, Alok Kanti, was the first in the family to have contracted the infection. The family believes he passed on the disease to his father. His fifth son Kanak Kanti said, “My father fell ill on June 16. He had Covid symptoms and his test results that we got a few days later turned out positive. He was admitted to a hospital in Kankurgachhi. My father remained mentally strong all along.” His swab test on Wednesday turned out negative and he was discharged on Thursday. Kanak Kanti said, “Till even two years ago, my father would walk to the neighbourhood tea stall. He can’t do that any more and needs help walking in the home. But he advises us on all aspects. I, too, was a Covid patient. But I recovered. We are taking special care of my father. We are also trying to ensure that no one else in our family contracts the infection. Watch Covid-19: 99-yr-old returns home after virus victory in Kolkata||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/99-yr-old-returns-home-after-virus-victory/articleshow/76758603.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad good example for other centres: Docs||Ahmedabad: The panel of doctors, that met the top state government officials including CM Vijay Rupani on Thursday evening, told the officials that Ahmedabad could prove to be a good example for other emerging centres like Surat. “The biggest epicentre of Covid-19 is now recording reduction in cases and deaths. While experts are still keeping a close watch on the daily trends, the occupancy at hospitals has got decreased with more emphasis on reducing mortality,” said an official present at the meeting. “The doctors have now better idea on identifying signs of distress and which medicines to administer.” The experts also advocated encouraging home quarantine/treatment for those with mild to moderate symptoms to ensure bed availability for critical patients and expanding scope of testing in dense clusters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-good-example-for-other-centres-docs/articleshow/76758678.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Bhopal||Bisahulal is eldest minister, Kawre youngest||Bhopal: Bisahulal Singh, 70, from Anuppur is the eldest minister while Ramkishore Kawre, 41 from Paraswada is the youngest. The average age of the cbinet is 46 years. Bisahulal is a former minister in Digvijaya cabinet as five-time MLA. Though, BJP’s Gopal Bhargava (68 years) is the most experienced legislator with eight terms in the House.  There are five ministers in their forties while 12 ministers are in their fifties. The remaining ministers are in their mid-sixties. Thus, the average age of the cabinet members is 46 years, which is quite young. There are three first-time MLAs while eight ministers have won the election three times. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has also tried to maintain caste balance in the team. For the first time, Sagar district will have three ministers — Gopal Bahrgava, Govind Singh Rajput and Bhupendra Singh while Jabalpur district will have none. The party has also not given representation to the Jatav community in the Gwlaior region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bisahulal-is-eldest-minister-kawre-youngest/articleshow/76758629.cms||Rajendra Sharma
July 3, 2020||Delhi||Veteran IIC librarian, poet and author Kaul dies at 79||NEW DELHI: Covid has claimed another cultural stalwart of the capital. On Wednesday, Dr Hari Krishen Kaul, the former chief librarian of India International Centre and a familiar name among the city’s literati, breathed his last at Primus Hospital. He was 79. Kaul had been associated with IIC right from its early days. “There is a photograph of the inauguration of IIC with then President Dr S Radhakrishnan and Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. Kaul is also in it,” recalled NN Vohra, the former Governor of Jammu & Kashmir and current president of the board of trustees, IIC. “But it was the library that he built up over 40 years as an institution of repute. He realised that a physical library could only have space for a limited number of works. So, he came up with DELNET,” Vohra added. DELNET or Developing Library Network was the brainchild of Kaul. “It was developed as a resource sharing platform through the networking of many libraries in 1988,” said KN Srivastava, director of IIC. It was way before the Internet revolution hit India. “He really gave his all to DELNET, striking collaborations with top libraries around the world,” Vohra said. DELNET later moved out of IIC and was formally hosted in a dedicated new building at the campus of Jawaharlal Nehru University. “There, Kaul also built living rooms for visiting scholars to stay. This is how far he went to facilitate research,” Vohra said. But Kaul’s duties as the chief librarian of IIC weren’t over. “Even when he attained retirement age, we couldn’t let him go from IIC and he was given several extensions. He finally retired from IIC in 2007,” said Dr Usha Mujoo Munshi, the present chief librarian of IIC. Kaul was also a poet and an author. Among his published works is the much-acclaimed Travellers’ India: An Anthology. “He was an eclectic person. That he got involved with the library only expanded his intellectual horizons. In 1984, he co-founded the Poetry Society of India,” Vohra said. Kaul instituted the All-India Poetry Competition in 1988, which discovered and honoured young talent. “His brainchild, it was a landmark annual event for years. I was privileged to have been one of the first prize winners (1997) in this path-breaking institution, alongside winners in other years like Vijay Nambisan, Rukmini Bhaya Nair, and Tabish Khair,” recalled poet Ranjit Hoskote. He met Kaul when he was 20. Despite being a pioneer in many domains, Kaul never sought the limelight. “He was always a gentle, thoughtful soul who encouraged and inspired others,” Hoskote said. Vohra and his colleagues at IIC agreed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/veteran-iic-librarian-poet-and-author-kaul-dies-at-79/articleshow/76759386.cms||Manimugdha S Sharma
July 3, 2020||India||Ban on apps a digital strike: Prasad||KOLKATA: Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday took on Trinamool Congress, Congress and CPM for “going silent” on the Chinese incursions in Ladakh when the entire country stands by the security forces. Addressing Bengal BJP workers in a virtual rally, Prasad called the Centre’s ban on 59 Chinese mobile apps, including TikTok, a “digital strike”. He said the Modi government is committed to protect people’s “data security” and won’t hesitate to draw up legal proceedings against these apps. “India knows how to make a digital strike,” Prasad said. The minister then trained his guns on the opposition parties in Bengal that are “used to raising questions” on the government’s steps. “I want to know why Congress, Trinamool Congress are silent on China. I would like to remind you that Rahul Gandhi did the same during the Uri strike, and then the Pulwama strike. Even when India gave a befitting reply to Pakistan at Balakot, Rahul Gandhi was asking for evidence. Mamata Banerjee has been asking the same questions. Questioning the government of India has been a new fad among the opposition in Bengal. Did the CPM oppose China? I have gone through an article in the CPM organ People’s Democracy where the author has held that India has antagonised China by abrogating Article 370 and claiming Aksai Chin,” the minister said. Prasad then gave an argument on why Congress is silent on China. “I have all the documents of the Rajiv Gandhi Trust. They show how the Congress got money from the Chinese Embassy and the Chinese government,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ban-on-apps-a-digital-strike-prasad/articleshow/76760451.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kanpur||3 Pvt city hospitals readyto treat Covid-19 patients||Kanpur: As many as three private hospitals of the city have agreed to treat Covid-19 patients. “The district administration has sought help from private sector hospitals to treat Covid patients. Since the number of infected persons is increasing day by day, and almost all beds of the government hospitals are occupied, the district magistrate and chief medical officer contacted the private hospitals for corona treatment and three hospitals have given their consent,” said an official. “The management of SPS Hospital in Kalyanpur, Macrobert Hospital in Civil Lines, GTB Hospital in Lajpat Nagar responded to the administration’s move. However, they have asked the administration to give training to their para-medical staff, doctors and employees on how to deal with Covid patients and apprise them about the protocol,” the official added. According to the health department, it had given training to staff of as many as 13 private hospitals and apprised them on how to prevent themselves from getting infected. Those hospitals could be used as Covid hospitals if the number of infected persons rises. Earlier, Leelamani Hospital in Civil Lines had been given consent to treat Covid patients. But the matter was closed when the mayor and local residents strongly opposed the move. President of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Rita Mittal said doctors of private hospitals are ready to treat the infected persons. However, the administration will have to manage the training of employees and quarantine them after due time. President of Kanpur nursing homes association Dr Mahendra Sarawagi said the district administration had sought help for treatment of Covid patients and his association was ready to oblige. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Ashok Kumar Shukla confirmed that three private hospitals were ready to treat corona infected persons. The district magistrate was making efforts that financially sound persons who could afford the treatment could get treatment at private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/3-pvt-city-hospitals-readyto-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76759243.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||Corona worry for Bidhannagar zone: From 141 in first 92 days to 382 in next 32 days||Kolkata: The number of Covid cases in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area increased fourfold in less than a month after the lockdown was gradually relaxed, with the number crossing 500 on Thursday. As per the latest figures available with the civic authorities till July 2, there have been a total of 523 Covid positive cases in Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area out of which 229 have recovered and 25 died. The number of active cases at present stands at 269. Over 100 cases have been reported over the last six days from the 41 wards. A total of 43 new cases were reported only in the last two days. Month-wise figures revealed that in March there was only two cases. The number increased to 52 with one death in April. The numbers further increased with 89 fresh cases in May and 10 more deaths. June saw a massive spike with 339 new cases and another 22 deaths, taking the Covid figures to 480 cases with 23 deaths till June 30. Fresh cases are also coming in from blocks and localities from where cases had been reported earlier. Bidhannagar mayor Krishna Chakraborty said that they were taking possible steps to contain the outbreak. “All the councillors are keeping in touch and reaching out to the affected families to offer help. Sanitization drives are being conducted across the affected localities on a regular basis. We urge people to wear masks whenever stepping out of their homes and take all precautionary measures,” she said. Civic authorities are stressing on sanitizing the marketplaces as frequently as possible. Officials said that there has been a spike in the number of cases as people are having to go to different places for work. “The conservancy and health workers along with all the councillors are doing everything possible to help the affected families. They are keeping contact with them, sanitizing their localities, providing assistance for hospitalization of any of the family members, if required, etc,” an official said. He said that home quarantine arrangements are also being made for migrant workers coming from outside. “A building behind Nicco Park is being used for this purpose,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/corona-worry-for-bidhannagar-zone-from-141-in-first-92-days-to-382-in-next-32-days/articleshow/76758636.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Eight MNC workers get Covid-19, CEO booked||PUNE: The Pune rural police have sealed the manufacturing plant of a multinational company at Varve Budruk, about 30km from Pune, near Khed Shivapur in Bhor taluka, and registered an offence against its India CEO, HR manager and two others for negligence after eight of its workers tested positive for Covid-19. The police also declared the plant as a containment zone. The FIR was registered on Wednesday after the gram panchayat’s rural development officer lodged a complaint. “One of the firm’s Pune-based workers had Covid-19 symptoms in the third week of June and yet he reported for duty. On June 25, he tested positive, but the company officials did not inform the local authorities and the police nor did they inform the other workers. On June 27, another 16 workers developed nCoV symptoms. The following day, the company officials alerted the local authorities. Seven of the 16 tested positive and the results of nine are awaited,” assistant inspector Dattatreya Darade of Rajgad police told TOI. A senior officer of the company, which designs and manufactures mechanical seals and support equipment, refuted the police’s version. She told TOI over phone, “The worker, who tested positive first, did not show any symptoms. On June 22, he took a half-day leave complaining of backache. On June 25, he informed us that he had tested positive for Covid-19. Our management informed the local gram panchayat and the police about him and we stopped production from Monday.” She said the company conducts medical tests of its workers every fortnight. “The worker who tested positive on June 25 had undergone tests in the company about a week ago. His reports were normal. On the day he left, his body temperature was normal,” the officer said. She added, “Our company follows social distancing norms, has changed the lunch time and provided masks and most of our staff is working from home. Only those whose presence is required come to the company.” The rural development officer, who lodged the FIR, told TOI, “I have acted on my seniors’ instructions. The management of the company informed me about the positive cases on June 28. The next day, senior officials from the district administration reached the company. The health department staff too was there. They conducted tests for all employees and seven tested positive.” The police have invoked offences punishable under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Diseases Act and Covid-19 Rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/8-mnc-workers-get-covid-19-ceo-booked/articleshow/76759374.cms||Mihir Tanksale
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||nCoV claims first brigadier rank officer in the country||KOLKATA: A brigadier posted at the Army's eastern command headquarters in Kolkata died of Covid-19 on Thursday, almost four weeks after he was hospitalised with symptoms of infection and some co-morbidities. He is the first Army officer of brigadier rank to succumb to the virus. Officials at Fort William in central Kolkata said the deceased, who was attached to the Army's Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers, had been admitted to the Military Hospital in Barrackpore on June 5. He was shifted to the Command Hospital in Alipore when his condition deteriorated. The brigadier's wife and daughters, who had tested positive for Covid-19 nearly a week after he did, recovered even as his co-morbidities worsened, a source said. "He continued to suffer respiratory distress and passed away on Thursday. All necessary precautions have been taken at the hospitals and the places he may have visited before falling ill. Those he came in contact with have also been tested. Sanitisation has been carried out wherever necessary," the source said. A couple of months ago, a doctor at the Command Hospital had tested positive for Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ncov-claims-first-brigadier-rank-officer-in-the-country/articleshow/76758620.cms||Jayanta Gupta
July 3, 2020||Kochi||‘Tribal kids yet to benefit from online education’||KOCHI: Even though the government has taken up initiatives to ensure that the online education sessions reach all students by mobilizing the digital equipment from hi-tech schools in respective areas through Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE), the civil society members and leaders working with adivasi-dalit-backward communities said that the initiative is still not effective and many students belonging to the marginalized sections still have no access to the new method of education. In a letter sent to the chief minister and other ministers, the civil society members working for the welfare of marginalized sections said that KITE’s initiative will not serve any purpose for tribal students unless steps are taken to institute local learning centres at Ooru level as an organizational reform. They said that mentor teachers need to be present at these centres to help impart the online lesson to the students by explaining them. “The more appropriate action would be to provide computers and other electronic equipment to the local-level systems like learning centres. The requisite funds for the same shall be made available from KIIFB or through other means. This is indeed the responsibility of the department of education; the government should change the mentality that these are the services that need to be made available to the marginalized sections through ‘charitable’ activities,” said the letter. The letter also said that the activities of KITE have been discriminatory and non-inclusive, with respect to students from the marginalized sections of the society. Tribal activists said that the government should take immediate steps to ensure equal access to digital education facilities for all. M Geetanandan, convener of Adivasi-Dalit-Sthree Pouravakasha Samithi, said that KITE’s project under the General Education Protection Mission (Pothu Vidyabhyasa Samrakshana Yajnam) to transform selected schools into hi-tech schools focuses mostly on the urbanized areas where.  “The project is non-inclusive, with respect to students from the marginalized sections of the society, including Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, fishworkers, etc. as only very few schools, located in areas populated by tribal people or marginalized sections, comes under the project,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tribal-kids-yet-to-benefit-from-online-education/articleshow/76757423.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kanpur||Places of worship to remain closed till July 31||Kanpur: All places of worship in the city will remain closed till July 31, 2020 under Unlock 2.0, keeping in mind the rise in Covid cases, said district magistrate Dr Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari on Thursday, adding that the decision was taken unanimously. District magistrate Dr Tiwari held a meeting with around two dozen religious leaders and preachers at the collectorate auditorium on Thursday. All the people attending the meeting expressed grave concern over the increasing number of Covid patients in the city. “They all said the increasing number of infected persons was a matter of grave concern and agreed to keep all the religious places close till July 31,” the DM said. “All the religious leaders were in favour of closure and appealed to the followers of their respective religions to pray at home,” he told reporters after the meeting. The leaders agreed that the situation was becoming grim day-by-day and just one infected person at a religious place could spread the virus to many devotees and the situation could become uncontrollable. “So far, we have been offering our prayers from home and we should continue this till the situation becomes normal,” they said. “We will work with administration in the interest of people and if closure of religious places prevents gatherings and thereby plays a role in stopping the spread of the virus then all of us are ready for it,” they added. The leaders praised the teams of doctors, para medical staff and district administration for doing a commendable job and working without fear for controlling the situation. A Muslim cleric said that he had discussed the situation with senior doctors who said it would be difficult to implement social distancing in religious places and the circumstances at present are not conducive for opening them. The doctors said that the situation in Kanpur was much better in comparison to other cities like Mumbai and Delhi and every effort should be made to curb virus spread, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/places-of-worship-to-remain-closed-till-july-31/articleshow/76759236.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: New normal still alien in rural, semi-urban areas, says Nuals study||KOCHI: Though government is advocating the idea of living with coronavirus as the only viable option due to its unpredictable spread, it seems most people living in semi-urban and rural areas aren’t ready to do so. A study conducted by National University of Advanced Legal Studies (Nuals) among 500 families in two panchayats and three municipalities of Ernakulam found that over 60% respondents did not agree with normalizing public and social restriction and living with Covid-19. Also, 41% of people, who were part of the study to gauge the impact of the pandemic among villagers, hadn’t adjusted to the new lifestyle. Nuals conducted the UGC study by focussing on three major points: awareness level in villages regarding Covid-19, how villages withstood various challenges posed by the virus and the best strategies they adopted to tackle obstacles. As part of the study, Nuals talked to over 2,000 persons in Alangad, Edathala, Tripunithura, Thrikkakara and Kalamassery. Though the report was submitted to UGC on Tuesday, Nuals management said the findings will be compiled and published by UGC after all other varsities submit their reports. “We completed the study within 15 days and submitted the report before the deadline,” said vice-chancellor KC Sunny. Sources close to the project said only 43% respondents had minimum awareness about Covid-19 and 9.8% were ignorant about the disease’s impact and precautions; 47.2% had good awareness. The most challenging aspect of Covid-19 impact for people (84.3%) was their daily travel for professional and personal reasons and 78.2% faced financial instability due to job loss or travel difficulty. While 66.4% of parents faced difficulty in ensuring online education for their children amid lockdown, 50.4% persons faced difficulty in arranging non-Covid medical treatment for family members. Also, 60% respondents expressed psychological disturbance like lack of confidence, tension and fear. While 85.6% people used soap and sanitizer to fight Covid-19, 80% used masks and followed social distancing norms for two months and 85.6% avoided travel and sat at home. On June 12, UGC had sent a letter to all universities to conduct a study on the impact of Covid-19. The institutions were also asked to conduct a parallel study on the impact of Spanish Flu with focus on how India handled the 1918 pandemic and what measures the country took then to boost the economy after the pandemic. Among the respondents, only 30% knew about Spanish Flu. A research team was set up under professor S Mini and the main members were student welfare officer Sujith S Nair and research officer S Bindu for the study. Seven students helped the team with data collection through a questionnaire that had 50 questions covering the points of the study. A member of the research team said even the survey was difficult as people were hesitant to allow them inside their homes fearing infection. “Though we wore masks and gloves, many were hesitant to talk from a safe distance,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/new-normal-still-alien-in-rural-semi-urban-areas-nuals-study/articleshow/76757446.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
July 3, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra awaits central funds for salaries of staffers||PUNE: State relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Thursday said the state government would not be able to pay salaries to its employees next month if the Centre did not release funds. Wadettiwar, who was in the city for a review meeting, said the state government had to divert its funds towards the treatment of the Covid-19 patients on a priority and reduce budget of almost all its departments by 50-60%. “The situation is such that the state government will be forced to take loans to pay its employees’ salaries. The state has not received the Centre’s funds for Covid-19 relief,” he told a media conference. He said though the Opposition has been claiming that central funds have reached the state, it was not the reality. Earlier, Maharashtra finance minister and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had also said central funds were expected and there was a delay in the amounts reaching the state. Wadettiwar said the government would ensure that there was no cash crunch to tide over the Covid-19 situation. “The salaries of the Covid-19 fighters will not be affected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-awaits-central-funds-for-salaries-of-staffers/articleshow/76759388.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Medical, dental exams postponed at all Gujarat universities||AHMEDABAD: Exams for medical, paramedical and dental courses at all varsities have been postponed by the state government. The decision comes a day after the government cancelled other college exams. “According to instructions received from the state government today, all exams for graduate and postgraduate courses of the medical faculty have been postponed, for about ten days,” said a senior official in the office of the commissioner of health, medical services and medical education. The exams will be rescheduled once the standard operating procedure is issued by the ministry of human resource development, the official said. Maharaja Krishnakumarsinhji Bhavnagar University announced in a media statement that according to instructions from the government, it had deferred medical and paramedical exams that were slated to begin on July 6. On Wednesday, Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, the state education minister, called off all final semester college exams in the state. Later in the day, the state government asked the Centre for a clarification after Gujarat University announced that there would be no change in its schedule for exams in medical, paramedical and dental courses. A final decision on this will be taken according to directions of the central government, whose advice the state has sought in this matter, the official added. GU officials felt that medical and dental courses are regulated by Medical Council of India (MCI) and Dental Council of India (DCI) and hence the directions of the state education minister on Tuesday did not apply to them. The minister’s decision was for varsities affiliated to the University Grants Commission (UGC), officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/medical-dental-exams-postponed-at-all-varsities/articleshow/76758675.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Interstate travellers play it safe, prefer to pay up to Rs 60,000 for one-way trips than take flights||PUNE: People stranded in the city are opting for exorbitantly-priced cabs for long-distance travel rather than taking flights which carry the risk of chance contact with co-passengers and crew. Many wanting to go home to as far as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh have paid Rs40,000-60,000 for a one-way trip — several times more than what they would have paid for air travel. Cab operators said this was for the first time that they were experiencing such a high demand for interstate travel in private vehicles. The demand kicked off after the travel curbs were lifted in stages from June. Requests for interstate travel passes started mounting on the Pune police after the relaxation in norms. Girish Makhijani, owner of Hare Krishna Comfort Tours, said, “Around seven out of 10 people approaching us want to take one-way trips back home. The rest are making round trips for essential reasons like marriages or deaths in the family and to meet relatives.” Makhijani’s cabs have recently gone from Pune to Bihar, Jaipur and Indore on one-way trips ranging from 700km to 1,800km. “I sent two people to Gopalganj in Bihar, and others to Indore, Gujarat and Rajasthan. Another cab has gone to drop off a person to Jaipur.” Some of Makhijani’s round trips are completed in just a few days. “One traveller went home to Pali in Rajasthan and returned in the same cab. He covered 2,000km in four days, including the halt at his relatives’ place. He had missed his nephew’s wedding during the lockdown and thus felt it imperative to pay him a visit after the travel curbs were lifted,” he said. Cab service providers say customers and drivers needed prior permission to travel and have to apply for digital passes on punepolice.in. If the police approve the request, a QR code with a letter in the Portable Document Format (PDF) is sent on the WhatsApp number of the applicant. Medical certificates of passengers and drivers are also procured by cab service providers and provided to the police authorities online. A customer who did not wish to be quoted told TOI, “I paid around Rs35,000 for a one-way journey to Ghaziabad, almost 1,500km away from Pune. Since the cab had to return to Pune empty, I had to pay for a round trip. There were no flights to my destination. Besides, I did not want to risk travelling in a plane filled with so many people when the pandemic is raging.” Ravi Kiran Jadhav, a private cab service provider, sent his drivers on 15 such trips to states like Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, among others, in June. “Many are also making round trips for pressing engagements. Travelling in a sedan could cost around about Rs10-11 per km while it is Rs 15-16 per km for an SUV. Many people are just going back home as they feel safer there,” said Jadhav. Ashwin Trivedi, director of car rental agency Pluto Travels India Pvt Ltd, recently sent travellers to cities like Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad. “A round trip to Bengaluru costs around Rs30,000-40,000 and that for Chennai around Rs60,000. The passengers being dropped off are being charged for a round trip because vehicles have to return empty,” said Trivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/interstate-travellers-play-it-safe-prefer-to-pay-up-to-rs-60k-for-one-way-trips-than-take-flights/articleshow/76759391.cms||Neha Madaan
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University admissions first round by July||Gujarat University (GU) has decided to make minor changes in the admission process for undergraduate students across science, arts, commerce and law courses. Candidates will now have to generate personal identification numbers (PIN) till July 4 and complete registration process till July 7. Based on this, the provisional merit list will be announced on July 10 followed by a final merit list on July 16. The choice filling exercise will be held from July 16 to July 18 for the first round of admission. The allocation of colleges will be done from July 22 and students will have to pay fees between July 22 and July 24. Before the end of July, based on the number of vacant seats, the second round of admission will be decided. In the case of BCom admissions, 32,283 candidates have bought the PIN of which 30,068 have completed the registration process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-admissions-first-round-by-july/articleshow/76758689.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Cold & coronavirus fears keep beer sales at 50% in May when heat peaks||PUNE: Chilled beer was kept at arm’s length this May over fears that it makes one susceptible to colds, and therefore Covid-19, halving sales. May invariably sees a high demand for beer, prompted by heat waves and a climbing mercury. Excise department liquor sales data for May showed that sales of all alcohol segments suffered to some extent but the biggest loser was beer. Beer sales dropped by 50%, IMFL by 9% and wine by 6% . A source in a liquor manufacturing company confirmed that sales not only in Pune, but also in the state plunged by a significant 50% to 55% in comparison to last year. It was perhaps the biggest plunge in a long time. A source in one of the top liquor manufacturing firms told TOI, “Beer is had chilled. However, many people have this perception that ice cream and cold drinks can make them prone to cold, cough and the coronavirus. Many others are also trying to preclude the possibility of falling sick to avoid undue visits to doctors because the Covid-19 risk increases outdoors and in clinics.” Another liquor manufacturing firm source said many office-goers, students and migrants in Pune, Mumbai and Navi Mumbai consume beer. Much of migrant population in Pune that has now gone back home consume strong beer in the summer after their long hours. April to June are when almost 40% of the annual beer sales take place. “ This year was unlike any other and against all odds,” he added. Bars and hotels which contributed to a significant amount of beer sales in the state were shut. He said districts where only home deliveries are allowed saw a huge drop in beer sales because liquor shops do not usually home deliver just a bottle of beer that costs Rs 170. “Liquor shop owners prefer to home deliver IMFL instead of beer because of the higher price,” the source said. Though there were long queues outside liquor shops when alcohol sales restarted in Maharashtra in May, beer was least sold because people feared that shops had opened only to close down soon and started stocking on IMFL, a top retailer in Pune said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cold-coronavirus-fears-keep-beer-sales-at-50-in-may-when-heat-peaks/articleshow/76759398.cms||Neha Madaan
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||LRD candidates threaten to resume stir||Ahmedabad: Women candidates who took the Lok Rakshak Dal examination and were declared eligible for jobs as constables, have threatened to launch an agitation again, if they are not issued appointment letters by July 20. Of the 5,227 eligible candidates, 3,673 are yet to be given appointment letters. Suresh Chaudhary, convenor of the agitation, said that although the government has completed the process of allotting districts and conducting medical tests on candidates, the majority of candidates are yet to get appointment letters. “We handed over memoranda to various district officials, saying that we will again sit on a dharna in Gandhinagar if they are not given appointment letters,” he said. These women LRD candidates had ended their two-month-long agitation in February. Chaudhary said 1,499 eligible candidates were first given jobs and another 55 were given appointment letters later. “The majority of candidates are yet to get appointment letters,” he said. Following prolonged protests by candidates of both the reserved and unreserved categories, the state government finally arrived at a compromise formula, setting 62.5 as the cut-off mark for an LRD job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lrd-candidates-threaten-to-resume-stir/articleshow/76758682.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Delhi||Drive to plant 31 lakh saplings in Delhi from July 10||NEW DELHI: Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday announced that a mega plantation drive in the city will commence from July 10 and set a target of planting 31 lakh saplings this year. The 17-day drive, which is a part of a government campaign — Plant Trees, Save Environment — will start on July 10 when deputy CM Manish Sisodia and cabinet ministers will plant saplings along the Yamuna bank near ITO. On July 26, the drive will expand to all the 70 assembly constituencies where MLAs will plant saplings. A number of Delhi ministers like Imran Hussain, Rajendra Pal Gautam, Satyendar Jain and Kailash Gahlot will also be carrying out plantation in different parts of Delhi. While 20 lakh saplings will consist of trees, 11 lakh shrubs will also be planted primarily along the roads in Delhi to curb dust pollution, which leads to a spike in PM 10 levels. Meanwhile, Forest Research Institute (FRI), Dehradun, has been asked to carry out a third-party audit for the plantation carried out last year to ascertain its survival rate. “The saplings planted are generally audited after one year. FRI will also audit the saplings planted this year,” said Rai. India State of Forest Report (ISFR), which is released every two years, in its 2019 report stated that Delhi’s green cover increased to 325 sq km from 299 sq km in 2017. By 2021, Rai said, Delhi should cross 350 sq km. “The aim is to continue increasing our green cover and we should cross the 350 sq km mark. This will help us fight air pollution,” said Rai. Delhi government had earlier set a target of planting 2 crore saplings in five years, planting close to 40 lakh each year. This year, however, the target has been revised to 31 lakh. Rai said while the Centre’s target for Delhi this year was just 15 lakh saplings, the government was planting more than double of the target. While 18 lakh saplings will be planted by agencies under Delhi government, including the forest and wildlife department, PWD, DSIIDC and DTC, among others. Delhi Development Authority will plant 9.4 lakh saplings. Another 2 lakh are to be planted by New Delhi Municipal Council and the three municipal corporations. The other greening agencies, including northern railway, DMRC and BSES will plant 2 lakh saplings. Rai, said the greening agencies would continue to plant saplings even after the 17-day window.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drive-to-plant-31-lakh-saplings-from-july-10/articleshow/76759414.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Pune||For jewellers, paucity of craftsmen still a big worry||PUNE: After suffering from massive losses over the last three months because of the lockdown, jewellers from the city are facing a fresh crisis because of the shortage of goldsmiths and craftsmen. Jewellers from the city said around 80% of the ‘karigars’ or craftsmen had returned to their hometowns in West Bengal over the last three months. Traders said the losses incurred due to the lockdown amounted to almost 30-40% of their annual revenues. “The March-April wedding season has gone by and we have incurred heavy losses. Salaries, taxes, bills and interest have become a big burden for us. Most of the gold craftsmen have gone back home and there is uncertainty about their return,” Akshat Solanki from Girish Jewellers said. Vipul Ashtekar from Krishna Rajaram Ashtekar Jewellers said the craftsmen went back to their homes because of the pressure from their family members. “We retained all our employees despite the lockdown and even the craftsmen were being taken care of. However, their families from villages in West Bengal asked them to return and so they did. We will have to think before taking new orders for jewellery because of the shortage of craftsmen,” Ashtekar said. Ankit Kawediya of Kawediya Jewellers said, “Even when the shops open, the problems and losses will continue for a few months. We also have to wait for craftsmen to return to complete the pending orders also. Apart from that, the customer inflow would also be slow. There are many such issues that need to be looked at and recovery will certainly take time,” Kawediya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/for-jewellers-paucity-of-craftsmen-still-a-big-worry/articleshow/76759408.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 3, 2020||Kochi||Belly dance act at resort throws up a storm in Idukki||IDUKKI: In big cities, a belly dance performance may not raise eyebrows, but one such performance at a private resort in the hills has certainly raised a storm. Throwing all caution to the wind, a belly dance-like performance was conducted at a resort at Udumbanchola near Nedumkandam in the district on Sunday night, as part of the inauguration programme of a private firm in Chathurangappara, sources said. The event went on till the wee hours on Monday morning. The organizers arranged liquor for the guests at the venue. Two women artists were brought in from Bengaluru for the dance performance, said sources. The over five-hour long programme did not follow any Covid-19 regulations and over 250 people attended the function. Each hour, over 50 persons were allowed to watch the performance. The issue came to light when some persons who attended the programme captured the video and shared it with friends in Nedumkandam, said sources. The video also shows a local resident trying to match steps with the women artists. The district special branch collected the videos and has begun a probe. Idukki special branch DSP Pius George said that they didn’t receive any complaint about the belly dance performance at a resort. “During lockdown, such social gatherings are not allowed. We will check and take further action,” said George. Udumbanchola circle inspector A Shinekumar too denied receiving any complaint. Idukki district collector H Dineshan said that the district administration hasn’t received any complaint on the belly dance performance during lockdown. Watch Watch: Belly dance act at resort throws up a storm in Idukki||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/burlesque-act-in-time-of-pandemic/articleshow/76757478.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Three held for blackmailing man with pictures of his daughter||AHMEDABAD: Sardarnagar police detained three persons after a 42-year-old man on Wednesday accused them of trying to blackmail him, demanding that he pay them Rs 15 lakh failing which they would circulate nude pictures of his 15-year-old daughter. Sardarnagar police registered an offence under Sections 384, 114, 354(A) of the IPC and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against Rohit Bhatia, Jeetu alias Vansh Aliyani and Nikunj Rathod. According to the FIR lodged by the girl’s father, at 8pm on June 26, Rohit Bhatia, who used to stay in a rented space near their house about a year ago, showed him and his wife nude pictures of their daughter on his mobile phone. He told them that Nikunj Rathod had sent them to him. “According to the FIR, Bhatia told them that these photos were with a group of their friends, and if the parents didn’t want them to be circulated on social media, they should pay him and his friends Rs 15 lakh,” said a Sardarnagar police official. The FIR says when the couple asked their daughter about the photos, she told them that Bhatia was engaged to her friend and she had met him at the engagement. The girl told them that Bhatia, who works at Safal Market 3, started chatting with her on WhatsApp. He then asked her to be friends with his colleague, Nikunj Rathod. “When she refused and blocked Bhatia’s phone number, Nikunj called her up. He told her that if she did not send him nudes, he would tell her father that she was talking to Jeetu Aliyani. She got scared, and sent nudes to Nikunj from her mobile phone. These photos were then circulated in the group and were the ones Bhatia showed her parents,” said a police official. “All three accused have been detained and sent for pre-arrest Covid tests,” said deputy commissioner of police, Zone 4, Neeraj Badgujar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-held-for-blackmailing-man-with-pictures-of-his-daughter/articleshow/76758947.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Pune||Absence of train service hits those trying to reach work||PUNE: The lack of train services connecting to the city is turning into a problem for employees dependant on the amenity. Dilip Holkar (36), who lives with his family in Khedgaon, has to ride over 160km to and from his office each day. On the other hand, Narendra Machindra Ankush (43), who lives in 250km away in Solapur district, is desperate to resume work but cannot. “The railways announced more local trains for people in Mumbai but we have been completely left out. I work as a private security guard for a bank in Camp. Every day, I ride my two-wheeler from my home to the bank and then back,” Holkar said. He said he has to work in shifts so things are extremely difficult. “The shifts are from 7am to 3pm, 3pm to 11pm and then from 11pm until 7am. If I have a night shift, I have to leave my home at 7.30pm. If I have an afternoon shift which ends at 11pm, I reach home by 3am. Heavy vehicles ply along the road. I cannot afford to rent a room. Earlier, I would travel by train. Now, I have to spend more than Rs200 on fuel everyday,” Holkar asked. Ankush, who works in Pune as a field executive with a bank, is equally frustrated. “My bosses call me almost daily asking me when I will join duty. There are no trains and it is impossible to drive 500km everyday. I have tried to reason with the firm but they are in no mood to listen,” Ankush said. He said he was told to leave the job if he cannot resume work. “People pray for the health and well-being of their loved ones but I pray for the trains to start. The authorities increased the local trains in Mumbai but they have not thought about people like us. I cannot afford to lose my job,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/absence-of-train-service-hits-those-trying-to-reach-work/articleshow/76759415.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 3, 2020||Pune||Transport bodies struggle to get decent ridership||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) and Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) are struggling to get decent ridership off peak hours. PMPML traffic manager Anant Waghmare said the number of passengers is high only in the peak hours. “The rest of the day, buses are nearly empty,” he said. “The load factor of the 80 buses operating in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation areas is just 10% on an average,” PMPML chief Nayana Gunde said. MSRTC, which had started buses in the outskirts of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, is similarly staring down the barrel. “Not more than 22 passengers are being allowed in each of the 50 buses. However, only 5-10 passengers travel on most buses, affecting revenue,” a MSRTC (Pune) official said. Both transport bodies, however, said they found a temporary fix. “We have three central workshops located in Pune, Aurangabad and Nagpur. They will be used to build bodies of private buses. MSRTC will take orders from private players in this regard and hopes to get some additional income,” the MSRTC official added. A PMPML official said they too were planning some measures. “We are contacting different private firms in industrial areas and trying to get them to engage our buses for employee transport,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transport-bodies-struggle-to-get-decent-ridership/articleshow/76759420.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt depts told to hear appeals through video conferencing||Ahmedabad: Hinting at stalled work in government departments so far as citizens’ grievances and appeals are concerned, the Gujarat high court ordered the state government to make its departments resume proceedings through video conferencing.Justice S H Vora observed that video conferencing facilities are lying unused and citizens face hardships as their grievances are not heard and their cases are not settled. Hence, the court asked the government to make its departments to start using video conferencing to hear people’s applications.Justice Vora ordered so while dealing with a couple of petitions from Kutch, in which the revenue department was delaying the hearing on appeals filed by citizens over disputes regarding mining leases. The court noted that the authorities were not hearing their appeals either through video conferencing or in person, saying that they were not in a position to do so. The petitioners urged the HC to direct the authorities to hear them. As the authorities were reluctant to hear appeals through video conferencing, the petitioners agreed to give submissions in writing and not to insist on a hearing through video conferencing.However, Justice Vora felt that government departments should start hearing applications and appeals through video conferencing and observed, “The court finds that government departments are not in a position to hear proceedings through video conferencing and thus, the parties are put into grave hardship and inconvenience for want of such facilities being used by the government department. It is hoped that the government will look into the matter and will do the necessary exercise to issue necessary instructions to hear the proceedings through video conferencing, so that citizens are not put into trouble and hardships in the legal issues raised by them in various proceedings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-depts-told-to-hear-appeals-through-video-conferencing/articleshow/76758690.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kochi||Kerala government to decentralize swab collection||KOCHI: As the number of new cases rise amid fears of a possible community spread, government has come up with a plan to decentralize swab collection and transportation system. Now, there will be PHC/block-level collection centres, taluk-level collection centres and district-level testing centres. Using the new system, district health department should ensure a daily testing of 1.5 times the tests done per day until June 27 by July 12. Until now, regular tests were conducted at Covid treatment facilities and airports where expatriates landed. The new system will help increase the number of daily tests and reduce chances of disease spread through contact. As per plan, walk-in sample kiosks (WISKs) will be set up at PHC/block level for collecting samples at the primary level. In urban areas, WISKs would be set up in more places considering population density. Samples collected at such centres will be taken to taluk sample collection centres for proper storage and later it will be transported to district-level labs that are designated as district sample hubs. Specially-designed two chambered vehicles with a driver, trained healthcare staff, data-entry operator and a support staff will be allotted to every taluk for collecting samples and transporting them to labs at the district-level. “We should collect samples from people at places that are located nearby. Then, we will not miss people with respiratory illness and influenza-like illness (ILI). We will be able to quickly diagnose whether such people get Covid-19,” said health secretary Rajan Khobragade. Swabs of the dead, samples of patients awaiting emergency medical or surgical interventions and those of prisoners will be considered as priority. As of now, there are 15 labs in state’s public sector for conducting Covid-19 diagnostic tests. The government is all set to begin eight more labs to enhance testing capacity. New facilities for Covid-19 tests will be set up at government medical colleges in Idukki, Alappuzha and Parippally in Kollam. The facility will be arranged in district public health labs at Manjeri and Sultan Bathery and regional public health labs at Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta and Kannur as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-govt-to-decentralize-swab-collection/articleshow/76757487.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Supplementary exam forms can be filled till July 13||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) has directed schools to collect applications from students for class XII (general stream) supplementary exams using online process. The online process is to be carried out by the students from July 3 to July 13, GSHSEB said in a media release. Students who have failed or not taken exam in one or more subjects in class XII board exams held in March, can participate in the supplementary exams using online process. The schools have been sent a list of students who have not cleared the exams. All such applications are to be sent online only, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/supplementary-exam-forms-can-be-filled-till-july-13/articleshow/76758694.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Trichy||Farmers’ leader dies of Covid, had met CM last week||TRICHY: State president of the farmers’ wing of Tamil Maanila Congress Puliyur A Nagarajan, 64, passed away in Trichy on Thursday after testing positive for Covid-19. Nagarajan was one of the ten selected leaders of the farmers’ associations who met chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to submit a petition regarding agriculture and Covid-19 at Trichy collector office on June 26. Nagarajan, a native of Inam Puliyur in Trichy district, breathed his last at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in the afternoon. He is survived by his wife and daughter. Following renal problems and breathing difficulties, Nagarajan was admitted to the hospital on July 1, where he tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Trichy district administration and the hospital administration confirmed his infection. Doctors said that he was put on ventilator in the Covid-19 isolation ward, but his condition deteriorated in the afternoon. Public health workers took the body to Oyamari crematorium and buried him as per protocol. During the meeting with the CM, Nagarajan praised him for releasing water from Mettur for Kuruvai cultivation in the delta districts and for the Kudimaramathu work. Besides demanding crop loan waiver in the meeting, Nagarajan asked the chief minister to provide facemasks to the farmers through village panchayats. Being an active leader of the farmer’s association, Nagarajan always remained at the forefront to voice the grievances of the farmers in the area. He was a regular speaker at the weekly farmer’s grievance day meeting at Trichy collector office. His family members also had no clue as to how he contracted Covid-19. “He dedicated his entire life for the welfare of the farmers. During the Covid-19 pandemic also, he was active in discussing farmers’ issues. His untimely death is a great loss to me and my family,” said his daughter N Priyadharashani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-leader-dies-of-covid-had-met-cm-last-week/articleshow/76759412.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 3, 2020||Trichy||Newly appointed central zone IG, Trichy DIG take charge||Trichy: H M Jayaram assumed office as inspector-general of police (IGP), central zone, and Z Annie Vijaya as deputy inspector-general (DIG) of police, Trichy range, here on Thursday. Jayaram said that police personnel have been advised to maintain good relationship with public, traders and people from all walks of life. In a statement, IGP Jayaram said that it has been ordered to follow the guidelines laid down by the courts in dealing with the accused in criminal cases. He also instructed police personnel to behave with dignity with the complainants and take proper action on the complaints. He also warned of slapping Goondas Act against offenders in the central zone. Jayaram was earlier serving as the additional CoP/IGP headquarters, Chennai. Former IGP central zone A Amalraj replaced Jayaram. DIG Annie Vijaya made it clear that she would give priority to police maintaining good relationship with public and prevention of crime against women and children. “This is the need of the hour,” Annie told reporters on Thursday. She said that policemen and the officers will be given management techniques to ensure good police-public relationship. She also appealed to the public to share their suggestions with police to make policing successful. “People can call me at 9445463333 round-the-clock to air their grievances.” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/newly-appointed-central-zone-ig-trichy-dig-take-charge/articleshow/76759416.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai realtors keep home fires burning with available workers||CHENNAI: Property developers in the city have kept construction work going, though at a slower pace, even during the intensive lockdown since June19 that has put the brakes on most other businesses. “Construction activity is going on even during this lockdown. Companies are carrying on with the help of workers on site. Despite limited supply of material as a result of slow movement from factories, we are progressing with our work,” T Padam Dugar, president, Credai Chennai told TOI. According to him, property developers were deploying guest workers who stayed back and Tamils workers who had returned from other states such Karnataka and Maharashtra. “The workers from Tamil Nadu had gone to other states to work with contractors of government projects and have returned due to Covid-19 scare,” Dugar said. While the masons from Tamil Nadu are the best, the migrant workers tend to work long hours. “The pace is slow due to limited availability of workers. But the work is on,” he said. According to industry sources, more workers from Tamil Nadu are keen to join the workforce as the continuous lockdown has hit their earnings. But the fear of the coronavirus is preventing them from joining people at construction sites. “The wheels of our economy will be difficult to move while the fear remains,” they said. “All our works are progressing. We follow the protocol and have taken all measures for sanitizing as well as social distancing, besides regularly checking temperatures. As a result, no one has suffered any illness across our five sites in Chennai,” said T S S Krishnan, CEO, Appasamy Real Estate. The company has deployed around 1,400 workers, a mix of migrants and locals, at its construction sites. Around 500 of the firm’s 1,300 migrant workers had stayed back and did not join the exodus to their home states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/realtors-keep-home-fires-burning-with-available-workers/articleshow/76758705.cms||D Govardan
July 3, 2020||Trichy||Trichy rural cops undergo anger mgmt programme||Trichy: In the wake of the custodial deaths of P Jayaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district, Trichy rural police have organized anger and stress management programmes in Trichy for the deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) and the directly-recruited sub-inspectors (SIs) to help police officers manage their anger more effectively, while dealing with conflictual police-citizen encounters. Superintendent of police, Trichy district, Zia Ul Haque convened two interactive sessions separately for DSPs and the SIs, said a statement from Trichy rural police on Thursday. On July 1, assistant professor of social work department at Bishop Heber College Carter Premraj conducted a session on overcoming stress and anger for SIs. They have been advised to initiate legal action against the violators of the law through legal means by registering first information report (FIR) instead of manhandling common man. The young officers have been instructed to ensure proper video coverage of entire sequences of events, while dealing with public and traders in connection with any enquiry. The point was given more stress following the death of the father-son duo in police custody. The trainer insisted the officers to practise yoga and meditation for their mental well-being. Police sources said that the directly recruited SIs needed to be given special training. DSPs also underwent a session on June 28. The objective of the session was to enlighten them about the necessity of bringing attitudinal change in the mindset of sub-ordinate police officers and personnel, while handling enquiries with the general public and attending issues concerning traders. They have been instructed to guide the inspectors, SIs and constables to maintain discipline, decorum and exhibit decent approach when public approach police station to get their grievances redressed. Besides, Trichy district police shortlisted 17 police personnel including three inspectors and five sub-inspectors who were found violent and aggressive with petitioners and public. They would undergo a specially designed program with cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) to imbibe the concept of maintaining friendly policing. The special program with CBT was initiated by former Trichy range DIG V Balakrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-rural-cops-undergo-anger-mgmt-programme/articleshow/76759422.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 3, 2020||Lucknow||LU hostels open for students after three months, none chooses to stay||Lucknow: After a gap of three months, Lucknow University opened its 13 hostels on Wednesday for students who were directed to report a week in advance for examinations due from July 7. However, only a handful of students arrived and not for the purpose of staying but to take back their belongings left behind in March when they had to leave in haste. Wardens were waiting eagerly for students. However, only one or two came by afternoon and to the shock of the wardens, packed their leftover belongings and left. Though a decision on exams is expected on Thursday, most students said they will drop the year but will not risk their lives by appearing in the exams amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Some were even confident that examinations will be deferred. “We have made up our minds not to appear in examinations because assembly of a large number of people at a place would mean exposing oneself to the risk of Covid-19 infection,” Ankit Singh, a BA-III student, told TOI. He and three other students from Lakhimpur Kheri packed their bags within an hour and left. A girl student from Tilak Hostel who had come from Ballia said, “The hostel provost had conducted an online meeting with hostellers and we had expressed our concern that social distancing would be impossible because a lot of things including washrooms are shared.” The BCom student had come to take her books so she could prepare for competitive exams. Other hostellers TOI spoke to said that no thermal scanning or any of screening was done by the university on their arrival. “How can we expect LU to do it during exams when more students will be present,” said Subhash Hostel resident Utkarsh. LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastav said, “We had sanitized all the hostels in the morning. However, only handful of students turned up and none stayed back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-hostels-open-for-students-after-three-months-none-chooses-to-stay/articleshow/76739022.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Pune||PMPML to run more buses||The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) on Thursday said it would push more buses during morning and evening hours with immediate effect to prevent overcrowding. “At present, 125 buses are running only for essential services in Pune. We had a meeting with the managers of 13 depots and decided to increase the number of buses on some of the routes during peak hours,” PMPML’s traffic manager Anant Waghmare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-run-more-buses/articleshow/76759423.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Police training too goes online||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The need for social distancing in the aftermath of Covid-19 outbreak has made online learning the need of the hour. The latest to join the league is none other than the state police. For the first time in the history of the state police, as many as 2,389 recruit police constables will undergo training online. More interestingly, the online training will not be limited to theory classes alone, but also outdoor training, including physical training and Yoga, drill without arms and theory related to field craft tactics, map reading and weapons. The new batch was supposed to undergo the mandatory nine months basic training at the Kerala Police Academy, and other battalions before they pass out to join their respective battalions where they are attached. Though the training commenced in February this year, the training had to be brought to an end because of the lockdown. Also, all of them were attached to their respective mother police stations for Janamaithri volunteer duty since March 28. As the recruit trainees had to undertake the task of policing even before the basic training course could be completed and their new task continued to extent to more than three months, the police higher-ups decided to provide online training for the recruits. As per the new schedule, the trainees have to attend to their online classes in the morning session and the Janamaithri policing duty in the afternoon session. One civil police officer from the police stations where they are attached to will mentor them and collect the report of their improvement and performance on the basis of the online videos provided to them. They will also be put to physical test every 15 days. Though all these possible steps are being taken, police higher ups say that these could only be temporary measures and can never match up to proper field training. “Outdoor training, especially on-the-ground training is a vital input in the training of armed forces. Staying together in barracks and the ground fosters esprit-de-corps, loyalty and discipline. Vital skills like training in arms apart from physical fitness can be imbibed only in field training. In that sense, Covid-19 has hit the training very hard,” ADGP (armed police battalion) K Padmakuamr said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/police-training-too-goes-online/articleshow/76757501.cms||KP Saikiran
July 3, 2020||Pune||Entry curbs to PCMC HQs now till July 10||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has extended the ban on entry of outsiders in the municipal headquarters till July 10. The decision was taken in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in June. Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar issued a circular on Thursday extending the ban on entry of citizens and contractors. He urged corporators to use mobile phones, email and WhatsApp for sending proposals or memoranda. Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, told TOI that this was a precautionary step which is likely to be extended beyond July 10 as well. The number of Covid patients rose to 3,500 on Thursday evening and is likely to breach the 10,000 mark by month-end. He said the 1,000 odd staff members of the civic body could not take any risk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/entry-curbs-to-pcmc-hqs-now-till-july-10/articleshow/76759429.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Medical assistance now on a sidecar||AHMEDABAD: In what could be a boon for patients in places inaccesible to ambulances, a two-wheeler sidecar maker in Ahmedabad has made two sidecar ambulance prototypes. The sidecar maker is in talks with authorities of Dungarpur district government hospital in Rajasthan. Ahmedabad-based Vijay Shakti Sidecar, has converted a sidecar into an ambulance, complete with fittings to hold an oxygen supply kit, stretcher and instruments to measure temperature, blood pressure and the like. The patient is comfortably enclosed in the ambulance, which also has a siren. The two ready sidecar ambulances, one on an Enfield motorcycle and the other on a Pulsar motorcycle, are ready and will be taken to Dungarpur in a couple of days. “It is difficult for regular ambulances to reach villages with kutchha roads. Also, ambulances sometimes get stuck in heavy traffic and cannot reach locations where there are very narrow lanes. We have been exploring the possibility of ambulances on two-wheelers and are working with an Ahmedabad-based company to create prototypes on ambulances that use two wheelers,” said Dr Shrikant Asawa, medical superintendent, government district hospital, Dungarpur. He added that the ambulances will be modified and changed to suit requirements. “Nothing has crystalized yet. We are looking to equip these with GPS systems. I have been in touch with the district collector for this venture,” Dr Asawa said, on the cost of these ambulances. Upendra Chauhan, the proprietor of Shahpur-based Vijay Shakti Sidecar, said the ambulance has been made comfortable and has adequate ventilation for the patient. “The ambulances have been equipped with fittings to hold all things necessary for an ambulance,” said the 39-year-old Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/medical-assistance-now-on-a-sidecar/articleshow/76758724.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Trichy||BDU asks colleges to submit IA marks||Trichy: Bharathidasan University has directed affiliated colleges to submit internal assessment (IA) marks of under graduate and post graduate students before July 18. S Srinivasaragavan, controller of examination (in-charge), has asked non-autonomous affiliated colleges to send the internal marks and marks obtained in the group activities and assignments separately. When there is no communication yet on the conduct of semester examinations from MHRD and the state higher education department, BDU has started compiling IA marks for students. Sources from the university said that in case semester exams are cancelled, final marks for the semester may be based on IA. Speaking to TOI, Srinivasaragavan said that it is usual to collect IA details from all the 128 non-autonomous colleges affiliated to the university. In case colleges have not conducted viva voce, the same needs to be conducted through online and the marks needs to be submitted to the university, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-asks-colleges-to-submit-ia-marks/articleshow/76759428.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||Best past scores to assess all UG & PG students of CU||KOLKATA: The best aggregate marks secured by a Calcutta University undergraduate student in Part I and Part II examinations, along with his or her best score in the past three years’ internal assessment, will make up the final scores. At the meeting of the Calcutta University Syndicate, the institute’s highest administrative decision-making body, members decided that 80% of a students’ final marks will be from the best score of the previous two years (Part I and Part II), while the best internal assessment score would make up the rest 20%. CU-affiliated colleges have been asked to send internal assessment scores of previous three years of each student appearing for Part III to the university by July 10. “The internal assessment marks will be posted on the CU website after the result is published. The answerscripts will have to be preserved by colleges, which might need to send those to the university if required. Regarding ‘back’ papers, the marks will be awarded, based on the best score obtained in the remaining qualified papers of that year,” said CU vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee. The decision to put the internal scores on public domain was taken to ensure transparency. This is the last year, when BA and BSc students at CU are being assessed on the old 1+1+1 system. Students up to the UG second year in both humanities and science faculties are assessed on choice-based credit system (CBCS). The semester system was introduced to the commerce section ahead of the Arts and science faculties. “For end-semester BCom students, 80% of their marks will be based on the best aggregate percentage of the last five semesters and 20% from their best performance in internal assessments” the VC said. For fourth- or end-semester PG students, 80% marks will be based on the best aggregate percentage of previous three semesters and the rest 20% on internal assessment to be decided by their departments through individual department councils and faculty councils. The internal assessment scores will have to be sent to heads of departments by July 10. In professional courses, such as engineering and technology, management and law, 80% of a candidate’s final score will be on internal assessment or mid-semester exams or the best of the aggregates of previous semesters and 20% on assignments. “This is only for the 2019-20 academic session,” said Chakravarti Banerjee. The CU’s announcements came five days after the government on Saturday stated end-semester UG as well as PG students will be evaluated, based on 80% weightage to their best aggregate percentage in any of the previous semesters’ results (five semesters in UG and three in PG) and 20% on internal assessment of the current semester. For those in the 1+1+1 system, the best aggregate secured in the past two exams will be considered. Unhappy with these assessments, if some students wish to appear for a formal exam as and when it is held, they will have to apply through a process to be notified by the university concerned. Its results will be published within a month of the tests being held. The final scores will be revised, according to the special exam marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/best-past-scores-to-assess-all-ug-pg-students-of-cu/articleshow/76758715.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 3, 2020||Trichy||Farmers slam bank for seeking jewel loan dues despite RBI order||Trichy: A public sector bank’s letter to farmers who availed of agriculture jewel loan instructing them to pay dues to be eligible for interest subvention has stirred a controversy. They point out that this has happened despite Reserve Bank of India (RBI) deferring payment of interest on jewel loans till August 31.Earlier, farmers were given jewel loan by nationalized banks for agriculture purposes at 7% interest. Those who repay it within the stipulated period got 2% subvention and 3% incentive. However, RBI issued an order last year to all nationalized banks advising them not to sanction the incentive if farmers had availed loan after October 1, 2019. Moreover, the rate of interest for jewel loan was also enhanced to 9.9%. Meanwhile, considering the unprecedented situation which arose due to Covid-19, the RBI considered the possibility of extending the benefit of interest subvention and incentive for the prompt repayment of crop loans to dues falling between March 20 and June 30, 2020. The last date was deferred to August 31 by RBI. It was in this context that a letter received from the Mannargudi branch of Indian Bank on June 26 instructed farmers to convert jewel loan to Kisan Credit Card for availing interest subvention and prompt repayment incentive. “When the RBI itself deferred the payment till August 31, the bank authorities have claimed that the period given by RBI ended on June 30 and instructed to settle the entire principal amount with interest before that,” said P R Pandian, president of All Farmers Associations’ Coordination Committee.If farmers would apply for a Kisan Credit Card, they have to repay the entire loan with interest immediately. When they are already struggling to stay afloat, how could they remit the entire loan, he asked. TOI tried to reach Indian Bank officials, but they were not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-slam-bank-for-seeking-jewel-loan-dues-despite-rbi-order/articleshow/76759434.cms||---
July 3, 2020||India||Policy tweak to bar hostile nations from road projects||NEW DELHI: The road, transport and highways ministry is formulating a policy which will mandate all foreign companies to take prior security permission from the government to be eligible to bid for any road project. No country hostile to India will be able to get this clearance. Sources said a committee has been set up to prepare the policy after the department for promotion of industry and internal trade issued a circular to each infrastructure ministries to prepare the plan for Atmanirbhar Bharat. The policy will be finalised by Monday. TOI has learned that the ministry is considering a proposal not to entertain any bid from companies of countries which don’t allow Indian players to bid directly. China is one such country, a source said. Similarly, there is a proposal that investment from neighbouring countries and Indian investment in these nations would only be routed through government. “In most cases, Indian firms while bidding for projects included the names of foreign firm to get good score at technical bidding stage. For this, they pay the foreign firm. If we ease the bidding norms without compromising quality, Indian firms won’t have to look for foreign partnership as they will qualify,” a road ministry official said. On Wednesday, Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari had told TOI he has directed ministry officials to tweak the bid documents to prohibit Chinese firms from participating in any road project executed by his ministry. He had said even joint ventures with Chinese participation will not be allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/policy-tweak-to-bar-hostile-nations-from-road-projects/articleshow/76760477.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 3, 2020||Patna||DM declares Patna City Covid-19 hotspot||PATNA: On a day the state capital recorded its highest number of Covid-19 cases so far at 127, Patna DM Kumar Ravi on Thursday declared Patna City as a Covid hotspot and directed the sub-divisional officer to seal the areas with immediate effect. The DM’s order came after 63 new cases were reported from Patna City in the past 24 hours —50 from Khajekalan area, 10 under Chowk police station and three in Alamganj. Thursday also saw the state again breach its single-day coronavirus tally record with 478 people testing positive, taking the total number of registered cases to 10,683 in Bihar. Five deaths were also officially reported by the health department, taking the toll to 78. However, 7,944 people patients have recovered so far and the active cases stand at 2,659. “The Patna City area will be barricaded and containment zone banner will be placed, with no unchecked internal and external movement of the population from these zones,” DM Ravi told TOI, adding contact tracing is being done and the civic body has been asked to sanitize the containment areas, which will remain sealed for 14 days. Patna City SDM, Rajesh Roshan told TOI that all market places, including Meena Bazaar, Shikarpur, Patna Sahib Station market, Khajekalan and Chowk have been closed. “Now we are sealing several areas in Patna City, including Chamdoria, from Bouli mor to Shahid Bhagat Singh Chowk and Paschim Darwaza to City Chowk, to prevent spread of the contagion. He added, “All shops will remain closed except medical shops and essential goods shops. The vegetable and fruit sellers will move in the area.” According to the DM, there are about 4,600 houses in Khajekalan area with a population of around 21,500. He assured people that there was no need to be afraid and appealed to maintain social distance, use masks and sanitizers. Covid-19 cases were also reported from important residential areas in Patna such as Kankarbagh, where eight people tested positive for the virus, followed by Boring Road which registered six new cases. Other city localities which reported coronavirus cases include Buddha Colony, Krishna Puri, Patel Nagar, Bhootnath Road, Digha, Kadamkuan, Karbigahiya and Gola Road. Covid-19 cases were also reported from Danapur, Sipara, Maner and Fatuha in Patna. The district also reported the death of a 66-year-old man who hailed from Masaurhi and took the toll to 10. Coronavirus cases were reported from across 27 districts. DM Ravi said contact tracing of all positive cases will be done. Apart from Patna, one death each was also reported from Bhojpur, Kishanganj, Muzaffarpur and Rohtas. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said all the deceased were having comorbidity. Two of these Covid-19 positive people died at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, including the Masaurhi deceased. NMCH epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (Reporting Cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said the Bhojpur deceased was 75 years old and was admitted on June 29. Lokesh said in the past 24 hours, 183 people have recovered, and in the same time period, 317 new cases have been registered. He said 2,35,980 samples have been tested so far, including 7,291 samples which have been tested in 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dm-declares-patna-city-covid-hotspot/articleshow/76758764.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||Two-thirds of pvt bus fleet back on Kolkata road, ease commuters’ woes||KOLKATA: A day after the breakthrough meeting between senior government officials and private bus operators, the latter resumed services on Thursday with the hope of fare revision by the state. More buses on road eased passengers’ woes to a great extent. Transport department also ensured that more STU buses on the road to bridge the demand-supply gap. Commuters, though, kept their fingers crossed, hoping the services get even better in the days to come. Transport minister Suvendu Adhikari said, “On Thursday, supply exceeded demand. At some points, buses were waiting for passengers. About 3,800 (total fleet 5,583) private buses operated on Thursday. Besides, 1,800 STU buses plied. Across the city, near normal ease in mobility could be achieved.” on Wednesday, only 1,300 private buses ran across the city. Today, different bus operators’ syndicates held meeting with their members to convey the outcome of Wednesday’s talks. Joint Council of Bus Syndicate (JCBS) general secretary Tapan Bandyopadhyay said, “Wednesday’s meeting saw a breakthrough in the deadlock situation. We have raised a few demands which we hope will be sympathetically considered by the government for the survival of our trade.” Their demands included immediate fare hike, exemption of tax, permit fee and withdrawal of citation case by traffic police. Bengal Bus Syndicate (BBS) also made similar demands. Much to the relief of transport operators, diesel price has also remained unchanged at Rs 75.62 for last three days. Kolkata Police at different parts played a significant role in easing the transport trauma. The WBTC control room kept a close coordination with Kolkata Police traffic control room (TCR). On the basis of the report from TCR, the WBTC deployed empty buses at the spot for faster dispersal. “We managed to supply buses one after another in most of the routes so that a passenger does not need to wait for more than 15-20 minutes,” said a WBTC official. “For last few days, we had a real nightmare while going to office and coming back home. But today, we are relieved to see so many buses on road,” said Snigdha Chakraborty, who travels from Santospur to Salt Lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-thirds-of-pvt-bus-fleet-back-on-road-ease-commuters-woes/articleshow/76758746.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 3, 2020||Hubballi||SSLC evaluation centres must only be at taluk headquarters, say teachers||Hubballi: The teachers evaluating SSLC answer scripts have impressed on the Karnataka State Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) to ensure that the process, set to start from July 13, will be held at the taluk headquarters instead of the district headquarters. Instead of submitting a memorandum, the teachers decided to collate the opinion of their colleagues on a Google Form. They are stepping up pressure on the KSEEB to introduce taluk-level evaluation centres, which they pointed out would free them of the hassles of finding accommodation and make arrangements for transport and food. In order to convince the KSEEB that this is the choice of an overwhelmingly large section of the teachers by conducting an opinion poll on Google Forms. President of the Karnataka State Rural High School Teachers’ Association Pawadeepa Kambale said that the poll had been launched on Tuesday evening, with the link being shared on WhatsApp, Facebook and other portals. “Nearly 85% of the teachers are in favour of having evaluations at taluk headquarters. There is only one question that the poll is about: Where do you want to evaluate SSLC answer scripts?’ There are three choices: district headquarters, taluk headquarters and the third one is others,” Kambale told TOI. Bhimashankar Badiger, a teacher in Dharwad district, said that many of them were being asked to report to places as far off as 200km. “Under the present circumstances, it is very difficult to find accommodation and food at the district headquarters, and staying at the home of friends or relatives is not an option considering the prevalence of the pandemic. It will be very convenient if the evaluation centres are at taluk headquarters since teachers at both rural and urban centres can travel easily by pooling cars,” Badiger said. Nirmala Shettar, a teacher in Kalghatgi taluk and resident of Hubballi, said that regardless of the place of work, they needed to be posted to centres in taluks they were residents of. “The government allowed students from Mangaluru to write exams in Dharwad, which was their home. The same privilege needs to be extended to the teachers so we can arrest the spread of Covid-19,” said Nirmala. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar was not available for a response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sslc-evaluation-centres-must-only-be-at-taluk-headquarters-say-teachers/articleshow/76759678.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 3, 2020||Trichy||Rly platform vendors struggle to keep home fires burning||Trichy: Hundreds of platform vendors at railway stations under Trichy railway division have been without income ever since train operations were stopped due to Covid-19. Even though train services were partially restored for some time, they were unable to any revenue during this period. Vendors said that earlier several trains originated from Trichy and passed through Trichy railway junction and the footfall was more than 50,000 every day. However, ever since the lockdown began they lost their earnings completely. “The passengers those who used the special trains operated for a brief time did not buy anything from vendors due coronavirus scare,” said P Rajavel, a vendor. “Many vendors had appealed the railways to resume train services so that vendors could earn for their living,” he added. “In Southern Railway, around 2,000 licensed vendors and hundreds of unauthorized vendors have been earning by selling eatables and other items such as dailies, magazines, packaged beverages and drinking water. Now all of them were starving. ,” Dakshin Railway Employees Union (DREU) deputy general secretary D Manoharan said. “After the railways suspended train operations, all the vendors lost their income and have been without work for the last three months. Several vendors are above 55 years and working at the stations for the last 20 to 25 years. However, the Covid-19 outbreak has changed their lives. There is uncertainty on resumption of their work. Railways should consider their state and come forward to help them to by announcing financial assistance,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rly-platform-vendors-struggle-to-keep-home-fires-burning/articleshow/76759452.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 3, 2020||Vadodara||57 deaths, but Covid-19 killed only 11||Vadodara: Just when it seemed that the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) had started acknowledging deaths of persons who had tested positive for Covid-19 by consistently giving information in its medical bulletin, it has now decided to put brakes on the process. The civic body has decided that it will not be counting deaths of Covid-19 positive persons whose succumbed due to co-morbidities. VMC that prepares the medical bulletin for the city and district had been including deaths of all Covid-19 positive persons. But at the same time, it gave a break up of the deaths based on the kind of co-morbidities observed in such cases. Till Wednesday, it had included 57 deaths in its the bulletin and of these, only 11 had died with Covid-19 being sole cause of death. VMC on Friday stated that the death audits done till July 1 had now been completed. It added that the death audits had revealed that in 57 cases, it had come to light that Covid-19 was the cause of death. It also clarified that henceforth only deaths caused primarily by Covid-19 will be counted. The civic body had been drawing flak for dragging its feet on declaring deaths of Covid-19 cases. While the number was many times higher than that being declared, VMC for days and even a couple of weeks did not include a single death in its bulletins. VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel said that the system had already been implemented elsewhere. “We will now be declaring Covid-19 deaths as and when audits are available and they reveal that the person had died primarily due to Covid-19,” said Patel. VMC has also claimed that the system had been worked out as per ICMR guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/57-deaths-but-covid-19-killed-only-11/articleshow/76757273.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Hubballi||Inter-faith wedding held at Lingayat peetha in Davanagere||Davanagere: Sri Vachanananda Swami, seer of Veerashaiva-Lingayata Panchamasaali Guru Peetha in Harihar, Davanagere district, presided over the wedding between a Hindu man and a Muslim woman, who tied the knot in the presence of their family members at the peetha on Tuesday. While the groom, Maha Rudra is a resident of Asundi village in Ranebennur taluk in Haveri, the bride hails from a village in Gadag district. The couple has been in love for the past 10 years. They met while working at a private hospital, where Rudra worked as an ambulance driver and his wife was a nurse. Although they had intended to tie the matrimonial knot much earlier, they were unable to convince their respective families to agree to their union. Interestingly enough, both of them are still working at the same hospital where they met. The girl had received ‘Linga Deeksha’ from Vachananda Swami a fortnight ago. Rudra’s parents – Erappa Benchalli and Siddamma – are followers of the Veerashaiva-Lingayat Panchamasaali Guru Peetha. It was only after Rudra and the girl’s parents agreed to their marriage that the latter came to the peetha. Respecting the safety norms enforced in view of the Covid-19 crisis, not more than 30 people attended the ceremony. Vachananda Swami was pleased with the ceremony passing off in a very peaceful manner, and called it a singularly remarkable event in the history of the peetha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/inter-faith-wedding-held-at-lingayat-peetha-in-davanagere/articleshow/76757201.cms||SA Gangaraju
July 3, 2020||Patna||Lightning kills 26 across 8 districts in Bihar||PATNA: Lightning strikes killed 26 people in eight districts, mostly in north Bihar, on Thursday. The death toll included six people from rural Patna as well. This is the third incident of mass lightning deaths in the state within a week. Earlier, 92 people were killed by lightning strikes across 22 districts on June 25 followed by 11 deaths in five districts on June 30. The highest toll on Thursday was reported from Samastipur with seven deaths, followed by Patna (6), East Champaran (4), Samastipur (3), Katihar (3), Sheohar (2), Madhepura (2), and one each from Purnia and West Champaran. Majority of those killed on all three days were farm workers. Chief minister Nitish Kumar announced an ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh to the next of kin of all those who died due to lightning. The CM also made an appeal to people to take necessary precautions during the turbulent weather. Union home minister Amit Shah also offered his condolences. “Sad to hear about the death of many people in Bihar due to lightning strikes. Teams of the state government and disaster management department are carrying out relief work. I express my condolences to the family of the deceased persons and pray for early recovery of injured persons,” Shah tweeted. Weathermen have cautioned people to remain alert as more lightning strikes are expected over the next couple of days. The Patna Meteorological Centre issued a yellow-coloured warning for thunderstorms along with lightning in all 38 districts till Saturday. A yellow warning stipulates that authorities should be watchful for extreme weather conditions. Apart from warnings for lightning strikes, a forecast has also been issued for rainfall with thunderstorms at many places in all 38 districts in the state till July 6. Thundershowers along with lightning have been attributed to the combined impact of several weather factors in the region, including two trough lines along with two cyclonic circulations. The daily weather bulletin issued by the meteorological centre on Thursday evening stated that the monsoon trough line was passing through Ganganagar to Imphal across Patna. The rainfall in the monsoon season normally hinges along the monsoon trough line. Another trough line was passing through east Uttar Pradesh to Vidarbha across east Madhya Pradesh. Besides, a cyclonic circulation was situated over east Uttar Pradesh and its neighbourhood and another over south coastal Odisha and its neighbourhood. As a result of all such weather features, the all India weather bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday evening stated that fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rainfall was expected over north- east and India, comprising Bihar, over the next five days. (With inputs from SK Jain in Samastipur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lightning-kills-26-across-8-districts-in-bihar/articleshow/76757341.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 3, 2020||Trichy||Man rapes, kills 7-year-old girl, held in Tamil Nadu's Pudukottai||TRICHY: A 26-year-old man who sold flowers in temples was arrested on Thursday for raping and murdering a seven-year-old dalit girl at Aranthangi in Pudukottaidistrict. Pudukottai district superintendent of police P Ve Arun Sakthi Kumar told TOI that the accused, M Raja, committed penetrative sexual assault and that he had confessed to the crime. The victim has been staying at her grandmother’s house and used to frequent a nearby Kali temple to play. Police said the accused used to offer her sweets whenever he visited the temple. On Tuesday, he came in an inebriated state, took the girl to a secluded place and raped her. He then killed her and threw her body near a pond. The girl had gone missing from her home on Tuesday afternoon following which her parents lodged a complaint with the Embal police. After a search, they found her body with multiple injuries from the bushes on Wednesday. Police found during inquiry that the girl was spotted with Raja on that day. He was taken into custody and inquired when he confessed, said the SP. The accused was booked under IPC sections 376 (rape), 302 (murder), 364 (abduction) and 201 for misleading police. He was also booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2018. National commission for the protection of child rights (NCPCR) has taken suo motu cognizance of the matter and started investigations. It has directed the district collector and superintendent of police to speed up the investigation. Announcing a solatium of Rs 5 lakh to the family of the victim, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami promised strict action against the perpetrator. Expressing shock over the murder, DMK president M K Stalin raised concerns over the safety of women and children in the state. AMMK leader TTV Dhinakaran has also demanded speedy trial and strict punishment for the perpetrator. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-rapes-kills-7-year-old-girl-held-in-pudukottai/articleshow/76759448.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 3, 2020||Kochi||Strict measures put in place to contain spread of virus in Kerala||KOCHI: In view of the rising number of cases, especially among shop employees at Ernakulam market, police have been asked to strictly enforce the precautionary measures to be followed to check the spread of the virus in the district. Action would be taken against anyone who violate Covid protocols. Agriculture minister V S Sunil Kumar, who is in charge of Ernakulam, said directives have been given to the police in this regard. A total 12 people directly associated with Ernakulam market and their family members have tested positive to Covid-19 so far. They include three employees of a godown who were among the confirmed nine new coronavirus infections reported in the district on Thursday. The godown belonged to a Thoppumpady native who had tested positive for the disease earlier. Among those who tested positive for the virus on Thursday, four contracted the virus through contact, including a 13-year-old child. Strict action would be initiated against those who step out of their houses without wearing masks and those crowding in shops. “Though the situation in Ernakulam is under control, strict vigil should be continued. The priority will be on Covid prevention activities. Any kind of community transmission in a city like Kochi is a serious issue,” said the minister. He asked the health department to intensify Covid awareness programmes among city residents. Those who experience fever, cough and breathing difficulties should inform health officials over phone, he said. Considering the increase in the number of cases in Ernakulam market, strict vigil should be ensured in other markets as well in the district, the minister said, adding that people should avoid crowding in markets and steps should be taken to disinfect the markets with the help of fire and rescue officers. The health department has been asked to convene an emergency meeting in all the markets in the district. Meanwhile, the district collector has issued an order entrusting local bodies to run Covid care centres. The revenue department was running the these centres. Police will be put in charge of the security of the centres and the local bodies have been entrusted with the upkeep of the centres considering that more people from outside Kerala are bound to return to their homes. The collector has also issued an order asking public transporters to follow Covid-related guidelines. Road transport officers in Ernakulam and Muvattupuzha have been told to ensure that protective partition screens are set up between drivers and passengers in private buses, KSRTC buses, taxies and autorickshaws within 15 days. The licences of vehicles violating the directive would be suspended. In public transport vehicles, passengers need to board the vehicle through a door and disembark through another door. Conductors and drivers in buses should wear masks, gloves and face shields. As Covid clusters have been reported from CISF camps in various parts of the country, the collector also issued an order regarding the precautions to be followed in camps in Ernakulam. Meanwhile, antigen testing has begun at Cochin International Airport Ltd. Those who tested positive in antibody tests were subjected to the antigen test, the result of which will be available in 30 minutes. Those tested positive in antigen test will be admitted at first line treatment centres or in Covid hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/strict-measures-put-in-place-to-contain-spread-of-virus/articleshow/76757607.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Trichy||Poaching incidents become rampant in Trichy district||Trichy: Incidents of poaching in forests of Trichy and in the villages in the district during weekends have spiked even as the forest department struggles to contain such illegal activities. Already short-staffed, the forest department is finding it tough to spread awareness among local groups known to traditionally hunt wild animals in forests. Head of zoology department at National College, Trichy, V Gokula, said that it does not appear as if an organized crime group is involved and that the perpetrators are mostly villagers who have been hunting animals in small groups for many decades. If there was a major racket involved they would have hunted bigger animals with greater value in the market like tigers. “But in Trichy we don’t have big animals and people who are arrested for poaching are those who are habitual of poaching such small animals,” he said. Experts point out that such illegal activities may lead to depletion of the small animals remaining in Trichy region. Stressing on the need for stringent action from forest department in poaching incidents, honorary wildlife warden, Trichy forest division, A Relton, said that fear of imprisonment will prevent people from attempting to poach wild animals. Saying that there was a need for more awareness among villagers, he recalled a visit to Irungalur village near Trichy, where most people knew that they should not kill a spotted deer as the forest department had warned them against hurting them. “But they didn’t know that poaching wild hare, mongoose or a monitor lizard is also illegal as the forest staffs had warned them only against killing spotted deer. We have been creating awareness among villagers on keeping off from hunting activities as it would land them in trouble,” he said. Poaching incidents largely goes unnoticed until the crime is committed because the forest department is short-staffed. “Almost one-third of the sanctioned posts are vacant, including, the field level staffs who are instrumental in checking such poaching incidents,” said a senior official from the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/poaching-incidents-become-rampant-in-trichy-district/articleshow/76759467.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shahpur man abducted by 3 persons||Ahmedabad: A 55-year-old man was abducted from Shahpur area of the city by three men on Wednesday. Allegedly, one of the abductors blamed the victim’s son for him losing money in a fraud deal. Rajendra Prajapati, 25, resident of Kagdapith and native of Pali in Rajasthan, said in his FIR with Shahpur police that three men, Hitesh Mali, Prabhat Rabari and Rana Rabari had abducted his father Vardharam Prajapati when he was working at a farsan shop in Shahpur. Rajendra said that Mali had a grudge against him as he had introduced him to two Porbandar-based men who promised to provide two lakh masks and took Rs 8.75 lakh from him. But the duo did not fulfil their promise and Mali began blaming Rajendra for the fraud deal. Recently, Mali forced Rajendra to make a written confession that he was instrumental in the fraud deal and will pay back the money Mali had lost. But as he could not pay the money, Mali and two others abducted Vardharam from his workplace. They pushed Vardharam into an SUV and took him to Sarangpur, Soni chawl and Jashodanagar area and held him under confinement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shahpur-man-abducted-by-3-persons/articleshow/76758920.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University to begin centralised admissions: Now, fill one form for 170 colleges||LUCKNOW: For the first time in its history, Lucknow University will conduct centralised admissions for associated colleges. The process will be like Delhi University’s with the only difference being that LU’s system is optional for the colleges. LU authorities on Thursday sent a proposal of the centralised system to all 170 associated colleges. Those accepting the proposal will have to pay Rs 50,000 (plus GST) each for admissions in regular undergraduate and postgraduate courses and Rs 1 lakh (plus GST) for self-finance courses. Colleges not opting for the system can hold their admission process separately. The major benefit of the centralised system would be that candidates will have to fill only one admission form instead of spending a huge amount on purchase of forms for various colleges. Further, LU will declare a merit list and conduct counselling for admissions. Candidates will get all the information regarding the admission process and results at one place rather than running around to different colleges. Another benefit would be that it is expected to put a check anomalies in admissions. The move, if successful, will help cash-strapped LU generate extra revenue. Colleges have been asked to reply to the proposal by July 5 following which LU will decide on further action. However, a major hurdle in the process is that LU has taken the decision late. Many colleges gave already started their admission process by releasing forms. Some might not opt for the centralised process because they will have to refund the application form fees to the candidates. LU vice-chancellor Prof AK Rai though said that even colleges which have released their forms can opt for the new system. The procedure would be simple. All candidates applying for admission to LU will also be given the option of admissions to colleges during the counselling process, depending on the availability of seats in a particular institution. It will be on first come, first served basis, he added. He said that centralised information about all the candidates will be maintained, thus reducing paperwork drastically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-to-begin-centralised-admissions-now-fill-one-form-for-170-colleges/articleshow/76759461.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: High diesel rate, Amphan impact push up fruit prices in Covod season||KOLKATA: Back-to-back blows from Amphan and rise of diesel price have made fruits unaffordable to most of the citizens. Summer is the only time when scarcity of vegetables is largely compensated by variety of fruits, notably the wide variety of mangoes. But this time, the erratic supply line has left a huge demand-supply gap. “As trains are not operating, the mango supply lines from Malda, Murshidabad and Nadia are badly affected. These are the hubs of Bengal’s mango production, both in terms of quantity and quality. When they are brought by truck, the wastage is higher,” said Abdur Rauf, a fruit trader in Mechua. “This year, we were expecting a bumper crop, with last two year’s production remaining lukewarm. Even though Amphan did not hit the mango hub the way it hit Kolkata, its impact on the produces was more than devastation. All the green mangoes fell off. So, this year, the scope of a dip in mango price is very little,” said Daulat Khan, who grew five variety of mangoes in his 20-acre mango grove at Azimgunj in Murshidabad. Apart from Amphan, diesel price hikes have also affected the fruit market. The trade is in poor shape. The demand from bulk consumers has also dried up owing to the nationwide lockdown. The business has fallen to 25% of usual sales, said a trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-diesel-rate-amphan-impact-push-up-fruit-prices-in-cov-season/articleshow/76758771.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 3, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu custodial deaths: Sathankulam ex-inspector, two cops held||TUTICORIN/MADURAI: The CB-CID team probing the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj of Sathankulam and his son J Beniks arrested three more police personnel — suspended Sathankulam inspector Sridhar, SI Balakrishnan and constable Murugan — on Thursday for their alleged role in the custodial torture and death of the duo. In all, five cops including SI Raghu Ganesh have been slapped with murder charges. Ganesh was arrested on Wednesday. Constable Muthuraj is still at large. The addition of Sridhar’s name in the FIR has come as a surprise as he was not initially suspended. He was kept on compulsory wait till public pressure mounted on the government forcing it to suspend him. A CB-CID official, who is part of the investigation, said, “In our inquiry, we found Sridhar is directly involved in the case. It was at his behest that Jeyaraj and Beniks were tortured.” They were questioned all through the day before they were taken to Thoothukudi government medical college hospital for check-up. They were produced before the chief judicial magistrate in Tuticorin late in the evening. They have been remanded in judicial custody till July 16. Twelve special teams formed by CB CID IG K Shankar are probing various angles of the case. Sridhar, who was on the run for the last few days out of fear of being questioned, was arrested at Gangaikondan check post on Thursday early morning. High drama preceded his arrest. Sridhar, who was going from Virudhunagar to Tirunelveli, did not stop his vehicle when police tried to block him at Kayathar check post. The vehicle was later intercepted at Gangaikondan check post by another police team. Meanwhile in the Madurai bench of Madras high court, when the suo-motu proceedings on the custodial deaths was taken up on Thursday, additional advocate general (AAG) K Chellapandian said CB CID officials had altered the cases to murder under section 302 of IPC and that four police personnel were arrested so far. When a division bench of Justice P N Prakash and Justice B Pugalendhi asked about the protection given to the woman head constable Revathy, the AAG submitted that one month leave with pay had been given to Revathy. He also said that two policewomen and two policemen were deployed for protection of Revathy and her family members. The judges called head constable Revathy over phone, who said Tuticorin district collector had provided her and her family members with sufficient security and that she felt safe in her native village with her relatives around her. The judges told her to contact Tuticorin chief judicial magistrate (CJM) or Kovilpatti judicial magistrate (JM) in case she feels there is threat to her. The court also directed the CJM to conduct an inquiry about Raja Singh, another inmate of Kovilpatti sub-jail, who sustained injuries during custodial torture. The judges said that if the CJM was of the opinion that full-fledged investigation was required, CJM shall direct the station house officer to conduct investigation. The judges said that after an FIR is registered, the superintendent of police shall transfer the investigation to Tuticorin deputy superintendent of police. The judges said that since Kovilpatti JM was conducting inquest in the Sathankulam case and bearing in mind the fact that a case of such gravity had to be dealt with by a judicial officer of the rank of a subordinate judge, the CJM should exercise the powers of the Kovilpatti JM. Hence, the judges nominated the CJM as Tuticorin JM III and the investigating officer shall approach the JM III whenever he wants to record a statement of any person under section 164 CrPC. Direction was also given to deputy director of prosecution, Tirunelveli range, to guide the investigating team on matters relating to law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sathankulam-ex-inspector-two-cops-held/articleshow/76758762.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Facing supply squeeze, hotels down shutters||KOCHI: The closing down of Ernakulam market has literally forced many hotels and restaurants in the city to pull down their shutters. As these eateries are dependent on the market for supplies, the owners maintain that it is not possible for them to continue functioning. Many eateries popular among employees working at various establishments on MG Road have closed. The proximity to Ernakulam market and opportunity to source supplies at cheaper rates helped them to serve food at affordable rates. “If they have to function, they will have to source supplies from other shops and will be forced to increase food prices. A price hike during Corona times will not help boost the business,” said Reghu KR, a shop owner. The Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Association (KHRA) cautioned that the situation would become worse in the coming days, and more number of hotels would be forced to close. “The number of people coming down to the heart of the city has reduced by 50%. Declaration of containment zones and frequent announcements about the need to follow Covid-19 protocols are keeping people away from streets. There are hardly any customers,” said KHRA Ernakulam district president Aziz Moosa. He also said most hotels stock supplies for a week or so and that they do not send their employees to market every day. These establishments will start to feel the heat when they try to replenish their stock. “They will have to source supplies from far away markets like Aluva market. The transportation cost will go up. If they hike food price, customers will naturally turn away. Hence, the next best option before them is to remain closed,” added Moosa. Hotels and restaurants in the city have been making an effort to get back on their feet since the easing down of lockdown restrictions. They have been practising social distancing measures, testing the temperature of customers and taking steps to break the chain of transmission by providing sanitizers at the entrance to win the confidence of customers. “Since the past few days, the number of customers has decreased considerably. But people have been ordering takeaways. It’s mostly people who come to the city for urgent business or those working here who come to dine at restaurants,” said a staffer of a restaurant near Jos Junction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/facing-supply-squeeze-hotels-down-shutters/articleshow/76757643.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||Fee worry: Schools in the red, CNI says after status check||Kolkata: The financial status of five schools in the city, governed by the Church of North India (CNI), is such that unless parents start paying up immediately, it will be difficult to keep the schools running and pay teachers’ salaries. Kolkata Diocese of the CNI observed this on Thursday after drawing up a dossier on the status of 13 schools. This comes on the heels of the announcement on Wednesday by Bishop Paritosh Canning that 25% waiver was being allowed on three heads — computers, library and sports/games — in school fees to encourage parents to pay up arrears that have accumulated over the first quarter. In these five schools, the financial status is such that they will be able to pay salaries to teachers and staff for one or two months at the most unless fees start coming in. Some fixed deposits are being liquidated to meet the cash flow and this will have an adverse effect because the interest from FDs helps to meet maintenance and overhead expenses. The dossier shows that in three of the five schools in question, only 30% fees have been deposited, while in the other two, 40% parents have paid. In the rest, only 60% payment has been made by parents, but their financial status is far better than these five. “We can sustain for one or two months. If fees don’t come in by then, we will be forced to go back to the Fifth Pay and then gradually start deducting salaries of teachers. Parents should understand that teachers are trying their best to continue with the online classes. If they don’t pay, how will teachers get their salaries?” a worried Bishop said. Appeals to parents will be posted on the respective websites of schools soon, he said. The negative cash flow to the tune of 60-65% in the first quarter was made good with new admissions because admission fee component was there. Now there is no buffer, the dossier says. In the meantime, after Archbishop Thomas D Souza announced a 50% waiver on annual fees in schools like Loyola Kidderpore, St Mary’s Ripon Street, Meghamala and St Aloysius, some other schools like St Teresa’s, St Paul’s, St Agnes’s Convent, Howrah, also announced waivers. Some other public schools like some DPSs have extended concessions on transport charges. DPS Ruby Park, for example, has extended the waivers in the first quarter already. If the school does not open in the second quarter, further transport charge waivers will reportedly be given.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fee-worry-schools-in-the-red-cni-says-after-status-check/articleshow/76758786.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 3, 2020||Lucknow||Virus increases grip in city, infects 37 more||Lucknow: The novel coronavirus is tightening its grip on the city and spreading in more areas. On Thursday, 37 new cases were detected in the city pushing the count to 1,136 and 12 more localities being declared containment zones, raising their number to 137. Among 37 new cases, 15 got themselves tested in private labs after developing flu-like symptoms, while 22 were either contacts of Covid patients or had visited hospitals for some treatment. The worrying development is that people from all across the city are being found infected. Four cases were reported from Vikas Nagar, three from Jankipuram and two each from Saadatganj, Alambagh, Rajajipuram, LDA Colony-Kanpur Road and Eldeco on Rae Bareli road. One patient each was from Badali Kheda, Vrindavan Yojana, Kursi Road, Triveni Nagar, Balaganj, Sarojini Naidu Marg, Indira Nagar, Jankipuram, Makboolganj, Faridinagar, Gomti Nagar, BKT, Cantonment, Rajendranagar, South City, Mahanagar, Jopling Road, Malihabad and Alamnagar. As a result, 12 more localities were declared containment zones. As per the new policy, the area in 250 metre radius of the house where a case is detected is declared containment zone, said chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal. The new zones are Machhli Mohal in Sadar, Ram Shankar Bajpai Lane in Narhi, Para Road in Rajajipuram, near Kohli Petrol Pump in Alambagh, an area on Chhata Meel Road, Jal Nigam road in Balaganj, Satya Lok Colony on Kanpur road, Cantt Road in Udayganj, a locality near Awadh Apartmenrs in Vipul Khand, Narayan Puri in Krishna Nagar, South City on Rae Bareli road and a house in sector A Indira Nagar. Meanwhile, 26 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery, taking the number to 746 so far||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virus-increases-grip-in-city-infects-37-more/articleshow/76759477.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Civic body faces losses as bookings for Chandigarh community centres go down||CHANDIGARH: The bookings of the city’s community centres have shrunk due to the prevailing pandemic and tight norms. The civic body, which resumed bookings after over two-and-a-half months, received only 52 reservations for their community centres in June. This has hit municipal corporation’s revenue generation hard. There is a limit on people attending functions — for marriages up to 50 and for funerals up to 20. Besides these two occasions, community centres are not allowed for any other purpose. Moreover, norms are quite strict, as permission has to be taken from the DC office and the applicants have to complete many formalities and also follow the required restrictions. As per the MC records, it had received 559 bookings in February and 337 in January. The authorities earned only Rs 11 lakh in June from community centre bookings, while the figure was Rs 33.91 lakh in January and Rs 28.33 lakh in February. Sources in the civic body said those desirous of booking the community centres will have to follow all norms prescribed by the ministry of health and family welfare and maintain social distancing. Moreover, the MC has reserved the right to withdraw the booking anytime, depending on the situation. Isolation centresThe civic body has exempted four community centres and two janj ghars from holding functions and kept them as quarantine or isolation centres to be used in crisis. These include a community centre each in Maloya, Dhanas, Sarangpur and Sector 49, and janj ghars of sectors 23 and 47.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-faces-losses-as-bookings-for-community-centres-go-down/articleshow/76758788.cms||Deepak Yadav
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||Adda at a distance becomes new normal at Coffee House||Kolkata: A “no mask no entry” board at the entrance, a pedestal sanitizer dispenser at the entrance, thermal gun checks, waiters in masks and most importantly, communication among waiters and patrons in dull hushed tones: this kind of summed up the scene at Coffee House on College Street that finally threw open its doors to patrons on Thursday, more than three months after it was shut for the lockdown. The rules, restrictions and curtailed hours notwithstanding, some loyal patrons of Coffee House did not waste a day to return to their favourite adda joint. Some came even from Dum Dum and Kestopur, despite the commute travails nowadays, sparking hopes of turnaround among the employees. Working on rotation, around 30 out of 65-odd staff members were on duty the first day. “We had at least 125 people walking in the first three hours and almost the same number in the next four. This included some of our regulars,” said Tapas Pahari, secretary of the cooperative that runs Coffee House. “We usually have a daily footfall of over 1,500. Compared to that, it was a modest beginning. But it was a good start, given the fear psychosis about the virus spread and educational institutions are shut. We also could offer a limited menu on the first day and some favourites, like Mutton Afghani, were missing.” The arrangements inside were according to the guidelines, and an Amherst Street police team that went for a check have a thumbs up. “We usually operate from 9 in the morning to 9 at night. But for now, we will be open from 11am to 6pm only. Instead of the 50 tables that catered to at least 200 clients at a time, we have kept just 25 tables on the two floors. Tables have been placed six feet apart and food is being served in disposable plates,” said Pahari. Arunima Mukherjee, a classical dancer who lives on College Street, said her friends chose Coffee House for a meeting. “The whole idea was to resume our adda, which we could not have for a long time. Not all of us could sit at one table. But this is the new normal and one has to follow social distancing norms,” said Mukherjee. Presidency student Megha Bhattacharya said she had especially planned to visit Coffee House to find out how the staff members manage during lockdown. “Coffee House is not a place where you come only for food. You come for the experience, the ambience,” she said. Coffee House authorities are trying their best to cater to their loyalists, especially senior citizens, who form an important clientele, besides students. “We plan to deliver food to some regulars who cannot visit Coffee House as yet as the government has asked everyone above 65 to stay away from places that might have too many people. This will be our token of appreciation for them who have believed in us each day for the past several decades,” said Achinta Laha, secretary of the College Street Coffee House Social Service Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/adda-at-a-distance-becomes-new-normal-at-coffee-house/articleshow/76758818.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: 11 booked in Lalru ATM theft case||MOHALI: Three weeks after an ATM of Punjab National Bank’s Lalru branch, which contained around Rs 16 lakh, was stolen, the Mohali police on Thursday claimed to have solved the case and registered an FIR against 11. The accused have been identified as Farmaan, Gulser, Enam, Sadeek, Rukmadeen, Massudeen, Jabir, Jisan, Shakir, Mustafa and Ikram. The police have brought Farmaan and Gulser on production warrant from Saharanpur, where they were arrested for attempt to murder on June 27. Mustafa — who too was brought on production warrant from Kurukshetra, where he is facing an Arms Act and murder bid case — had told that he along with Farmaan, Gulser, Enam, Rukmadeen, Massudeen, Sadeek and Jabir came to Lalru in his pickup van and stole the ATM on June 10. The cops said the ATM thieves’ gang was active in Uttarakhand, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. “The three were produced in a court, which sent them in police remand for four days. Saharanpur police have recovered the ATM machine,” said assistant sub-inspector Kulwant Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/11-lalru-atm-thieves-identified-booked/articleshow/76758805.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||New vehicle number series up for grabs||Times News NetworkChandigarh: The UT Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) will now start the auction of new series CH01-CB along with re-auction of 365 leftover special/vanity registration numbers of the eight series — CH01-CA, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS.Registrations for participating in it will start on July 4 and continue till 5pm on July 13. The e-auction will start at 10am on July 14 and end at 5pm on July 17.Vehicle owners can register themselves on the national transport website https://parivahan.gov.in/fancy (the link of the same will be available on UT transport department’s website www.chdtransport.gov.in) and obtain the unique acknowledgement number (UAN).Only those who have purchased their vehicles from a Chandigarh address will be allowed to participate in the e-auction. The sale letter, that is form number 21, Aadhaar card and address proof of Chandigarh are mandatory to take part in it. After getting registered, the owner of the vehicle will have to deposit the fee for participating in the e-auction and the reserve amount of the special/choice registration numbers in the UT RLA office. To facilitate public, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore in August last had launched the registration of new vehicles (non-transport) at dealers’ point. With it, the vehicle owner no longer have to stand in long queues and make the rounds of the RLA office. The city has 52 dealers of cars and two-wheelers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/new-vehicle-number-series-up-for-grabs/articleshow/76758810.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Dog bylaws get more teeth, now pay Rs 5,000 for violation||CHANDIGARH: Residents will now have to pay Rs 5,000 challan for violating the dog bylaws instead of the earlier decided amount of Rs 500. Reason: the administration on Thursday amended the Chandigarh Registration of Pet Dogs Bylaws, 2010, and renamed it Chandigarh Registration of Pet Dogs (Amended) Bylaws, 2020, and increased the challan 10 times. Many other charges, including fine and registration, have also been increased. As per the revised notification, if a dog is detained or seized, the owner will have to pay Rs 1,000 per day fine. Earlier, the fine was Rs 100. Charges for continuation of violation have been hiked from Rs 20 per day to Rs 200 per day for seven days, and if the owner does not take the dog in that period, registration will be cancelled and the municipal corporation will take over the animal and can even sell it. The pet dog registration charges have also been increased from Rs 200 to Rs 500. Sources in the MC said the draft notification was prepared last year, but was revised multiple times. “After preparing the draft notification, the UT asked for public objections,” they added. Taking dog to Sukhna Lake, Leisure Valley, Rose Garden, Shanti Kunj, Mini Rose Garden, Terraced Garden, Shivalik Garden and other public places will invite penalty. The owner will have to keep the dog under control at all times, so that it does not intimidate, hurt or bite anyone. The order said the owner should not allow the dog to defecate in open and ensure proper accommodation, food and medical treatment of the animal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dog-bylaws-get-more-teeth-now-pay-rs-5k-for-violation/articleshow/76758814.cms||Deepak Yadav
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh pollution control panel finds shortcomings in 4 of 6 STPs||CHANDIGARH: The UT engineering department and the municipal corporation have failed miserably to improve the functioning of sewage treatment plants (STPs) in the city, as the latest inspection report by Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) points to shortcomings in the functioning of four of the six plants. The four plants are releasing treated water with much higher bio-chemical oxygen demand (BOD) than the permissible level of maximum 30 mg/litre. The latest report (of February, April and May; no monitoring was done in March) was compiled by the CPCC on the directions of the National Green Tribunal, which is keeping an eye on water pollution in the city. The report was recently submitted to an NGT panel.  The STPs situated in Raipur Kalan, 3BRD, Maloya and Diggian are managed by the municipal corporation engineering department, while the UT engineering department maintains the ones in Raipur Khurd and Dhanas. Of the six, four STPs in Raipur Kalan, Raipur Khurd, Dhanas and Diggian are releasing treated water with high BOD level. The report reads, “In terms of BOD, Maloya and 3BRD STPs are meeting the prescribed standards, while the Raipur Kalan, Diggian, Dhanas and Raipur Khurd ones are not. However, none of the STPs is meeting the coliform standards.” BOD is the amount of dissolved oxygen needed or demanded by aerobic biological organisms to break down organic material in water at specific temperature over given time.  Recently, the Chandigarh Smart City Limited had advertised tenders to upgrade five STPs in the city. The administration in its action plan had submitted that they would upgrade all STPs in the city by 2022, but the NGT panel had directed it to complete the job by 2020. In August 2018, taking suo motu cognizance of media reports on pollution in the Ghaggar river, the NGT had directed the chief secretaries of Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh to constitute a special task force (STF) to clean the river. The NGT committee in Chandigarh, along with officials of CPCC, had visited various points of Sukhna Choe in the city.  The NGT in its previous order had said, “The Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986, provide for standards for the emission of pollutants. For different industries, the standards are laid down in Schedule I. The findings of the joint inspection report are that values of various parameters such as biochemical oxygen demand, total suspended solids, faecal coliform, lead and iron were beyond permissible limits at most of the locations in Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Chandigarh.”  “It is, thus, fully established that there is a failure on the part of the statutory authorities, especially the pollution control boards, in performing their duties. Under the statutory scheme, the boards are required to prosecute all those who may be responsible for discharging effluents beyond standards and to close all commercial establishments which are discharging such effluents apart from other penal measures required to be taken. They have failed to uphold the rule of law in spite of adequate powers given to them,” the NGT had added.  “It is high time that their composition is considered by the higher authorities and accountability fixed by taking civil and criminal action against not only the violators of law but all those responsible for failure of their duties in taking action or shielding the culprits and thereby adversely affecting the environment and health of the inhabitants,” the tribunal had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pollution-control-panel-finds-shortcomings-in-4-of-6-stps/articleshow/76758831.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Refill pouch, straw, multi-layered packaging are out of plastic ban list||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh administration on Thursday removed three articles from the list of banned plastic items. In its notification, the administration has kept plastic refill pouch having quantity less than 500ml; straws attached with tetra packs and multi-layered packaging used for food/snacks packing under extended producer responsibility (EPR) instead of the ban list. The EPR is a policy approach under which producers are given a significant responsibility (financial and/or physical) for the treatment or disposal of post-consumer products. UT’s director, environment, Debendra Dalai said the companies had given a representation that there was presently no alternative available for these items. Besides, they submitted that they can’t work on this front due to Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore, keeping all the factors in mind, the administration shifted these items from the ban list to EPR, he added. The UT administration in September last had banned plastic plates, cups, ribbons and many other single-use plastic items in the city. After getting approval of UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, the administration had issued the final notification to ban all one-time-use plastic products.  In July last year, the UT had issued draft notification and sought suggestions and objections from public within 60 days. It had received around 32 objections, including those from different resident welfare associations, traders and industrialist organisations.  The administration had taken the step after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed it to submit its action plan on systematic disposal of plastic waste. The NGT had ordered that any person found using, storing, purchasing, dealing with or distributing plastic bags, plastic plates or plastic glasses and such allied items shall be liable to pay environmental compensation at the rate of Rs 5,000 per event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/refill-pouch-straw-multi-layered-packaging-are-out-of-plastic-ban-list/articleshow/76758826.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 3, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Cop’s invention joins Covid fight||KOCHI: A member of the Ernakulam range bomb squad has proved that he is skilled in not only facing life-threatening situations involving bombs but also at effectively fighting Covid. Vivek S, who works with the technical wing of the bomb squad, has come up with an automatic touch-free hand sanitizer dispenser, which is pocket-friendly and easy to use. Vivek says that ever since he and his friends shared the image of the device on social media, it became an instant hit and many have been approaching him with orders. He has already been requested to deliver a machine each at the district police chief's office at Kottayam, Tripunithura treasury and a local mosque. Vivek said the device can hold as much as 1.5 litres of the disinfectant at a time. “The technology of the device is based on an infrared sensor. It is rechargeable and it is very light weight. It can be easily transported. Once charged, the machine would last for over two days,” says Vivek. Vivek says he made the machine at his home during his free time. “I came to know that such machines are very expensive. They often cost Rs 4,000- 5,000 on online shopping sites. So, I searched on the internet for information on how to make it. I am a physics graduate and found that it is possible to make it on my own. I made it at a cost of only less than Rs 1,000,” said Vivek. He has been getting more orders but he is struggling to find time to make the machines. “It takes me around three hours to make one. Now, all my free time is dedicated to make these machines,” he said. He has also developed a device that simplifies bomb disposal. “I was trying to get approval for it when the lockdown kicked in. Now, I am focused on fighting the pandemic along with the department,” Vivek said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-invention-joins-covid-fight/articleshow/76757678.cms||---
July 3, 2020||India||Abide by agreements, New Delhi tells Beijing||NEW DELHI: Among indications that minor disengagement of Indian and Chinese troops was underway in Ladakh, the government on Thursday once again asked China to “sincerely” abide by the understandings reached between military commanders and diplomats. Responding to questions by journalists, foreign ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava said, “We expect the Chinese side to sincerely follow up and ensure the expeditious restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas as per bilateral agreements and protocols.” The MEA statement comes a couple of days after senior commanders met in Chushul on June 30 to finesse the disengagement routine. Meanwhile, Indian and Chinese officials are expected to hold yet another virtual WMCC (Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs) meet soon. Srivastava said, “Both sides have emphasised the need for expeditious, phased and step-wise de-escalation as a priority. This is in keeping with the agreement between external affairs minister and his Chinese counterpart during their conversation on June 17 that the overall situation would be handled in a responsible manner, and that both sides would implement the disengagement understanding of June 6 sincerely.” India is asking for a Chinese withdrawal from Indian territory essentially by reverting to status quo ante as of April. China does not want to give up the posts it has occupied, but the massive build-up on both sides of the LAC is clearly not sustainable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/abide-by-agreements-new-delhi-tells-beijing/articleshow/76760489.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Gurgaon||Another forest guard beaten on duty in Faridabad||GURUGRAM: For the second time in ten days, a forest guard was allegedly thrashed by a group of men with sticks in the Aravalis in Faridabad. No police complaint has been filed so far. According to the Faridabad forest department, a forest guard was inspecting a forest area in Surajkund, Ankhir village for encroachment on Wednesday when a group of men carrying sticks accosted him. They allegedly threatened him of dire consequences and thrashed him. The area is protected under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA). Last week, another guard was taking photos of an illegally-built wall in the same area on his mobile phone as evidence on June 22 when the same group approached him. In his complaint to police, the guard said the men snatched his phone and deleted the photos before thrashing him. An FIR had been filed against the encroacher on June 24. “We will look into the matter. We razed some of the illegal structures after a guard was thrashed last week,” said Raj Kumar, divisional forest officer, Faridabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/another-forest-guard-beaten-on-duty-in-fbd/articleshow/76759596.cms||Ipsita Pati
July 3, 2020||Chennai||Labour contractors, agents set out to get guest workers to TN||CHENNAI: Nearly two months after the exodus of guest workers from Tamil Nadu in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown, agents who source the workers and bring them to the state, have begun activating their manpower networks. They are now preparing lists of guest workers, spread out far and wide, to be brought back to Tamil Nadu. It is these agents, based in states like Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha, who bring guest workers for various industries in TN. With the lockdown prompting the workers from various parts of the state to head back to their hometowns, industries were left in the lurch when restrictions were relaxed. A number of agents have now activated their contacts to mobilise the guest workers and get them to their workplaces. An agent-based in Gujarat said he has been arranging for workers for big builders in Chennai and its outskirts for more than five years. “There seems to be no end to the lockdown. So, many workers who went to their hometowns have decided to return to work in TN. Nearly 600 workers from Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha are ready to come back. We are making arrangements to bring them in groups,” said the agent, not willing to be named.  Agents are confident of bringing back at least 20% to 30% of the construction workers, who account for 90% of the total workforce in the construction industry in Chennai and other major cities in TN.  The Gujarat agent said he and other agents were in talks with major contractors and industrialists. “If we get an e-pass or if restrictions are lifted, we can bring the workers back,” he added. Another contractor, who sources workers for big builders with projects along OMR, said, “Many of the workers, who had gone to their home states for Holi festival, are ready to return. They are in constant touch with us. Once the TN government relaxes the restrictions and issues e-pass, they will return in large numbers.” For their part, industrialists have asked the contractors and agents to get the workforce ready.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/labour-contractors-agents-set-out-to-get-guest-workers-to-tn/articleshow/76758820.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
July 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lockdown gave time to DJs to create new music||Lucknow: The coronavirus pandemic has not dampened the spirits of DJs of Lucknow. The artists have, instead, found new ways to make the best use of free time by creating music and making their homes and balconies their new studios. Their audiences, too, are lapping up the much-needed entertainment. Ayush Singhal, aka Ravetek, started making music in 2015. The 27-year-old has been a part of many music festivals. Since the lockdown was imposed, Singhal began streaming music live from his house, set up a creativity corner in his bedroom and curated a music track which is now a part of a compilation album of an international music label founded by popular international DJ Tiesto. “It was a dream come true to be featured in a music album connected to an international music sensation,” said Ravetek. “Earlier, I was constantly touring and could not get time. The lockdown gave me a perfect opportunity to brush up my skills, reinvent myself and spread the magic of music,” he added. About how the pandemic shas affected the entire DJ community, Ravetek said, “In March, I was supposed to travel to US for a music festival but it was cancelled. It has been the same case for everyone. Business is quite low but I am trying to keep up as an entertainer through social media. However, the thrill of performing live is missing.” DJ D’Vesh, who has been working since 2008, also said that the lockdown has given a boost to freshness to individual talent. He used the time to remix music and turned his love for retro music into innovation. He is set to release a new old school B-town remix. “Covid has affected all of us but playing music virtually has helped me spread positivity among my national and international audiences,” said the DJ and producer, who live streams music on Facebook and YouTube channels every Saturday. Nilay Surve aka Constar, who came to Lucknow from Pune three years ago, had begun to realise his dream of becoming a DJ when everything came to a halt. “We had planned the third edition of a music festival in Lucknow, but it’s on hold due to coronavirus. As artists, we are trying to be as creative as possible since these are hard times and we want to stay connected with our followers,” he said. “Amid the lockdown, I got the opportunity to create new music tracks. It took a lot of time and patience but is ready to be on worldwide music portals,” added Surve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lockdown-gave-time-to-djs-to-create-new-music/articleshow/76759553.cms||Aditi Singh
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Metro pre-bidding meet goes online||KOLKATA: In a first of its kind initiative in the country, Rail Vikash Nigam Limited (RVNL) held a number of pre-bid meetings for the tenders floated on a digital platform through video conferencing. The effective use of the digital platform led to the number of participants rising to more than 100%, as well as huge savings in terms of time and cost. Encouraged by the result, RVNL has decided to go completely digital for biddings to restart projects without any delay. The pre-bid meeting, which is important for a project like Metro, was typically a physical meeting where interested bidders gathered to know the scope of the job. But in the Covid-19 situation, such meetings not only involve a high risk, but get very poor attendance. To make it viable for a digital platform, the provisions were changed in the tender documents. The invitations were sent to the bidders through email. While 18 bidders attended the meeting for Joka Metro coach depot, there were six bidders in the meeting for the Majerhat-Mominpore Metro section. Seven bidders attended the meeting for the City Centre II-Airport Metro section, said an RVNL source. The digital pre-bid meeting paved the way for sessions where resources can be optimally managed with complete transparency. Such pre-bid meetings earlier involved a lot of travel from different parts of the country, hotel stay and other miscellaneous expenditure, which naturally got incorporated into the project cost. Because of long-standing land issues in the city, a majority of the Metro projects have overshot their project duration. Most of the contracts thus turned invalid with the exit of the contractors. This necessitated fresh tender floating. The meetings on a digital platform ensured the process went on at a fast pace. The first pre-bid conference was held on May 27 for the main tender for Joka maintenance, worth Rs 372 crore. The tender will be opened on July 15. For the City Centre II-airport section, the pre-bid conference was held on July 1. The project, worth Rs 246.9 crore, will be open on July 31. With most of the Metro projects languishing in uncertainty for numerous reasons, the Railway Board has renewed its focus on the completion of pending Metro projects in the city. Apart from fast-track approval of material modification of the projects, which used to be changed at the last moment, during the execution, mainly due to land issues, the government also approved the revised project costs for giving the go-ahead for the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-pre-bidding-meet-goes-online/articleshow/76758853.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi banks on plasma to beat Covid-19||NEW DELHI: Convalescent plasma therapy has been recommended to aid moderately severe Covid-19 patients get back on their feet quickly, helped by the antibodies in the plasma of patients who have recovered from the infection. To get the blood component in meaningful quantities, Delhi government inaugurated a plasma Bank at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in south Delhi on Thursday. After inaugurating the facility, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal interacted with a few plasma donors. In the CV therapy, the blood plasma retrieved from recovered Covid patients with antibodies to fight the infection are infused in a corona patient, increasing chances of recovery by almost 35%. IN PICTURES: Review of India's first #PlasmaBank by Hon'ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal. The plasma bank has begun op… https://t.co/M1Kak9zSc9— CMO Delhi (@CMODelhi) 1593685371000While making the announcement of setting up the bank earlier this week, Kejriwal had emphasised that plasma therapy was “not the ultimate cure” for Covid and lives couldn’t all be saved by it. “It is extremely difficult to save the patient who is suffering from multi-organ failures and extreme co-morbidities. But CV therapy is helpful for patients whose condition is not too serious yet,” the CM had said. On Thursday, at a digital press conference, Kejriwal invited those who had fully recovered from the coronavirus infection to donate plasma to save lives. Those fulfilling the eligibility criteria and willing to be a donor can call the 1031 helpline number or register on WhatsApp number 8800007722. After the registration, a Delhi government doctor will contact the potential donor for verification and further progress. Urging potential donors to come forward, Kejriwal said, “People were finding it difficult to get plasma. We hope that the situation will improve with this plasma bank becoming operational.” He said the initiative would only be successful if more recovered Covid patients came forward to donate plasma. Under the guidelines, patients who have beaten Covid-19 and don’t exhibit symptoms for 14 days, weighing over 50kg and aged 18-60 years can donate blood plasma. Pregnant women, diabetics, those with blood pressure higher than 140 and less than 60 or over 90, cancer survivors or people with chronic kidney, heart, lung and liver diseases cannot be donors. Kejriwal said more than 58,000 people had so far recovered from Covid in Delhi, but the stringent criteria made very few people suitable as plasma donors. “You get very few opportunities to save someone's life. If God has given you this chance, please do not hesitate to use it,” the CM urged. Talking to reporters, Kejriwal, who was accompanied by deputy CM Manish Sisodia at the inauguration, also said that Delhi government would send a vehicle to pick and drop donors and those coming to the bank on their won would be reimbursed the travel cost. He requested patients requiring plasma not to contact ILBS directly. If the patient required the therapy, the treating doctor or hospital would contact the plasma bank. Till the time a vaccine was finalised, CV therapy would help corona patients, he said, adding, “I am not claiming that plasma therapy will end all deaths due to Covid, but we hope that the death rate will decline and more people will recover and return to their homes.” The CM also expressed happiness that plasma therapy trials had started in other parts of the country, including Maharashtra, the worst hit state. Watch New ray of hope: Delhi banks on plasma to beat Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-banks-on-plasma-to-beat-covid/articleshow/76759627.cms||Atul Mathur
July 3, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu's unemployment rate dips, but national average is lower||CHENNAI: Unemployment rate in Tamil Nadu is at 13.5% in June, down from 33% in May. It is still much above the national unemployment rate of 10.4% for the latest month. Experts such as Madras Institute of Development Studies (MIDS) labour economist M Vijayabaskar attribute the lowering unemployment rate in Tamil Nadu to the migration of guest workers to their native states like Bihar and Jharkhand, which have now recorded higher unemployment rates, 19% and 21% respectively for June. As per the CMIE’s data on unemployment for June, the national unemployment rate was 10.4%. While in urban areas it was 11.9%, in rural areas it was 9.8%. In April, the first full month of lockdown, Tamil Nadu’s unemployment rate touched a record 49.8% due to intense lockdown across the state and guest workers were struck here. In May, it dropped to 33% and in June, to 13.5%. Cumulatively, Tamil Nadu’s unemployment rate for the three-month period was higher than the national average as well the state’s 6.4% rate in the pre-lockdown period. “The return of guest workers to their native states of Jharkhand, West Bengal and Bihar among others is a major reason. Though their return journey started in May, it was in June when most of them left Tamil Nadu,” said Vijayabaskar. The continuity of intense lockdown in the industrial areas of Chennai and its periphery is another reason. “Since March 25, the residents of Chennai and nearby districts have had no or little relief from the lockdown. Either it is intense lockdown or lockdown with certain relaxations. This has affected the operation of big factories as well as MSMEs, thereby leading to higher unemployment rate than national average,” said Vijayabaskar. In addition, the educated workforce in Tamil Nadu and Kerala prefer to wait for a proper employment, than taking up any work for the sake of earning. “They may have savings or another person in their family may be working. So it gives them space and time to wait for the right job,” said Vijayabaskar. People in various industries feel that unless the lockdown is completely lifted and public transport is back across the state, the unemployment rate in Tamil Nadu will continue to be higher than the national average or other industrialised states like Maharashtra or Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-unemployment-rate-dips-but-natl-avg-is-lower/articleshow/76767033.cms||B Sivakumar
July 3, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu's unemployment rate dips, but national average is lower||CHENNAI: Unemployment rate in Tamil Nadu is at 13.5% in June, down from 33% in May. It is still much above the national unemployment rate of 10.4% for the latest month. Experts such as Madras Institute of Development Studies (MIDS) labour economist M Vijayabaskar attribute the lowering unemployment rate in Tamil Nadu to the migration of guest workers to their native states like Bihar and Jharkhand, which have now recorded higher unemployment rates, 19% and 21% respectively for June. As per the CMIE’s data on unemployment for June, the national unemployment rate was 10.4%. While in urban areas it was 11.9%, in rural areas it was 9.8%. In April, the first full month of lockdown, Tamil Nadu’s unemployment rate touched a record 49.8% due to intense lockdown across the state and guest workers were struck here. In May, it dropped to 33% and in June, to 13.5%. Cumulatively, Tamil Nadu’s unemployment rate for the three-month period was higher than the national average as well the state’s 6.4% rate in the pre-lockdown period. “The return of guest workers to their native states of Jharkhand, West Bengal and Bihar among others is a major reason. Though their return journey started in May, it was in June when most of them left Tamil Nadu,” said Vijayabaskar. The continuity of intense lockdown in the industrial areas of Chennai and its periphery is another reason. “Since March 25, the residents of Chennai and nearby districts have had no or little relief from the lockdown. Either it is intense lockdown or lockdown with certain relaxations. This has affected the operation of big factories as well as MSMEs, thereby leading to higher unemployment rate than national average,” said Vijayabaskar. In addition, the educated workforce in Tamil Nadu and Kerala prefer to wait for a proper employment, than taking up any work for the sake of earning. “They may have savings or another person in their family may be working. So it gives them space and time to wait for the right job,” said Vijayabaskar. People in various industries feel that unless the lockdown is completely lifted and public transport is back across the state, the unemployment rate in Tamil Nadu will continue to be higher than the national average or other industrialised states like Maharashtra or Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-unemployment-rate-dips-but-natl-avg-is-lower/articleshow/76758837.cms||B Sivakumar
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Amid lockdown buzz, Hyderabad’s Covid count at 77% of Telangana cases||HYDERABAD: While the Telangana government is still mulling whether or not to re-impose a lockdown in Greater Hyderabad, the 1,000-plus cases of Covid-19 being reported from the city every day has become a cause for concern for the administration. Officials attribute this spike to continuous movement of people to the hinterland coupled with other private and government-organised events being held in the city. A quick look at the district-wise cases from the state show that 77% are being reported from within Greater Hyderabad limits. As per official data of the 18,570 corona positive cases logged in Telangana, 14,476 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits. In fact, nearly 900 of the daily load of 1,000 (approx) cases are either from within GHMC limits or surrounding areas such as Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts.  Health department officials these two districts, abutting the city, are also witnessing a steady surge. So far, 1,170 cases have been reported from Rangareddy (area not part of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation) and 657 from Medchal-Malkajgiridistrict. These figures have put state authorities on tenterhooks. A central team, which recently visited the city, also expressed concern over growing number of cases in Hyderabad and suggested ramping up tests and treatment facilities. Other districts in HMDA’s jurisdiction like Sangareddy, Mahbubnagar, Nalgonda, Janagaon — located less than 150 km from the city — too have more reported more cases. Sangareddy has logged 150 cases so far making it the fourth district to have reported a huge number of cases. Mahbubnagar (87), Nalgonda (90) and Janagaon(81), all located less than 100 km from Greater Hyderabad, have seen rise in Covid-19 cases. Suryapet district has recorded 97 cases, Nizamabad 94 and Warangal Urban 128 cases. “Among the districts, Narayanpet with just five cases recorded the lowest, Wanaparthy and Peddapally reported six cases each, while Bhupalapally district logged nine cases.  “In many districts, cases rose due to programmes such as Haritha Haram, where people participated in large numbers without taking precautionary measures like maintaining social distance,” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amid-lockdown-buzz-hyds-covid-count-at-77-of-t-cases/articleshow/76758863.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 3, 2020||Lucknow||4 new centres to teach science of happiness at LU||Lucknow: Four new institutes will be added to the ONGC multidisciplinary research centre of Lucknow University to help students excel in diverse areas. Besides giving wings to the ideas of budding engineers and churning out food toxicology experts, the institutes will teach students ways to stay happy. Being set up in LU’s centenary year, the four centres of excellence — Happy Thinking Lab, Institute of Hydrocarbon, Institute of Food Processing, and Technology and Kalam Centre for Innovation — will have hi-end computers with advanced software for quality research. LU executive council has given its nod to the centres and they will be run with the help of grants from the department of science and technology and corporate social responsibility. “Happy Thinking Lab is being set up to help students fight all negativities in life and learn the “real meaning of happiness”. They will also be taught to apply happiness mantras in their future professional life,” said LU vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai. The lab will be open for students of MA psychology (50 seats) and those who opt for psychology under choice-based credit system. Kalam Centre of Innovation, under engineering faculty, will give wings to students’ innovation through experimentation and development of technology and gadgets. It will also be open for students who wish to go for startups. The MSc food processing and food technology course with 30 seats, currently being run by the chemistry department, will be converted into a full fledged institute with its own lab and research paraphernalia. Earlier students had to go to other scientific institutes for research. “General public can also visit it for getting tests done to check the quality of food or adulteration at a nominal charge,” said VC. Courses on mining and hydrocarbons, being run by the geology department, will be converted into an institute which will prepare students for career in the oil industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4-new-centres-to-teach-science-of-happiness-at-lu/articleshow/76759585.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kochi||St Albert’s ‘lockdown diaries’ wins hearts||KOCHI: To keep the students engaged through creative activities in addition to online academic sessions amid lockdown, St Albert’s College, Ernakulam, has started a programme called ‘lockdown diaries’ that urges students to take part in a series of competitions which could be done from their homes. The most interesting aspect of the competition is that the winners of each item will be felicitated with free data recharge to help them attend online classes hassle-free. The competitions include quiz, setting up the best kitchen garden, students craft and artwork, creative works to promote social awareness, etc., The competitions are conducted online and evaluation too is conducted digitally by a panel of teachers. College authorities said the data recharge initiative has been helping students who are struggling to ensure seamless network connectivity for attending online classes. The online classes in the college are conducted on all weekdays and students have to be online for up to five hours for the purpose, which exhausts their data easily. The initiative was first started by the mathematics department in the college and now other departments too are following. “The online classes span up to five or six hours and most times it will be video conferences that consume too much data. More than 80% students in the college study with the help of scholarship and the lockdown has affected the financial stability in many houses. Most students were discussing about the difficulty in recharging data. When teachers noticed this issue, we thought of helping them with it. So instead of giving them money directly, we thought of felicitating the winner in each competition by recharging their data packs,” said Sabu M C, head, department of Mathematics. More than 30 students have availed the recharge option over the last three weeks. Teachers collect the phone numbers of the winners and recharge them. For this, the money from the departmental miscellaneous funds, maintained using the monthly voluntary contribution of salaried teachers, was used. “Students are happy with the initiative. Keeping aside the recharge prizes, they are happy to be engaged with group activities to prevent the feeling of being left out amid lockdown. In fact, some student who have won the competition asked their teachers to give their recharge prize to the needy as they have wifi facilities at their homes,” Sabu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/st-alberts-lockdown-diaries-wins-hearts/articleshow/76757689.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
July 3, 2020||Kochi||This NGO makes funky bags from toothpaste tubes in Kerala||KOCHI: Many people who chuck squeezed-to-the-max toothpaste tubes to waste bins do not give much thought to the act in the belief that they would be recycled. These tubes are made up of multiple materials like aluminium and plastics which are laminated together and recycling them is easier said than done. Plan@Earth, a NGO based in Aluva, has found a way to upcycle used toothpaste tubes into fashionable woven bags. They are also engaged in upcycling plastic material like covers of atta other food packets. “We hit upon the idea after one of my friends returned with a bag after a tour of an African country. When we examined we found that it was made from used toothpaste tubes. Shabna, one of our staff members, crafted the first bag by treating it as a model,” says Planet@Earth president Mujeeb Mohammed. The upcycling unit of Plan@Earth now manufactures around 30 such bags a month. “The tubes are first cleaned and sterilized and then cut lengthwise before being woven into bags. We mostly make ladies handbags and carry bags,” said Mohammed. The bags are sold through the social media and fairs. “We make four types of bags from such covers. There is no processing involved. We clean and sterilize the material and then stitch them in the shape of bags,” said Mohammed. They also have products upcycled using packs and multi-layer packaging material. They also experimented with paving tiles. “We made tiles using plastic waste and M-sand which were used for paving a park at Airapuram in Perumbavoor with support from a leading tyre manufacturer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/this-ngo-makes-funky-bags-from-toothpaste-tubes/articleshow/76757707.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||ISB dean to step down, not seek extension||Hyderabad: Indian School of Business’s (ISB) dean Rajendra Srivastava, has decided to step down from the position after his term gets over on December 31. He will not be seeking a reappointment. Srivastava, 69, cited personal reasons for this decision. He informed the faculty and staff via an email on Thursday, said sources. “Due to family and health issues, I have requested the board that I would like to step down as dean when my term ends on December 31, 2020. While I will be stepping down as dean, I am not leaving ISB. I will remain at ISB as the Novartis Professor of Marketing Strategy and Innovation,” he wrote in the mail. Confirming the news, ISB said that Srivastava would be moving to research and will continue with his work on business model innovation and organisational transformation. During Srivastava’s tenure, ISB enhanced its post graduate programme portfolio by introducing new programmes for working professionals. He is an alumnus of the IIT-Kanpur, and holds a master’s degree and a doctorate in Business Administration from the University of Pittsburgh and an MS in Industrial Engineering from the University of Rhode Island. Harish Manwani, chairman of ISB Executive Board, said, “In his five years as the dean of ISB, he has transformed the school in terms of global recognition and financial stability.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/isb-dean-to-step-down-not-seek-extension/articleshow/76758868.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||To beat Covid blues, residents of Aparna Oosman’s Everest take inclusive route||HYDERABAD: Residents of Aparna Oosman’s Everest, Secunderabad, rose to the Covid-19 challenge instead of fearing the pandemic. Empathy towards fellow residents and staff of their society, hygiene, yoga, meditation, ensuring social distancing and safety gear like mask were their weapons. The society office-bearers arranged free medical check-up for housekeeping staff and residents. Online yoga and meditation classes were held for residents. Members also distributed essentials to sanitation staff. “All staff working in our housing society were provided essentials. Along with residents, they were briefed about immunity-boosting foods. Immunity-boosting foods were also provided to the staff,” said Srinija Venkat , a resident of Aparna Oosman’s Everest. Housing societiesResidents also joined hands to take care of frontline warriors,especially sweepers and sanitation staff of GHMC. They were given safety gear. Taking their services a step further, some residents also distributed essentials to the staff. Hygiene was the priority in their fight against Covid-19. Fogging and sanitising the society thrice a week, hand wash facility at security kiosk and spraying of disinfectants in common areas such as lifts, staircase, grab rails twice a day were done at the housing society. “Visitors were not allowed into premises. In case of emergency, residents rolled out travel history of the visitor. Thermal scanning was done for everyone,” said Rizwan Oosman, vice president of Aparna Oosman’s Everest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/to-beat-covid-blues-everest-residents-take-inclusive-route/articleshow/76758878.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||Firm to carve out cycle tracks on Kolkata roads||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) has decided to remove roadside parking space and rationalize hawking zones to create a dedicated cycle corridor along several routes in the city. The KMDA has assigned a Delhi-based agency the task of conducting a road survey in Kolkata to find out where space can be carved out to create a cycle corridor by early next year. “We have made an initial survey and found that we need only 0.2% additional road space to create a dedicated corridor for cycles and this can be easily done by removing roadside parking space and rationalizing hawking zones. Most pavements in the city have hawkers. If we create hawking zones and no-hawking zones, it will give us additional space on the pavements that can be used for cycle movement,” a KMDA official said. Asked whether that will hamper pedestrian movement, the official said, “Pedestrians are our priority and we will make arrangements for them.” KMDA has also decided to disallow roadside parking. To make an alternative arrangement, the agency will develop several parking lots in the city too. “These two projects will be carried out simultaneously. Once we create dedicated parking areas, we will be able to create additional space. This is complicated planning, but policy wise, it has been decided that there will be no parking area by the side of the roads. The tendering process is on,” the official added. Initially, KMDA was not in favour of allowing cycles on all city roads. They have earmarked 10-12 routes where cycles will be allowed. “There are some routes, like Howrah to Dharmatala, Behala to Dharmatala, Behala to Sector V, Dharmatala to Salt Lake, Sealdah to Dharmatala and Kidderpore to Howrah, where people already move on cycles. This has increased during the lockdown. We have asked the agency to work on routes like these and identify the roads where we can allow cycles. The KMDA has allotted 34 lakh for the survey,” the official said. The agency will submit a preliminary report within four months and the final report two months after that. Earlier, the state had formed a seven-member committee, including experts from IIT Kharagpur, KMDA, KMC, Kolkata Police and the transport department, to develop a dedicated cycle track for the city. “We will have a meeting of all the stakeholders on July 15 where we will hand over a questionnaire to the agency and discuss the detailed plan so they can work accordingly,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/firm-to-carve-out-cycle-tracks-on-kol-roads/articleshow/76758873.cms||Saibal Gupta
July 3, 2020||Gurgaon||STF files case against Sikh group||GURUGRAM: The Haryana Special Task Force (STF) has filed a case against Sikh For Justice (SFJ), a pro-Khalistan group, for allegedly urging people in the state for violent protests and telling them to register for referendum. Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) is a US-based advocacy group that supports the Khalisatan movement. It was founded and primarily headed by lawyer Gurpatwant Singh Pannu. The case was registered after a video message recorded by Pannu was shared on social media. According to STF, Pannu in his video message spread hatred against India and people of Haryana in particular, and urged Sikhs of the state to take to violent protest and participate in voting in favour of Khalistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/stf-files-case-against-sikh-group/articleshow/76759610.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kochi||Recycling startups face uncertainty||Kochi: In the past three months of lockdown when people were losing their jobs or forced to work on reduced salaries, recycling startup Green Worms generated employment for 60 people. “There was a renewed impetus on sanitation and hygiene and therefore the Covid situation did not affect us. Instead, our workload increased and so did our hires,” says founder and CEO of Green Worms Jabir Karat, who has now developed a micro-entrepreneurship model for youngsters who want to join the sector. Processing a tonne of waste would require six people per day, says Karat. Green Worms, which started off in Kozhikode, has eight units across the state. It collects and manages dry waste from industries, commercial establishments and local bodies with focus on creating a circular economy. From all districts in the state, Green Worms has now 100 pending applications from wannabe micro-entrepreneurs. “Each of these projects has the potential to generate 20 jobs,” says Karat. But despite the rich potential the circular economy holds and the growth in their business, Green Worms has purposefully stayed away from making investments or launching large projects in the absence of a reliable policy. Green Worms’ segregation unit at Aluva now handles six tonnes of waste every day. Through the eight units they have in the state they handle a total of 50 tonnes of waste. The attitude of local bodies has been disheartening, Karat says. “They are not interested in small projects, the attitude is if you want the waste take it for free, they are not ready to provide us space, or help in segregation or sorting,” he said. Ecorycle, a BTB enterprise engaged in scrap collection for paper waste and plastics, shut their operations in Kochi because the operations became unviable. “I am only operating now in Thiruvananthapuram. The input cost was higher but in Coimbatore we did not have the problem. Such businesses can be sustained only if there is a subsidy,” says Ecorycle promoter Baby Syed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/recycling-startups-face-uncertainty/articleshow/76757696.cms||Binu Karunakaran
July 3, 2020||Kochi||Waste management NGOs struggle to stay afloat||KOCHI: Eleven years ago when Mujeeb Mohammed and his partner ventured into a small initiative Plan@Earth anguished by the littering and burning of plastic, they only had in mind the harm it causes to the environment. Today, the non-profit employs close to 100 people and manages dry waste in a handful of municipalities but are still unsure if they would be able to pay salaries to all their staff every month. While the Aluva Municipality has provided them with space for a Material Recovery Facility, where they process close to 400kg of plastic waste sifting through six to eight tonnes of dry waste, many other local bodies have not have shown the courtesy. “There are several agencies in the sector, mostly small NGOs, but no one is able to generate income. Our income comes from the user fee but collecting them is a pain,” says Mohammed. Plan@Earth assists local bodies in Kodakara, Edathala, Angamaly and five wards of Kadungalloor in collection and segregation of waste. While they don’t face issues while collecting user fees from residents in Aluva municipality, the exercise becomes difficult when their executives visit villages. “Many residents refuse to pay us every month,” says Mohammed. Their projects in Edathala and Kodakara, run using CSR funds by Apollo Tyres, are smooth because all expenses are met by the company. “In a sector like ours everyone expects higher salaries because we are dealing with waste,” he said. Earlier, Suchitwa Mission had mooted paying a viability gap fund for agencies involved in waste management. But this was never realised. “Daily wagers prefer getting paid every day. If we can’t pay them at least on the first of every month we would lose people. We had requested the local bodies to collect the fee on behalf of us but they are not ready to get into it,” says Mohammed. “Businesses in the sector can peddle their influences in many ways but NGOs cannot do it. The lack of consistency in policy is also affecting them,” says Saji Sebastian of NGO Socio Economic Unit Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/waste-management-ngos-struggle-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/76757728.cms||Binu Karunakaran
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||No mobile testing, RT-PCR gives better result: Govt to HC||Hyderabad: A day after Telangana high court pulled up the state government for failing to control the spread of coronavirus and misleading the court on the number of tests done, the government on Thursday said it has no plans to introduce mobile testing labs in the state and added that it would continue to stick with RT-PCR tests which are more accurate. Director of public health Dr G Srinivas Rao said it is difficult to carry out the RT-PCR tests in a mobile laboratory and termed the RT-PCR tests as a golden standard for Covid-19 testing. He also said that all the 13 government hospitals and 18 private labs that are empowered to conduct Covid-19 tests are doing only RT-PCR tests to ascertain the presence of the virus. He said this in a report furnished to a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy. The court had sought a report, wondering as to why Telangana had not taken up mobile testing, when its neighbour AP had rolled out 1,000 ambulances to conduct door-to-door surveys and tests. It also questioned the low testing of Telangana at a time when AP had done 2.11 lakh tests in the last 10 days. Dr Srinivas further said the entry of private labs in doing the tests was adding to the confusion. “Some of these labs are under scanner for their dubious methods and statistics,” he said in his report. In the annexures attached to the report, the health director explained that the GHMC area comprising Hyderabad, Secunderabad, parts of Rangareddy and Medchal districts alone account for over 90% of Covid-19 cases in the state. He said there had been a surge in the cases ever since the lockdown norms were relaxed on May 16. As of now, there are 5,644 active Covid-19 cases spread over 150 wards in Greater Hyderabad. Of this, wards that witnessed more number of cases are Amberpet (268), Sitaphalmandi (151), Jiyaguda (125), Gunfoundry (104) and Begum Bazar and Old Malakpet (101 each), the report explained. Dr Srinivas said nine state-run hospitals out of the 33 government hospitals treating Covid-19 cases are functioning in Hyderabad. Gandhi, TIMS, King Koti, Chest, Nature Cure, Fever, Government Nizamia, Government Homeo and Ayurveda hospitals are earmarked as Covid-19 hospitals with Gandhi serving as the nodal hospital, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-mobile-testing-rt-pcr-gives-better-result-govt-to-hc/articleshow/76758890.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram’s Covid cases cross 5.5k as 106 more test positive||GURUGRAM: The city reported 106 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking its tally to 5,569. Four people also succumbed to the infection. So far, 96 people have died of the disease in the city. Out of these, 60 had comorbidities. A total of 4,291 people have recovered till now, 212 of them on Thursday. Gurugram has 1,182 active cases currently. Of these, 1,083 patients are in home isolation and 99 are hospitalised. Till now, the health department has sent 36,419 samples for testing, out of which 29,202 have returned negative and the results of 322 others are awaited. Nearly 42,269 people have been put under surveillance so far. At present, the seven private labs in the city that have approval for conducting Covid-19 tests are only collecting samples for the conventional RT-PCR tests. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said the health department has now asked these labs if they can conduct antigen and rapid antibody tests as well. “At present, both antigen and sero-surveys are being conducted only by the health department,” he said, adding that in the past three days, 2,000 tests, including RT-PCR and antigen, had been conducted daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/citys-covid-cases-cross-5-5k-as-106-more-test-positive/articleshow/76759634.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Lucknow||July 16 auction of two shops over anti-CAA arson||Lucknow: The district administration announced on Thursday that they would auction two sealed shops on July 16 to recover damages incurred during the anti-CAA protests in Hasanganj area on December 19. The shops were sealed on June 30 by the administration. The administration also sealed another shop in Khurramnagar, belonging to Mohammad Nafees, who has been accused of rioting and damaging public property worth Rs 64 lakh at Parivartan Chowk. “It is an ironsmith’s shop located in Khurramnagar and was sealed after the owner failed to pay for the damages of Rs 64 lakh,” said tehsildar Shambhu Saran. He added that the order to pay for recovery of damages was issued by ADM (east) KP Singh to 28 people on February 19. He said that if the people whose properties are being sealed pay up the amount, their properties will be opened and auction proceedings will be halted. The two shops that would be auctioned on July 16 include a garment store called NY Fashion Centre and a scrap dealer shop in the Hasanganj police station area. They were sealed on Tuesday. Scrap dealer Mahenoor Chaudhary and the garment shop’s assistant store manager Dharamvir Singh are among the 13 whom ADM (trans-Gomti) Vishwa Bhushan Mishra had ordered to pay Rs 21.76 lakh within 30 days for the destruction of properties in Hasanganj. In all, 57 people across four police stations were served notices for recovery of Rs 1.55 crore in damages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/july-16-auction-of-two-shops-over-anti-caa-arson/articleshow/76759607.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Puducherry||Blast puts upkeep of thermal power plants under scrutiny||PUDUCHERRY: Ageing plants, old technology, not enough maintenance — are India’s thermal power plants in quick need of not only major overhaul but also phasing out of older equipment that are unsafe and inefficient? According to former power secretary R V Shahi, a good 2,00,000MW of India’s total installed capacity of 3,70,000MW comes from thermal power plants. “In 2014-15, the Central Electricity Authority and NTPC had done a study to phase out 30,000MW coal-based capacity due to age, lower efficiency and health of equipment,” said Shahi. “With peak time demand not going beyond 1,80,000MW there is enough installed capacity,” he added. So, did the blast in the Neyveli Thermal Power plant on Wednesday happen because of insufficient maintenance and delay in critical maintenance? According to power sector experts, accidents like the one that claimed six lives and injured 17 this week are extremely rare in thermal plants. One of the reasons that could have contributed to the Neyveli plant suffering two accidents in quick succession is because of ageing equipment which had not gone for Life Extension Programme (LEP). Tamil Nadu CITU state general secretary G Sukumaran said the 5th and 6th plants, both of which suffered accidents — one in May and the other on Wednesday — were erected in 1991 by BHEL and may have outlived their life expectancy. “We had a dialogue with the management yesterday and this morning and they have given an assurance that the plant will be run only after a thorough safety check,” said Sukumaran. “Typically, the life expectancy of a thermal plant is 25 years and after 20 years, a LEP study should be done for which the original equipment manufacturer should be called to overhaul and renovate the equipment,’’ said Sukumaran. ‘’The question is, was that done? Is the accident an operational issue or a maintenance issue.’’ TPS II has seven units. There were no major accidents in the first three units that are more than 32 years old but units 5 and 6, that were commissioned much later, were prone to accidents. The company has now decided to shut down all the four units commissioned in the second stage to take up life extension programme (LEP). The company can operate these units for another 15 to 20 years after LEP. LEP may roughly take three to five years depending on the condition of the units. “To generate 1MW of thermal power, we need an investment of Rs 5 crore. LEP is an alternative to cutting down investments on new thermal power plants,” said a thermal power sector expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/blast-puts-upkeep-of-thermal-power-plants-under-scrutiny/articleshow/76758866.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
July 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Four more cases of local transmission reported in district||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Covid-19 cases without evident sources of infection or travel history continue to surface in the district. Nine Covid-19 cases were confirmed on Thursday, which include four cases of local transmission. The patients include a 45-year-old woman from Pongumoodu who arrived from Kuwait on June 18, a 20-year-old man from Kattakada who arrived from Pune on June 23, a two-year-old girl who arrived from Kuwait, a 47-year-old man at Kunnukuzhi who arrived from Abudhabi and a 65-year-old man who arrived from Oman. Cases of local transmission include a 45-year-old lottery vendor at Vanchiyur, a 25-year-old man from Neyyatinkara, a migrant labourer from Assam who was employed at Palayam Saphalyam complex and a 47-year-old man from Balaramapuram. The officials said that none of them had any recent travel history. The 25-year-old man from Neyyatinkara was employed as a trainee at VSSC. City mayor K Sreekumar said that strict regulations will be put in place at Saphalyam complex. Entry through the back gate will be banned. Special counter will function at the entrance. Street vending in front of Palayam market will also be regulated. The restrictions imposed at Palayam and Chalai markets and supermarkets in shopping malls will be extended to all markets in the city, said Sreekumar. Special attention will be given on controlling crowd at bus stops, offices and Akshaya centres. The city corporation has converted Beemapally hospital into a quarantine centre after a fish vendor was tested positive for Covid-19. Five new institutional quarantine centres will be opened in coastal areas, said the mayor. He also appealed to political parties to reduce demonstrations and strikes as part of ensuring social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/four-more-cases-of-local-transmission-reported-in-district/articleshow/76757715.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi crosses 92,000-mark with over 2,300 new Covid-19 cases||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 count in the capital on Thursday reached 92,175 with 2,373 more people testing positive for the disease. On the brighter side, the positivity rate came down to 11.3% from Wednesday’s 12.2%. In the second week of June, the positivity rate was recorded at 30% and above on multiple occasions. However, it has been coming down consistently over the past 10 days. The number of active cases in Delhi is 26,304. On the other hand, 63,007 people have recovered from the infection. “In total, 3,015 people recovered from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours,” said a senior health official. In the last one month, testing has increased significantly in Delhi from about 5,000 tests daily in May to 20,000 in June-end. Tests are being conducted using both the RT-PCR method, which takes about six hours to process, and the recently introduced rapid antigen test, which gives results within an hour. The state health department said 5.7 lakh Covid-19 tests have been conducted in Delhi till date, which computes to 30,133 tests per million population. “Cases are reducing despite increased testing. This is a welcome change,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital. He added that deaths had also reduced, but it was too early to judge for how long this trend would hold. “We should observe the trend for a little longer to reach any conclusion,” Kumar said. Lok Nayak has 2,000 Covid-19 beds of which around 700 are full. “We have 110 ICU beds with ventilator facility. Nearly 50% are still lying vacant,” he added. Across Delhi, there were 15,256 Covid-19 beds. Of these, 9,596 (63%) were lying vacant on Thursday. ICU beds with ventilator support are more difficult to find. Of the 800 such beds, government data showed only 245 (31%) were vacant. Recently, the government ordered all state-run hospitals to increase the number of beds with ventilator facilities over and above the existing numbers. An order was also issued for constitution of teams to inspect government and private hospitals for assessment of the existing capacity, patient care amenities and associated aspects of Covid care facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-crosses-92000-mark-with-over-2300-new-cases/articleshow/76759657.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC discusses rising cases of dog bite in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: On an average, 181 persons are bitten by dogs in the city every day. Till May this year, 27,620 dog-bite cases have been reported in hospitals under the AMC. The number was nearly 250 per day in January and February while the same was 200 bites per day in March. “These numbers are of government hospitals. Almost 60% of those bitten by dogs prefer to take treatment from private doctors, so the actual numbers are very high,” said an AMC official. The issue of dog bite was raised in the standing committee meeting on Thursday. The ruling party councillors raised the issue of increase in dog-bite cases during the lockdown and the incident of a peacock being killed by four dogs. Standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said the corporation has asked all the three agencies to increase sterilization of dogs in the city. He said in the last three financial years, 85,900 dogs were sterilized in the city. A senior officer, refusing to be identified, said that the sterilization programme is an exercise in futility. “In several cases, it has been noticed that the dog was not sterilized but the ear was punched to increase the number,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-discusses-rising-cases-of-dog-bite/articleshow/76758916.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Lucknow||17 Tablighi foreigners from Delhi markaz released from Bahraich jail||Lucknow: Almost three months after being jailed in Bahraich, the 17 foreign nationals who attended the Jamaat at Nizamuddin Markaz in New Delhi were released on Thursday. The group of 17 comprises 10 Indonesians and seven Thai nationals. All 17 foreigners were on April 1 booked on charges of violating the Foreigners Act, indulging in religious activity on tourist visas, Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and Section 56 of Disaster Management Act 2005. They were arrested from two mosques — Quraish mosque and Taj mosque under city Kotwali police station area — and sent to prison after being quarantined. Superintendent of police, Bahraich, Vipin Mishra told TOI that the 17 foreigners got bail on June 26 and were released from jail on July 1 evening. “They have been released on conditional bail and their passports and VISAs have been seized,” said Mishra. They have been put up at two mosques and are not allowed to leave the district, officials said. “All the members will have to cooperate with the police during the trial which will begin soon,” said the officer. None of the members will be allowed to change their mobile phone numbers and will have to appear at the police station as and when summoned by the investigation officer. Meanwhile, Yogesh Kalia, advocate in district Bahraich court and counsel for the 17 Tablighis, said that “all the Jamaatis had to submit a bond for sureties of Rs 25,000 each for the bail.”  “The 17 foreign Tablighis had reached the Bahraich district when there was no ban issued by either the state or the central government,” he said, adding that the foreigners did not understand the local language.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/17-tablighi-foreigners-from-delhi-markaz-released-from-bahraich-jail/articleshow/76759638.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Govt mulls tweak in HMDA layout norm||HYDERABAD: With HMDA’s revenues dipping rapidly due to Covid-19, the municipal administration department is mulling relaxing norms to allow layouts with 40ft road width instead of 100 ft in extent of less than 10 acres. With revenues set to take a fall further and the realty sector witnessing a slump, HMDA is desperately looking for ways and means to draw more applicants.  Sources said the overall revenue used to be about Rs 600 crore a year with a monthly average of Rs 50 crore. “Now, it has fallen to Rs 20 crore in the last two months. It is likely to decrease further in the coming months,” sources said. When contacted, municipal administration principal secretary and HMDA commissioner Arvind Kumar said they are still working out on the relaxations to be extended for the layout permissions. “We are working out what is the best way possible keeping future project in mind,” he said. With construction and reality sector set to take some more time to recover and mounting debts and pending projects to worry about, HMDA has its task cut out. Major revenues to the HMDA comes from building and layout permissions and 10% from rents from complexes and municipal parks’ fees. While there has been an improvement in the construction activity with nearly Rs 550 crore revenues, revenues from the layout permissions however fell. As per the new building and layout norms, layouts in HMDA should have 40 ft road width and 30 ft in nearby districts. But since last year, the HMA was insisting on 100 ft road width for permitting layouts that come up in above 10 acres of extent. Several hundreds of layout files kept piling up and this has impacted the development of layouts. This also gave rise to mushrooming of illegal layouts in the surrounding districts of Hyderabad, sources said. According to the development permission management system, HMDA got only 1,324 open layout applications in the last one-and-a-half years and of them 846 were approved. “Now, there are hardly 100 applications for layouts and buildings in the current year 2020-21,” sources in the HMDA planning wing said. HMDA, which has taken up projects like Balanagar flyover, was meeting its expenditure by auctioning its land such as Uppal Bhagat layout plots. But, it is stopped in its tracks and cannot press ahead with land auctions due to the pandemic and its impact on the realty sector, sources added. In the last three months, the metropolitan authority was able to get a paltry Rs 1 crore. Revenues through layout permissions had reduced to Rs 20 crore in 2019-20 from Rs 80 crore in 2018-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-mulls-tweak-in-hmda-layout-norm/articleshow/76758900.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 3, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Man arrested for killing minor boy in revenge||GURUGRAM: A 37-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly killing a 6-year-old boy in the basement of an under construction house in Sushant Lok on Thursday. According to police, the accused had committed the crime to take revenge from the minor’s father over a fight. “The accused, identified as Maniram, called police to report about the murder and fled from the spot. However, he was arrested later,” a police officer said. Maniram, a native of Madhya Pradesh, works at an under construction house in Sushant Lok and lives at the same place. “On Wednesday, Maniram along with Mukesh, the boy’s father who works as a security guard at a guest house in the same locality, were consuming alcohol. They had some argument followed by a scuffle after which Maniram threatened to take revenge. Mukesh went back to the guest house, where he lives with his wife and two children,” the officer added. On Thursday around 10.30am, Maniram took Mukesh’s 6-year-old son, Sahil, to the basement of the under construction house and slit his throat with a kitchen knife. On the basis of the complaint of Sahil’s mother, Sunita, a case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of IPC at Sushant Lok police station. The accused was arrested within a few hours. “During the investigation, Maniram confessed that he had killed the child after a fight with the father,” said police spokesperson Subhash Boken. In another case, a youth was allegedly stoned to death in Patuadi over personal enmity. The dead body was found on Thursday morning in a field. The deceased was identified as Krishan (34), a resident of Pataudi. A case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of IPC at Pataudi police station. “We suspect that Krishan was killed over personal enmity. An investigation is underway,” a police police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/man-arrested-for-killing-minor-boy-in-revenge/articleshow/76759646.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Vande-4 from today, stranded rile at few flights to Hyd||Hyderabad: As phase 4 of the Vande Bharat Mission takes off — beginning July 3 — scores of passengers from across the globe rue the poor connectivity that it offers with Hyderabad. A quick scan of the chart shows that the country’s official carrier, Air India, has just about four-five direct operations to the city, including US and Philippines, while the rest are being carried out by IndiGo and GoAir. Most of its operations to Hyderabad’s RGIA are from Qatar, Kuwait and UAE. As per the ministry of external affair’s website, phase 4 of the mission has 497 connections on the cards, of which 26 are assigned to Telangana. “Why are there more flights to Kerala than other states. Is this Vande Bharat or Vande Kerala Mission? We are waiting since more than three months and monthly you are scheduling 1 flight to Hyderabad???” asked Mohammed Shoebuddin from Riyadh, while Premkumar Kommeta urged for more flights from Dubai. “The Vande bharat Mission has operated the lowest number of flights so far. Telangana Govt will not care. Please help yourself, (sic)” he wrote tagging the civil aviation minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vande-4-from-today-stranded-rile-at-few-flights-to-hyd/articleshow/76758907.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Airport casual workers to continue strike||Thiruvananthapuram: The confederation of Trivandrum Airport casual workers trade unions has decided to continue the token strike at the airport which began on Wednesday against the layoff of ground handling staff by Air India SATS. The casual labourers under the trade unions are staging protests at the airport. The agitators alleged that termination notices were issued to around 100 staff during lockdown ignoring their proposal for salary cuts. “The region labour commissioner had called for a mediation meeting. Though all representatives of the trade union attended it, no representative from the airport or AISATS came for the meeting. We had called for a two-day token strike and now, we have decided to continue the strike. More than hundred employees are participating in the strike,” said Vinod Yeshudas, working president of Trivandrum Airport Contract Labourers Union. The trade union members claimed that their strike affected the functioning of the airport. “We were informed that cargo operations were hit due to unavailability of employees. The members of all trade unions, CITU, INTUC and BMS are jointly participating in the strike. The company has over 900 staff at the airport, which includes 200 managerial staff. We had requested them not to terminate the staff during the lockdown and that we are ready to take a salary cut. They terminated senior staff with nine years of experience, while retaining newly-recruited staff,” said P Rajendradas, general secretary, Trivandrum International and Domestic Airport Contract Workers Union (CITU). Rajendradas added that they could have cut down on expenses, if they had accepted their proposal instead of terminating the staff. Airport director C V Ravindran, however, said the strike did not affect the functioning of the airport. The number of flights have been reduced and airport operations were not affected due to the strike, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/airport-casual-workers-to-continue-strike/articleshow/76757775.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Warriors in ICU: Breathing new life into critically-ill||Last week, a video message carrying the last words of a young man addressing his father from inside an ICU in Hyderabad went viral on social media. The message gained traction because it was confirmed, soon after his death, that he was Covid-19 positive. Both the government and the doctors sought to assure the public that the death was not preventable and that it did not reflect any shortcomings in their preparedness or commitment. The episode is telling of the extraordinary times we are living through. The pandemic has wreaked havoc upon modern healthcare practices worldwide. There is an overload of severely ill patients requiring advanced life-sustaining treatments (LSTs) in intensive care units everywhere. We are looking at each other to be able to respond to this with compassion. And we are doing our best. We must guard against reading the young man’s parting message to his father as an attempt to malign public infrastructure and services or even the integrity of the ICU staff. Those need scrutiny, but it would be a pity if that is all we get from that message. Covid-19 patients in the ICUs are struggling to communicate with ICU teams. Shortness of breath, presence of electro-mechanical contraptions and delirium severely restricts their ability to communicate. Isolated from familiar environments and people, they experience heightened sense of distress and fear. Family members are in a state of fear and shock, with little to no information being conveyed to them from inside the ICU regarding the patient. The stress caused due to this lack of communication brings a lot of pain to the patient and the family. ICU staff is over worked and are not able to cope with the record keeping, monitoring and intervening work. They have neither the training nor the additional energy to help patients’ families deal with misery and helplessness, with their loved one suffering. Lack of information and inability to communicate is causing a devastating psychological impact on everyone, including attending doctors, who fight high levels of physical and emotional stress. The man’s last words on video - ‘Bye bye daddy - tell of a horrifying failure of communication. Indian medical establishment is built on colonial legacies of masculine authority. The patient and his/her family submits to the best judgement of the doctor and rarely ever asks questions and makes choices. Covid-19 and our structural inabilities to deal with the overload has exposed everyone to the complete breakdown of this model. Compassionate communication involving doctors, patients and their families, is of utmost importance if we have to overcome the present crisis in the ICU. What we can do: 1. Set up video conferencing and telephone calls, allowing families to remain connected with patients and staff in the ICU. 2. Designate counsellors who will be involved in every stage of an ICU admission. They can act as interpreters for families and patients and can help relieve the fear of isolation and psychological suffering. 3. Recruit volunteers who can work as counsellors and ensure that the important link between the doctor and the family is established. Crisis is also a moment of opportunity. The new normal in medical care can be more humane practices and more compassion. (The writer is a medical practitioner, associated with Hyderabad Urban Lab Foundation’s “Covid 19 and the City” initiative)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/warriors-in-icu-breathing-new-life-into-critically-ill/articleshow/76758904.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||NPCI to set up Rs 500 crore smart data centre in city||Hyderabad: The National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI), the umbrella organization for operating retail payments and settlement systems in India, will be setting up its own tier IV, smart data centre at an investment of Rs 500 crore at Narsingi. To be built as per international standards, the data centre will host critical data and services under the government’s Digital India initiatives and make Hyderabad a major hub for processing payments with a capacity of handling around 4,000 million transactions per month worth around Rs 15 lakh crore.  It will have upto 99.995% availability and will comply with full redundant infrastructure (N+N) standards, enabling it to withstand natural calamities like earthquake and cyclones. The eco-friendly data centre will sport a modular design for higher sustainability and will adopt green building features like rain water harvesting and solar panels. Larsen & Toubro has been roped in a turnkey contractor for the project. NPCI managing director & CEO Dilip Asbe said: “Our focus will always remain on enhancing acceptance infrastructure for digital payments so as to encourage customers towards digital transactions to achieve RBI and government's less cash objective. With the smart data center, we are happy to create more employment .”  NPCI chose Telangana as it houses one of the fastest growing IT corridors in the country, has a geographically central location, has adequate availability of qualified manpower, network and infrastructure, stated a release issued by the office of Telangana IT & industries minister KT Rama Rao. He laid the foundation stone of the data centre on Thursday. The setting up of Hyderabad’s first tier IV data centre by NPCI will add to Telangana’s brand equity and help it attract investments in information and communication technology, the release said. The smart data centre will be built using an Internet of Things (IoT) based building management system that will be equipped with an eight-layer security system||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/npci-to-set-up-rs-500-crore-smart-data-centre-in-city/articleshow/76758912.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||After morning walkers, rowers return to lake||Kolkata: Rowing resumed at Rabindra Sarobar on Thursday with single-scullers, a day after the 192-acre complexreopened its gates to morning walkers. Ujjal Dugar, chairman, Bengal Rowing Club (BRC), told TOI, “We started with single-scull rowing to resume our water-based sessions as part of a phased approach to bring athletes back.” Multiple sculling will start gradually, depending on the situation, Dugar added. Established in 1929, BRC is one of the city’s oldest rowing clubs. Dugar said the club had on Monday decided to recommence minimal activity and made its plans known to members by the evening. “I feel very happy to be back in the lake water,” said Swati Bajaj, a seasoned rower. “My husband and our two kids are also rowers. So we all drove to the club this morning,” the 45-year-old added. The excitement was the same for Class XII student Pratik Gupta who said, “I was waiting for rowing to restart ever since the unlock was announced. The club had been closed since mid-March and I have been practising on my indoor rowing machine, which, of course, does not compare to the real sport. On Thursday, we wore masks and sanitized our equipment according to Covid-safety norms, but it was great to be back.” Green activist S M Ghosh, who had been lobbying for reopening of the Lake for morning walkers, said, “It is good to see the Lake limping back to normal after the Amphan devastation. We only wish the place would be cleaned up.” “The resumption of rowing activity will be limited to the reopening of the site’s outdoor area to accommodate water-based training,” said an official of KMDA, the custodian of the lake. “This would be in line with government guidance which says that the risk of spreading coronavirus is lower in open spaces. Indoor facilities will remain shut for now,” the official added. However, the other rowing clubs are not looking to reopen yet. Subrata Guha, secretary of Lake Club, said, “We shall decide only after a meeting on Saturday. Only single sculling is possible under the current circumstances.” Calcutta Rowing Club secretary Chandan Roy Chowdhury said, “As per the sports department guidelines, sports activities can’t start until July 31. It is not safe to open up now.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Tuesday announced that morning walkers could resume their daily stroll at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar from Wednesday. The gates of the two lakes now open for three hours from 5.30am every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-morning-walkers-rowers-return-to-lake/articleshow/76758944.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 3, 2020||Kochi||Relatives blame botched angio for woman’s death||ALAPPUZHA: The family members of a 54-year-old woman, who died on Tuesday after undergoing an angiogram a month ago at a private hospital at Thattarambalam near Mavelikkara, have sought police probe alleging that medical negligence caused her death. A police team led by Kareelakulangara circle inspector Anilkumar S L began a probe into the death of Bindu P J of Chingoli. As per the complaint of 27-year-old Adarsh Ram, his mother Bindu was taken to VSM Hospital, Thattarambalam, due to vomiting and dizziness at 7pm on June 3. “On June 4, my mother was subjected to an echo test in the hospital. After that, the cardiologist there recommended an angiogram to check for blocked vessels. She was taken to cath lab by 11.30am. “Around 1.40pm, the doctor told us that a block was found in the right chamber of her heart and recommended bypass surgery. He also told us that during the angiogram, the catheter got broken and stuck to the left ventricle of the heart. The doctor also referred my mother to a hospital at Parumala as VSM Hospital did not have the facilities for carrying out an open-heart surgery to remove the broken catheter. So, we took her to Parumala and doctors there removed the catheter the same day,” Adarsh said in his complaint. “The doctors at the Parumala hospital told us that there was no need for angiogram on her as the block could have been treated by medicines. My mother was discharged from the hospital on June 9. After that, we went to Parumala hospital on June 17 and 26 for checkup. But on June 30, my mother collapsed in our home and we took her to a nearby hospital. But she died before our arrival at the hospital,” Adarsh said. According to Bindu’s relatives, she was healthy before undergoing the angiogram at VSM Hospital. Kareelakulangara CI said after receiving the complaint from her relatives, police sought a report from a panel of doctors on her death. “As per their report, the cause of her death was a fresh heart attack and it has no relation to her previous medical history,” he said. “As per postmortem, the injury caused by the broken catheter was healed. But, a detailed inquiry is on to check whether there was medical negligence,” police said. Police have registered a case of unnatural death in connection with her death. Kerala Human Rights Commission has also directed Alappuzha district police chief to probe the incident by a police officer not below the rank of DySP. The VSM hospital authorities told TOI that the incident took place in the hospital a month ago and she had been also referred her to the nearby private hospital after the incident. “She recovered from it and we don’t know the present reason for her death,” said a hospital official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/relatives-blame-botched-angio-for-womans-death/articleshow/76757831.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chennai||No accreditation for state’s consultant; Centre defers Cuddalore port expansion||Chennai: The Centre has deferred a proposal to grant environmental and coastal zone regulation clearance to the state government’s ambitious project -- expansion of Cuddalore port estimated to cost Rs 135 crore. This was because the consultant engaged by the state to undertake environment impact assessment for the project did not have a valid accreditation certificate for the last fifteen months. In its recent meeting, the expert appraisal committee (infrastructure) of the Union environment ministry found the accreditation of the consultant, Centre for Environment and Safety, Annamalai University, had expired in February last year. “As per the provisions of Environment Impact Assessment Notification, 2006, only accredited consultants are eligible to make the presentation,” the committee observed. It recommended that the proposal be deferred so as to seek a valid accreditation certificate and signed copy of the environment impact assessment/environment management plan report containing signatures of all the team members. The state-run Tamil Nadu Maritime Board that operates Cuddalore port has planned to enhance the cargo handling capacity with construction of two additional berths in the existing breakwaters, besides cargo storage system and dredging of 18.73 lakh cubic metre. The Cuddalore port is almost defunct for want of dredging to make the existing wharf to become operational for multi-cargo handling for 5.68MTPA of varied cargo of coal, fertiliser, cement and containers. Incidentally, the proposal has been deferred by the expert appraisal committee for the third time. When the maritime board and consultant made a detailed presentation in February, the committee observed there were so many discrepancies in the presentation and asked it to submit point-wise compliance of the terms of reference granted for the environment impact assessment study. In May, the proposal was again deferred when the board did not take part in the meeting through video conferencing. On the request from the board, the committee again considered the proposal in its June meeting. “The board, however, uploaded an unsigned copy of the environment impact assessment report (of the consultant) on the portal,” the committee observed. TNCC president and former Cuddalore MP K S Alagiri criticised the official machinery for impeding the development of the port. “The chief secretary and secretary of highways department should be held responsible for negligence,” the Congress leader said. A source said the Maritime board was caught unawares by the developments. “The consultant from Annamalai University applied for renewal of accreditation from National Accreditation Board for Education and Training. The board was not aware of the expiry of accreditation until recently,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-accreditation-for-states-consultant-centre-defers-cuddalore-port-expansion/articleshow/76758918.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad ward officers get powers to clear civic works||AURANGABAD: In a major reform, ward officers of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) have been given absolute power to clear civic works at ward-level along with release of payment towards these works to the contractors. Also, the ward officers will now have power to sanction work of up to Rs 2.5 lakh in their respective wards and total expenditure limit per year is set as Rs 10 lakh. Municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey, who is serving as an administrator of the local civic body, declared the key reforms in the functioning of ward officers by allotting them more powers. Pandey on Wednesday held a special meeting of ward officers and announced different reforms in the functioning of ward offices. A ward officer, who attended the meeting, said the Pandey has reconstituted the structure and power of ward offices by offering more powers to ward officers. “The remark of ward officer has been made mandatory for every project file and payment of dues. The civic work related to construction, electricity and public amenities will be initiated and closed only after official remark from ward officer. The contractors undertaking work will receive payment after approval from the ward officer,” he said on Thursday. Another ward officer said financial powers allotted to them will help in improving proper maintenance and improvement of civic amenities. “The ward officer did not have any financial power for taking civic works on their own. The necessary work had to be routed through the headquarters which was time-consuming process,” he said. The ward officers have been also given powers to appoint or transfer employees and staffers as per their discretion. Pandey has also formed a three-member panel that has been tasked to carry out work for bringing uniformity in looks of all nine ward offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-ward-officers-get-powers-to-clear-civic-works/articleshow/76756469.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Webinar on apprenticeship in hospitals||AURANGABAD: The Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture (CMIA) will organize a webinar on Friday to promote apprenticeship schemes in hospitals. “The webinar is being jointly organised by the CMIA, Vocational Education and Training, Healthcare Sector-skill Council and GIZ (Aurangabad) to bring all the stakeholders together on a common platform and discuss the need for manpower in the paramedical field,” said Ashish Garde, former CMIA president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/webinar-on-apprenticeship-in-hospitals/articleshow/76756485.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Many migrants head home fearing another lockdown||Hyderabad: Panthangi Toll Plaza on National Highway 65 continued to witness traffic snarls on Thursday as hundreds of people left Hyderabad for their native places in Andhra Pradesh, mostly due to fears over another lockdown in Hyderabad. Government sources, however, had said they were not planning a lockdown again. According to toll plaza officials, the number of vehicles that pass through the plaza daily has gone up to 25,000 vehicles in the past 24 hours, from about 15,000 or 16,000 on a regular day. Those attempting to leave include daily wagers, construction workers and domestic helps. B Kamala, a 38-year-old domestic help said: “Once lockdown is imposed, they will ban the entry of domestic helps in apartments. If we don’t leave immediately, we will be stuck here with no work or food to eat.” Kamala hired an auto rickshaw along with six other people who plan to share expenses until they reach Vijayawada. Similar is the story of construction workers and daily wagers waiting for trains at a shelter near Secunderabad station. When asked if contractors or any government authorities had approached them to inform about measures that will be taken if the lockdown is reimposed, Sumitra Mand, a construction worker at Uppal, said: “Nothing has been informed to us. We are leaving because we will not have any work if they announce lockdown..” Sumitra is planning to go back to Bengal with her husband and two children.. Volunteers of Bhumika Women’s Collective, an NGO coordinating with SCR to send migrants back, said the number of migrants coming to the shelter has increased in the past few days. “Workers who are thronging the station in the hope to catch a train to their native places are being directed to the shelter by RPF and traffic police,” said Ram Prasad of Bhumika Women’s Collective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-migrants-head-home-fearing-another-lockdown/articleshow/76759323.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||HC allows realty firm’s plea for developing 119 acres in Kukatpally||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court allowed Prime Properties and two other companies to present their development agreement before sub-registrar for developing 119 acres of land (survey no.1007) in Kukatpally. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy, which heard contentions of Prime Properties and two others through counsel Satheesh Parasaran, said Bhagyanagar Cooperative Housing Society, which claimed rights over the parcel of land, did not have any title over the land. They also brushed aside objections of the Society over nature of the land, prohibition on registration, etc. The bench, in one of its findings, said: “Ünless and until the land is published in the list of prohibition maintained by the registration authorities, the registration of the said document cannot be stopped.” The court also said once it was held that it was not agricultural land, the provisions of the Agricultural Ceiling Act would no longer apply. It also said that the registration authorities were allowing registration of documents in survey number 1007. The bench, however made it clear that all orders in the case would be subject to the final order of the Supreme Court, where pleas pertaining to it were pending. Parties were also free to thrash out issues related to the flow of title before competent civil courts, it said. Allowing the appellants to approach the sub-registrar to register their papers, the bench said: “The registering authority shall receive and process the document, subject to the appellants complying with the provisions of the Indian Registration Act, 1908, and the Indian Stamps Act, 1899. It will be open to the authority either to refuse or receive the document. If the authority has any other objection, he can communicate the same by duly assigning the reason in support of such decision. It is made clear that mere registration of document does not confer title to the property”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-allows-realty-firms-plea-for-developing-119-acres-in-kukatpally/articleshow/76759289.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Govt panel to look into woes of autorickshaw & taxi drivers||AURANGABAD: The state government has formed a panel to address the issues faced by autorickshaw and taxi drivers during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The panel is a sub-committee of the recently formed task force that is expected to look into the issues faced by the transport industry in Maharashtra. Led by deputy transport commissioner Rajendra Kadam, the 14-member sub-committee also has representatives from autorickshaw and taxi drivers’ associations from different parts of Maharashtra. Nisar Ahmed Khan, a panel member from Marathwada, said autorickshaw drivers were facing acute financial crisis during the outbreak of Covid-19. “Every auto driver must receive financial help of Rs 10,000 each to deal with the current crisis. The government should also not issue new permits for autorickshaw in near future. This will indirectly help the autorickshaw drivers,” he said. Khan said the virtual meeting of the sub-committee is expected to be held shortly. “It is a positive step to form a panel for auto and taxi drivers. We hope the recommendations made by panel are taken seriously,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/govt-panel-to-look-into-woes-of-autorickshaw-taxi-drivers/articleshow/76756529.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Misinformed, owners abandon pets at vet hospitals||HYDERABAD: The misconception that pets can transmit Covid-19 infection is turning the government veterinary hospitals into dumping grounds for these hapless animals. Several pet owners of twin cities are abandoning their dogs on the premises of these facilities. In the last four months, animal welfare activists and the staff at veterinary hospitals in Bhoiguda and Narayanguda said that they have noticed at least 30 such cases. On Wednesday alone, B Sahith Reddy, an individual volunteer rescued two dogs from the Bhoiguda hospital. “On receiving information about the abandoned dog, I visited the hospital and saw a Pomeranian chained to a pole inside the hospital. I tried rescuing it, but the dog was scared and did not let me get close. I went back on Thursday morning and saw that the dog was still there. I gave the dog some treats and brought him home,” said Reddy. However, Dr Nagaraju, a veterinarian at Bhoiguda hospital denied the claims. He said, “People usually leave dogs here when they go out for work. They take them back later. We have a few cases where people have abandoned dogs outside the hospital premises but not inside.” Animal welfare volunteers say that pedigree dog breeds like labradors, German shepherds, golden retrievers and huskies are being abandoned in and around veterinary hospitals and shelters after the outbreak of the pandemic. “The average number of calls received by animal welfare organisations in the city regarding such cases, has increased from one to two cases per week to at least three per day,” said Aanchal Khanna, an animal activist. Khanna said an adult Pomeranian had been abandoned outside her house on Tuesday. “The dog was found with a tumour and died within two days, just before the scheduled surgery. People are abandoning pets due to fear that that they could transmit Covid-19. This is happening since the beginning of the pandemic despite WHO stating that pets cannot transmit Covid-19,” she said. Dr Jasleen Kaur from Allvet Pet Clinic said, “Pets do not get Covid-19. They do not get the strain of coronavirus that can be transmitted from them to humans. There is absolutely no reason to abandon your pet or send it to a shelter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/misinformed-owners-abandon-pets-at-vet-hospitals/articleshow/76759690.cms||Moulika.KV
July 3, 2020||Lucknow||Babri demolition case: Uma Bharati pleads innocence||Lucknow: Senior BJP leader Uma Bharti on Thursday deposed in person before a special CBI court, Lucknow, conducting trial in the Babri mosque demolition case and told the judge she was innocent, while blaming the then Congress-led Central government for implicating her. The 61-year-old saffron-clad BJP leader is the 19th accused to depose in court in the over three decades-old case. Responding to Special Judge S K Yadav’s query, Bharati said, “The case against me is a political conspiracy and the then Congress government got the cases lodged on fabricated evidence. The chargesheet filed in court was done under political pressure.” Replying to 1,050 questions asked by the special court, she said, “I will produce my defence in court.” Thirteen other accused, including former deputy prime minister L K Advani and senior BJP leaders M M Joshi and Kalyan Singh are yet to be examined at this stage. The accused who are above the age of 65 have preferred to depose through video-conferencing. The special court is on the verge of completing trial proceedings in the case and is currently recording statements of 32 accused under Section 313 CrPC, a stage in trial that allows examination of the accused. Earlier, Bharati’s appearance in trial proceedings was exempted in 2017. But as her appearance was necessary under Section 313 of CrPC, the special judge called her to court. She came along with her lawyers Vimal Kumar Srivastava, K K Mishra and Abhisekh Ranjan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/babri-demolition-case-uma-bharati-pleads-innocence/articleshow/76759675.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Eye on polls, TRS govt to release Secunderabad Cantonment Board ’s dues||SECUNDERABAD: The TRS government seems to be getting ready for the SCB elections. Though the elections (scheduled to be held in February this year) were postponed, it appears the ruling TRS has set its eyes on winning the Secunderabad Cantonment Board and Thursday’s move by the government to release pending dues of Rs 80 crore to the fund-starved board makes the party’s intentions clear. The dues, which have been pending for the last five years, will be paid in a phased manner to the cantonment board. Finance minister T Harish Rao on Thursday accepted a plea from SCB officials and assured to release the pending dues from this month onwards. He made this promise at a special meeting convened by him. Two ministers — Talasani Srinivas Yadav and Ch Malla Reddy — and SCB ward members were present at the meeting. The SCB officials had made a fervent plea to Yadav and Malla Reddy to clear the dues at a meeting on July 1. Sources said that following the government’s assurance, proposals of key projects and resolutions, which were passed at the general body meetings in the last five years, will now be fast-tracked. The focus would be improving civic amenities and roads and get them ready much before the poll bugle is sounded. “The finance department will release Rs 10 crore every month to the cantonment board. The FM asked his department to make the necessary arrangements to release funds to SCB,” ward member J Maheswara Reddy, who attended the meeting, told TOI. He said the funds would help in implementing pending developmental works in the eight civilian wards. SCB vice-president J Rama Krishna said some of the works would be taken up immediately. “The Centre may announce the cantonment board polls any time and we have to complete the works before the poll schedule. During the last election, we had promised the voters to resolve various civic issues. Unfortunately, we were not able to complete them due to fund shortage. Now, we will finish the works,” he added. A ward member said their fight with the government for release of dues has finally yielded a result. He said a meeting with minister for municipal administration KT Rama Rao would be held soon to iron out the water tariff issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eye-on-polls-trs-govt-to-release-scbs-dues/articleshow/76759274.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana Pollution Control Board orders firm to clean up chromium landfill site||HYDERABAD: The Telangana Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) has issued directions to Vishu Chemicals, located at Gaddapotharam in the city outskirts, to clear the hazardous waste causing pollution. The landfill where the industry dumps its waste is reported to contain over two lakh tonnes of chromium lying around. Vishnu Chemicals is a manufacturer of basic chromium sulphate, sodium di-chromate and yellow sodim sulphate. In 1999, the industry had obtained permission to process sludge at Gaddipotharam, which is located around 500 metres from the factory premises, for secured storage after treatment. In 2009, the industry had submitted an action plan for capping and closure of the existing landfill at Gaddipotharam. The industry has now been asked to transfer all hazardous waste from the sire to the centralised treatment storage and disposal facility (TSDF). In 2018, the National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) had carried out a study and given recommendations to control seepage collection in the sump. The pollution board had also issued directions to the industries association in Kazipally and Gaddipotharam to control seepage, however, nothing has been done on the ground. Despite repeated assurances, no action has been taken which has endangered the lives of those residing around the site. Following a complaint by P Damodar Reddy to the pollution board’s task force, the PCB has now ordered the immediate shifting of entire chemical sludge to TSDF. “Presently, the chemical dump has more than two lakh tonnes of waste,” Reddy said in his complaint. In its latest order on June 30, the TSPCB said: “The industry shall lift the hazardous waste stored in the secured off-site landfill to TSDF. The industry shall furnish action plant with specific timelines to lift the hazardous waste to TSDF in 15 days.” Locals have also demanded that Vishnu Chemicals move the chromium waste from the site in order to prevent health complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tspcb-orders-firm-to-clean-up-chromium-landfill-site/articleshow/76759312.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Khairatabad Ganesh darshan to go online due to pandemic||HYDERABAD: In tune with the scenario due to the coronavirus pandemic, the Khairatabad Ganesh Utsav Committee has selected the Dhanwantari (doctor to the gods) model for this year’s Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. As compared to last year’s idol which stood 66-feet tall, this year’s idol will be around 27 feet, committee members confirmed. “The committee’s decision on the idol’s height will be brought to the notice of the police department in order to obtain the permit for preparations. In case, the police does allow us to build a 27-foot idol, we seek their suggestion on the height of the idol,” Khairatabad Ganesh Utsav Committee founder and president, S Sudershan told TOI. Keeping in mind the current situation, the committee has also decided to provide an online darshan service for the Khairatabad Ganesh. “Live feeds of Ganesh pujas will be aired through our portal. The committee has also decided to put up proper barricades in order to maintain proper social distance. This, however, depends on the police department’s permission to allow devotees to visit the pandal,” the committee president said. Should things go as per plan, preparation of the idol will begin from July 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/khairatabad-ganesh-darshan-to-go-online-due-to-pandemic/articleshow/76759341.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Heavy rain lashes coast||Mangaluru: The coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Uttara Kannada received heavy rain as predicted by the meteorological department that had sounded orange alert. The highest rainfall of 94.5mm was recorded at Ganjimutt of Mangaluru taluk on Thursday. The rainfall was widespread with moderate-to-heavy rain in all taluks of the three districts. The Met department sounded warning for fishermen not to venture into the sea, observing that strong winds with speed reaching 50-60kmph were likely to prevail over Southwest and West Central Arabian Sea till July 5. In the last 24 hours (till 8.30am on Thursday), the district received an average of 18mm of rainfall, with Bantwal and Mangaluru taluks receiving 31mm (the highest) and 29mm, respectively. The least was recorded at Sullia: 2mm. Udupi district received 20mm and Uttara Kannada district received 11mm of rainfall. Meanwhile, four houses were inundated after water from the overflowing stormwater drain entered the houses at Kolambe Adyapady. A house was partially damaged after the compound wall collapsed on it, at Gorigudde First Cross. Traffic was affected at Veeranagara, Kannur area, after a compound wall collapsed on to the main road. Traffic was also affected at Alape as the Padil underpass was inundated. Many arterial roads — Falnir, K S Rao Road, Attavar and Kottara Chowki — were also affected as roads were water-logged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/heavy-rain-lashes-coast/articleshow/76753855.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Cancelled Kuwait-MIA flight rescheduled to July 4||MANGALURU: Several Kuwait expats heaved a sigh of relief after the chartered flight cancelled at the last minute was rescheduled to depart on July 4. The decision came after the timely intervention of former MLC Capt Ganesh Karnik and Shobha Karandlaje, MP, Udupi-Chikkamagaluru. On June 27, scores of expats who were eagerly waiting to return to India were left in the lurch after the Karnataka government withdrew approval given for Kuwait-Mangaluru chartered flight (IndiGo, 6E 1758). Expats from Kuwait told TOI that after the flight was cancelled, they contacted Karnik and Karandlaje. “They positively responded to our plea and ensured the state government gave a green signal to fly and land in Mangaluru International Airport. The flight is now scheduled for July 4,” said an expat. Mohandas Kamath, an expat from Kuwait coordinated with the officials for the governemnt nod, said many expats were leaving for India for good. “Several of them have terminated their rental contracts, transferred money to India and have kept with themselves only the cash required for journey. As the flight cancelled, they had to find alternate arrangements which is difficult during the pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cancelled-kuwait-mia-flight-rescheduled-to-july-4/articleshow/76759295.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||UK Bengalis ready with lockdown film||Kolkata: A film made by Bengalis in London, based on their experiences during the lockdown, is set for its social media release on Friday. ‘Uttoron’ is a collaboration between the London-based Bengal Heritage Foundation (BHF) and British Council Kolkata, and was inspired by the experiences of London-based CA Anirban Mukhopadhyay, whom doctors and nurses of NHS gave a standing ovation on his release from Harefield Hospital on May 22. Debanjan Chakrabarti, director, British Council, East and Northeast India, said, “The film celebrates the resilience and the compassion of individuals and communities in India and the UK who were caught unawares by the lockdown, but rallied around each other and helped us heal.” The 43-strong cast includes Nick Low, Kolkata’s British deputy high commissioner who plays himself. “It’s a lovely film with a message of support and solidarity,” Low said. The crew, mostly Londoners, shot the movie on iPhones in living rooms and backyards. “It is the real on the reel,” said Mukhopadhyay. “Everything we have been going through here, as well as the experiences of our families in Kolkata, have been expressed in the film,” said Kaushik Chatterjee, who directed the film in Bengali with English subtitles. “The music album has 175,000 views already,” said Tanusree Guha, director, Bank of America, who has sung the theme song. IT professional and fellow Londoner Sambrita Das said, “The song ‘All will be well one day’ struck my husband Sudipta Mondal one evening and he video-called BHF members.” Mondal, an IT professional, said, “I thought we could chronicle the experiences of quarantined NRIs.” “The bouquet of stories shows how UK and Bengal are connected even in the most trying times,” said BHF president Sourav Niyogi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/uk-bengalis-ready-with-lockdown-film/articleshow/76758952.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 3, 2020||Vadodara||Ex-boyfriend stalks MSU staffer||Vadodara: A staffer in MS University’s administrative department has alleged sexual harassment by her former boyfriend on Thursday morning. In her complaint to the police, the 27-year-old woman said that accused Kishan Joshi reached her workplace on Thursday morning and started harassing her. She alleged that Joshi, a resident of Padra, had been blackmailing her for a long time as she had broken off their relationship in October last year. Police said that the accused used to pressurize her to continue their relationship and even blackmailed her of uploading their old photos on Facebook. On Thursday morning when Joshi refused to leave from the workplace, she called the police control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ex-boyfriend-stalks-msu-staffer/articleshow/76757345.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Vadodara||No towering idols this Ganesha festival||Vadodara: Cynosure of every Ganesha festival, the towering idols of Ganapati will be significantly missed this time in the city. A number of Ganesha pandal organizers have decided to install smaller idols this time owing to the coronavirus pandemic. It will be for the first time in decades that idols as small as two-feet would be installed in big Ganesha pandals. Even the city police have suggested smaller idols in some pandals that are popular among the devotees. “Usually our pandal has an idol 18 to 20-feet high. But this time we have decided to install a two-feet high idol and also scale down celebrations amid the Covid fears. The idea is to deter people from thronging at the pandals,” said Nailesh Brahmbhatt, chairman of Manmohan Yuvak Mandal and Charitable Trust in Manjalpur. The 32-year-old mandal has been installing a fibre Ganesha idol for the past so many years. One of the oldest Ganesha pandals in the city, known for installing towering Ganesha idols, the Pratap Marghani Pol Yuvak Mandal too has decided to reduce the size of its idol this year. “We will break away from our tradition this time. It will bring down the expenses and also ensure no crowding of devotees,” said Jay Thakore. Nearly a dozen big pandals in the city have decided to abide by the government orders. The police have also asked idol makers to refrain from making any big idols. The idol makers too haven’t made any big Ganesha idol yet. “We haven’t got orders to make high idols this time and I think most pandals will install smaller idols only,” said Ghanshyam Kahar, who makes some of the big Ganesha idols in the city. “Considering the spread of Covid-19, any large gathering has to be avoided. We have suggested pandal organizers not to install big idols. The government directions are expected in next couple of days,” said K G Bhaati, joint police commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-towering-idols-this-ganesha-festival/articleshow/76757319.cms||Tushar Tere
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Four booked for trespass, assault of guard||Hyderabad: A criminal case has been registered against four persons on the charges of trespassing into an open land and demolishing a few structures, besides assaulting the watchman. Following a complaint from businessman N Mohan Reddy, a case was registered under sections 427(mischief causing damage) and 447 (criminal trespass) of the Indian Penal Code by Alwal police. Mohan told cops that he has been in possession of 3.24 acres of land since 2003. On Tuesday, the four accused along with their henchman entered his land and began taking up ground-levelling works using an earthmover. When the watchman tried to stop them, he was manhandled. They later demolished a room in which the watchman had been residing. In the past, Mohan had filed a case in a local court accusing one of the accused of creating fabricated documents. The case is still pending in the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-booked-for-trespass-assault-of-guard/articleshow/76737891.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad reports 206 Covid cases||AURANGABAD: The district has registered 206 fresh Covid-19 patients on Thursday, including 123 males and 83 females, taking the total number of Covid cases to 5,988. This is the second time that Aurangabad crossed the 200-mark on a single day. Meanwhile, to keep a check on the spread of the contagion, Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad has imposed a curfew between 7 pm and 5 am from Thursday onward, which would be in force till July 15. While calling it to be a part of the Mission Begin Again, Prasad said that no one under the limist of the police commissionerate would be allowed to move around after 7 pm, even in lanes and bylanes. The vehicular movement will also be restricted. The order also made it clear that during the non-curfew hours, the residents have to follow the norms strictly. The police commissioner has exempted those providing essential services and those going to work in industrial areas from the curfew, but they have to carry their identity cards. Number of active patients almost same as recoveries While the district currently has 2,860 active cases, it has also seen 2,857 Covid patients recover so far. Till date, the district has recorded 271 Covid-related deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-reports-206-covid-cases/articleshow/76756508.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Committee for SUK sub-centre||Kolhapur: Maharashtra government’s higher and technical education department has set up a six-member committee to suggest steps to help Marathi-speaking youths living in areas bordering the state who cannot complete education because of a language barrier. The department issued a notification on June 30 and the VC and registrar of Shivaji University-Kolhapur, district collector, superintendent of police, director technical education and one Dr Deepak Pawar are members of the committee. SUK registrar Vilas Nandavadekar said the committee has options like the setting up of a sub-centre of the university, granting permission to a private college or start a new government college for Marathi-speaking students. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/committee-for-suk-sub-centre/articleshow/76756547.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CPM, CPI differ over Jose faction’s entry into LDF||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/KOTTAYAM: CPM and CPI have expressed contrasting views over the kind of alliance with Jose K Mani faction of Kerala Congress (M) which has drifted away from UDF following differences over Kottayam district panchayat president post. CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan wrote an article in party mouthpiece signalling party’s soft stand towards the Jose faction. He said the Kerala Congress has a mass base in Kottayam and with the party coming out of the UDF, the Congress-led front is going to disintegrate in Kottayam district. The UDF had started disintegrating in the state when Loktantric Janata Dal quit the front and joined hands with the LDF, Kodiyeri said. However, CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran refuted the claim made by Balakrishnan that Jose has mass base in Kottayam district. “Everyone realised his mass base in Pala bypoll. The Christian vote bank is not the monopoly of anyone. The LDF will also get the Christian votes; this was proved in the bypoll,’’ Rajendran said. No discussion has occurred in the LDF on inviting the Jose faction to the front. Hence there is no point in answering the queries on whether the Kerala Congress faction will be joining the LDF fold, he added. On whether the CPI is worried over its prominence in the LDF if Kerala Congress faction is invited to the LDF fold, the CPI state secretary said, “The CPI has 19 MLAs and Jose K Mani faction has only 2 MLAs. Then how will CPI be affected?’’  “Mani C Kappan could win the Pala bypoll because the LDF stood united. The LDF can win and come back to power without the support of Kerala Congress,’’ he said. Meanwhile, Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K Mani said he was happy that LDF and its leaders realized the strength of his party. The Left leaders are aware of party’s clout in central Travancore, he said. Jose reiterated that expelling them from the UDF was injustice. Either a notice or a ‘no trust’ had to be moved before expelling them in the name of district panchayat president post, he said. Kerala Congress is a party with a strong base and it can show its strength even if it is not part of any political front, he said. Jose also said no talks have been held with any fronts. Pala MLA Mani C Kappen has welcomed Jose into the LDF. However, he said even if Jose comes into the LDF he won’t be given Pala seat. “I have got the assurance from the LDF,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-cpi-differ-over-jose-factions-entry-into-ldf/articleshow/76757857.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Groundnut yield in Gujarat to be highest in decade||AHMEDABAD: Groundnut production in the state is heading towards a record yield this year that may be the highest annual groundnut crop yield in a decade, say agriculture experts. An official of the state agricultur department said, “This year, we estimate groundnut sowing to cross 19 lakh hectares and with plentiful rain the yield will touch 40 lakh tonnes.” The official said groundnut sowing had already crossed the annual acreage of 15.40 lakh hectares and reached 16.36 lakh hectares with almost a month of sowing season still in hand. The official said, “The sowing until now is just 60,000 hectares short of that in the entire kharif season in 2016, when 16.42 lakh hectares were sown. That was probably the highest since 2011.”  Higher yield and better returns in groundnut last year, and comparatively poorer returns in cotton, made many farmers switch to the oilseed crop this kharif season. Last year, groundnut was cultivated in nearly 10 lakh hectares. This year, the area sown with the crop is already 60% larger. “Around 85-90% sowing of groundnut has been completed across the state. I think, there is room for addition of another 1.5 to 2 lakh hectares at least,” said Samir Shah, president, Saurashtra Oil Mills Association (SOMA). “Going by the progress, groundnut acreage is set to be the highest since 2008-09,” he added. “Increase in groundnut acreage will also help reduce our dependence on import of edible oils,” Shah added. According to SOMA, groundnut acreage had touched a record high of 19.07 lakh hectares last in 2008-09. After having remained subdued at the onset of the season last year, groundnut prices recovered and hovered around the minimum support price of Rs 1,018 per 20kg. Currently, the prices range from Rs 1,100-1,150 per 20kg. Vegetable oil industry body, the Solvent Extractors’ Association of India (SEA) had estimated the kharif groundnut production to be 32.15 lakh tonnes on a total acreage of 15.52 lakh hectares in 2019-20. The yield increased to 2,070kg per hectare in favourable weather conditions. SOMA, on the other hand, had estimated 30 lakh tonnes. K L Dobariya, a former professor in Junagadh Agriculture University said that the intensive sowing of groundnut indicates that farmers are moving away from cotton due to pink bollworm. “The yield last year of over 200kg per hectare will stay this year too as rain and atmosphere is conducive for groundnut,” Dobariya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/groundnut-yield-to-be-highest-in-decade/articleshow/76758973.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
July 3, 2020||Lucknow||Rights panel summons officials over arsenic in water for schoolchildren||Lucknow: Displeased with the education department and Ballia district administration for not submitting a report on arsenic poisoning in water being supplied to schools, the National Humans Rights Commission has taken action. It has summoned the principal secretary, education, and the Ballia district magistrate to appear personally before it for a hearing. Despite an order dated January 27, 2019, and subsequent reminders, the commission has said in its most recent order that it is “pained and takes a serious note of the non-responsive attitude of the principal secretary, department of education, government of Uttar Pradesh and the district magistrate, Ballia” and says that “some strict action is warranted in this case”. The case, filed by Saurabh Singh of Inner Voice Foundation in Varanasi in 2016, pertains to allegations that a high level of arsenic has been found in hand pumps installed in schools across Ballia. On January 27, 2019, the commission had noted that the complainant had provided details to show how the arsenic situation in schools had become worse over the years. “In fact, they are helpless and struggling with crisis and do not know what to do. They have shared the reports/letters from school of Varanasi, Ghazipur, Chandauli and Allahabad where arsenic contamination has spread. Government has not been able to tackle the situation in Ballia where contamination was reported first,” the commission had said. It had asked the DM and principal secretary, education, to submit reports on the complaint but has not yet received anything from either till now. Therefore, under section 13 (a) of Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993, the commission has directed the principal secretary (education) and DM Ballia to appear in person before it on August 14 to file the requisite reports. It has added that if the reports are submitted before August 7, then their personal appearance will be dispensed with. Singh, who has filed the complaint, said that children exposed to arsenic at a young age would grow up with severe health problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rights-panel-summons-officials-over-arsenic-in-water-for-schoolchildren/articleshow/76759686.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Unmasked: Highest mask violations in Telangana are from Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Even as experts across the world are buttressing the need to wear masks, many Hyderabadis appear to be least bothered about covering their faces. As the number of Covid-19 infections in the state breach the 18,000 mark, the city not only contributed the highest number of cases in Telangana, but close to 14,931 people, the highest in the state, were booked for not wearing the mask. Experts feel that large scale violation of this basic guideline is the reason behind the sharp increase of coronavirus cases in the city. Ramagundam is second in this dubious list with 8,290 cases while Khammam is third with 6,372 violators, taking the total tally in the state to 70,485. Surprisingly, only 2,996 such cases were booked so far in Cyberabad. While some without masks are being stopped by the police on the roads, many others without this protective cover are tracked through CCTVs by using Artificial Intelligence (AI). E-challans are being issued to them. However, many, including doctors, believe that the need of the hour is to intensify the enforcement of wearing masks. “Wherever I go, I notice many without masks. If a person is still not tested for Covid-19, he/she should show more responsibility by voluntarily wearing masks. Otherwise an asymptomatic coronavirus positive patient, unknowingly, can spread the virus. The concerned government agencies should definitely intensify the crack down though they might have limitations, considering our population. But the existing enforcement is insignificant,’’ said Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, secretary of Indian Medical Association, Telangana. However, a few police officers said that it is difficult to punish all the violators as the cops are already burdened with various other responsibilities after the outbreak of the pandemic. Moreover, many cops have been already affected by this virus. “Using technology, we are booking cases wherever it is possible. But we need voluntary cooperation from the public. While a significant number of people are following proper precautions there are many who are quite irresponsible,’’ a senior Telangana police officer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unmasked-highest-mask-violations-in-t-are-from-hyd/articleshow/76759711.cms||Srinath Vudali
July 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Land allotted for medical college||Kolhapur: The state government has allotted 64 acre of land in Krishna Nagar area, Satara, giving way to the starting of a medical college at Satara, which will begin next year. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has asked the local administration to take immediate steps to complete the procedure for handing over the land. According to a press communication from Pawar’s office, Krishna Nagar land is owned by Maharashtra Krishna Valley Development Corporation (MKVDC) and they will be given an alternative 70 acres land at Khawli village in Satara district. Pawar has instructed to start the construction considering the requirements for the next 100 years. The government had sanctioned the 500-bedded medical college in 2012, with Rs 419 crore being sanctioned for the purpose..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/land-allotted-for-medical-college/articleshow/76756568.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||Amphan relief: Aid pours in for kids in city & Sunderbans||Kolkata: After Cyclone Amphan had devastated villages in the Sunderbans, relief poured in from all quarters. From NGOs to individuals, several hundred compassionate people risked the threat of acquiring the Covid-19 infection to reach out to people in need with relief packs containing rice, pulses, salt, flattened rice, edible oil, soap, candles, matchboxes and tarpaulin. However, one segment of the affected population felt utterly neglected. The children who had lost their schoolbags, books, notebooks and pencils in the fierce storm excitedly milled around the men and women who brought in relief. But they were repeatedly disappointed as none seemed to care about making good the things they had lost. Till West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR) heard of their plight and responded. “A member of WBCPCR who had gone to Sunderbans saw the despondent children. We realised that children in the Amphan-affected areas had lost all study material. With schools shut due to the pandemic, they were on the verge of losing the reading habit that would eventually lead to them dropping out of schools. We knew we had to step in. Some people extended help and we went to Gosaba where we handed out schoolbags with writing books, colouring books, pencils, crayons and umbrellas to 500 children,” said the WBCPCR chairperson, Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti. In a fortnight, the team will visit Kakdwip and Patharpratima where 200 children in each locations will be handed out schoolbags with the contents. In the city, too, help has been generously forthcoming to the needy. Joydeep Mukherjee, a travel agent who has been passionately promoting Durga Puja abroad for over a decade, was providing aid to artisans in idol hub Kumartuli when he learnt that many artisans were planning to stop their children’s education due to the paucity of funds. Mukherjee assured the two artisans’ associations — one comprising idol makers and the other comprising the ones who embellish the idols — that Meghdutam Foundation would help. “While distributing ration to the artisans at Kumartuli during the lockdown, we had also given drawing books and crayons to their children so that they could sketch Ma Durga as the saviour from this pandemic. Now, we have decided to sponsor the education of 55 children,” said Mukherjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amphan-relief-aid-pours-in-for-kids-in-city-sunderbans/articleshow/76758970.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: PwC would open office in Secretariat, says Ramesh Chennithala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The controversy over e-mobility project of state government refuses to die down after opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged on Thursday that consultants Pricewaterhouse Coopers (PwC) is set to open an office inside Secretariat. Chennithala said the move began a year ago when transport secretary had given a note to the chief minister that the Secretariat officials are unable to undertake the work on e-mobility project effectively and in a time-bound manner. The clearance for giving an office space to PwC inside the Secretariat has been given by the finance department as well. The office has been rightly named as “backroom office”, the opposition leader said. He added that the government is planning to appoint four officials of the firm in the Secretariat in the posts of project manager expert, functional consultant, technology consultant and policy consultant. All of them would draw a fat pay-cheque which would be much more than that of even the chief secretary, he said. Chennithala said it is shocking that the government is providing office space to a company that has nine cheating charges against it in the country and was blacklisted by securities and exchange board of India (SEBI) for two years. Replying to chief minister’s comments on Wednesday, Chennithala said Pinarayi Vijayan should have answered two of the queries that have been raised in the file, before clearing it — whether the rules have been followed and where would the money come from. He said the chief minister is claiming that no agreement has been signed with HESS (Swiss electric bus manufacturer HESS AG), but the website of HESS says the agreement was signed in June last year. In effect, what is happening here is signing a business and then appointing a consultancy. Former CM Oommen Chandy said there is mystery in chief minister’s hurry to take forward a project that the finance secretary and the chief secretary had opposed. The PwC was appointed as the consultant even without inviting a global tender. The move is to whitewash the contract given to HESS, he said. The government had appointed PwC as the consultant for preparing the detailed project report for its ambitious e-mobility project in which as many as 10 lakh electric vehicles are set to hit the road by 2021. As part of this the government is planning to purchase electric buses. The opposition leader has alleged that there is a corruption to the tune of Rs 4,500 crore in the whole deal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pwc-would-open-office-in-secretariat-chennithala/articleshow/76757893.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad civic body identifies 13 locations prone to flooding||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has identified 13 areas which are prone to flooding during the monsoon. Non-governmental organisations (NGO) and youths groups would assist the PCMC in rescue and disaster management during any flood situation this monsoon, said additional commissioner Santosh Patil He told TOI that members of the organisations would be trained in rescue operation, food distribution and various other relief measures. “They will be our first line of contact in the respective areas. We will be able to alert them if the need arises and initiate rescue operation, if needed. Considering the current pandemic situation, we have already identified shelter homes where we will shift citizens from the flood-affected areas,” he said. Another official said that though the disaster management cell of the civic body takes care of the major work in such a situation, the secondary work, such as traffic management, food distribution etc are as important as the primary activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pimpri-chinchwad-civic-body-identifies-13-locations-prone-to-flooding/articleshow/76758986.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Coimbatore||As virus spreads, Codissia complex to transform into 400-bed care centre||Coimbatore: Another 47 people were tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the district on Thursday, taking its count to 608. With more and more people contracting the virus daily, almost 360 beds in the ESP Hospital are already occupied. To keep the remaining beds in the hospital ready for symptomatic patients, the health department authorities are now racing against time to set up a 400-bed Covid care centre at Codissia, where asymptomatic cases would be put up.The city is also seeing a steady flow of Covid-19 patients from other districts for treatment. Transport minister M R Vijayabaskar’s 53-year-old brother is one among them. He is admitted to the Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital. The PSG Hospitals, meanwhile, has 15 patients from Kallakurichi.The public health authorities on Thursday sent a man from Podanur to the Pollachi government hospital for treatment after he tested positive for the virus. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “He is the first Covid-19 patient to be sent to Pollachi. Once the Codissia centre gets ready, we may transfer him to that facility. The ESI Hospital still has at least 600 more beds, but they are reserved for symptomatic patients.”Earlier, 19 patients were sent to a Covid care centre in Uppilipalayam.While officials were initially planning to convert the Codissia hall into a 200-bed Covid care centre, they have now decided to equip its D hall with 400 beds. “We have already arranged the beds. The facility has 20 toilets. We will allot one staff nurse for every 25 patients and one doctor for every 50 patients. While the patients will be asymptomatic, they will be closely monitored for blood pressure, oxygen saturation and body temperature, etc. They will be given vitamins, zinc supplements, arsenic album, kabasura kudineer and ivermectin, among others,” the deputy director of public health said.After getting the Codissia facility ready and running, officials have plans to convert the quarantine centres in Pollachi, Annur and Mettupalayam into Covid care centres. Meanwhile, 10 new cases - comprising a 45-year-old staff of the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital and people from Sri Nagar in Peelamedu, Telungupalayam, Idigarai, Kothari Gardens in Singanallur, Nilambur, PN Pudur, Selvapuram and Jothipuram - were not included in the Thursday’s list. They are likely to be officially declared on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/as-virus-spreads-codissia-complex-to-transform-into-400-bed-care-centre/articleshow/76758980.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Lucknow||BJP paves poll highway with missive to Centre||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to reach out to the Union ministry of surface transport and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to expedite construction of national highways, bypasses, over-bridges and ring roads, proposed to be built in various parts of the state. Seamless road connectivity is one of the key electoral and development planks of the BJP government, which is already constructing three expressways straddling the state from Bundelkhand to Poorvanchal. With less than two years left for Assembly elections, BJP in UP is getting battle-ready with a thrust to development projects, essentially roads. “Development of national highways and other big-ticket projects related to roads and bridges need to be fast-tracked with Centre’s help. Many projects lie frozen or in disarray because of the pandemic-triggered lockdown. We also need to coordinate with each other for efficient implementation of developmental projects,” said principal secretary, Nitin Ramesh Gokarn, PWD, while speaking to TOI on Wednesday. He said, green-field projects like ring roads in Prayagraj and Kanpur need to be swiftly taken up by the Centre to resolve thorny issues like land acquisition. “Also, the detailed project reports (DPRs) of these projects need to be resolved and approved by the Centre soon,” he said. The move comes days after the state government decided to allocate Rs 150 crore for development of district roads in four districts of Aligarh, Moradabad, Kushinagar and Kanpur. The public works department (PWD) is also planning to expedite construction of Ram Van Gaman Marg connecting Ayodhya and Chitrakoot. Likewise, PWD is set to invite bids for construction of a bridge at Phaphamau in Prayagraj by July 7. Land acquisition for the project has been completed, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-paves-poll-highway-with-missive-to-centre/articleshow/76759705.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Rajkot||Bizman gifts corona protection to vulnerable on his birthday||Rajkot: A businessman in Savarkundla town of Amreli district distributed 3,000 masks and face shields among poor and needy and traders on his birthday. “Every year, I spend about Rs 30,000 on my birthday. This time, I took up a social cause and distributed face shields mostly among the traders’ community, which is badly affected by the pandemic,” said Suresh Pansuria, who celebrated his 47th birthday. Physician and surgeon Dr Bharat Kanabar, who inspired Pansuria for this initiative, said, “Covid-19 cases are surfacing daily in the district. I told Pansuria that given the current scenario, the best way to celebrate his birthday would be through the distribution of masks and face shields.” Dr Kanabar has distributed more than 3,000 masks in Amreli city himself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bizman-gifts-corona-protection-to-vulnerable-on-his-birthday/articleshow/76756583.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Aircraft movements down 96% at Ahmedabad airport||AHMEDABAD: Due to the lockdown and restrictions imposed on air travel, the movement of domestic flights at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad has declined by 96%. According to data by Airports Authority of India (AAI), some 363 domestic passenger aircraft movements were registered at the city airport in April-May this year, as against 10,506 movements recorded last year.  “Commercial aircraft movements resumed from May 25 . No domestic passenger flights operated from the airport in the wake of the restrictions imposed by Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). Thus, the aircraft movements are bound to be slow,” said a source. Even though the aircraft movements resumed, passenger footfalls have drastically fallen . AAI data suggests that against 18.6 lakh domestic passenger footfall handled at SVPI airport in April-May 2019, barely 19,445 passengers were recorded during the same period this year. Airline sources confirmed that passenger footfall has remained very low even after flights resumed operations. “Flights have been operating at 50% seating capacity or even lesser. People arereluctant to travel . In fact, due to low passenger turnout, several flights are forced to cancel in the last minute,” revealed a source. Manish Sharma, secretary, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI) – Gujarat, said, “Corporates have imposed restrictions on travel of employees except for extreme urgencies. Moreover, leisure travel has also been impacted leading to a lower passenger footfall .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aircraft-movements-down-96-at-city-airport/articleshow/76758993.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Woman who fled Panchgani found in Mumbai||KOLHAPUR: The woman who had tested positive for Covid-19 and escaped from a private hospital in Panchgani has been traced to Mumbai, from where she hails, said police on Thursday. The Panchgani police said they have alerted their Mumbai counterparts and that they are in the process of finding out in which vehicle and how the woman , aged 33, travelled to the metropolis. Her location was found with the help of call data record and her mother confirmed that she was with her. She had come to Panchgani as her father was admitted to the hospital for Covid treatment. She was also found positive later. The woman was found missing on Tuesday morning, following which the hospital authorities, along with revenue officials, and filed a police complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/woman-who-fled-panchgani-found-in-mum/articleshow/76756584.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Pune||Cement bags, garbage choke Mangaldas Road drainage system||PUNE: Construction debris and garbage from nearby railway tracks left the stormwater drainage system in the Mangaldas Road area choked for years. This was revealed during a large-scale stormwater drain cleaning operation the civic administration recently initiated. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) staffers working at the site said they found debris of all kinds — stones, bricks, asphalt, a huge sack containing unused cement and also railway track waste such as plastic bottles and bags. The large-scale choking of the stormwater drains had caused flooding, especially in the upscale Nathan Road, a cul-de-sac branching off from Mangaldas Road, lined by bungalows, housing societies, and the Tata Group’s management and training centre campus. “Whenever there is even moderate rain, our lane gets completely flooded. That was the case this week too. Last year, a number of cars was damaged in our basement because of the flooding. We reached out to the local corporator, who followed up the issue with the PMC engineers. What was found in the cleaning operation was truly shocking. Imagine finding an entire bag of cement, all of which was severely choking our drainage system,” said Alka Kshirsagar, a resident of Nathan Road. Others in the locality added that the waves of construction work in the area, and the railway lines, have long contributed to the local drainage issues. One of them said the lane was at a lower level from both Mangaldas Road and the railway tracks, so all the water during rain flooded the area. “A lot of waste, such as plastic bottles and tar, from the railway has flown into our area. The contractors who built the pavements on the Mangaldas Road may have also dumped debris here. But now that the PMC has undertaken the cleaning operation, we expect to see the condition improve,” said Shekhar Ganapathy, another local resident. A PMC official said cleaning operations of the stormwater drains and chambers would continue till monsoon, and enquiries were on to determine the source of the huge volumes of garbage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cement-bags-garbage-choke-mangaldas-road-drainage-system/articleshow/76758978.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||Tram restart: Trials begin on restored Rajabazar-Howrah route||Kolkata: Trial runs for restart of services on the second tram route — Rajabazar to Howrah bridge — that has remained suspended since March, were carried out on Thursday. The engineering department of WBTC was working on war footing to restore the overhead wires after Amphan devastation. After the extensive repairing, the route could be restored. If trial runs go smooth, the route will be opened to commuters shortly. Recently, services resumed on the Ballygunge-Tollygunge route. The tram services were suspended in March 2020 when the lockdown had started. Due to Amphan, several tracks were damaged by trees and the overhead wire system was also damaged. After that, WBTC had taken up restoration work. The engineers were working overnight to restore the tram tracks. Of the six routes that were functional prior to the lockdown, one route has so far been restored. The trial run for the route, Ballygunge-Tollygunge, was conducted on June 13. The services resumed on June 14 after following safety protocols and social distancing norms. The services can now be availed between 7am and 8pm. The trams are operating at an interval of 25 minutes. Passengers without masks are not being allowed to board the tram. Proper and regular disinfection and sanitization of the tram cars are being done before and after each shift of operation. The same exercise is being undertaken at the depots too. Earlier last week, a heritage art was installed on the tram cars on Tollygunge-Ballygunge route. The idea was to make the youth aware of the heritage of Kolkata and history of trams. The motive is to instil a sense of pride among the younger generation about city’s heritage. Recently, WBTC’s electric buses got an appreciation from IEA Paris for environment friendly mode of operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tram-restart-trials-begin-on-restored-rajabazar-howrah-route/articleshow/76758981.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist collector inspects containment zones in city||Coimbatore: Collector K Rajamani conducted surprise inspections in containment zones in the city on Thursday and directed officials to ensure that essential goods are delivered to the residents staying there.There are nine containment zones in Coimbatore, five in the city. The collector inspected the areas in Telungupalayam, Selvapuram Housing Unit, Telungu Street at Gandhi Park and Iyappa Nagar on Chetti Street. He asked the officials to ensure round-the-clock situation monitoring and disinfect the areas every day.Rajamani also met some of the residents and inmates of hostels in the zones. Corporation deputy commissioner S Madhuranthagi, deputy director of public health Dr Rameshkumar, city health officer Rajan and senior officials accompanied him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-collector-inspects-containment-zones-in-city/articleshow/76758984.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Landlord from Chandlodia booked for tenant’s suicide||AHMEDABAD: A man from Chandlodia was booked by Sola police on Wednesday for abetting the suicide of a 78-year-old woman, his tenant, who hanged herself six months ago. The case was filed as forensic reports confirmed that a suicide note found from in the victim’s house in Gota was written by her. In it, she blamed her landlord for her suicide. Jayesh Patel, the son of the victim, Rama Patel, registered a complaint against Ramesh Panchal, alleging that he used to threaten his mother often and she couldn’t take it anymore and hanged herself on January 6. Jayesh, a driver, who now lives in Ranip, stated that he along with his mother had gone to live in Gota in a house owned by Panchal in April 2019. Jayesh paid Rs 3,500 per month as rent apart from the electricity bill. He stated in the FIR that he was diagnosed with a skin disease in July 2019, and could not go to work for some time. As they were in financial stress, he could not pay the rent regularly. Due to this, Panchal began threatening Jayesh and Rama. Panchal often went to the house and threatened Rama. Sometimes, Panchal grabbed her hands and tried to hit her. In December, Jayesh could not pay the rent for two months. After this, Panchal began intimidating them more and more. Once he barged into the house and threatened to drag Rama and Jayesh out. Rama could take this no more and on January 6 hanged herself. Sola police then registered a case of accidental death and began an investigation. During their investigation, police found the suicide note written by Rama.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/landlord-booked-for-tenants-suicide/articleshow/76759003.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Man murders wife, kills self||Coimbatore: A 50-year-old man killed his wife over a dispute early on Thursday morning and later ended his life by consuming cow-dung powder, police said.The deceased couple was identified as R Muthuraj, 50, a daily wage labourer and his wife M Manimegalai, 40, from Jawahar Nagar on TVS Nagar road at Kavundamapalayam. Police said both Muthuraj and his wife suspected each other’s character and used to have endless arguments which often led to full-blown fights. The couple used to live with their son and daughter-in-law. On Wednesday night, the couple had an argument with each other. Around 1 am on Thursday, Muthuraj assaulted his wife with a stone. In a few seconds, Manimegalai was dead due to head injuries. Seeing this, Muthuraj ended his life by consuming cowdung powder, police said. Their daughter-in-law Pavithra woke up early on Thursday morning and found Manimegalai lying dead in a pool of blood and her father-in-law Muthuraj lying motionless, frothing from his mouth. Pavithra alerted her neighbours who rushed to the house and informed Thudiyalur police.A police team headed by Balamurali Sundaram sent the two bodies to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem, and registered two cases under section 302 (murder) of the IPC and section 174 CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-murders-wife-kills-self/articleshow/76758991.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Rajkot||10-year-old boy in Rajkot fights Covid, multiple organ failure too||Rajkot: A 10-year-old boy in Rajkot staged one of the most miraculous recoveries from the novel coronavirus infection by not just fighting off the deadly virus but also multiple organ failure.After battling for life for 33 days, Sanjay Vaghela recovered in the state-run KD Children Hospital on Wednesday, much to the joy and relief of doctors who said this was the first such case of Covid-induced extreme complexities being handled successfully.Sanjay, who lives with his parents in Jamdadar village of Jamkandorna taluka of Rajkot, was admitted to the civil hospital on May 29 after he tested positive for Covid-19. His parents are agriculture labourers. Talking to TOI, Dr Pankaj Buch of the hospital said “When the child was admitted, he was suffering from kidney, lungs and heart problem, something that is rare in children Covid patients. His lungs were affected by pneumonia, he had septicaemia and was vomiting blood. His heart beats were irregular and there was pus accumulation in the left hip joint.” Adding to his condition, the boy had only one kidney since birth which had also stopped functioning and there was blockage in the bronchial tubes in the lungs caused by the coronavirus infection. Dr Buch added, “It was very complicated and a unique case for us, so we also took advice from more experts through tele-medicine system set up by the state government. The boy was put on BiPAP machine for eight days to improve his breathing and 18 days on oxygen.” He was also administered heparin, a blood thinner, to clear the bronchial airways blockages as well as block in the pulmonary artery.According to doctors, it was a case of multiple organ failure because Covid-19 had badly affected his kidney, lungs, heart and caused blood circulation problems. Sanjay got cured on June 20 from Covid and some other complications too, but is required to be under observation for pus in the hip, something which still remains. He will require a six-week medicine course and is responding well. He will be discharged after course is over.The boy’s mother Madhu Vaghela, “We had lost all hopes after knowing about his critical condition last month. I am happy that his life has been saved and these doctors are nothing less than God for us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/10-year-old-boy-in-rajkot-fights-covid-multiple-organ-failure-too/articleshow/76756621.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Three elephants die in one day, two arrested||COIMBATORE: Two female elephants were found dead in the Mettupalayam and Sirumugai forest ranges on Thursday. While one of them was shot dead, the cause of the other elephant’s death was yet to be ascertained. D Venkatesh, district forest officer (DFO), Coimbatore forest division, said the carcass of the elephant that was found in an agricultural field near Thekkampatti in Mettupalayam had a small wound near the left ear. The elephant, he said, was aged between 18 years and 20 years. The officer said, “During postmortem, veterinarians opened the animal’s skull and recovered a bullet that had penetrated its brain. The bullet had left a deep hole till the brain. Two people have been arrested in connection with the incident after they confessed to the crime.” Another officer identified the arrested as K Ramasamy, 63, and his brother K Krishnasamy, 55, of Thekkampatti. Forest officials have seized a country made gun from them. The duo told the officials that they had taken the land on lease from the Public Works Department and cultivated green fodders for cattle and maize. The elephant, they said, used to raid the crops often, forcing them to shoot the animal dead. The DFO, along with other forest officials, visited the spot. Autopsy was carried out by a three-member team that was led by forest department veterinary doctor Sugumar. Another female elephant was found dead inside the reserve forest at Lingapuram in the Sirumugai forest range. According to a source, the carcass of the elephant was spotted by a team of Sirumugai forest range officials, who were on patrol. The animal was aged around 20 years. The team immediately alerted the DFO. “The cause of the animal’s death could only be ascertained after postmortem,” the source said. A tusker aged around 10 years is, meanwhile, battling for life at Pethikuttai beat of Sirumugai forest range. The elephant with an injured leg was spotted on Sunday afternoon. Veterinary doctors have been trying to revive the tusker since then. According to the forest department officials, 14 elephants had died in the Coimbatore forest division since January. Half of them were found dead in the Sirumugai forest range. Pointing out that the Coimbatore forest division had reported 141 elephant deaths since 2011, another source said officials had been preparing a detailed report on the same. “At least 141 elephants have died in the Coimbatore forest division that comprises Boluvampatti, Madukkarai, Coimbatore, Periyanaickenpalayam, Karamadai, Mettupalayam and Sirumugai forest ranges since 2011.While 118 of them died naturally, six were poached. Several elephants have also died of electrocution,” the source said. The Coimbatore forest division, the source said, was a migratory route of wild elephants. “We see only migratory elephants. We are collecting postmortem reports of all the 141 elephants to find out the real cause of elephant deaths in the division.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-gunned-down-another-found-dead/articleshow/76758989.cms||A Subburaj
July 3, 2020||Kolhapur||12 fresh cases take Kolhapur district’s Covid count to 880||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district has registered a surge in Covid-19 patients in the last few days with 12 fresh cases reported on Thursday. With this, the total number of confirmed cases in the district has swelled to 880, of which, 140 are currently active. Local administration officials have attributed the increasing number of cases to the continuous influx of people from places outside the district, especially from the affected areas such as Mumbai, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Authorities have said that conducting swab tests for people coming to Kolhapur from these places is mandatory. In addition, those who test negative for the contagion, are asked to stay in home quarantine for a period of 14 days. According to officials of the district administration’s health department, a minimum of 1,500 swab samples are sent for testing every day. Statistics of the last two weeks indicate that locals who have no travel history to places outside the district have tested positive for Covid-19. Such patients are found in several places such as Gadhinglaj, Ichalkaranji, Shirol and Ajara — which officials fear is an indicator of community spread. Kolhapur district registered its first Covid patient on March 26. The number of patients reached the three-digit after 50 days. However, it took hardly three days in the third week of May to touch the 200-mark in the district. Meanwhile, Ichalkaranji has recorded 38 patients so far with 75 swab resulted awaited. Eight localities in Ichalkaranji have been declared as containment zones in a fortnight. Sangli reports 23 fresh cases Sangli district on Thursday registered 23 fresh cases taking thw total number of patients to 394, of which, 160 are currently active. The district also reported one Covid casualty on Thursday, taking the toll of fatalities to 12. Local authorities said that four patients are critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/12-fresh-cases-take-kolhapur-districts-covid-count-to-880/articleshow/76756610.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara records 101 cases, highest in a day||KOLHAPUR: Satara district recorded its highest single-day Covid-19 cases on Wednesday with 101, taking the district's overall tally to 1,145. While 38 patients were identified in the first half of the day, an addition of 63 patients were detected later. District administration is anxious as patients are being reported from all 11 tehsils. Moreover, the reports of 439 swab samples sent for testing are awaited. On Wednesday, the Wai tehsil recorded the highest number of patients (20), followed by Satara tehsil (7). Patients were also seen in other tehsils like Maan, Phaltan, Jawli, Koregaon, Patan and Khandala. Officials said children below 15 years of age are also among the patients along with middle-aged people. Considering the increasing number of patients in the district, minister of state for home Shamhuraje Desai has asked the police to seal all the entry points to the district and install CCTV cameras to monitor the movement of vehicles. He has instructed that nobody should be allowed to enter the district without a valid e-pass. On Thursday evening, there were 355 patients undergoing treatment in various places in the district, while 14 patients were discharged. The district reported two deaths on Thursday. A 54-year-old woman, who had some kidney-related ailment and hypertension, succumbed to Covid-19 infection. A 49-year-old man, who had comobidity of blood pressure and had come from Kolhapur, died in Satara during treatment. Meanwhile, the Satara agriculture produces market committee has closed all transactions for 10 days after an agency was detected with Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-records-101-cases-highest-in-a-day/articleshow/76756629.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP cop who caught on camera masturbating before woman sent to 14-day judicial custody||LUCKNOW: A day after his arrest for obscenity and outrage of a woman’s modesty, sacked Deoria cop Bhismapal Yadav was produced in a local court and sent in 14-day judicial custody. He was arrested on Wednesday night. The rogue policemen had gone into hiding, just hours after a viral video purportedly showed him masturbating in the thana while registering a complaint of a woman. Superintendent of police, Deoria, Sripati Mishra told TOI that Yadav pleaded innocence when questioned. The woman whistleblower who had secretly filmed the cop claimed that Yadav was a repeat offender. “During questioning, Yadav claimed he was applying medicine in his private parts due an allergy. These are hollow claims and the investigation has been handed over to circle officer of Bhatpar Rani circle, Pancham Lal,” said the police officer. Mishra also visited the residence of the woman complainant on Thursday evening and apologised on behalf of the police force for Yadav’s obnoxious behaviour. An FIR was registered only after the 2-minute video clip went viral and the cop was booked for voyeurism, outraging a woman’s modesty and disobedience of law by a public servant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-cop-who-caught-on-camera-masturbating-before-woman-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody/articleshow/76759719.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Feeling feverish? This smart gate won’t open for you||Coimbatore: With frontline workers battling Covid-19 pandemic, researchers and innovators continue to rack their brains to come up with solutions that could help contain the spread of the virus in workspaces and industries.Now, innovators from Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, Sathyamangalam, Erode, have come up with an automatic fever detection gate to screen body temperature and let people in only if their temperature is normal. This eliminates human element completely in temperature screening procedures at workplace entrances.L Rajasekar, an assistant professor at the institution’s special labs and project advisor, said the device comprises of a passive infrared sensor which detects the presence of a person, a sensor to measure his/her temperature and a control unit. In the prototype, they have used a motor to open and close a gate.When the person is at an optimal distance for the device to read his temperature, a controller will trigger the temperature sensor which records and processes the body temperature. If the measured temperature is below 99°F, the normal, a green LED indicates it and the gate is opened. If the temperature exceeds 99°F, it will be considered as fever, indicated by a red light and the gate would remain closed. Rajasekar, who worked on the project along with engineering trainees R Gokul Raj, and S Karthik, said they have also incorporated a WiFi module in the control unit which would log the temperature data to a cloud storage. “Using this data, we can analyse variations of a person’s body temperature,” he said.The project took two months to finish, while the prototype was completed last week. Rajasekar said they were planning to contact industries to take it to production level. “If industries already have the automated gate component, we could provide them with control unit and sensors... the prototype costs around Rs 4,500. We can also customise the setup based on requirements,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/feeling-feverish-this-smart-gate-wont-open-for-you/articleshow/76758997.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||Bishop camps at Amphan landfall site at Geonkhali||Kolkata: Bishop Paritosh Canning, head of the Kolkata diocese of the Church of North India (CNI), carried Amphan relief to the people of Geonkhali in East Midnapore on Thursday and camped there. The place has been devastated as the Cyclone had made a landfall there. Bishop Canning surveyed the area and also visited the families whose homes were reduced to rubble, with a promise to re-build them with funds that the Diocese is collecting. Since there has been a loss of livelihood to the locals, a new initiative called ‘Naridana’ was inaugurated. As part of the initiative, local women have been adopted for training in sewing and tailoring while their products can be marketed to help them regain their foothold. A day care centre was also started for the children of day labourers and maids in the area. “As Amphan has wrecked havoc, our women and children are the worst-affected. We need to bring in relief as quickly as possible,” said Bishop Canning||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bishop-camps-at-amphan-landfall-site-at-geonkhali/articleshow/76758996.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 3, 2020||Pune||Resigned to Covid-19, std X students go through misgivings||PUNE: Students of standard X, already weighed down by being the 'Covid-19 batch', have spent a summer of uncertainty on every front with lockdown casting its long shadow over their education and future. For most standard X students, the time after their board exams comes with a sense of achievement, an end to the lengthy season of cramming, and a well-deserved break from studies before the next long haul. But, for this batch, as the authorities vacillated between conducting and cancelling exams, their planned future, whether it was a holiday, upskilling or getting around to thinking about a career and classes, every plan drew a blank. Clearly, the three months of lockdown has led to many misgivings. Karan Mahajan, a standard X student from Pune, had planned to visit his maternal grandparents in Satara. He wanted to visit Mahabaleshwar, and enjoy the summer holidays, and finally work on his plan to choose subjects. “I wanted to meet my friends, roam, play cricket and video games, and plan my studies, but the pandemic ruined all my plans. Now, considering the class XI and class XII preparations, I think it will be just another busy academic year,” he said. By June all standard X students get their results, and in July they go on a college hunt, select their subjects and coaching classes. Karan’s father Nilesh Mahajan said students may have a hard time adjusting to the upcoming academic year, considering that they have spent most of their time either watching TV or playing on cellphone. “There were no friends, no meets, no extra classes. I wanted my son to gain new skills, but health was the first priority. My friends from other cities are not going to send their wards to Pune or other metro cities. They prefer a lost year but won’t compromise on safety,” he said. C V Madhavi, principal of DAV Public School Aundh, said standard X students are one of the most significant victims of the pandemic. “Online sessions are happening for other students. Parents have bought textbooks and some study is happening. Till the standard X results are not declared, they are in a state of flux. Many will change their boards, but don’t know whether they will get admission and hence cannot buy study material,” Madhavi said. Standard XI is among the toughest classes as the syllabus is new and if they have changed streams, the difficulty level is higher. “It is when competitive examination preparations start, but everything is on hold now and hence the burden will be higher when the academic session begins,” she added. Some class X students and teachers of the Maharashtra State Board said the decision to award average marks in other subjects to the cancelled geography exam is unfair. “Instead of awarding average marks out of 560 for the 40 mark geography exam, state board should have calculated the result out of 560 marks for which all exams were conducted. Some parents may move court after the results, delaying the admission process,” Prashant Redij, secretary of Mumbai Principals Association, said. Unlike earlier, parents are afraid to send their kids to education hubs like Pune, Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru or Kota for studies. Education consultant Brinda Sahota said public exams stress out students and the pandemic may stop students from coming to cities for competitive examination coaching. “Parents do not want to send their children to school till September. There is very little chance that they will send them to Pune or Kota for class XI-XII combined coaching for entrance exams,” Sahota added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/resigned-to-covid-19-std-x-students-go-through-misgivings/articleshow/76758994.cms||Piyush Bhusari
July 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Teachers in corpn schools roped in for Covid-19 duty||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation (CCMC) has roped in more than 850 teachers and non-teaching staff members from corporation schools in the city to aid in data categorisation and documentation work as part of the Covid-19 prevention measures.The teachers will be present at schools, zonal offices and the CCMC office to coordinate the work.Sanitary workers will collect the details people who have returned to the city from other places, people with fever and cold symptoms and those who have prolonged illnesses by visiting homes. They will submit the details to the teachers in schools, who will compile and categorise the details and send them to the zonal offices.Teachers in zonal offices will supervise spraying of sanitisers and provision of basic necessities in containment zones. They will also talk to those who have been home quarantined over phone and ensure their welfare. The teachers will organise the details and send them to the teachers in the main office of the CCMC.The teachers will make the work of flying squads easy, said an official communication.As many as 865 teachers and 104 non-teaching staff members are working in the 82 schools under CCMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/teachers-in-corpn-schools-roped-in-for-covid-19-duty/articleshow/76759002.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid patient from Nilgiris passes away in ESI Hospital||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris reported its first Covid-19 death on Thursday, when a 67-year-old man from Green Fields area in Ooty succumbed to the virus attack at the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore, where he has been undergoing treatment. The state has, however, not recorded the death in its bulletin on Thursday.The district also recorded eight fresh cases, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 115.A source, meanwhile, said the elderly man had a travel history to Karur. After testing positive for the virus, he was admitted to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore on June 22.Dr Nirmala, dean, ESI Hospital, said, “He had comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. He was treated for nine days in the hospital. In the past three days, he was kept in the intensive care unit with oxygen support. The body was handed over to his family members as per the protocol.”Among the new cases were six men and two women. While four of them secondary contacts of the public relations officer of the private needle manufacturing company at Yellanhalli near Ooty, three were secondary contacts of an earlier positive case with a travel history to Coimbatore.The eighth case was a 67-year-old woman, whose husband had earlier tested positive for the virus. As the couple have a permanent residence in Chennai, where the woman’s husband is employed, the case, according to health officials, would be cross-notified to the Covid-19 count of the state capital.Presently, there are 75 active cases in the district. Of them, 53 are being treated at the Ooty government headquarters hospital and the remaining at the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore.While the district has so far tested more than 18,000 people for the contagion, the infection rate is just 0.63%. The Nilgiris is the second district in the state with low infection rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-patient-from-nilgiris-passes-away-in-esi-hospital/articleshow/76759005.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Warehousing demand grows 5% in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Warehouse space leasing in Ahmedabad registered a growth 4.6% to 5.1 million square foot (sq ft) in 2019-20 from 4.8 million sq ft in the previous fiscal, states ‘India Warehousing Market Report 2020’ released by real estate consultancy firm Knight Frank India. This growth is primarily driven by manufacturing and e-commerce segments with e-commerce gaining greater prominence in recent years. According to the report, the Kadi-Vithalpur-Becharaji cluster in Ahmedabad has garnered 40% share of warehousing transaction in FY20, followed by Changodar – Bagodara (35%), Aslali – Kheda (23%) and Sanand – Viramgam (2%). “In Ahmedabad, e-commerce industry, which registered strong growth in FY19, has continued to attract occupiers and developers in FY20, irrespective of the economic slowdown,” said Balbirsingh Khalsa, national director, industrial & logistics, Knight Frank India. “Going forward, the manufacturing led demand is expected to remain low on account of the Covid-19 impact; however, the rise in demand from e-commerce and third party logistics is likely to make up for it,” the report added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/warehousing-demand-grows-5-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/76759013.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Pune||Pune to get 6 high-speed private trains||PUNE: The city will get six high-speed private trains plying to Delhi, Howrah, Patna, Prayagraj, Dibrugarh and Bhopal. A day after the Indian Railways came out with the request for qualification to allow private entities to operate passenger trains, a senior railway official in the Pune division said, “Pune is on the list. All these trains will have new rakes. The fares are expected to be dynamic in nature.” The new train to Delhi will run daily, while that to Bhopal will ply three days a week — Thursday, Monday and Saturday. The bi-weekly train from Pune to Howrah will run on Friday and Monday and the one to Patna will depart on Thursday and Friday. The train from Pune to Prayagraj will run thrice a week on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. The new train to Dibrugarh in Assam will ply once in a week on Wednesday, the railway official said, adding that the launching dates of the trains would be announced later. Altogether 109 pairs of routes have been selected and a total of 151 private trains will be plying across the country. “Each of these trains will have a minimum of 16 coaches. The initiative had started last year with the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation starting the Lucknow-Delhi Tejas Express. The railways will be providing the loco pilot and guard for these trains,” the senior official of the Pune division said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-to-get-6-high-speed-pvt-trains/articleshow/76759008.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 3, 2020||Gurgaon||Punjab and Haryana high court vacates stay on Sector 56 plots, owners can now build houses||GURUGRAM: In a relief to over 100 owners who had purchased plots from the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikarn (HSVP) in Sector 56 over a decade ago, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has vacated the stay on the land after a year. They can now build houses on their plots. “The high court has passed the order in favour of HSVP. It comes as a relief to many owners, who can now proceed with construction after getting the requisite approval from the department,” said HSVP estate officer-2 Vivek Kalia. HSVP, earlier known as HUDA, acquired land in 2003 and launched Sector 56, the last sector it developed in the city. Around 113 people were allotted plots of sizes ranging from 10 marla to 1 kanal in 2005. As many as 25 plot holders got building plans approved for construct of houses, four of which completed construction. In 2018, a landowner whose land was acquired for the development of the sector filed a petition before the high court demanding fair compensation. In July last year, the high court directed that status quo be maintained, following which HSVP stopped approving building plans and occupation certificates in the sector. A few plot owners filed a petition challenging this order. In an affidavit, HSVP claimed that third-party rights have been created in favour of several parties based on which houses were built on the plot. In some cases, buildings were ready and occupancy certificates were withheld only because of the status quo order, it said. A bench of justices SN Satyanarayana and Archana Puri in an order on Wednesday observed that in view of the facts, the order issued earlier can’t be continued to the detriment of several plot holders, and vacated the stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/high-court-vacates-stay-on-sector-56-plots-owners-can-now-build-houses/articleshow/76759724.cms||Bagish Jha
July 3, 2020||Rajkot||Order for unlock-2 issued in Gir Somnath district||Rajkot: An order for unlock-2 was issued by Gir Somnath district magistrate on Thursday. With this, shops falling under containment zone or micro containment zone will be allowed to open from 7 am to 7 pm. The shops not falling under these zones will be allowed to remain open till 8 pm. Restaurants will be allowed to remain open till 9 pm. However, auditoriums, town hall, party plots, game zones, recreation clubs, swimming pools, water parks, dance classes, marriage halls, cinema halls, theatres, gyms, sports complex, shopping malls, chowpati beach will remain closed for public. That apart, even private and government-run educational institutions including coaching classes will also stay closed, reads the order. According to the order, vehicles like autorickshaw and taxies will accommodate three persons including the driver. In vehicles with capacity of six passengers, four persons will be allowed to travel. Private and government buses will ply with 60% passengers only. At public and religious functions including marriages, not more than 50 people will be allowed. In funeral procession, not more than 20 people will be allowed. People not wearing masks and found spitting in public will be fined Rs 200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/order-for-unlock-2-issued-in-gir-somnath-district/articleshow/76756675.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Lucknow||Two deputy SPs suspended for misconduct, graft||Luckmow: Two police officers of the rank of deputy superintendent of police were suspended by the state government on Thursday night. Uttar Pradesh DGP Headquarters confirmed that DySP traffic Rakesh Nayak posted in Kheri was suspended for misconduct, while DySP Nitin Taneja, presently under training at Police Training School in Meerut was suspended for a complaint of graft while he was posted as treasury officer.A senior police official at the DGP headquarters said that Nayak, an officer of 2007 batch, was suspended for his unruly behaviour with colleagues as well as his seniors. The behaviour of the officer amounted to violation of the services rules. In 2014, during his stint as circle officer of Swaroop Nagar in Kanpur, Nayak was suspended after he kissed the forehead of Piyush Dasani, the son of a biscuit baron, arrested for allegedly conspiring to kill his wife.The officer also said that Taneja, an officer of 2016 batch, was still undergoing training, but has been accused in the Rs 5 crore stamp scam which took place in Badaun district. Taneja was then working as a tehshildar in Daataganj treasury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-deputy-sps-suspended-for-misconduct-graft/articleshow/76759725.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Tusker electrocuted in Masinagudi||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A tusker was found electrocuted in Masinagudi area near the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris on Thursday. A forest official said a snapped wire of electric line, along with bamboo shoots, was found in the animal’s trunk. Forest officials suspect that the electric line might have snapped while the tusker pulled down tall bamboo plants in the area. According to L C S Srikanth, deputy director, MTR-buffer zone, carcass of the tusker was found on the land belonging to Bamboo Banks Resort at Masinagudi around 7am. “Preliminary inquiry suggested that the tusker was electrocuted after it came in contact with the live wire while trying to eat bamboo shoots.” Pointing out that the power had gone off in the area around 10.30pm on Wednesday, he said the animal might have died around that time. Srikanth said both the tusks were intact. “Postmortem was conducted by the government veterinarians as per protocol. Samples of vital organs were collected for lab test.” Later, the elephant was buried near the spot with the help of an earthmover. Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) officials, meanwhile, inspected the spot. They said they had checked the electric transmission lines last week and confirmed that the lines were not hanging down from the electric post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tusker-electrocuted/articleshow/76759011.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Rajkot||Poll preparations: RMC to expedite pending projects||Rajkot: Amid rising Covid-19 cases in the city, the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) is trying to hasten the pending development projects and asked the contractors to expedite the work. Elections to the municipal corporation are due this year. As many as 177 positive cases have surfaced in RMC area alone. Municipal commissioner Udit Agarwal on Thursday visited sites of various projects in the west zone and instructed contractors to complete the work in the stipulated time limit. In a statement, RMC said that Agarwal visited storm water drainage on Speedwell Party Plot Road, a water treatment plant, under-construction high-level bridge on water drain on Punitnagar main road, Vavdi drainage pumping station. Agarwal instructed contractors to complete the work in stipulated time limit. Agarwal also visited the water distribution network in west zone which covers posh areas of the city like 150 ft Ring Road, Raiya Road, Kalavad Road which cover chief minister Vijay Rupani’s residence. He visited Nyari pumping station, water treatment plants at Ghanteshwar and Raiyadhar. He was also informed about Narmada water intake and natural source of rain water of Rajkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/poll-preparations-rmc-to-expedite-pending-projects/articleshow/76756705.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Lucknow||817 fresh cases in 24 hrs, 34% in Meerut division||Lucknow: Another spike of 817 new coronavirus positive cases was reported in Uttar Pradesh as a door-to-door campaign in high burden districts of Meerut division began on Thursday. With 817 new cases, maximum in a single day, the state tally reached 25,150. This was the second time that 817 cases surfaced in a single day. Earlier, on June 19, a similar spike was recorded. Of the new cases, 34% cases (280) belonged to districts of the Meerut division, including Ghaziabad (129), Gautam Budh Nagar (116), Meerut (22), Hapur (6), Bulandshahr (6) and Baghpat (1). Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said: “The house-to-house campaign will help in listing the vulnerable population besides providing crucial information on high-risk persons such as elderly and persons with any disease condition.” He said that of the total cases in the state, 17,221 have recovered, while 735 died. “As many as 592 persons discharged, while 17 have died in 24 hours. This leaves the state with 6,869 cases of active infection,” he said, adding that “against a national recovery rate of 59.4%, over 69.3% cases in UP have recovered.” As per the state bulletin, three deaths were reported in Varanasi, while two were recorded in Jhansi. Agra, Kanpur Nagar, Ghaziabad, Firozabad, Moradabad, Bulandshahr, Ghazipur, Sambhal, Amroha, Bareilly, Baghpat and Etah recorded one death each. Districts with double digit entries included: Varanasi (49), Bareilly (43), Lucknow (33), Barabanki (31), Mathura (29), Kanpur Nagar (26), Aligarh (26), Ghazipur (23), Gorakhpur (20), Agra (16), Basti (14), Etawah (14), Fatehpur (14), Farrukhabad (12), Hathras (11), Bijnore (11) and Kasganj (10). Health officials said that surveillance teams in Ghaziabad were able to reach out to over one lakh households on the first day of the drive. “As many as 2,100 teams would conduct surveys of influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) in both containment and non-containment zones of Ghaziabad which accounts for the maximum number of active infections in the state,” said a district official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/817-fresh-cases-in-24-hrs-34-in-meerut-division/articleshow/76759733.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 3, 2020||Pune||2 minor boys escape from children home||Pune: Two minor boys escaped from a children home in Yerawada by twisting the facility’s washroom window grill on Wednesday between 1.30pm and 2pm. Senior inspector Yunus Shaikh from Yerawada police said, “The boys, aged 13 and 16 years, managed to escape even after the non-governmental organisation (NGO), which runs the children home, had taken a series of measures as per the advisory issued by the police to deter children from running away.” Shaikh said, “205 children are currently staying at the NGO-run children home. Out of these, 100 are enrolled in school. As many as 11 children had fled the premises in the span of one year before the NGO upgraded its security system.” Shaikh said the NGO houses abandoned children found at railway stations and other places. “A police team has been fanned for tracing the boys. We have registered an offence under Section 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code,” he said, adding, “an NGO official had lodged an FIR in this connection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-minor-boys-escape-from-children-home/articleshow/76759025.cms||---
July 3, 2020||India||CRPF man, terrorist killed in Srinagar encounter||SRINAGAR: A CRPF trooper and a terrorist were killed late Thursday in a gun battle that stretched well past midnight at Malbagh on the outskirts of Srinagar. Two other security personnel, including a senior police officer, were injured in the exchange of fire, which started around evening after a joint team of the police and CRPF cordoned off the area and closed in on the terrorist hideout, sources said. "Encounter has started at #Malbagh area of #Srinagar. Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow," Kashmir Zone Police tweeted. "So far one unidentified terrorist killed." IGP Vijay Kumar confirmed that a CRPF man was killed, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/crpf-man-terrorist-killed-in-srinagar-encounter/articleshow/76760548.cms||M Saleem Pandit
July 3, 2020||Pune||Burglars strike at shops in Pashan||PUNE: Three persons broke into four grocery shops in Pashan and stole Rs15,000 in cash, along with other materials, sometime during the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The incident comes close on the heels of a spate of burglaries in Aundh and Baner areas on June 7 in which nine shops, including those selling branded apparels, were targeted and valuables worth Rs54,000 were stolen. In the latest incident, one of the shopkeepers, Anil Agarwal (51) of Baner, lodged a complaint with the Chatushrungi police on Wednesday afternoon. Sub-inspector Rakesh Sarade told TOI, “CCTV footage obtained from various shops in the area showed that the suspects came to the shops riding triple seat on a two-wheeler. The trio was wearing masks and raincoats to hide their identities. They bent open the steel shutters with the help of an iron rod and entered the shops.” The suspects found cash in Agarwal’s shop and drew a blank in the other three. “We had already appealed to the shopkeepers to avoid keeping cash in the counter drawers of their shops. It is better to carry the money home. We have launched a hunt for the suspects,” Sarade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/burglars-strike-at-shops-in-pashan/articleshow/76759031.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Love triangle leads to minor girl’s murder||HYDERABAD: A man killed a five-year-old girl by slitting her throat at Ismail Khan Guda in Ghatkesar on Thursday. The accused, who claims himself as the paramour of the minor’s mother, was allegedly upset after he noticed another man in the woman’s house. According to Ghatkesar police, Karunakar (25) entered the victim’s house at 12.45 p.m on Thursday and in a fit of rage, killed the girl and injured the man and himself. “Karunakar claimed that he is in relationship with the girl’s mother but the woman has been avoiding him recently. However, on Thursday, on watching Karunakar enter the house, the woman tried to push him into another room. Enraged by this, Karunakar picked up a blade and slit the minor’s throat. He then injured the other man,” ACP (Malkajgiri), Y Narasimha Reddy told TOI. The mother alerted neighbours and shifted the minor to a nearby hospital, where the girl succumbed. The other two injured were also shifted to the hospital. The mother, who became unconscious after her daughter’s death, is undergoing treatment. “We have to investigate the motive behind Karunakar’s action. As of now, all three persons are undergoing treatment,” the ACP said. A case under Sec-302 of IPC was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/love-triangle-leads-to-minor-girls-murder/articleshow/76759750.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Pune||Autorickshaw driver held for murder in Koregaon Park||Pune: An autorickshaw driver was arrested late in the night on Wednesday for committing the murder of Rahul Jagtap (48), another autorickshaw driver, near the railway tracks in lane number five of Koregaon Park. “Pratham alias Balu Raghunath More (36) from Borademala was arrested after investigations established his involvement in the murder,” said inspector Ganesh Mane from the Koregaon Park police on Thursday. He said, “We picked up More for questioning after we came to know from witnesses that there was a fight between him and Jagtap while partying near the railway tracks on the night of June 30 over some old dispute.” Mane said, “Investigations revealed that the duo abused and thrashed each other. More told police that Jagtap had threatened him with dire consequences. More in a fit of anger attacked Jagtap with a sharp weapon on his head and other parts of body and fled.” The police inspector said, “Investigations also revealed that Jagtap had hit More with a stone recently over a dispute of ferrying passenger testing Covid-19 positive fearing that coronavirus might infect others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/autorickshaw-driver-held-for-murder-in-koregaon-park/articleshow/76759036.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Lucknow||Death plunge by ‘bereaved’ pet as master lay lifeless||Kanpur: In a stirring incident, a pet dog ‘jumped’ to death from the fourth floor of the house after the woman doctor, who had rescued and reared her, died of kidney ailment and her body was brought home from hospital on Wednesday. Dr Anita Raj Singh, joint director, health, and a resident of Malikpuram in Barra-2 area, had found the dog in a pitiful condition near Ursula Horsman hospital 12 years ago. She named the dog Jaya and adopted it. “The puppy was extremely thin and weak. My mother treated her with utmost care and she survived. For the past 12 years, she was like a a family member,” Tejas, son of Dr Anita, told reporters. “My mother developed kidney ailment and was unwell or the past few months. She was undergoing treatment at a city hospital, where she breathed her last on Wednesday,” he added. “As soon as my mother’s body arrived from the hospital, Jaya started barking and wailing. She went upstairs and jumped off the fourth floor. We rushed her to a veterinary hospital, but she was declared brought dead. Her backbone had fractured,” Tejas said. She was depressed ever since mother was admitted to hospital and ate frugally, he added. The family buried the dog near their house soon after Dr Anita’s cremation. Ankit, an animal lover said, “It is a touching incident of bonding and emotions pets have with their owners.” Locals gathered as the news of the incident spread in the neighbourhood and city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/death-plunge-by-bereaved-pet-as-master-lay-lifeless/articleshow/76759745.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 3, 2020||Pune||Criminal gets 6-month jail for externment order violation||Pune: Judicial magistrate first class Mohsin Shaikh on Thursday sentenced a criminal on police record, Shankar alias Babu Kailash Pandhekar, to six-month simple imprisonment (SI) for breach of externment order. The Pune police had arrested Pandhekar from Bibvewadi on June 27, barely 10 days after he was externed for a year from Pune city and district limits. A timely alert from the newly launched “ExTra” app had enabled the police nab Pandhekar and file a chargesheet before the court. Magistrate Shaikh sentenced Pandhekar to six-month SI under Section 142 (penalty for entering without permission an area from where a person is ordered to remove himself) and four-month SI under Section 141 (disobeying orders) of the Maharashtra Police Act after the accused pleaded guilty for these offences. The police had installed the ExTra app in Pandhekar’s smartphone as a mandatory step at the time of externing him on June 17. A police team had dropped him at Barshi in Solapur district where he was supposed to stay for one year. On June 27, he reached the Pune city limits and the ExTraa app in his cellphone immediately sent a signal to the police control room. A police team then traced him at Bibvewadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-gets-6-month-jail-for-externment-order-violation/articleshow/76759041.cms||Asseem Shaikh
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||IIT-Hyderabad uses machine learning to study biofuel supply chains||HYDERABAD: Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Hyderabad have developed a method using machine learning algorithms to study supply chain network of biofuels. According to the IIT-Hyderabad team, the method considers revenue generation not only as an outcome of sale of biofuel but also in terms of carbon credits through savings on greenhouse gas emission. Employing computational methods, the researchers devised the method to understand the factors and impediments in incorporating biofuels into the fuel sector in India. This work has been spurred by the increasing need to replace fossil fuels by bio-derived fuels, which, in turn, is driven by the dwindling fossil fuel reserves all over the world, and pollution issues associated with the use of fossil fuels. IIT-H researchers said their method has shown that in the area of bioethanol integration into mainstream fuel use, the production cost is the highest (43%) followed by import (25%), transport (17%), infrastructure (15%) and inventory (0.43%) costs. The model has also shown that feed availability to the tune of at least 40% of the capacity is needed to meet the projected demands. The research work was led by Dr Kishalay Mitra, associate professor, department of chemical engineering, IIT-H. Research scholar Kapil Gumte was also part of the team. The result of the research study was published in a recent issue of the peer-reviewed, Journal of Cleaner Production. An IIT-H statement said the research paper had won the best paper award during the VI International Conference on Advances in Control and Optimization of Dynamical Systems held at IIT Madras earlier this year. Dr Mitra said, “In India, biofuels generated from non-food sources is the most promising source of carbon-neutral renewable energy. These second-generation sources include agricultural waste products such as straw, hay and wood, among others, that do not intrude upon food sources.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iit-h-uses-machine-learning-to-study-biofuel-supply-chains/articleshow/76759762.cms||Syed Akbar
July 3, 2020||Rajkot||Out of work, Rajkot folk singer takes to drug smuggling||RAJKOT: A folk singer was held with 16kg marijuana worth Rs 97,524 from Maliyasan village on the outskirts of Rajkot on Wednesday night. Police said that the accused, Manishdan Badani (32) had procured the contraband from a drug dealer from Surat. The delivery of the drugs was made at Sayla in Surendranagar district. “We had received a tip-off that Badani was carrying marijuana in his car, following which we had kept a watch for him at Sokhada Chowkadi on Rajkot bypass where we intercepted Badani’s car,” said Jaideepsinh Sarvaiya, assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, while addressing a press conference. The contraband was stuffed in six packets. “Badani said he intended to sell the drugs to others as due to lockdown he was not getting any shows. His source of income was badly hit. So he decided to try his luck in drugs smuggling,” said Sarvaiya. “Our investigation has revealed that Badani had been into the drugs dealing for the past few months. He would make small and big packets of ganja and sell them to customers in the range of Rs 100 to Rs 200,” added Sarvaiya. Sarvaiya said they had sought the remand of Badani to find out as to for how many months he had been into this business and to whom he had sold the contraband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/out-of-work-folk-singer-takes-to-drug-smuggling/articleshow/76756737.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Vadodara||Sloth bear attacks woman in Chhota Udepur||Vadodara: A sloth bear attacked a 30-year-old woman near Dolariya village in Chhota Udepur district on Thursday morning. Sundri Rathwa had taken her goat out for grazing in Ranikheda forest area when a sloth bear suddenly attacked her. When she shouted for help, locals rushed to her help and the animal fled seeing the people. Rathwa was, however, severely injured and was taken to Chhota Udepur general hospital for treatment. Late on Thursday night she was referred to SSG Hospital as her condition deteriorated. “The woman’s left hand is fractured and there are injury marks on her legs. We have cordoned the forest area and have placed cages so that the bear does not enter human area,” said deputy conservator of forest Nilesh Pandya. He added that this was a second attack by a sloth bear in the region in recent times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sloth-bear-attacks-woman-in-chhota-udepur/articleshow/76757466.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath bats for research unit like NIV||LUCKNOW: Taking a strong note of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and looking for a long-term policy change in public health, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday batted for developing an advance centre for viral research and therapeutics. At a meeting with top officials, the CM laid emphasis on the need for having a long-term strategy to counter viral and vector borne diseases. “Viral diseases remain a key health challenge for authorities across the world. The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic is just an example to prove the extent of the challenge, the CM said. “Then there are problems like Japanese Encephalitis and dengue which also need to be addressed,” the CM further said adding that high quality research can offer a solution to these problems. At present, the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune is the only institution in the country capable of providing a well-coordinated medical and public health response to address regional, national and global needs in virology, diagnostic research and therapeutic evaluations. He directed chief secretary RK Tewari and additional chief secretaries of technical education and finance departments to draw a detailed plan for the same. He also told them to undertake detailed discussions with the best brains from Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University and King George’s Medical University and brainstorm over the issue. Earlier in April, the Punjab government also proposed to set up a centre for advanced research in viral diseases. He also sent a Rs 550 crore proposal to the Union government and promised to provide a land for the same free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-yogi-bats-for-research-unit-like-niv/articleshow/76759753.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 3, 2020||Pune||Cop, woman among 4 held in doctor’s kidnapping to be tried under MCOCA||PUNE: The Pune police on Thursday invoked provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against four persons, including a police constable and a woman, arrested for kidnapping a doctor from Hadapsar on May 30 for Rs10lakh ransom and releasing him after collecting Rs5.89lakh from him. The police are also searching for their four other accomplices, including another woman. On June 2, a crime branch team had arrested constable Sameer Thorat, a Hadapsar resident posted with police headquarters at Shivajinagar, Pradip Dnyandev Phasge (37) of Manjari, Kailas Bhanudas Avachite (38) of Hadapsar and Aarti Prabhakar Chavan (29) of Phursungi after a 48-year-old doctor approached the police with a complaint. According to a proposal moved by the crime branch under additional commissioner of police Ashok Morale and deputy commissioner of police Bachchan Singh, the arrested four are part of an eight-member organised gang which is into kidnapping financially well off individuals by threatening them with molestation cases against their women accomplices and forcing them to pay money. The gang has similar cases registered against them at Barshi in rural Solapur and Solapur city, apart from a case registered in Pune, the proposal stated. Commissioner of police K Venkatesham gave his nod to the proposal on Thursday, a crime branch officer told TOI. Singh said, “The two women involved in the crime have led their male accomplices into committing multiple offences and we are also investigating their involvement in other offences in Pune city.” Thorat’s lawyers Vijaysingh Thombre and Hitesh Sonar told TOI, “The MCOCA provisions cannot be invoked against the constable as he has no previous criminal record and has been framed in the crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cop-woman-among-4-held-in-doctors-kidnapping-to-be-tried-under-mcoca/articleshow/76759061.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||Five youths fall 50 ft, drown at waterfall in Maharashtra's Palghar district||MUMBAI: Five local youths on a picnic despite lockdown fell off a 50ft deep waterfall and drowned, in Jawhar taluka of Palghar district on Thursday. Thirteen boys from Ambika chowk had gone to Kal Mandavi waterfall in Kelichapada-Kalsheti, around 7km from Jawhar city. The force of the waterfall was strong due to rain. Around 3pm, Nimesh Patel, Devendra Phaltankar, Devendra Wagh, Prathamesh Chavan and Jai Bhoir, all aged 18-22, along with others reached the waterfall by dodging tricky paths. Five of them got dangerously close and friends told Jawhar police the five slipped and fell. The friends raised an alarm but no one was around. Fire brigade personnel and rescue personnel from district disaster management cell fished out the bodies from different spots after around four hours. Firemen said the bodies were carried away in different directions as the current was strong. "We got the bodies as it was daytime and it was not raining," said a fireman. The bodies have been sent for autopsies. The friends told police two of them were taking selfies and three others fell too when they tried to help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/five-youths-fall-50-ft-drown-at-waterfall-in-maharashtras-palghar-district/articleshow/76760561.cms||Sandhya Nair
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Activists pool money, buy ambulance to help shift Covid bodies to graveyards||HYDERABAD: After several people complained of difficulty in transporting Covid bodies to graveyards, a group of 10 social activists got together to start an ambulance service solely for this purpose. The pilot ambulance service would help relatives transport victims first in the Cyberabad police commissionerate limits. Under the banner of ‘Serve the Needy’, the city residents bought a vehicle for Rs 70,000. They would hire two drivers and an attender, who will get a salary and health insurance. Though as per protocol, a Covid-19 victim’s body would be handled by the government, including transporting and performing the last rites. However, private hospitals were ignoring the protocol and releasing bodies to the families of the victims. Surendra Uplanchiwar, a member of the team, said: “We came to know that ambulance services are charging between Rs 25,000 and Rs 50,000 to transport a Covid-19 body for the last rites. We decided to start this facility free of cost. This will help lessen the burden of family members who are already in such distress.” Sai Teja, an activist and part of the group Serve the Needy, said, “We purchased a second-hand Maruti Omni online and made some modifications which cost an additional Rs 20,000. In the vehicle, we created a body chamber so that the driver is safely separated from any possible infection.” Sai said they would expand to other areas depending on the demand for the service. The group decided to start the service after a fellow volunteer, Ramanjeet Singh, faced a tough time getting an ambulance from a private hospital to cremate the body of a friend’s mother. On Wednesday, Singh faced another uphill task: Finding an ambulance for a friend’s wife, who developed Covid-like symptoms. “She developed symptoms around 3am and we called several ambulance services and hospitals but in vain. It took us at least five hours to get her to a hospital using our own contacts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/activists-pool-money-buy-ambulance-to-help-shift-covid-bodies-to-graveyards/articleshow/76759806.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Rajkot||Cong seeks action against cops for rash treatment||Rajkot: Congress members on Thursday submitted a memorandum to the police commissioner alleging police of being unnecessarily coercive towards the peaceful protesters on June 29. They have accused the cops of behaving aggressively at the behest of the ruling BJP. Victim of police’s brutal actions submitted a separate individual application demanding registration of offence against the errant police personnel. In the memorandum, Rajkot city Congress president Ashok Dangar stated, “We had applied for sanction of a peaceful protest. We had also shown our readiness to change our protest plan as per police’s convenience. The Rajkot police, however, decided not to allow the opposition to organize any peaceful protests.”The memorandum also criticised cops’ misbehaviour with Jadeja on Yagnik road, an area that did not fall under the jurisdiction of the police officers who are seen in the video insulting Jadeja. Dangar said, “The police treated our worker like criminals and we demand to register offence against responsible police officers under IPC section 307.”During the party’s protest against fuel price rise, Rajkot Congress leader Rajdeepsinh Jadeja, who was riding a horse, was allegedly insulted by assistant commissioner of police, H L Rathod, who is seen slapping the horse using abusive words and also forcing Jadeja to seat in police van. Police inspector V K Gadhvi is also seen in the act. The entire episode was recorded on mobile phone and the clip went viral on social media platforms. Police commissioner Manoj Agarwal told TOI: I have asked the DCP to investigate into the allegation of the Congress members.” However, in the alleged custodial torture of Kisan Congress leader, Pal Ambalia the police are still investigating the case and have not registered any offence against the officers of crime branch as yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cong-seeks-action-against-cops-for-rash-treatment/articleshow/76756760.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||Mayor Joshi visits city q-centres, praises facilities offered by NMC||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi, who is locked in a war of words with municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe over several issues, praised the facilities at quarantine centres in the city being offered by the NMC.On June 30 and July 1, Joshi visited Pachpaoli, RPTS and VNIT quarantine centres and expressed satisfaction over the arrangements there. Less than a week ago, BJP and some Congress corporators had criticized Mundhe during the marathon five-day general body meeting on adjournment motion over poor arrangements at quarantine centres.“Medical officers, staff, police and other government departments are on 24X7 duty during the Covid crisis. All of them are exposing themselves to risk only to ensure safety of the citizens. This work is exemplary and unmatched,” said Joshi while expressing gratitude to the corona warriors. “People of Nagpur will always remain indebted to them,” said the mayor.Joshi also sought feedback from inmates of the quarantine centres regarding meals and other facilities. The inmates expressed satisfaction over the quality of free meals being provided by Radha Soami Satsang and also sanitation.A few activists, however, questioned the dual standards adopted by political parties including BJP and Congress and pointed out that till June 26, both the ruling and opposition parties in the NMC were criticizing the civic chief for poor facilities, including food and sanitation, in the quarantine centres.During the recent GB meeting, citing complaints from citizens, corporators had claimed that those staying in quarantine facilities were being served poor quality food and made to stay in unhygienic conditions. The elected representatives had ignored their political differences and launched scathing attack on the municipal commissioner blaming him for mismanagement.Mundhe had admitted in the House that during the initial days there were complaints, but in due course, not only quality of food improved but hygiene at these centres also improved manifold. “After the NMC took over the administration of facilities at city’s quarantine centres, it has reduced the cost of food from Rs169 per person per day to Rs52,” Mundhe had replied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mayor-joshi-visits-city-q-centres-praises-facilities-offered-by-nmc/articleshow/76758032.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 3, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Woman ‘raped’ on pretext of marriage||RAJKOT: A 21-year-old woman on Wednesday night lodged a rape complaint against a native of Keshod in Junagadh district with Rajkot B division police station. In her complaint, the survivor alleged that the accused, identified as Mayur Lalwani, had raped her several times from November 2019 to February 2020. “The survivor alleged that Lalwani had raped her after giving her a false promise of marriage. In the room of a hotel on Kuvadawa Road, Lalwani clicked the survivor’s naked photographs and allegedly started blackmailing her for sex,” said M B Osura, inspector with Rajkot B division police station. Later, when Lalwani reneged on his promise of marriage, the survivor approached the cops with the complaint. “We have sent a team of officials to Keshod to arrest Lalwani,” added Osura. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-raped-on-pretext-of-marriage/articleshow/76756781.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Notice to arhtiyas over selling groceries in stalls||Ludhiana: After getting reports about a few arhtiyas selling grocery items in their vegetable stalls inside the main vegetable market of the city for earning profits, members of the district market committee have issued notices to several arhtiyas and warned them that they would face legal action in the next few days if they did not stop this practice. Notices have been issued to seven arhtiyas for violating norms in the past few days during a special drive in the main vegetable market to review the working of all arhityas and take preventive measures to ensure proper working of all small vendors in the market, the members said. Vinod Sharam, a member of the district market committee, said, “We have issued some notices to several arhtiyas after it was found that they were not following proper norms during the working hours and have sough clarification from them.” Members of the district vegetable marketing committee have given permission to small vegetable vendors to start selling grocery items in their vegetable stalls for earning their livelihood in tough conditions. Following this, 50 small vendors have opened their vegetable stalls as they had failed to earn a single penny from selling vegetable due to visitors in the market. But to ensure that they can earn better livelihood, the market committee will provide them more relaxation so that they can earn some profit in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/notice-to-arhtiyas-over-selling-groceries-in-stalls/articleshow/76758117.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||Two-day rain alert for Mumbai||MUMBAI: The Met department has issued an orange alert, indicating heavy to very heavy rains, for Mumbai on Friday and Saturday. A red alert has been issued for Raigad for Saturday. It said there was a cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat, and it could lead to rains in west coast and interior Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-day-rain-alert-for-mumbai/articleshow/76760575.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Rajkot||IMFL worth Rs 40L seized in two raids, one arrested||Rajkot: A total of 14,880 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 40.32 lakh were seized in two different raids carried out in Sayla of Surendranagar district and Morbi district on Wednesday night. A bootlegger was nabbed in the Sayla raid. In Sayla, 6,180 IMFL bottles worth Rs 18.54 lakh were found from a cement tanker. “We arrested the tanker driver identified as Ganpatram Jat (30). There was a car piloting the tanker, which escaped from the spot. We had a prior tip-off about the tanker, following which we kept a watch near Thoriyali village,” said D M Dhol, inspector with Surndranagar local crime branch. “As Jat was not aware of the local route, there was a car piloting his tanker. Both the vehicles broke the barricade put up by us and sped away. We gave them a chase. As Jat did not know the way, he was caught with the tanker, while the accompanying car managed to give us the slip,” added Dhol. During his interrogation, Jat said the tanker owner, Rugnath Bishnoi, had uploaded the liquor supply onto the tanker from Haryana. The delivery of the liquor cache was supposed to be made at Sayla. Meanwhile in Morbi district, a total of 8,700 IMFL bottles worth Rs 21.78 lakh were found from a truck that was abandoned near Kawadia village of Halvad taluka. “We have started the investigation on the basis of the registration number of the truck,” said V B Jadeja, inspector with Morbi local crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-worth-rs-40l-seized-in-two-raids-one-arrested/articleshow/76756802.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Villagers protest cops stopping park paint work||Ludhiana: Villagers of Bhundari gathered in large number under the leadership of MLA Manpreet Ayali on Thursday. They alleged that last week they had started the beautification and maintenance of a spots park in the village and on Wednesday paint work was also started, but cops under the alleged influence of ruling party leaders stopped the work and locked the gates of the park. The residents of the village gathered in large number to protest against the government. Ayali claimed that they had started maintenance of this park as on Sunday when they did cleaning and grass cutting and now paint work was supposed to start, but the ruling party leaders could not digest the same. He said Congress leaders did not pay attention towards the maintenance of thee sports park and if they are doing their bit even then they are not letting them to do the same. He claimed that they talked to senior police officials, who assured that there would be no interference by the police and they could continue with their work. Ayali claimed that they would not let the ruling party spoil these parks developed with great efforts. Meanwhile, Congress workers also went live on social media and alleged that Ayali was trying to create rift among the villagers by raising such allegations against ruling party leaders. They claimed that these parks were developed on village land and all had equal right on these parks. They claimed that ruling party leaders were ready to maintain the parks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/villagers-protest-cops-stopping-park-paint-work/articleshow/76758165.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Rajkot||Leopard electrocuted in Visavadar||Rajkot: A female leopard was electrocuted after it came in contact a transformer in Dudhala village of Visavadar in Junagdh district on Thursday. According to forest officials, the leopard was aged 8-10 years. The carcass was found in the farm of Mukesh Kotadia. Foresters said that the leopard came in contact with a transformer and got electrocuted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-electrocuted-in-visavadar/articleshow/76756851.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mysuru||Sand sculptor booked for idol theft||Mysuru: Sand sculptor Gauri has been arrested on charges of theft under the provisions of The Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act for allegedly taking away an idol of Vishnu from Biligere village near Nanjangud. She has now been released by a local court, police stated. According to Biligere police, Gauri, who runs a sand museum on Chamundi Hills road, had visited the village and taken away the ancient idol from a place of worship located outside the village. The issue came to light after the public noticed the disappearance of the idol on June 29, after which revenue officials filed a police complaint. Police identified the movement of a car in the village and zeroed in on Gauri. She had kept the idol at her sand museum. Senior officers visited the museum and recovered the idol. An officer said the idol is a muzrai property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/sand-sculptor-booked-for-idol-theft/articleshow/76757077.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mysuru||Infected woman delivers baby in Mandya; infant safe||Mandya: A Covid-19 patient who was pregnant successfully gave birth to a child at the Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) on Wednesday. The doctors had to perform a C-section to ensure a safe delivery. MIMS gynaecologist Dr Yogendranath said that both the mother and the infant were safe. “The team of doctors had to perform a C-section after the patient developed complications. Normal delivery was ruled out. It was only after ascertaining the condition of the Covid-19 patient was stable that we decided to go ahead with the surgery. We took all the necessary precautions to ensure neither the members of the medical team nor the infant got infected with the novel coronavirus,” Dr Yogendranath said. Authorities at MIMS said that this was the first instance of a C-section being performed at the clinic, and they were very pleased with the successful procedure. “We will collect throat swabs from the baby and the samples will be tested for the novel coronavirus,” a source at MIMS said. Meanwhile, an SSLC student who had appeared for the exams was taken to the isolation ward when she was writing the test in Pandavapura on Wednesday. She subsequently tested positive for the novel coronavirus. After eight staff members of the Mandya district court complex tested positive for the novel coronavirus, throat swabs of judges, staff and advocates were collected for examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/infected-woman-delivers-baby-in-mandya-infant-safe/articleshow/76759747.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Rajkot||40-year-old man stabbed to death for alleged ogling||Rajkot: A 40-year-old man was stabbed to death by an assailant who suspected him of ogling at his sister in Gandhidham of Kutch district on Wednesday evening. Police said the accused, Bharat Maheshweri, had stabbed Suresh Kashyap to death in Gitagram Society in Bharatnagar locality of Gandhidham.“Our investigation has revealed that Kashyap, who had come from Ajmer in Rajasthan to set up his motor garage, would often visit Maheshweri’s house. He would allegedly ogle at Maheshweri’s sister. When Maheshweri came to know about it, he decided to kill Kashyap,” said an official from Gandhidham A division police station. On the fateful evening, while Kashyap was standing, talking to Kishanlal Bundel and Pusparaj Bundel, Mahashweri arrived at the spot, brandishing a knife and stabbed Kashyap four to five times, killing him on the spot.Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for Maheshweri who went absconding after the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/40-year-old-man-stabbed-to-death-for-alleged-ogling/articleshow/76756877.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Lucknow||Covid strategy for NCR chalked out Shah meet with Yogi, 2 other CMs||Lucknow: Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday emphasised the need to adopt the telemedicine system of AIIMS, Delhi, at a video-conference attended by chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi — Yogi Adityanath, Manohar Lal Khattar and Arvind Kejriwal. The meet chalked out a combined Covid-19 management strategy for Delhi-NCR and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath appraised his counterparts about steps taken by his government to control virus spread in districts bordering Delhi. He also requested Shah to allow Covid-19 tests at National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research in Gautam Budh Nagar to raise the state’s capacity by 5,000 a day. CM Yogi also told Shah the state had launched door-to-door Covid-19 screening in Meerut division and the campaign was modelled around the successful Pulse Polio programme. Rapid antigen testing was being carried out and the health department had equipped teams with 80,000 kits with a target of 50 houses a day. “At least 38 lakh migrant workers had returned to the state, but the infection rate among them was negligible. At this point, 1 lakh migrant workers are in quarantine. Patients are being admitted in Covid hospitals and suspected cases are being moved to quarantine centres. From July 5, the screening drive will be extended to all districts, particularly larger districts like Lucknow, Varanasi and Prayagraj. The government would set up 1 lakh surveillance teams for the state,” the CM said. He also said, awareness was key to shielding oneself from the virus, but timely diagnosis was crucial. For this, the surveillance team were equipped with pulse oxymeters, infrared thermometers, sanitizer, gloves and masks. The CM said, the government had arranged for 23,000 beds in the Meerut division and set up Covid helpdesks in non-Covid hospitals, primary health centres, district hospitals and police stations. He said, since there was a constant danger of infection spreading through asymptomatic carriers, they should be kept in hospitals. Meanwhile, TrueNat machines are being used extensively across the state for quick diagnosis of Covid-19 patients. Addressing the meeting, Shah stressed on raising testing and ensuring that patients received medical attention on time. He also asked the governments to promote use of Aarogya Setu app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-strategy-for-ncr-chalked-out-shah-meet-with-yogi-2-other-cms/articleshow/76759848.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 3, 2020||Hubballi||People shun Mini Vidhana Soudha||Hubballi: The Mini Vidhana Soudha in Hubballi, which houses various government offices, usually has many visitors, as members of the public go there for various works. However, the number of visitors has come down to a trickle since a week, after an employee there tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Though the authorities have completely sanitised the premises twice, people continue to shun the public building. A staff member in the tahsildar’s office tested positive for the novel coronavirus recently, and it triggered fear among people. The Mini Vidhan Soudha houses the tahsildar’s office, social welfare department and rural police station, among other government offices. Shashidhar Madyal, tahsildar, Hubballi Urban, said that after a positive case was found at an office housed in the Mini Vidhan Soudha, all precautionary measures were taken, including sanitising the building. “To restrict the entry of people coming for unnecessary work, a security guard and a staff member have been deployed at the entry of the Mini Vidhana Soudha, to ensure that those who visit undergo thermal screening, sanitise their hands, are wearing masks, and other norms are followed strictly,” Madyal added.  Prakash Nashi, tahsildar, Hubballi Rural, said that he has instructed all staff members to clear the files of the public immediately, if they are in order. If files are cleared in time, it will minimise the crowd,” he said. Suresh Kumar, a resident of Vidyanagar, said that the Mini Vidhan Soudha always used to be crowded, since many offices are housed in the building. “It’s good that the authorities have implemented all the precautions to be taken properly,” he said. “To avoid people visiting the soudha, online applications for income, caste and other certificates were made mandatory. In case people are unable to make applications online, only then will manual applications be accepted,” said Madyal. However, some women staff members in the revenue department expressed concern that during the lockdown, despite opposition from their family members, they worked continuously, because people were not coming in large numbers, but now, after the lockdown was lifted, many people are visiting the office, due to which they are unable to maintain social distancing and are living in fear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/people-shun-mini-vidhana-soudha/articleshow/76756863.cms||J Abbas Mulla
July 3, 2020||Agra||One more Covid death in Agra, 28 cases in Meerut||Agra: One more Covid-19 death was reported in west UP's Agra district on Thursday. A 47-year-old man of Shahganj locality suffering from severe acute respiratory syndrome died under treatment at SN Medical College. The Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 90 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Also, at least 12 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced on Thursday, taking the district tally to 1,253. Three patients were also discharged. There are now 130 active cases in the district. In Meerut, at least 28 more people, including a pregnant woman, medicine supplier, house wife and a bank employee, tested positive for Covid-19. With the new cases, the tally reached 1,040, including one found in Kanpur, confirmed Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/one-more-covid-death-in-agra-28-cases-in-meerut/articleshow/76756837.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Vadodara||Nigerian inmate trying to flee Vadodara jail ‘arrested’ from tree||VADODARA: A Nigerian undertrial, caught with heroin worth Rs 6 crore and lodged at Vadodara Central Jail was booked on Wednesday on charges of attempted jailbreak. The accused, Mamdubueze Nonso Charles, was found missing on Wednesday morning when the jail staff opened his barrack for attendance. According to police, Charles was not visible in his cell nor did he respond when the staff called out his name. At this the jail sepoy opened the cell to check inside and when he checked inside the bathroom of the cell, he saw the wooden roof and the plastic cover above it broken. Alarm bells rang inside the jail, with staffers including senior officials carrying out a search operation within the premises for the convict, but could not locate him. An hour later, another inmate Nikunj Parmar spotted Charles hiding behind a tree near the jail’s clinic and alerted the officials. Later, one of the jailers approached the Raopura police station and lodged an offence against the convict. Charles was nabbed by the Narcotics Control Bureau on March 7, 2018 from Mumbai-bound Rajdhani Express train at Vadodara railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nigerian-inmate-trying-to-flee-jail-arrested-from-tree/articleshow/76757379.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Surat||‘Redevelop old urban dwellings in Gujarat’||GANDHINAGAR: By amendment in the General Development Control Regulations (GDCR) 2017, the state urban development and urban housing department has decided to allow redevelopment of dilapidated buildings in congested areas. Under the 2017 rules, this was not permitted. There are several thousand such buildings in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot and other cities which will benefit by this change in the rules. Under the new change in GDCR for the redevelopment of dilapidated residential buildings, the state urban and urban housing department has fixed certain conditions. The new GR (government resolution) issued on June 30, says that it shall apply in case of redevelopment for DW-3 type of residential buildings where the redevelopment of existing number of dwelling units is not permissible under the GDCR 2017. The GR has defined the eligibility criteria as well. Buildings which are more than 25 years old on the day of application for redevelopment, or declared dilapidated by a competent authority will be allowed. Residential buildings which are declared dilapidated by a committee of the municipal corporation or any urban development authority or town planning officers and other competent authorities, will be eligible for redevelopment. Under the new policy, a dwelling unit having existing carpet area less than 40 square metres may be redeveloped as dwelling unit of up to 40 square metres. However, in case of dwelling units having existing carpet area of more than 40 square metres, redevelopment will be allowed equal to the existing carpet area. The maximum number of individual dwelling units will not exceed the existing authorised number of dwelling units. Additionals FSI more than the above will be charged at 40% of the open land of jantri rate. According to the new policy, parking restrictions will be relaxed however fire and structural safety norms will have to be followed. There will be a restriction of five years on sale of the redeveloped unit by original owners. The new policy is likely attract new redevelopment activities in the old areas of all the major cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/redevelop-old-urban-dwellings/articleshow/76766626.cms||Kapil Dave
July 3, 2020||Agra||Ailing labourer, 44, fails to pay Rs 4k hospital bill, beaten to death by its staff||Agra: A manual labourer, 44, who came to a private hospital for treatment and couldn’t pay Rs 4,000 bill, was beaten to death allegedly by its staff following a brief argument over the payment in Aligarh on Thursday. The brazen attack was caught on a CCTV camera. Police are probing the incident and no FIR was filed till the time of filing of this report. Sultan Khan was allegedly attacked with sticks by the staff of the hospital in Aligarh’s Quarsi bypass. Accompanied by his nephew Chaman, Khan had come to the hospital as he was facing difficulty in passing urine for the last several days. Chaman later said that he had asked for the treatment cost from the hospital staff before admission. “The hospital staff told me that they would tell the treatment cost after conducting an ultrasound,” he said. Chaman alleged that the hospital charged Rs 5,000 for medicines without conducting an ultrasound. “We paid the money,” he said. Later, the hospital staff told them that per day charges of the hospital would be around Rs 4000-5000. “As we were unable to pay this amount, we asked the hospital to discharge him. When we came out of the hospital after making the Rs 5,000 payment, a staff approached us and demanded that we pay Rs 4000 more,” Chaman said. “My uncle’s condition was not good so I requested him to let him go. But they didn’t relent and started thrashing him,” said Chaman. When contacted, a member of hospital management, Dr Danish Ali, said that the patient visited the hospital with complaint of difficulty in passing urine and was breathless. “So we advised him to visit medical college for further treatment. The patient paid medicine charges, but did not pay the hospital fee of Rs 2,000. They attacked our staffer when he asked him to either pay the balance of Rs 2,000 hospital fee or meet the doctor,” Ali said. The CCTV footage of the incident has been recovered by the police. The video footage purportedly shows that the staffer is going inside the hospital after clashing with the patient’s relative and coming out with other workers armed with sticks. It also shows the alleged attack on the patient, Khan. Police said that the deceased’s body has been sent for postmortem. “No FIR has been registered so far. We are probing the case,” said inspector Chote Lal from Kawarsi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ailing-labourer-44-fails-to-pay-rs-4k-hospital-bill-beaten-to-death-by-its-staff/articleshow/76756858.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
July 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||TUs oppose Centre’s move to open up coal sector for pvt players||Angul/Bhubaneswar: Coal production and despatch at Talcher and Ib Valley have been disrupted as the trade unions working in the Mahanadi Coalfields Limited (MCL) went on a three-day strike from Thursday opposing the Centre’s decision to open up the coal sector to private players for commercial mining. The state exchequer is also expected to face a significant revenue loss of around Rs 70 crore in three days in terms of royalty, contribution to the district mineral foundation (DMF) and other taxes. In 2019-20, the state government had earned Rs 2,153 crore only in terms of royalty while the state also earns from other sources like DMF contribution and various taxes. Members from different trade unions, including the RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), the All India Trade Union Congress, the Hind Mazdoor Sabha, Indian Trade Unions, and Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) took part in the strike. More than 10,000 workers including the contractual workers of the Mahanadi Coalfields Limited (MCL), a subsidiary of Coal India Limited (CIL), also joined the protest march. Production of coal has been completely stopped in major coal blocks including Hingula, Jagannath, Balaram, Lingaraj, Bharatpur, Ananta and Kaniha. The coal mine workers held a sit-in-dharna and protest march in various areas of Talcher opposing the Centre’s decision. “The decision to allow private players in coal mining will affect the service condition of thousands of coal mine workers. This is not acceptable to us. For the time being, we have gone for a three-day strike. But if the government will not withdraw the auction process, we will start an indefinite strike that will affect the power industry as well,” said Srinibas Khuntia, secretary, Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangha (BMS). Pratap Kishore Behera, a coal worker at Talcher coalfield said the locals may not get jobs in the coalfield any more if the government allows private players, including foreign players, into coal mining. The MCL sources said the central PSU usually produces around four lakh tonnes of coal on a daily basis from its various coal mines of which one-third production is from Talcher coalfield and the remaining from Ib Valley. “There should not be any apprehension at least among the workers of MCL about the Centre’s decision to allow private players into coal mining. It will not impact the MCL in anyway,” said a spokesperson for the MCL. Nine coal blocks are from Odisha from among the total 41 blocks listed for auction by the Union coal ministry. (end)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/tus-oppose-centres-move-to-open-up-coal-sector-for-pvt-players/articleshow/76758195.cms||Jagadananda Pradhan
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Gun parts smuggled in from Nepal, assembled in Rajasthan||AHMEDABAD: Further investigation into the state’s largest illegal firearms seizure by the Gujarat anti-terrorist squad (ATS) last fortnight, has revealed that parts of the foreign-made firearms were smuggled into India through the Nepal border, a senior ATS official said. “The parts would then be taken to two cities in Rajasthan and assembled into complete guns. They were then brought into Gujarat by Digvijaysinh Jhala, a resident of Morbi, and supplied to two gun dealers, Tarun Gupta of Ahmedabad and Mukesh Butiya of Manpar in Surendranagar, who sold them to the other accused,” a senior ATS official added. In two operations, on June 20 and 30, Gujarat ATS seized a total of 105 firearms, most of which were foreign-made, worth a total of Rs 2.30 crore. A total of 23 persons have been arrested in the case so far, including Tarun Gupta and Mukesh Butiya. ATS sources said more arrests cannot be ruled out. “We now have the identity of the person who smuggled the parts into India from Nepal and we are hunting for him. The trail may lead to Maharashtra, particularly some suburbs of Mumbai,” a source added. According to ATS sources, Jhala would give the illegal weapons to Gupta or Butiya for sale. “To sell them, both dealers would make a bill from their shops to make them appear legal. The dealers also sold Indian Ordinance Factories (IOF) stock to people who did not have licences. They would then show these weapons as having been given to other dealers for storage,” an ATS source said. ATS sources said the seized weapons include US-made Ruger sporting rifles, .30 M1 carbines, IOF rifles, Walther revolvers, pistols and G-22 rifles, Smith & Wesson revolvers and pistols made at Houlton, ME or Springfield, MA, and also some country-made weapons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gun-parts-smuggled-in-from-nepal-assembled-in-raj/articleshow/76758936.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
July 3, 2020||Rajkot||Man, nephew killed in clash over farm boundary in Chotila||Rajkot: A man and his nephew were killed in a clash that erupted between two groups in Khargunda village of Chotila taluka in Surendranagar district over a petty issue on Thursday. Police has booked seven persons including a woman from both the groups for rioting and murder. Two injured in the clash have been hospitalised.Police said the deceased, identified as Kuraji Paladia (65) and his nephew Ramesh Paladia (35), were arch-enemies, who led their respective groups to attack each other. “The members of both the groups attacked each other with axes, scythes and iron pipes. Kuraji and Ramesh had been having a dispute over the boundary between their adjoining farms for the past couple of years, which ultimately resulted in the clash,” said D B Basia, Limbdi deputy superintendent of police. On the fateful day, the members of both the groups entered into an altercation. After hurling abuses at each other, the groups brought out arms from their homes and attacked each other. While Kuraji was clobbered to death with an iron pipe, Ramesh’s throat was slit with a scythe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-nephew-killed-in-clash-over-farm-boundary-in-chotila/articleshow/76756902.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Redevelop old urban dwellings in Gujarat’||GANDHINAGAR: By amendment in the General Development Control Regulations (GDCR) 2017, the state urban development and urban housing department has decided to allow redevelopment of dilapidated buildings in congested areas. Under the 2017 rules, this was not permitted. There are several thousand such buildings in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot and other cities which will benefit by this change in the rules. Under the new change in GDCR for the redevelopment of dilapidated residential buildings, the state urban and urban housing department has fixed certain conditions. The new GR (government resolution) issued on June 30, says that it shall apply in case of redevelopment for DW-3 type of residential buildings where the redevelopment of existing number of dwelling units is not permissible under the GDCR 2017. The GR has defined the eligibility criteria as well. Buildings which are more than 25 years old on the day of application for redevelopment, or declared dilapidated by a competent authority will be allowed. Residential buildings which are declared dilapidated by a committee of the municipal corporation or any urban development authority or town planning officers and other competent authorities, will be eligible for redevelopment. Under the new policy, a dwelling unit having existing carpet area less than 40 square metres may be redeveloped as dwelling unit of up to 40 square metres. However, in case of dwelling units having existing carpet area of more than 40 square metres, redevelopment will be allowed equal to the existing carpet area. The maximum number of individual dwelling units will not exceed the existing authorised number of dwelling units. Additionals FSI more than the above will be charged at 40% of the open land of jantri rate. According to the new policy, parking restrictions will be relaxed however fire and structural safety norms will have to be followed. There will be a restriction of five years on sale of the redeveloped unit by original owners. The new policy is likely attract new redevelopment activities in the old areas of all the major cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/redevelop-old-urban-dwellings/articleshow/76758934.cms||Kapil Dave
July 3, 2020||Rajkot||‘Redevelop old urban dwellings in Gujarat’||GANDHINAGAR: By amendment in the General Development Control Regulations (GDCR) 2017, the state urban development and urban housing department has decided to allow redevelopment of dilapidated buildings in congested areas. Under the 2017 rules, this was not permitted. There are several thousand such buildings in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot and other cities which will benefit by this change in the rules. Under the new change in GDCR for the redevelopment of dilapidated residential buildings, the state urban and urban housing department has fixed certain conditions. The new GR (government resolution) issued on June 30, says that it shall apply in case of redevelopment for DW-3 type of residential buildings where the redevelopment of existing number of dwelling units is not permissible under the GDCR 2017. The GR has defined the eligibility criteria as well. Buildings which are more than 25 years old on the day of application for redevelopment, or declared dilapidated by a competent authority will be allowed. Residential buildings which are declared dilapidated by a committee of the municipal corporation or any urban development authority or town planning officers and other competent authorities, will be eligible for redevelopment. Under the new policy, a dwelling unit having existing carpet area less than 40 square metres may be redeveloped as dwelling unit of up to 40 square metres. However, in case of dwelling units having existing carpet area of more than 40 square metres, redevelopment will be allowed equal to the existing carpet area. The maximum number of individual dwelling units will not exceed the existing authorised number of dwelling units. Additionals FSI more than the above will be charged at 40% of the open land of jantri rate. According to the new policy, parking restrictions will be relaxed however fire and structural safety norms will have to be followed. There will be a restriction of five years on sale of the redeveloped unit by original owners. The new policy is likely attract new redevelopment activities in the old areas of all the major cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/redevelop-old-urban-dwellings/articleshow/76766622.cms||Kapil Dave
July 3, 2020||Madurai||Police well-being prog must go on for 5 years: HC to govt||Madurai: Observing that public security can be ensured only if the police force is physically, mentally and morally strong, Madras high court on Thursday directed the state government to continue the Police Wellbeing Programme for the next five years by allocating necessary funds.The court passed the order after hearing the submissions of ADGP welfare P Thamarai Kannan, Nimhans registrar Dr K Sekar and renowned psychiatrist Dr C Ramasubramanian, who is the state nodal officer for the programme. A division bench of Justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi observed that any form of violence is a product of a sick mind. “On one hand, those responsible for the death of Jayaraj and Beniks should not go scot-free and on the other hand, we cannot afford to lose any more such individuals to violence,” they said.A few bad apples should not be a reason to condemn the entire police force of about 1.25 lakh personnel who are already at the forefront of the Covid-19 battle. The judges observed that all the three members had painted a grim picture about the mental health of people post the Covid-19 period, which was troubling. Experts had stated that the programme that has begun will bear fruition only if it is worked continuously for five years. They were conscious of the fact that the state government is cash-strapped on account of the pandemic, “but having walked this far, we are of the view that the government should not abandon this programme”.Appreciating the government for conceiving the pioneering programme, the judges observed that violent propensities in individuals can be stymied only through such programme. ADGP Thamarai Kannan submitted that the programme was started by the government in 2018 by signing an MoU with Nimhans, Bengaluru. In all, 462 master trainers including 254 police personnel and 208 councillors attended a five-day training at Nimhans. The trainers conduct the programme for the police on Fridays and Saturdays. Family members of the personnel were also invited on Sundays.It was seen from the feedback obtained from police personnel that their stress level was as high as 5%. Steps were thus taken to reduce their stress level. Since the wellbeing programme adapted by the government had yielded several positive results at the workplace and home, several other states have also started adopting the model, he added. Sekar submitted that the programme should be included as a curriculum in police training. He pointed out that though 10.67 % of people in the country have mental health problems, there are only 42 hospitals and 10,000 professionals to address them. Ramasubramanian submitted that the programme helped cops with suicidal mindset and with family problems lead a happy life.Additional advocate general K Chellapandian submitted that 90,000 personnel of the total 1.2lakh police force in the state have undergone training and the government would continue the programme. The case was adjourned to July 9 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-well-being-prog-must-go-on-for-5-years-hc-to-govt/articleshow/76759154.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Hero Cycles to extend helping hand to small industrial units||Ludhiana: In wake of the tough situation being faced by the small scale bicycle and parts manufacturers, wherein their sales are not picking up and losses are mounting, Pankaj Munjal, chairman-cum-managing director of bicycle giant Hero Cycles, conducted a meeting with the small industrialists and assured them of support. Munjal also assured them help for competing with the Chinese manufacturers of high-end bicycle and parts. Manjinder Singh Sachdeva, general secretary of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers (UCPMA) said, “On Wednesday evening, a delegation of UCPMA met Munjal at his factory. During the meeting Munjal stressed on the need for modernisation of our units in order to compete with the Chinese manufacturers of high end bicycle and parts, who are leading the world market currently. Munjal assured us of complete support in turning this into reality and he had asked us to start work on this project and initially identified and shortlisted five industrial units from Ludhiana, which can be supported by Hero Cycles in adopting the latest technology and making them capable of producing the high-end bicycle parts.” Rajinder Singh Sarhali, propaganda secretary of UCPMA, said, “The meeting was very fruitful and we are thankful to Hero Cycles for thinking about the small scale industry. The initiative by the company to help the bicycle units from Ludhiana to equip themselves to compete with the Chinese bicycle companies is really a unique initiative and it will not only help the five companies which are shortlisted for the initial phase, but will also motivate thousands of other bicycle parts manufacturers of Ludhiana to technically upgrade themselves and compete with the Chinese companies which have gone on to become number one in terms of producing the high-end bicycles and parts” Valaity Ram Durga, another office-bearer of the UCPMA, said, “I think it’s high time that Ludhiana’s bicycle industry realises its potential and starts to make itself capable enough to compete with the Chinese companies. I think it’s a welcome initiative of a big company like Hero, which has assured full support to the industry, and we should make maximum use of this opportunity. Ludhiana already is among the top producers of bicycles in the world but in terms of high-end bicycles we have not been able to make a mark yet, but I think the right time has now come to make this also happen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hero-cycles-to-extend-helping-hand-to-small-industrial-units/articleshow/76758211.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Vadodara||‘Redevelop old urban dwellings in Gujarat’||GANDHINAGAR: By amendment in the General Development Control Regulations (GDCR) 2017, the state urban development and urban housing department has decided to allow redevelopment of dilapidated buildings in congested areas. Under the 2017 rules, this was not permitted. There are several thousand such buildings in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot and other cities which will benefit by this change in the rules. Under the new change in GDCR for the redevelopment of dilapidated residential buildings, the state urban and urban housing department has fixed certain conditions. The new GR (government resolution) issued on June 30, says that it shall apply in case of redevelopment for DW-3 type of residential buildings where the redevelopment of existing number of dwelling units is not permissible under the GDCR 2017. The GR has defined the eligibility criteria as well. Buildings which are more than 25 years old on the day of application for redevelopment, or declared dilapidated by a competent authority will be allowed. Residential buildings which are declared dilapidated by a committee of the municipal corporation or any urban development authority or town planning officers and other competent authorities, will be eligible for redevelopment. Under the new policy, a dwelling unit having existing carpet area less than 40 square metres may be redeveloped as dwelling unit of up to 40 square metres. However, in case of dwelling units having existing carpet area of more than 40 square metres, redevelopment will be allowed equal to the existing carpet area. The maximum number of individual dwelling units will not exceed the existing authorised number of dwelling units. Additionals FSI more than the above will be charged at 40% of the open land of jantri rate. According to the new policy, parking restrictions will be relaxed however fire and structural safety norms will have to be followed. There will be a restriction of five years on sale of the redeveloped unit by original owners. The new policy is likely attract new redevelopment activities in the old areas of all the major cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/redevelop-old-urban-dwellings/articleshow/76766620.cms||Kapil Dave
July 3, 2020||Goa||Speaker wants all MLAs tested before session||PANAJI: With the monsoon session of the Goa legislative assembly slated to start from July 27, speaker Rajesh Patenkar has appealed to all MLAs to get themselves tested for Covid-19. “It is better to get tested,” Patnekar said. “It is my desire. I request all the MLAs to voluntarily go and get themselves tested.” The guidance comes after a BJP legislator from South Goa contracted the virus along with his family members. The MLA has been shifted to the dedicated treatment facility for Covid-19 patients at Margao. Goa Forward Party MLA Vijai Sardesai has questioned the state’s preparations for the assembly session, suggesting that the virus could be transmitted within the House. “Many MLAs have to run to every spot where there is trouble or where the coronavirus has struck, at least this is the expectation of the people. It could happen that by chance they too could get infected,” Patenkar said, justifying his appeal. The legislature secretariat has also advised all MLAs not to conduct any meetings or briefings in the run-up to the assembly session. Legislature secretary Namrata Ulman said that adoption of reports by the various legislature committees should be done by circulation only. The legislative assembly note restricting meetings and gatherings was issued on June 30. “Due to the prevailing situation in the country, and in Goa, it is advised to all members that it would be prudent not to have any meetings, briefings and other activities which result in gathering in an enclosed space,” Ulman said in the note. Ulman also said appropriate SOPs will be formulated for the monsoon session based on discussions with all stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/speaker-wants-all-mlas-tested-before-session/articleshow/76759854.cms||Newton Sequeira
July 3, 2020||Rajkot||Tenders invited for Guj Tourism’s Veraval hotel||Rajkot: The process for inviting tenders for Toran Hotel of Gujarat Tourism Corporation Limited to be built at the cost of Rs 9 crore on public private partnership (PPP) basis in Veraval of Gir Somnath district has been initiated. According to state tourism minister Jawahar Chawda, Toran Hotel assumes significance in Veraval in light of the lakhs of pilgrims who flock to Somnath temple near Veraval every year. “As Veraval is near Somnath Temple and is the headquarters of Gir Somnath district, it has been decided to build Toran Hotel there. There will be luxurious rooms and suits with delicious food, catering to the customers, mostly pilgrims,” said Chawda. “For those guests from the corporate world, there will be conference hall, board room, hall for corporate event and dining hall attached with the state-of-the-art kitchen,” added Chawda. Tenders details are available at gujrattourism.com site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/tenders-invited-for-guj-tourisms-veraval-hotel/articleshow/76756927.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: An upright Sathankulam policewoman who didn’t ask for the spotlight||MADURAI: Praised by her family, resented by colleagues and hailed as a hero by people, the Sathankulam policewoman S Revathy’s quiet life, which she knew till a few days ago will not be the same anymore. Her testimony before the magistrate who enquired into the dual custodial deaths in the Sathankulam police station a week ago has helped register cases of murder against her colleagues. On Thursday, the head constable was given police protection at home with four police personnel being posted at her gates, as it is feared that her deposition may invite attacks on her family. For the 38-year-old, this was no intrepid act but a duty that she felt any honest person would do. “I don’t want to talk much. All I can say is that I feel safer now with policemen guarding at the gates,” Revathy told TOI over phone. Her testimony before the judicial magistrate Bharathidasan helped register cases against the police personnel who tortured P Jeyaraj and J Beniks at the Sathankulam police station. She had hoped it would remain confidential, but it leaked out and now she is afraid her action would put her family into danger. Growing up in a large family of three brothers and a sister, she had always nursed a desire to be independent and join the police force. She studied upto the Class XII and then began preparing to join the police force on her own, paying for the examinations and without much support from her father who was a bus conductor. Though she failed the police selection examination in her first attempt, she was determined to make it and finally got through in 2005. Her husband Santhosh, who has been her support system, is now a proud man. “I know her as someone who only speaks the truth and I will stand by her. She has achieved everything on her own, she will be able to see through this too,’’ he said. An upright person, Revathy’s job had been more of a routine and never intimidated her family. “Revathy usually narrates incidents that she encounters when we talk at the end of the day, but nothing has ever been like this case,” said Santhosh, who recounts that she had been upset after the incident on June 19, when she had chanced upon P Jeyaraj and J Beniks being beaten up at the police station. Though Revathy had joined the police force because of a passion for the work, she wants her daughters aged nine and five to study and take up other careers. “She wants at least one of them to become a doctor,’’ said Santhosh. At present she has been given a month’s medical leave with pay, and her husband has also applied for leave so that he can stay with her and help her through the ordeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/an-upright-policewoman-who-didnt-ask-for-the-spotlight/articleshow/76759164.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
July 3, 2020||Agra||No entrance exam at Agra univ, colleges to take direct admission||Agra: Following the Covid-19 pandemic, Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University administration has decided not to conduct entrance exam for the session 2020-21. Colleges affiliated to the university will be able to take direct admission following a common admission procedure. However, the students will have to first register on the varsity website. Agra university had been conducting entrance exams for admission in seven courses including MSc (physics, chemistry, mathematics, zoology and botany), bachelor course in physical education, undergraduate and post graduate courses in law and agriculture. This year, university administration has decided not to conduct the entrance exam. The students will be required to check the details for the admission procedure with the colleges. However, colleges will have complete authority to decide the admission criteria. Agra university’s public relation officer Pradeep Shridhar said, “University’s admission committee has made a few changes for admission in the session 2020-21. The committee has decided not to conduct entrance exams for admission to the affiliated colleges. Web registration through the official website of the university will be mandatory for applicants taking admission in any affiliated college.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/no-entrance-exam-at-agra-univ-colleges-to-take-direct-admission/articleshow/76756895.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Madurai||Four cleaning septic tank die of asphyxiation in Tamil Nadu||TUTICORIN: Four youths died of asphyxiation while cleaning a septic tank at a house in Keela Chekkarakudi village in Tuticorin district on Thursday. The deceased have been identified as Pandi, 24, Isakiraja, 20, Bala, 23, and Dinesh, 20.  All were from Veeravanallur in Tirunelveli district. They were cleaning a septic tank at the house of A Somasundaram, 65, of North Street in Keela Chekkarakudi. “They had cleaned the septic tank twice and emptied the load,” Srivaikuntam station fire officer (SFO) T Muthukumar told TOI. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the asphyxiation happened around noon during the third round of cleaning. “One of them fainted. The others entered the tank one after the other to rescue him,” the SFO said. The trio rescued the man, who died en route to the hospital. The three who rescued him died in the septic tank. On receiving information, the Thattaparai police and fire and rescue services personnel form the Srivaikuntam station 27km away rushed to the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/4-asphyxiated-while-cleaning-septic-tank/articleshow/76759176.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19: Curbs slacken as infection spreads in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the addition of an all-time-single day highest tally of 79 new cases, the cumulative Covid-19 count of Visakhapatnam district reached 1,055 mark on Thursday, of which 646 are active cases. With two more deaths, the toll also rose to seven. However, despite public demand, still no restrictions on movement or partial lockdown has been imposed in the district even as several new containment clusters are being added daily. As on July 2, there are 236 containment very active, active and dormant clusters. According to GVMC chief medical officer (CMO) Dr KSLG Sastry, almost one third of the Covid-19 cases are from eight clusters, which includes Peda Jalaripeta, Fishermen Colony, Jalaripeta. Jodugullapalem, Appughar, Kobbarithota, Dandubazar and Anakapalle. “With over 70 cases, Peda Jalaripeta has the highest number of cases while the other areas too have 30-50 cases each. Apart from these places, which are mostly fishermen colonies, daily cases are being reported from both urban slums and posh colonies and zones like East Point Colony, residential areas in Ramnagar, Siripuram, Seethammadhara and so on.” In just a fortnight, over 700 new cases have been added. On an average, 50-60 new cases are being added daily, resulting in 646 active cases to surpass the number of 402 discharged patients as on July 2. Dr Devi Madhavi, head of the department of community medicine and in-charge of quarantine facilities in the district informed, “As active cases are increasing at a fast rate, apart from the Covid-19 hospitals, Covid-19 care centres are being set up for mild asymptomatic cases. Lots of returnees from other states and abroad are contributing to the asymptomatic cases.” Special officer for Covid-19 Dr P V Sudhakar added that testing of samples have been doubled from around 1,000 to nearly 2,000 on a daily basis in recent times, thus more cases are being detected everyday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-19-curbs-slacken-as-infection-spreads-in-visakhapatnam/articleshow/76756932.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 5 crore fraud: Victim gets beaten in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: A businessman from Maharashtra on Wednesday lodged a complaint with Satellite police station alleging that two brothers from Satellite area, who earlier stayed in Versova in Mumbai, thrashed him when he demanded Rs 5 crore from them which he had handed over to them to get him a business loan of Rs 600 crore. Anil Joshi (43), a resident of Agrawalnagar in Dhule of Maharashtra, has stated in his complaint that he has been running a business of freight carriers for which he needed money for expansion in 2018. At that time, Joshi’s friend Jitendra Shah introduced him to the accused — Parth Dalvadi and Mehul Dalvadi — who were then staying in Versova. The Dalvadi brothers promised Joshi that they would help him in getting a loan of Rs 600 crore from HSBC bank and sought money for the loan procedure. Joshi said that he ended up paying Rs 4.86 crore through RTGS (real time gross settlement) to the Dalvadi brothers. Parth Dalvadi in October 2018 told Joshi that he would have to go to Hong Kong for the loan procedure. But when Joshi went there he was deported back as the immigration procedure was not cleared by Parth Dalvadi. After this, Joshi went to the Dalvadi brothers’ house in Versova in Mumbai and sought his money back. The two brothers were booked by Maharashtra police in June 2019. They were released after they took on oath before a local court that they would be paying up the entire amount in 50 days. On June 26, Joshi had come to the city and had gone to meet the Dalvadi brothers. When he sought his money they threatened him and beat him badly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-5cr-fraud-victim-gets-beaten/articleshow/76758931.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘There is a need to strengthen digital infra’||Asoka Kumar Das, vice-chairman of Odisha State Higher Education Council, tells Hemanta Pradhan about the education scenario in the time of Covid-19 and how technology can help students. With Covid cases on the rise, tell us about the road ahead… Given the current scenario, we can say the congregation of students – in campus, hostel and classroom – is not possible unless we see Covid cases declining. The World Health Organization (WHO) thinks we may reach the peak in July and the cases may then start to come down. But we don’t know what will happen next. We should start education in distance mode till the situation gets better. The distance mode of education can be strengthened through various means of technology so that students can benefit. We should carry out teaching-learning process via online mode with whatever possible infrastructure we have. Universities and colleges can prepare and gather study/reference materials and deliver them to students. Do you feel universities and colleges in the state are prepared to conduct sessions through online mode, like IIT Bombay? Whether it is a university or college or any other institution, everybody should strengthen their digital infrastructure to start online education. Our digital backbone is not so strong and it is a major challenge for us. We have some colleges which do not have a well operated website where teachers can upload study material for students. We should realize that the need for digital infrastructure will remain paramount even after the pandemic. A few educational institutions have created a platform by themselves to conduct examinations and online classes. But we are taking steps to solve the teaching and learning issues. Universities can collaborate with other educational institutions for developing innovative online teaching and learning methods. Besides, we have to set up counselling cells in the institutions to help students and teachers. The state government needs to work on these aspects positively. What changes do you think is needed to the syllabus keeping the Covid-19 situation in mind? Some sectors like tourism, entertainment, travel and retail are facing difficult times due to Covid-19, so these industries may not hire people. But some areas have witnessed demand because of the pandemic. Public health sector, clinical psychology and psychiatry, biotechnology, artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning, data analysis, internet of things (IoT) and robotics will grab more attention than ever. These new skills will create jobs. As an educationist, I can say the universities can start investing in these sectors. We can add these courses as elective subjects in undergraduate or postgraduate. We can also provide education regarding entrepreneurship and starting businesses. Every college and school should open a tinkering lab for students to come up with new ideas and work on it. Universities can open incubation centres. Even a person without a college degree should be allowed to the centre to work on his idea. The team can teach or guide the person about entrepreneurship, legal issues, angel funding and other associated things. This hand-holding will create wonders in the long run. When do you think the new academic session will start? New academic session for PG classes may begin from November 1. We are planning to conduct the admission between September third week and October third week. Similarly, new academic session for UG first year may begin by October 1. The common PG entrance test is scheduled to be held in August last week or September first week. Neither Centre not the state has banned examinations per se. All precautions will be taken for the examinations. If it does not happen, we will think about alternatives. Your take on starting online education for UG and PG intermediate semester students from July 13? Our universities and degree colleges have promoted second and fourth semester students of UG classes. Similarly, second semester students of PG classes have been promoted. There is no point in delaying their classes. So, our universities and colleges will start online classes for these students from July 13. Whatever infrastructure we have, we can try to reach out to the students. The government will always try to reach out to every student. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/there-is-a-need-to-strengthen-digital-infra/articleshow/76758235.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Constables with 5 years on the job to handle probes||Ahmedabad: In a major change to the function of the police, a notification issued by the government on June 30, has empowered constables with experience of five years to investigate cases in which the punishment involved is up to five years’ imprisonment or fine or both. However, the investigation will have to be supervised by senior officersDirector general of police Shivanand Jha said the present generation of constables are highly qualified and equipped to acquire investigation skills. “If they are given opportunities at an early stage of their career, they will be more enthused to perform and contribute to the department in a big way,” Jha said.On powers to arrest, DGP Jha said the cases investigated by constables will be those in which the maximum punishment is five years’ imprisonment and hence arrests will be made only when needed in such cases.“Constables will first be trained on investigating cases at the Karai Police Training Academy and will have to pass a test before they are given investigation duty. Moreover, it will be the responsibility of the police inspector to allot cases. The investigation will be supervised by a sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) ranks in rural areas and assistant commissioner of police-rank officers in cities. Hence when the question of arrest arises these officers will have to supervise fortnightly. Monthly supervision will be done by an SP-rank officer in rural areas and DCP-rank officer in the city,” said Jha. Jha said that so far the constabulary was only assisting investigating officers in crime and law and order duties. “There is a heavy load of cases on officers of the rank of head constables and above and they find it hard to cope with the volume of cases,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/constables-with-5-years-on-the-job-to-handle-probes/articleshow/76758930.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||Goa sees highest single-day spike as it opens for tourists||PANAJI: The state’s active Covid-19 count neared the 750-mark on Thursday after 95 persons tested positive, Goa’s highest single-day spike in cases since the pandemic began. The unfortunate milestone was reached on the day the state opened its borders for tourists and permitted several hotels to resume operations. The day also saw 64 persons cured and discharged, bringing the total number of cured cases to 734, the closest the number has ever come to the active case count, which stands at 744. TOI had reported on Thursday that the state has now adopted a new discharge protocol, in which Covid-19 patients who display no symptoms for ten consecutive days are discharged without a Covid test. Zuarinagar in Vasco, which recorded 24 cases on Wednesday, saw 32 new positive cases emerge on Thursday, taking its count to 80. The area now has the state’s second-highest number of cases after the Mangor Hill containment zone, which saw 30 new cases on Thursday. Baina, also in the vicinity in Mormugao taluka, has reported a total of 54 cases so far. Meanwhile, for the first time, a suburb of Panaji saw mass-testing as swab samples of over 70 persons were collected at Cambrabhat, a slum area on the outskirts of the capital city. The testing follows the detection of two positives there, and swab collection is set to continue on Friday. Also, the South Goa BJP MLA, who on Wednesday became the first legislator to test positive for Covid-19, saw three of his family members — wife and two children — also test positive on Thursday. The MLA is one of the 10 who moved from Congress to BJP last year, and recently met chief minister Pramod Sawant. The state on Thursday bade farewell to its fourth Covid-19 victim, the 66-year-old man from Taleigao, whose body was kept in the mortuary on Wednesday after his family was reluctant to accept it. His last rites were conducted at the Hindu crematorium in Margao in the presence of his family members. His kin, all of whom tested negative for Covid-19, will be tested again, said Taleigao sarpanch Agnelo D’Cunha. Several areas across the state saw new cases on Thursday, with Ponda, Mardol, Marcel, Goa Velha and Valpoi joining the tally. Ponda reported five new cases on Thursday even as 15 cops attached to the town’s police station tested positive for the novel coronavirus. A rise in cases was also reported in Sakhali, Indiranagar, Porvorim and Quepem. The South Goa district administration declared a part of Fatorpa, Bondamol, a containment zone. The new discharge protocol, which has seen a greater number of persons being declared cured each day, doesn’t involve a Covid test before asymptomatic patients are discharged. They, however, have to observe home quarantine for seven days. Symptomatic patients, meanwhile, are discharged only after being cured, and have to test negative once before being sent home. Prior to the new protocol, the state discharged patients only after two consecutive Covid tests returned negative results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-sees-highest-single-day-spike-as-it-opens-for-tourists/articleshow/76759856.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 3, 2020||Agra||Over 3,000 critically endangered gharials born in Chambal||Agra: There is some good news from the forests of Chambal where a record increase has been witnessed in the numbers of hatchings of critically endangered gharials (Gavialis Gangeticus) due to minimal human activity during the Covid-19 lockdown. According to wildlife warden, Agra’s National Chambal Sanctuary, Diwakar Srivastava, a total of 3,170 gharials took birth in the latest hatching season in June within the 165 km range of the river sanctuary running along Bah in Agra. The numbers of births are up by 251 as compared to 2019 (2,919) while 2,800 offsprings hatched in 2018. The official confirmed that the numbers have increased due to less human activity on the river banks. Local residents, too, claimed that the main contributor to this has been a halt in illegal mining and fishing in the area due to the lockdown. Wildlife activists said that gharials lay their eggs under sand beds and illegal sand mining destroys their nests. Srivastava told TOI that the number of gharials increased from 676 in 2010-11 to 1,701 in 2019-20. This fish-eating reptile has been on the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) red list for decades due to its rapidly declining population. It is also listed in Schedule-I of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, which includes animals such as rhinoceroses, elephants, lions, tigers and snakes. “Though the numbers are impressive, not many juveniles survive to make it to adulthood as their survival rate is 5-12% due to various factors,” said Srivastava, adding that they get washed away in floods, a usual phenomenon in the Chambal river. Gharials live in clear freshwater river systems, congregating at river bends where the water is deeper. They’re not well-suited for land so they generally only leave the water to bask in the sun or to nest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-3000-critically-endangered-gharials-born-in-chambal/articleshow/76756926.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
July 3, 2020||Madurai||Madurai cases taking hockey stick course, to rise in a month: Official||Madurai: Madurai is in the beginning of the ‘hockey stick curve’ in Covid-19 infection status, and the cases are expected to rise in the next one month, Covid-19 monitoring officer for Madurai district, Dr B Chandramohan said. In an interactive zoom session with reporters on Thursday, he said that graphic details on the spread of the diseases had been observed to represent a hockey stick like growth, where the cases were initially low and then it rose rapidly before stabilising. “Initial lockdown had helped curtail the spread of the disease in Madurai and other southern districts, but it started increasing when the curbs were lifted. As of now, about 1,500 people in Madurai are being tested daily, but it is not the numbers that matter, but doing it in a more focussed manner on the vulnerable population and contacts of positive persons,” Chandramohan said. He said that 10 strategies have been chalked out to control the spread of the disease in Madurai. As the cases are increasing, they are also taking steps to bring in private hospitals into the treatment procedures in a larger way, as about 45% of the patients are getting treated in these hospitals. Plans are on to engage community-based organisations and industries in the process. While getting back to normalcy, it is a must to wear masks in public places, maintain a six metre distance from each other and follow hand washing and sanitizing procedures frequently, he said. Madurai district collector T G Vinay said they are in the process of publicising the status of beds available in the government and private hospitals in Madurai for the convenience of the people, and that it would be finalised once the private hospitals provide their data. “Testing had been enhanced in the district since the first week of June, after people from other districts started coming in. For the past one week, 16% of the population that was screened, tested positive,” Vinay said. When it was pointed out that patients coming to the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) were complaining of lack of facilities, the collector said that the dean of the hospital, Dr G Sangumani, had constituted many committees to monitor them. Even though the Covid-19 wing in the GRH had a dedicated 150-bedded ICU facility for Covid 19 patients only, 1% of them needed ventilator support, while the others recovered with oxygen therapy, he said. The collector also said that no call has been taken on the reopening of the major markets including the Mattuthavani vegetable market after July 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-cases-taking-hockey-stick-course-to-rise-in-a-month-official/articleshow/76759186.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Madurai||Fishing stopped in many coastal villages due to Covid-19 spread||Kanyakumari: The spread of Covid-19 in the coastal villages of Kanyakumari district has left fisherfolk in fear. While the fisheries department advised some villages to refrain from fishing as it could result in crowding when the catch is sold, some villages voluntarily decided to stop fishing till fresh Covid-19 cases are not reported from their pockets.An official in the fisheries department said that nearly 100 people tested positive in and around Thoothoor. Last week, the fisheries department stopped fishing in Erayumanthurai, Poothurai, Thoothoor, Chinnathurai and Eraiviputhenthurai. Fishermen of Vallavilai, Marthandanthurai, Neerody and Enayam voluntarily stopped fishing.Though fishing was not allowed in the Thengapattanam fishing harbour from the beginning of June, fishermen were allowed to unload their catch and take it to their villages by road. But this also has been stopped over the last three days. Those in the coastal areas have been asked to be careful as houses are small and close to each other.There is also resistance from fishermen in a few pockets demanding permission to go fishing. On Thursday, more than 100 fishermen of Poothurai protested despite the surge in Covid-19 cases in adjacent Thoothoor.Meanwhile, the office of the additional director of fisheries at Colachel was closed for disinfection measures after a junior assistant tested positive on Wednesday evening. The office is likely to be closed for at least three days and samples have been collected from the 12 staff in the department on Thursday.The patient had developed fever two days ago and another staff developed fever symptoms subsequently. It is suspected that they could have contracted from Vaniyakudi village close to the office as it is a containment zone after seven people tested positive two days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fishing-stopped-in-many-coastal-villages-due-to-covid-19-spread/articleshow/76759182.cms||M K Ananth
July 3, 2020||Vijayawada||City prepares its burial, cremation grounds||Visakhapatnam: In the wake of rising number of Covid-19 deaths across the state, and several incidents being reported of entry being denied to bodies of Covid-19 patients at various existing cremation grounds, authorities are mulling setting up more electric crematoriums and alotting land for burial grounds. Stakeholders in Visakhapatnam for example, that has reported seven Covid-19 deaths so far, have already begun making preparations. The Visakhapatnam Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) director Dr K Satya Vara Prasad told TOI that at least 10 acres of land is required to set up a crematorium with all modern facilities. Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) chief medical officer KSLG Sastry said three crematoriums have been sanctioned to the city during the minister-level meetings over Covid-19 related projects. “The crematorium project is in progress,” Sastry told TOI. On the other hand, Dr P Venugopal, chairman of Visakhapatnam district branch of Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS), said Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) has assured to extend financial support to their society to develop the existing burial ground near Convent Junction. With the VPT’s assurance, the society has requested GVMC to review the matter and give further direction to the society. “We are yet to get the green signal from both VPT and GVMC. We are ready to take up the task to develop an electric crematorium,” Dr Venugopal told TOI. Speaking to TOI, the manager of a graveyard in the city said a large amount of wood is required to cremate just one body while they are running out of burial space. “We face difficulties in both ways. The only option is the electrical crematorium, which require no land and wood. We must, however, take the consent of the people to avoid hurting their sentiments” the manager said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/city-prepares-its-burial-cremation-grounds/articleshow/76756961.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Contractors delaying projects to be blacklisted: Ashu||Ludhiana: Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu conducted a meeting with MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, mayor Balkar Sandhu and other civic officials to review the progress of the ongoing development works in West constituency. Irked over the delay in completion of works, he issued the instructions that the contractors who have either delayed the development projects or have failed to start the projects despite work orders being issued to them, would be blacklisted. He said that due to delay in the execution of the projects, residents are suffering and no laxity would be tolerated in terms of quality or speed of the development projects. He said some of the MC contractors are taking MC for granted and strict action would now be taken against them. He also asked the officials to submit utilisation certificates of the completed works with the government so that more works could be sought. He said no funds should be left unused and every single penny should be spent for the welfare of residents. During the meeting, the cabinet minister reviewed the development projects related to Ludhiana Smart City Ltd, operations and maintenance cell, horticulture branch, health branch, recoveries, etc. He said the next payment related to the LED streetlights project would be made to the contractor only when he explains about the energy saving in detail. He directed the MC officials to impose a penalty on Tata Sons (contractor) for all non-functional streetlights without fail. He also appreciated the MC officials for getting GPS installed in all its vehicles through CSR, that would help in better monitoring. He directed the horticulture branch officials to ensure that the Leisure Valley in Sarabha Nagar should be maintained properly and said he would personally visit the project next week. He also directed them to ensure that park management committees are formed for all parks of city. Meanwhile, the MC Commissioner said this month there has been a lot of improvement in the recoveries. He said Rs 5 crore had been recovered as property tax, Rs 3.92 crore for water supply, Rs 3.32 crore as composition fee, Rs 23 lakh as building fee, besides others. He said targets had been assigned to the officials for maximum recovery so that these funds could be spent on the development of city. He also said a monitoring cell had been set up in the civic body that was taking samples of all ongoing projects and getting them tested from the laboratory at Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College here. Later, Ashu, accompanied by all senior officials also visited the Sidhwan Canal waterfront project and Leisure Valley in BRS Nagar and issued instructions to the staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/contractors-delaying-projects-to-be-blacklisted-ashu/articleshow/76758295.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Property tax scheme extended||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has decided to extend the 10% rebate scheme for advance tax payers for both residential and commercial properties till July 31. The scheme was to end on June 30. Standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said the business establishments in the city will get 30% rebate in property tax. This rebate included 20% rebate under the Atmanirbhar package of the state government and 10% advance tax rebate. The package will be implemented till August 30. Bhatt said till July 2, a total of 2,78,606 property owners had paid tax to the tune of Rs 232.80 crore. Bhatt said AMC will extend rebate of Rs 180 crore to 4.5 crore property owners. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/property-tax-scheme-extended/articleshow/76758927.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Pune||PMC curtails Covid-19 sealing to just flat in new strategy||PUNE: A new strategy for sealing buildings to curb the spread of the coronavirus has been rolled out by the Pune Municipal Corporation. Now, even if five members of a family test positive for the contagion, and have been shifted to a Covid-19 care centre, there is no need to seal the whole building, Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said. The entire building will be sealed only if positive cases are found in several flats. If the patients are residents of one flat, the restrictions will be imposed only on the flat which houses them. Till now, an entire building was sealed even if a single case is reported from a building in a society. “We are changing the strategy because a majority of the cases that are coming now are from non-slum areas. The population density in these locations is low compared to the slums. The limited sealing of buildings is to make sure that residents of other flats don’t get affected because of the restrictions,” Gaikwad told TOI. Locations like Aundh, Baner, Kothrud and Bavdhan, which were in the green zone earlier, have many cases now. Many micro-containment zones have been introduced in these areas too. Gaikwad said those living in the sealed flat can get day-to-day items. “They can be made available at their doorstep with due precautions. Residents are expected not leave home till their Covid-19 test results are negative. The restrictions are to be maintained till the quarantined at home tag is deleted totally,” he said. Civic officials said the sealing of a house involves highlighting that the property is under use by quarantined patients. A notice is placed on the door of the house. The main door is not locked from the outside as part of the sealing process, they added. The civic body’s cellphone-based tracking system is used to keep a watch over the patients and their family members' movements. No formal responsibility has been given to the office-bearers of the societies to monitor the quarantined home. “But neighbours, secretaries and chairmen keep an eye on the house and the residents. If any breach from the quarantined family comes to their notice, they inform us. We may take action, in case there is merit in their complaints or on information passed on by the other residents,” a senior civic official said. Suhas Patwardhan, chairman of Pune District Cooperative Housing Federation, said, the civic administration should make sure that residents do not suffer due to undue restrictions and implement new strategies on a case-to-case basis. “Factors like open spaces in the complex, number and size of the flats should be considered, before designing the strategy in a society,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-curtails-ncov-sealing-to-just-flat-in-new-strategy/articleshow/76759215.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
July 3, 2020||Madurai||Docs ring up home-quarantined patients to check on their health||Madurai: The city corporation has started a telemedicine facility to monitor the health status of Covid-19 patients who are undergoing treatment at home. The team consists of five doctors and 18 paramedical staff and work out of a separate room at the Madurai Corporation’s main building. Doctors will reach out to patients through video calls, if they have a smart phone, or a normal voice call.The facility, which was created on Wednesday, started its operation in full-fledged manner on Thursday onwards. Monitoring officer for Covid-19 for Madurai district Dr B Chandramohan visited the telemedicine centre. “We get the list of people who test positive for Covid-19 every day. Using the contact information available on the list, doctors will establish contact with the patient and monitor their health condition and their improvement on day-to-day basis. Every patient will get one call every day,” he said.While required medicines will be distributed by health workers, doctors will ensure that they have taken their medicine during routine check-up. Those who have co-morbid conditions and underlying health issues will be closely monitored, he added.He said that a separate software has been installed in the system to maintain database, daily situations and improvements against each patient’s name. While the telemedicine idea came from monitoring officer Dr B Chandramohan, implementation was taken care by the corporation. Madurai district administration is also using the facility to monitor Covid-19 patients in the district, he added. Sources from Madurai corporation said there are around 200 patients under home treatment as on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/docs-ring-up-home-quarantined-patients-to-check-on-their-health/articleshow/76759195.cms||V Devanathan
July 3, 2020||Madurai||All Madurai corpn wards have active cases||Madurai:All hundreds wards of Madurai corporation now have active Covid-19 cases, totalling 1285, with zone 2 having the highest number of 411 as on June 30, according to a report published by the corporation. About 19 lakh people live in the 100 wards of the corporation which is divided into four zones. Zone one comprising wards 1 to 23 has a total of 363 active cases with Ellis Nagar and Ponmeni accounting for the highest number of 33 and 30 respectively. Bibikulam and Alagaradi have 26 cases each and Kochadai 25. Arapalayam ward number 10 and Arasaradi Othakadai ward number 20 have only four active cases each. Zone 2, comprising wards 24 to 49, has 411 active cases. Uthankudi ward number 28, K K Nagar ward number 44 and Reserve Line ward number 47 have just over 30 active cases each. Congested Sellur, which has been reporting cases regularly since mid-April, seemed to be controlling the spread with just 12 active cases on June 30. Tallakulam and Vandiyur had seven active cases each. Tahsilar Nagar, where the first Covid-19 death was reported in Madurai on March 25, had 16 active cases. With just 236 active cases, zone 3 had the lowest number though some of the wards like Ismailpuram ward number 51, Chinthamani ward number 56, Villapuram and Balarengapuram had houses in close quarters and also had many cottage industries like pappad making. Sappanikoil and St Mary’s have just two active cases each, followed by Kathirvel Nagar with three. Most of the 25 wards in zone number four had less than 20 active cases except for Jadamunikoil ward number 85 which had 34 cases. Ward number 76 Palanganatham had 19 cases while ward 77 Sundarajapuram has 27. Veerakaliamman koil had two active cases and Subramaniapuram three.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/all-madurai-corpn-wards-have-active-cases/articleshow/76759199.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Madurai||Training will prevent custodial deaths: IG||Madurai/Tuticorin: Lock-up deaths have to be prevented and the police department does not support such deaths in any manner, said S Murugan, who assumed charge as inspector general (IG) of police, south zone on Thursday. Talking to reporters after visiting Tuticorin district soon after taking charge in his camp office in Madurai, Murugan said that a new practice of questioning accused is evolving in the police department. “If continuous training is provided to police personnel, custodial deaths can be prevented,” he said. He also said that no arrests can be made flouting the Supreme Court guidelines. “There could be some deficiencies here and there, they will be rectified. It will be ensured that the guidelines are followed to its fullest spirit,” Murugan said. When reporters highlighted the issue of traders facing excesses from Friends of Police (FoP), Murugan said that it does not have any powers like police personnel and the issue will be looked into. On the Sathankulam incident, he said that local police are providing full cooperation to the CB-CID. “If the accused in the case are proven guilty, necessary action will be as per law,” he said. The IG also said that required security has been given for woman head constable Revathy, the eyewitness in the incident. As per her request, one month leave with pay has been granted by the superintendent of police. He said that communal issues have been on the decline since 1990s and required measures will be taken to bring them down further. Murugan, who was serving as IG, economic offences wing, replaced K P Shanmuga Rajeswaran as south zone IG following the latter’s retirement on June 30. It is his second stint as IG south zone as he served earlier from November 2015. Meanwhile, S Rajendran assumed charge as Madurai range DIG on Thursday, replacing Z Annie Vijaya, who has been transferred. Rajendran was selected as deputy superintendent of police in 1998. He has served as DSP in Sattur, assistant commissioner of police in Madurai . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/training-will-prevent-custodial-deaths-ig/articleshow/76759191.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Dehradun||UTC claims drastic drop in daily revenue in June||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Transport Corporation (UTC) on Thursday said it has been hit badly by the lockdown due to which its daily revenue collection plunged “drastically”. The senior officials of the state-run undertaking, which has been incurring losses for years, said daily revenue for the month of June came down to Rs 5 lakh from Rs 2 crore daily in the pre-Covid times. The corporation had started its operations on June 8 when unlock 1.0 was announced across the state. Due to increasing losses, the officials said they have been unable to pay salaries to employees for the past three months, that is, from April to June. The UTC, which ran around 1,400 buses before the lockdown was imposed, now only runs 150 buses daily, that too, just within the state. The inter-state operations are yet to start, officials told TOI. “Our daily revenue has gone down by over 97%. The UTC buses used to ferry around 1.25 lakh passengers on a daily basis. However, the numbers have come down to the range of 5,000 to 6,000 passengers,” Deepak Jain, general manager (operations), UTC, said. He added that with the current revenue collection, the UTC won’t even be able to meet its diesel expenses. “The UTC spends around Rs 20 per kilometer on diesel, which takes away a huge chunk from our total revenue,” he said. The official said it will take another few months to touch “anywhere close to the pre-Covid revenue figures”. Notably, the UTC had also suffered a loss of Rs 25 crore during the last financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/utc-claims-drastic-drop-in-daily-revenue-in-june/articleshow/76757005.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Facing crunch, BBMP earmarks space for 10 new cemeteries||Bengaluru: With space to bury the dead shrinking within the city, BBMP has identified and earmarked 10 plots of land on the outskirts for use as cemeteries. The plots total 35.2 acres and each will comprise a graveyard and electric crematorium. BBMP said the cemeteries will open for burials in a few weeks, but electric crematoria will take time since they have to be set up. “It has become a challenge to find space to bury within city limits. Now with Covid-19 fatalities rising, people also airing fears over contracting an infection from the dead during last rites. So we identified places for cemeteries outside the city,” a senior BBMP official said. BBMP began hunting for locations about three months ago. “The chief minister cleared the decision long ago. But Covid-19 forced us to get these cemeteries ready,” the official said. Currently, there are 42 electrical crematoria and 58 burial grounds in the city. On an average, around 30,000 dead are cremated or buried in the city in a year, the official said, adding that they don’t have the exact figures. “The maintenance of the burial ground and electrical crematoria is split between various departments. Lack of integrated management is causing the problem,” the official explained. He admitted that the existing electric crematoria are often shut for repair, adding to the challenges. BBMP collects Rs 500 to cremate a body, while burial is free. BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar said, “There was a delay in identifying these 10 places because there are various aspects, including demography, geography, population among others that had to be looked into.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/facing-crunch-bbmp-earmarks-space-for-10-new-cemeteries/articleshow/76757652.cms||Nithya Mandyam
July 3, 2020||Hubballi||11 hospitals sealed down for not updating SARI cases||Davanagere: A team of doctors headed by DHO Dr Raghavendra Swamy visited various private hospitals and nursing homes in Davanagere city on Thursday and sealed down 11 hospitals located in PJ Extension, KB Extension and Bethur Road for not updating registered ILI/SARI cases on the online portal of the health department. As per the government directions, it is mandatory for every hospital to update online data pertaining to ILI/SARI patients visiting the hospitals so that steps will be taken to trace such patients, collect their throat swabs and test for Covid-19. In this connection, a meeting was held earlier in the presence of deputy commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi and owners and doctors at private hospitals were given instructions accordingly. “However, 170 private hospitals in Davanagere district have not updated the information till date. The DC has asked us to seize such hospitals and hence we sdealed down 11 hospitals on Thursday,” the DHO added. (Photo: Health department officials seizing a private hospital in the PJ Extension area of Davnagere on Thursday) --------||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/11-hospitals-sealed-down-for-not-updating-sari-cases/articleshow/76756997.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Madurai||Pvt hosps in Madurai plan to increase beds as demand rises||Madurai: As total active Covid-19 cases crossed the 2,000-mark in Madurai on Thursday, demand for beds in private hospitals has been seeing a drastic increase. The hospitals are now planning to increase the number of beds to aid in Covid-19 care.At present, 11 private hospitals have a total capacity of around 400 beds. “We are having the highest demand among private hospitals as we have about 200 beds. Currently, 130 patients have been admitted here while 45 have been discharged after making a full recovery,” Dr RM Raja Muthaiah, dean, Velammal Medical College Hospital and Research Institute, told TOI. However, due to lack of an isolated building, the hospital is not planning to increase its bed capacity.The Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC), which has 30 beds for Covid-19 patients, is planning to increase capacity and expand its services. “We have 60 beds set up for quarantining those from other districts and states, which we may convert for Covid-19 patients. We are trying to set up 100 more beds. We are also negotiating with smaller hospitals to run them on lease and arrange for around 70 beds,” said J Adel, general manager-operations, MMHRC. MMHRC is also starting home care services starting next week for asymptomatic and mildly-symptomatic Covid-19 patients following the recent announcement by the district administration to allow asymptomatic and mildly-symptomatic patients to undergo monitored home quarantine. “For 14 days, the patients would be monitored remotely with doctor consultations and nurses will make home visits,” Adel said. The bed status and availability in private hospitals in Madurai can be checked at https://covid.uhcitp.in/status/dashboard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pvt-hosps-in-madurai-plan-to-increase-beds-as-demand-rises/articleshow/76759212.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 3, 2020||Madurai||South TN sees highest spike of 867 Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths||Madurai/ Trichy: South Tamil Nadu saw the highest ever single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Thursday with 867 patients testing positive for the infection, besides 11 deaths. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the ten districts has climbed to 9,279 and 92. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded two deaths and 138 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday taking the tally to 2,986. Apart from farmers’ leader Puliyur A Nagarajan, 64, a 48-year-old woman from Chennai also passed away at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy on Thursday. Madurai, recorded the highest figures in the southern region with 273 Covid-19 cases and four deaths. The four deaths in Madurai included three cases at private hospitals and one at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). A 72-year-old man from Madurai with hypertension died on July 2 at a private hospital. On June 30, a 35-year-old woman from Madurai, undergoing treatment for blood cancer died at a private hospital. Another 84-year-old man with diabetes and hypertension died on June 30 at a private hospital. At GRH, a 73-year-old man died on July 1. The total Covid-19 cases in the district are now at 3,133, including 2,203 active cases and 43 deaths. In Ramanathapuram, 117 Covid-19 cases were recorded on Thursday. Two Covid-19 deaths were also reported in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-sees-highest-spike-of-867-covid-19-cases-11-deaths/articleshow/76759217.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Dehradun||Will increase patrolling in towns along Nepal and China borders, intelligence gathering will be a priority: IG Kumaon||Nainital: As tensions with China and Nepal rise over border issues, the newly-appointed Inspector General (IG) of Kumaon, Ajay Rautela said that police will boost efforts for intelligence gathering. Speaking to mediapersons on Thursday, Rautela who took charge on Wednesday, said, “ We are ensuring that policemen in sensitive areas along the border are well-trained and competent. Patrolling and intelligence gathering efforts will be boosted in these places in the coming days,” he said. Three districts of Kumaon – Pithoragarh, Champawat and Udham Singh Nagar – share the border with Nepal and China. Rautela said his focus is also on tackling the crisis that may be created as hundreds of thousands of migrants settle back in the hills. “There are chances that the resettlement of such high number of migrants may create problems in the hills and the crime numbers may also see a rise. Therefore good policing in those areas will be a key,” he said, while adding that tackling the drug trade in the hills will also be a big challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-increase-patrolling-in-towns-along-nepal-and-china-borders-intelligence-gathering-will-be-a-priority-ig-kumaon/articleshow/76757014.cms||Prashant Jha
July 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Mittal accuses Cong and AAP leaders of misleading farmers||Ludhiana: Former cabinet minister Madan Mohan Mittal advocated that the Congress and AAP leaders were misleading people about three laws being introduced by the BJP, which were in favour of farmers. He claimed that under these laws the farmers would get right value for their crop and their income would increase. However, he attacked the Congress and AAP leaders by claiming that they were trying to mislead the farmers by giving false statements about these laws. Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, Mittal said Modi government had passed three laws for farmers but no changes had been done in the MSP. He said after the Swaminathan report came the Congress remained in power for 10 years while Manmohan Singh remained Prime Minister but the Congress could not get it implemented. He said the Modi government had implemented important recommendation of the Swaminathan report to add MSP to the cost. He said the BJP was fully committed on the issue of MSP. While giving warning to Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and AAP leader Bhagwant Mann for misleading the farmers, he said these leaders should at least read these laws first and then issue any statement on the same. He said the Modi government had given real independence to farmers after 73 years and now farmers had the right to sell their crop at their rate anywhere in country. He claimed that in the previous tenure of Amarinder Singh government, farmers were cheated in the name of contract farming. But after these laws were implemented, this practice had now stopped. He said there was a provision in this law that the farmer would remain owner of land, no matter for how long anybody else took it on rent basis. Mittal said Amarinder government should avoid issuing statements on these laws as it had already implemented many provisions in 2017 while amending Mandi Act. He asked Amarinder and other Congress leaders to support the laws for welfare of farmers. He claimed that soon Punjab BJP would start campaign to create awareness among farmers about these laws and their workers would go from village to village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mittal-accuses-cong-and-aap-leaders-of-misleading-farmers/articleshow/76758310.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Bail out construction workers, MLCs tell govt||VIJAYAWADA: Progressive Democratic Front (PDF) MLCs on Thursday demanded the state government to rescue construction workers who have been rendered jobless during the lockdown. They asked the government to give Rs 10,000 to every construction worker in the state from the funds collected through labour cess. MLCs K S Lakshmana Rao, V Balasubrahmanyam, Y Srinivasulu Reddy, Ramu Suryarao and I Venkateswara Rao, in a statement, said that the state government told the council in the recent sessions that it has collected Rs 1340 crore from the builders towards labour cess between 2014 to 2019. The money is intended to spend for the welfare of construction workers and the government has spent only Rs 308 crore out of the total funds available. As the present situation demands for extraordinary measures as the workers are facing financial distress due to non-availability works, the state government should spend the money available for the welfare of construction workers, they demanded. As more than Rs 1000 crore is readily available with the government, the workers should be given Rs 10,000 per family, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bail-out-construction-workers-mlcs-to-govt/articleshow/76757026.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||Central Jail virus chain: One jailer, 10 guards, 1 kin test Covid positive||Nagpur: Corona scare kept spreading its tentacles in Nagpur Central Jail as another 12, including a woman jailer, tested positive. Apart from 10 guards, wife of one of them also tested positive. The results of another 47 samples collected from the jail are awaited. With latest development, seven jailers, including two seniors, and 45 jail guards have tested positive. Five family members of the jail personnel and 12 inmates too were among the positive cases. One of the jail’s doctors has tested positive.Panic gripped the prison administration as bulk of the jail’s 1086 inmates are yet to be tested. Tests of around 350 personnel, including SP Anup Kumar Kumre, have so far shown a high rate of infection spread. Infection among families of jail personnel cannot be ruled out too.Aggravating the problem, the prison administration would soon have to vacate the Mount Carmel school premises where they had developed one of their two quarantine centres for new comers. SP Kumre said a community hall in the premises of home guards would likely be made available soon for developing into a temporary prison. “We would soon be sending our first lot of personnel exposed to high risk activities and the family members of the positive persons to institutional quarantine centre at Pachpaoli. There is fear in the jail but we are addressing the personnel and inmates to mitigate their anxities,” he said.Kumre also said a barrack has been identified to keep positive inmates and get them treated through the medical team allotted for this purpose to the jail. “We are requesting the divisional commissioner to spare a special team of doctors and nurses for the jail. The inmates not affected have been kept separately in different barracks but we are monitoring their health too,” he said. Kumre said Vitamic C tablets and other medicines would be distributed among the inmates. “We are taking due precaution about the health of the inmates as well as the personnel. City police are also helping us with some doses of immunity booster medicines,” he said, “This is an unprecedented crisis after having managed to shiled the jail from corona for three and half months.”City police’s chief medical officer Dr Sandeep Shinde also said he was trying to get immunity booster homeopathic medicines for the inmates and personnel immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-jail-virus-chain-one-jailer-10-guards-1-kin-test-covid-positive/articleshow/76758302.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 3, 2020||Pune||Website serving critical info on ICU beds struggles due to delayed updates||PUNE: The district administration has warned that hospitals not providing live updates on vacant ICU beds will face action. Relatives of several Covid-19 patients have alleged that they spent hours searching for hospitals with vacant ICU beds. There were also allegations that some private hospitals were denying admission to serious cases. An online dashboard the administration had set up recently was supposed to fix these problems via live updates on number of vacant beds, charges, availability of ventilators and other critical equipment. But authorities said the updates have been irregular. Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, said: “Private hospitals have to reserve 80% of beds for Covid-19 patients. They will face action if they don’t provide correct information on beds for the dashboard.” But specialists added there have been some delays in payments from the government. Head of Naidu Hospital, Sudhir Pasture, said: “A few private hospitals have not been co-operating. But the administration has to pay these hospitals patient cost regularly according to rules. That hasn’t been happening.”  The director of Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, Dhananjay Kelkar, said the hospital has already exceeded capacity. “Our bed capacity is 250. However, for the past two to three weeks, we have been treating 260 to 290 patients. If we have no vacant beds, there is no question of updating the online dashboard system.” Officials at Jehangir Hospital said they are unable to upload data in real-time. “We don’t have a problem updating the dashboard. Admissions and discharges are happening at the same time. We simply cannot provide real-time updates. We are updating the dashboard every evening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/website-serving-critical-info-on-icu-beds-struggles-due-to-delayed-updates/articleshow/76759226.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
July 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Muscat-returnee booked for defying quarantine order||PUNE: An offence of disobedience and negligence has been registered against a woman from Paud Road who defied the Pune Municipal Corporation’s directive of a seven-day mandatory quarantine in a hotel on her return from Muscat in Oman on June 30. “We have served a notice on her asking not to leave her home for 14 days and she will be under watch,” Kothrud police’s senior inspector Pratibha Joshi told TOI on Thursday. The FIR was lodged on the basis of a complaint by the PMC’s nodal officer. Persons returning home from abroad must undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine and a seven-day home quarantine. Joshi said, “The woman reached Pune on June 30 after her flight under the Vande Bharat Mission from Muscat landed in Mumbai. The airport authorities gave her a notice for institutional quarantine in a hotel room. The PMC officials received her details from the airport authorities. They called and told her to quarantine herself but she ignored their directives.” The police officer said, “A PMC flying squad on Wednesday checked the hotel room but found her at her residence. PMC officer Satish Ingle sent her a text message stating ‘You have escaped institutional quarantine you are supposed to undertake. If you ignore, we have no option but to file an FIR against you at police station and to proceed for passport suspension. Please reply immediately’. The PMC officials waited for hours, but the woman did not reply to their message nor did she shift to the hotel room. The PMC officer then filed a complaint.” The police have invoked Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC and the provisions of the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Covid-19 rules in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/muscat-returnee-booked-for-defying-quarantine-order/articleshow/76759220.cms||Gitesh Shelke
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||Encroachers on forest land bigger threat to Tadoba than coal block||Nagpur: While the threat of mining in Bander coal block, located in the eco-sensitive zone of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), has been warded off, a bigger damage to the park is likely to be caused by encroachments on forest land in the core and buffer areas. The land parcels, though in bits and pieces, is totally more than the area of the coal block. The efforts of NGOs and others helped save 1,633 hectares of rich forest in the Tadoba corridor. The encroachments, as per official figures is, 2,432 hectare — 232ha in core and 2,200ha in buffer. Since the enactment of Forest Rights Act (FRA) 2006, ownership titles have been granted on 320 hectares of forest land to 367 people in Tadoba buffer by the district level committee (DLC). In core area, 54 individuals have been allotted 62 hectare land under FRA. This is apart from the encroached land. Tadoba officials launched anti-encroachment drive and issued preliminary offence report in March 2019 against 1,100 encroachers who had occupied 1,700 hectare forest land. “Since then, notices have been served twice to encroachers to vacate the land but no one has responded,” they said. The anti-encroachment drive on June 26 met with stiff resistance from activists like Paromita Goswami and Raju Zode. The police in Ram Nagar registered an offence against Zode for preventing government employees from discharging duty. Goswami said she doesn’t know about the number of encroachments. “But after going through documents of some tribals from Sirkada, I can surely say they were evicted even as their claims were cleared by sub-divisional level committee (SDLC) and are now pending before the DLC,” she said. However, Tadoba officials claim 70% of encroachers are non-tribals. “These encroachments are not only blocking tiger corridors but also destroying wildlife habitat. Last month, a young male tiger (KT1) mauled 5 villagers from Kolara, Satara and Bamangaon. As wildlife habitats are encroached, tigers are moving towards villages,” they said. Claiming that she doesn’t support encroachments, Goswami said, “Action can be taken against those who don’t have requisite proof of residence for three generations or those who have encroached upon forest land after the cut-off date of December 13, 2005.” The activist said no prior notice was given to people. “Forest officials acted in haste by removing crops. Due to Covid, people are a harried lot and forest action has come at a wrong time,” said Goswami. The three villages have illegally encroached upon more than 200 hectare forest land in core area, according to G Guruprasad, deputy director (buffer). “Two out of 5 human deaths have occurred on encroached forest land,” he added. As per 2019 tiger estimation report released by WII, Tadoba buffer zone has 43 tigers and core 72. With the latest action in Shivni and Sirkada, FRA activists have upped their ante against officials. A video grab with TOI shows the activists threatening the Shivni range forest officer and encouraging people to encroach upon forest land. Chandrapur collector & DLC chairman Kunal Khemnar said, “The rights of encroachers who were removed were rejected in January. Only 17 encroachments have been removed so far. As per satellite imagery, these happened after 2005 (some are even in 2013 & 2015). It is true that offences have been registered against violators a year ago.” Khemnar said a meeting will be held this week on the pending proposals. “Till then forest officials have stopped the drive. They will verify list of encroachments for pending proposal and then go ahead,” said the collector. “The list of 1,100 encroachers shows that 80% have agriculture land either in their or in the name of family members. They are not solely dependent on forest for their livelihood. Satellite images have been verified and show how encroachments have blocked corridors,” said Tadoba officials. Bandu Dhotre, president of NGO Eco-Pro said, “We will always support forest department against encroachments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/encroachers-on-forest-land-bigger-threat-to-tadoba-than-coal-block/articleshow/76758327.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 3, 2020||Bengaluru||This smart disinfection system tracks people as well||Bengaluru: A disinfection system developed by a Bengaluru company can not only sanitise but also track people and provide the authorities with data that could help in evacuation or other emergencies. CStorm, a full-body disinfection system created by Bengaluru-based arukasTECH in collaboration with the Bhutaji Group, uses Ozone (O3) — activated oxygen. The firm says it has been developed in line with global safety and efficacy standards. Arguing that O3 has replaced other cleaning alternatives in almost all fields, Alistair D’rozario, co-founder, arukasTECH, told TOI: “Disinfection penetration is much more since it’s a gas and can diffuse into clothing deeper and faster. O3 is 1.6 times more reactive than hydrogen peroxide.” He added that O3 produced by CStorm conforms to all EPA guidelines globally. D’rozario said it’s a smart system — sensors have been placed to trigger the process automatically. Data collected are monitored live by artificial intelligence designed to conform to government guidelines at that particular location. Placing CStorm at entry/exit points would allow the authorities to know the exact number of people in a facility. “During evacuation, it can redirect people to go in the right direction since all the CStorms are linked — IoT based. This is the most important aspect of the unit since this means all systems can not only work with each other but can also be monitored as a whole and collect data together for the Covid-19 taskforce,” D’rozario added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/this-smart-disinfection-system-tracks-people-as-well/articleshow/76757683.cms||---
July 3, 2020||World||China warns US, UK of strong steps if they meddle in Hong Kong||China on Thursday warned of strong countersteps if the US, Australia and the UK continued taking actions in response to Beijing’s tough national security law in Hong Kong, saying foreign pressure would “never succeed.” Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said China “deplores and firmly opposes” the US parliament’s unanimous passing of a bill that would impose sanctions on entities that help violate Hong Kong’s autonomy and financial institutions that do business with them. The bill passed the Senate by unanimous consent on Thursday, a day after the House of Representatives also cleared it without opposition, a rare example of bipartisan support. It will now be sent to President Trump to sign into law or veto. “The US attempt to obstruct this law is doomed to fail,” Zhao said at a regular briefing in Beijing. “We urge the US side to grasp the situation, abide by the basic norms of international law and international relations, stop interfering in Hong Kong affairs and advancing or implementing this negative bill. Otherwise we will take strong countermeasures and they have to bear all the consequences.” China’s move to impose the security law risks reshaping the financial hub’s character 23 years after Beijing took control of the former British colony. The law’s vague language generated confusion about what activities were allowed, adding uncertainty for some businesses that have operations in Hong Kong. The UK has offered to upgrade the status of British National (Overseas) passport holders in Hong Kong to offer a path to citizenship. Some 350,000 residents hold BNO passports and another 2.5 million of the city’s 7.5 million people are eligible for them. “China strongly condemns that and reserves the right to make further reactions,” Zhao said, adding that all BNO passport holders were Chinese citizens. “All the consequences shall be borne by the UK side.” Australian PM Scott Morrison said on Thursday that his cabinet was “very actively” considering offering citizens safe haven, but didn’t provide further details. Zhao urged Australia to “stop moving further down the wrong path”. German chancellor Angela Merkel said there were no plans for any specific measures to allow Hong Kong citizens, but added that the right to asylum in Germany was available to anyone in the world. Despite the opposition, Zhao defended the legislation, calling it “a burglar proof door for Hong Kong.” On Thursday, Hong Kong police arrested a 24-year-old man at the airport on suspicion of stabbing and wounding an officer during a demonstration against China’s new security law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-warns-us-uk-of-strong-steps-if-they-meddle-in-hong-kong/articleshow/76760605.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||Wockhardt first pvt hosp in Vid to start Covid treatment||Nagpur: Gandhinagar unit of Wockhardt Hospital in city became first private hospital in the region to begin treating Covid-19 patients from July 1. The 45-bed independent unit is 500m away from the hospital’s main building on north Ambazari Road. Several other private hospitals in Nagpur are now exploring possibilities of similar set-ups. So far, only government hospitals were treating coronavirus cases.Treatment in private hospitals will be costly though patients have to pay as per the government-approved rates. Still, many may prefer private set-up. In fact, three patients have already been admitted in Wockhardt unit.“We have been working on Covid hospital for 15 days. This unit is completely independent and we have made several changes in interior to comply with the needs,” said Dr Nirmal Jaiswal, specialist of critical care and internal medicine, who is a part of team treating Covid-19 patients at Wockhardt.“We are in developing phase at present. Initially, only mild and moderate symptomatic patients will be admitted. We have all facilities including ICU. Gradually, serious patients will also be treated,” he said. In case a patient admitted in moderate condition turns serious at hospital, the team has all facilities and expertise to treat them, he added. Health department officials stated a separate order will be released soon after which patients testing positive will get a choice of treatment in private or government hospital. Patients who tested positive in government set-up and choose treatment in private will have to pay as per the capped rates. The capped charges for isolation per day for routine ward are Rs 4,000, for ICU without ventilator are Rs 7,500 while for ICU with ventilator are Rs 9,000. These charged don’t include expenses for PPEs, interventional procedures like central line insertion, chemoport insertion, bronchoscopic procedures, biopsies, etc. Covid testing will be done as per actual cost as per directions. Most importantly, high-end drugs like immunoglobulins, Meropenem, parenteral nutrition, Tocilizumab, etc to be charged as per MRP. On the same line, investigations like CT scan, MRI, PET scan will be charged as per hospital rates. In government hospitals, entire treatment, tests, and medicines are free. More than 1300 patients have been treated for free and discharged till date from GMCH, IGGMCH, Aiims and Military Hospital, Kamptee.Looking at the projected surge in number of patients by mid-July, many patients may opt for private treatment. Directors of leading private hospitals in Nagpur told TOI they were now exploring possibilities of having similar independent units for Covid-19 patients. Treatment in Pvt hospital:- 45-bed unit of Wockhardt hospital in Gandhi Nagar is now a Covid Hospital- Initially only asymptomatic, mild, and moderate cases will be admitted - Soon, patients will be given option by NMC and district authorities - Those who can afford treatment at private rates may opt for treatment here- Patients coming from govt set-up will be served on govt restricted rates- Those approaching directly and want pvt treatment will pay hospital rates||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wockhardt-first-pvt-hosp-in-vid-to-start-covid-treatment/articleshow/76758313.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Rail passengers face inconvenience due to lack of arrangements at check point||Ludhiana: In view of the hot and humid weather condition, passengers alighting from several long route special trains have to face tough time. They have to wait for their turn in long queues for verification at the city railway station and are made to stand in the sun for several hours without getting any sort of facility before being allowed to enter the city limits. After railway authorities resumed the service of long route train service for ferrying passengers stuck in different cities amid lockdown situation, the administration had set up two checkpoints at the railway station for conducting medical screening and verification of passengers returning to the city in trains. But they forgot to make proper seating arrangements for all passengers who have to stand in a long queues in hot and humid weather conditions for getting their verification done without getting even the facility of cold drinking water. Passengers have made an appeal to the railway authorities that they should install some tents at the verification check points. They also asked the railways that they should make arrangements for cold drinking water facilities for passengers. Moreover, they also said the authorities had failed to properly implement social distancing norms in queue as most of the people were standing next to each other. A passenger, Manish Kumar, who came on Karmbhoomi Express, said, “After travelling in long route trains for the past 20-30 hours for returning to the city, the authorities concerned were making us stand in long queue for verification process in hot weather conditions, which was totally unfair.” “We are making a genuine demand before the authorities concerned that they should install some tents or make some seating arrangement for conducting verification of passengers as it is not possible for children, women and some old people to stand in long queues for several hours for getting their verification done,” he further said. Shambu Parsad, another passenger from the same train, said, “There is no arrangement of cold drinking water for passengers standing in long queue for getting their verification done.” On other hand, Tarun Kumar, Ludhiana railway station director, said, “The railway authorities should take up the matter with the authorities concerned to find a solution to the passengers’ grievances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rail-passengers-face-inconvenience-due-to-lack-of-arrangements-at-check-point/articleshow/76758377.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 3, 2020||Dehradun||Over 24 goats killed by leopard in Rudraprayag||Dehradun: Over two dozen goats were killed by a leopard in Agasthyamuni forest range of Rudraprayag forest division on Thursday night. The leopard had entered the shed through an opening in the iron grill window. Forest officials said that such killings are usually done by snow leopards or bears. Rudraprayag divisional forest officer Vaibhav Singh said, “The family will be given Rs 3,000 per goat by the wildlife wing of forest department. We are planning to install four cameras in the area to track the animal and its behaviour.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-24-goats-killed-by-leopard-in-rudraprayag/articleshow/76757036.cms||Shivani Azad
July 3, 2020||Pune||Demand for private rooms in hospitals from patients in non-slum areas rises||PUNE: Hospitals are increasingly receiving Covid-10 patients’ requests for private rooms, a departure from the trend till June. “The fact that more private rooms in hospitals are being occupied by Covid-19 patients is a sign that the contagion has now spread to the city’s non-slum areas,” said Vijay Natarajan, chief executive officer of Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre. “During the first couple of months, the maximum patients were from the economically weaker section,” he said, adding that the shift in the trend was felt since the lockdown norms were relaxed from June 1. Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital director Dhananjay Kelkar, “The contagion is now also affecting the middle and upper middle classes. We have a capacity of nearly 250 beds. Since the past 12 days, we are overfull and have 270- 290 patients.” At least for the first two-and-a-half months, the slum pockets in the city had emerged as hotspots of the novel coronavirus. Among these areas were Kasewadi (Bhawani Peth), Laxminagar (Yerawada), Parvatigaon, Meenatai Thackeray (Gultekdi), Sayyednagar (Hadapsar), Patil Estate (Wakdewadi) and a slum located on South Main Road (Koregaon Park). Shivakumar Iyer, professor at the department of the critical care medicine at Bharati Hospital and Research Centre, said, “The transmission is now across communities. We will get patients from the well-off strata of society.” Naidu Hospital head Sudhir Pasture, said, “Today or tomorrow, the contagion had to spread to the non-slum areas, particularly after the end of a strict lockdown. It will be difficult to stop the spread now in a high population density country like India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/demand-for-private-rooms-in-hospitals-from-patients-in-non-slum-areas-rises/articleshow/76759232.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
July 3, 2020||Goa||As bookings open, 148 hotels in Goa wait for guests to arrive||PANAJI: None of the 148 hotels that received the nod from the tourism department on Thursday could start operations, and stakeholders said it would be a few days before guests start arriving. President of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), Nilesh Shah, said it will take one or two weeks before hotels start receiving guests, as bookings just opened on Thursday. “We need to have tourists to start operations. Now that hotels have got a go ahead, their activity will start,” said Shah, exuding optimism. To begin with, the TTAG president said, the numbers will be less, but will pick up slowly. Hotels in A, B and C categories have been given permission to begin operations against submission of self-declarations that they will comply with the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the government. “One hundred and forty eight (hotels) have been issued permissions to start operations from today (Thursday),” a tourism official said. However, some applicant hotels were still awaiting permission letters till evening, and could not even begin booking guests, a tourism stakeholder said. Guesthouses and small hotels without any special facilities, categorised as D, have not been given permission as yet. There are 60 D category applications pending before the tourism department. “We need to check if they are really complying with all the conditions laid down,” the officer said. Hotels that have been permitted to resume operations will be inspected at a later stage for compliance, the officer said. An important condition laid down for hotels makes pre-booking by guests mandatory. The officer said maintaining people’s safety is important as tourism restarts in the state. “Comprehensive SOPs were circulated among hotels last month and only those that could meet conditions applied (for permissions),” he said. Hotels that are resuming operations will require to upload their guest list on a link provided by the department, the officer said. Visitors will have to either come with a Covid-negative certificate from an ICMR-approved lab or take a test on arrival by paying Rs 2,000. Those taking tests here will not be allowed to move around till results are known. There are about 4,000 hotels in various categories registered with the tourism department. A hotelier said that though many want to resume operations, they have decided to wait and watch. “Let’s see how the situation unfolds. Some are apprehensive that they may have to shut again if cases rise and there is a lockdown by villagers, while some fear potential oppositions by the locals and have deferred opening of their hotels,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-bookings-open-148-hotels-in-state-wait-for-guests-to-arrive/articleshow/76759882.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: 1,600 private ambulances to be called in for Covid duty||PUNE: The district administration is set to requisition 1,600 ambulance vehicles for Covid-19 duty from private and public charitable trusts after the state government issued orders to address complaints of overcharging by some operators. The order to acquire the vehicles was issued on Wednesday. The move, officials said, will also ease shortages of emergency vehicles. The Pune Metropolitan Region currently has just over 100 ambulances on Covid-19 duty, officials said. “We have sent out a letter of requisition for 1,135 ambulances from private charitable trusts. Another 22 vans are MP-funds operated vehicles. As of today, we have 102 ambulances in operation across Pune city and fringe areas and there are another two to three ambulances for rural areas,” said an administration official. The state government’s decision to acquire ambulances comes in the wake of several complaints of overcharging by private ambulance operators — even for short trips.  But officials said the ambulance situation in Pune is relatively better than Mumbai, which is already seeing a widespread shortage of vehicles and complaints of exhorbitant charges. “There is no shortage of emergency vehicles in Pune. Rates and charges of these vehicles have also been capped by the Regional Transport Authority,” an official said.  Collectors and municipal commissioners will decide the rent the administration pays for the requisitioned ambulances. “The fare a patient pays will be decided by the RTA. It will be fixed on a per kilometre basis,” said another administration official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1600-private-ambulances-to-be-called-in-for-covid-duty/articleshow/76759235.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Body kept in sweet shop as kin wait for Covid report||KOLKATA: A day after questions were raised on the delay in cremating a Covid-positive body that forced a family to buy a freezer to preserve the body at their home for two days, the city witnessed another incident on Thursday where relatives and colleagues of a sweet-maker had to keep his body for 18 hours — first on the pavement and then inside a sweet shop — and stage a road blockade to draw the attention of state health department officials, who finally took away the body for cremation. Thursday’s incident happened at Gouribari crossing in Ultadanga where a 55-year-old manager of a popular sweet shop had passed away. According to his brother, the man had been suffering from fever and cough for the past few days and underwent a Covid test on June 29. He remained under rest at home but his condition deteriorated on Wednesday. His colleagues took him to Kolkata Medical College and Hospital around 6pm. At the hospital, he was declared dead on arrival. “The hospital authorities refused to give a death certificate and said they would have to do an autopsy. They asked us to consult our local doctor to get a death certificate. We took the body to the local doctor who said a death certificate cannot be issued as he had Covid symptoms and the report was not available till then. We had no clue what to do and went to the Burtolla police station for help,” said his brother, who works at the same shop. By then, the diagnostic unit had already informed Singur police that the man was Covid positive and a team of Asha workers were at their house. “My brother had given our Singur home address while testing. We made the Asha workers to speak to an officer of Burtolla police station. But the cops here said since it is a Covid case, the civic body had to look after it. One of the colleagues also contacted the local councillor’s office but they said unless they get a copy of the report, nothing can be done,” said the brother. With precious time running by and the body beginning to decompose, the brother and colleagues said they had no choice but to keep the body inside the sweet shop for the night. On Thursday morning, they went to the diagnostic centre in New Town and got the report around 11am. By then, local residents had staged a road blockade, demanding immediate cremation of the body, following which cops and KMC health department officials in PPE removed it around 12.30pm from the sweet shop — more than 18 hours after his death. Local KMC councillor Shukla Bhor, however, refused allegations of non-cooperation. “The family didn’t contact us. We got the information very late in the night and contacted them. But since they didn’t have the Covid report, our hands were tied. We removed the body the moment the family submitted the test report,” she said. Later, the place was sanitized and those who had come in contact with victim were sent to quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/body-kept-in-sweet-shop-as-kin-wait-for-covid-report/articleshow/76758355.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 3, 2020||Dehradun||State records 1 death, 37 fresh Covid cases||Dehradun: Uttarakhand reported one death and 37 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday. The deceased was a 72-year-old man who was undergoing treatment at Government Doon Medical College and Hospital. According to hospital authorities, the cause of death is Covid positive/bilateral pneumonitis/Type 2 diabetes/coronary artery disease Meanwhile, maximum cases surfaced from Nainital (17) and Udham Singh Nagar (16) and one each from Dehradun, Almora, Pauri and Pithoragarh. Out of 17 positive cases reported in Nainital, 13 cases are the ones who were in contact with previously positive cases, while three have a travel history to Delhi. On Thursday, 88 people were cured and discharged, taking the recovery rate to 80.60%. So far, Dehradun has seen the highest number of deaths (25) followed by three deaths each in Nainital, Pauri Garhwal and Udham Singh Nagar. Only Chamoli, Haridwar and Pithoragarh districts have not recorded any death of a Covid-19 patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-records-1-death-37-fresh-covid-cases/articleshow/76757043.cms||Shivani Azad
July 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt stops free lunch and dinner for homeless at its night shelters||NEW DELHI: After providing two meals a day to over 10 lakh poor and jobless during the lockdown period, Delhi government has discontinued the facility. While it shut down about 2500-odd hunger relief centres in the last few days, the government also stopped providing free lunch and dinner to hundreds of homeless at its night shelters from July 1. While the officials of Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), the agency that runs about 215 night shelters across the city, said that the proposal to continue giving free lunch and dinner to the homeless was still being considered, senior Delhi government officials said the opening of markets had provided jobs to those living in these facilities and there was no more requirement for free meals. “The government never provided food to the residents of night shelters before the lockdown. The facility started on March 22 and went on till June 30. With the opening of markets, these people have started getting work and they don’t need free meals from the government,” said an official. DUSIB member-expert Bipin Rai, however, said that the proposal to continue the facility had already been moved and a favourable decision was likely to be taken soon. According to Delhi government, over 10 lakh poor, who had lost their jobs due to the lockdown and didn’t have food, were provided both lunch and dinner through about 2,500 hunger relief centres and 200-odd night shelters when all factories, offices and shops were closed. While the Centre has announced free ration for another few months, the cooked food facility to the city’s most vulnerable section has been discontinued. Activists working with homeless, however, demanded that the free meals continue. “My recommendation is to continue it for all times. While some have got work, many still don’t have any support. Several still do not have the social security they are entitled to,” state level shelter monitoring committee member Indu Prakash Singh said. Sunil Kumar Aledia of Centre for Holistic Development said the homeless should be provided food permanently either free or at subsidised rates. “Despite government’s claims, the city’s poor and migrants have yet to get jobs. Every shelter should have a canteen,” Aledia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-stops-free-lunch-and-dinner-for-homeless-at-its-night-shelters/articleshow/76759242.cms||Atul Mathur
July 3, 2020||Pune||Pune metropolitan region adds over 1,000 to tally on second straight day||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added a record 1,264 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the region’s tally to 24,944. It is for the second straight day that PMR added more than 1,000 patients to its tally. Besides, 18 more patients succumbed to the contagion in PMR on Thursday, pushing the region’s toll to 806. Of the total fresh cases, the Pune municipal limits accounted for 855, the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits recorded 268 and rural as well as Cantonment together reported 141. PMC health officials said 631 patients were discharged on Thursday after they were declared cured. “So far, 11,600 patients have been discharged in the municipal limits,” a civic health official said. A report released by the PMC stated that about 344 patients were at critical stage, of whom 56 were on ventilator support. “The collection of swabs of suspected patients continued to remain above 4,000 in PMC limits even on Thursday. As many as 4,140 swabs were collected and sent for testing in the 24 hours,” the report stated, adding that there were 6,695 active cases within PMC limits till Thursday. Among the deceased, two patients died at the Sassoon hospital. These included a 65-year-old man from the Vaiduwadi area and a 55-year-old man from the Keshavnagar area. The patients who died at private hospitals were an 84-year-old man from Hadapsar, a 54-year-old man from Shukrawar Peth, a 56-year-old woman from Sinhagad Road, a 65-year-old man from Wanowrie, a 66-year-old woman from Pashan, a 51-year-old woman from the Pandavnagar area, a 65-year-old man from Hadapsar, an 80-year-old man from Yerawada, a 59-year-old woman from Kondhwa Budruk, an 83-year-old man from Janwadi, a 59-year-old man from Sasanenagar, an 85-year-old man from Bawdhan and a 62-year-old man from Khadki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-adds-over-1k-to-tally-on-second-straight-day/articleshow/76759240.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 3, 2020||Hubballi||Marathi writer in quarantine files complaint for leaking details||By: Basavaraj Meeshi BELAGAVI: A popular Marathi writer filed a police complaint against Belagavi City Corporation (BCC), accusing it of leaking a letter, pertaining to him staying in quarantine, on social media. However, police claimed the complaint cannot be entertained as the letter is not confidential material. A fortnight ago, the writer had attended his mother’s funeral in Kolhapur district, Maharashtra. His mother had died due to age-related ailments. The writer, who had obtained permission to travel from the deputy commissioners of both districts, returned to Belagavi the same day and went into home quarantine. The district administration had arranged an ambulance for the writer to commute. Meanwhile, in Kolhapur, the writer’s brother tested positive on Saturday (June 27), following which, the Kolhapur DC wrote to his Belagavi counterpart, asking him to keep tabs on the writer. This letter was allegedly leaked on social media platforms. On Tuesday, Asha workers visited the writer and asked him to go into institutional quarantine for seven days. The writer told TOI he broke no law nor did he fail to comply with Covid guidelines. “I commuted by an ambulance arranged by the district administration and health authorities knew about by travel,” he said. “But now this letter containing my name and other details has been made public. BCC is responsible for the blunder. I have been shamed. Since I am in quarantine, I have filed a complaint with the police commissioner through WhatsApp. I urge the department to take action.” City police commissioner, K Tyagarajan said the aggrieved party has brought the incident to his notice, but a case cannot be registered as the letter is not confidential material. He said the writer can file a defamation case in court if he felt his reputation was tarnished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/marathi-writer-in-quarantine-files-complaint-for-leaking-details/articleshow/76757711.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||Raut seeks Rs10k cr for MSEDCL from Centre||Nagpur: Energy minister Nitin Raut has sought Rs10,000 crore assistance from Union power ministry for the cash-strapped Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Corporation Limited (MSEDCL). In a letter to power minister RK Singh, Raut said that about 60% revenue of the discom came from industrial and commercial consumers. Since beginning of the lockdown the industrial and commercial sales have stopped and MSEDCL is facing a cash crunch. Residential consumers have been given three months to pay their bills. Consequently, MSEDCL’s revenue realization has come down drastically. Raut further said that in the past few years due to delay in approval of tariff hike by Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) and inadequate tariff hike, the discom was facing a liquidity problem. It had been unable to pay the generation and transmission companies too. This had resulted in huge arrears, which MSEDCL is unable to pay off. Rural Electricity Corporation (REC) and Power Finance Corporation (PFC) have agreed to lend Rs5,000 crore to MSEDCL. However, despite state government guaranteeing the loan, they have not reduced their rate of interest. This will create an interest liability of Rs500 crore per year on MSEDCL, said Raut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/raut-seeks-rs10k-cr-for-msedcl-from-centre/articleshow/76758360.cms||Ashish Roy
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||Smart City work at snail’s pace, says MLA Khopde||Nagpur: MLA Krishna Khopde on Thursday claimed the Smart City project being implemented over 1,750 acres in east Nagpur has hit a roadblock.“Since last two years, only 5% work related to area based development was carried out in Punapur, Bharatwada and Park areas of the city,” the MLA informed mayor Sandip Joshi during a tour of the locality. According to Khopde, ever since Tukaram Mundhe has taken over as commissioner in Nagpur Municipal Corporation, the work of Smart City has completely stalled.“The Smart City project should have been completed in June 2020. Only 5% work of the central government’s ambitious project of area based development in Pardi, Punapur and Bharatwada is completed in last two-years,” said Khopde.The Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Ltd (NSSCDCL) is implementing the Rs3500 crore project. Central government had released Rs 196 crore while state has given Rs148 crore so far. Another Rs100 crore have come from the Nagpur Improvement Trust.Khopde, however, could not reply Mundhe was responsible for the slow progress when he took over only on January 28 and there has been lockdown since March.MLC Girlish Vyas, deputy mayor Manisha Kothe, standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke, corporators Pradip Pohane, Narendra Borkar among others were also present. Deputy chief executive officer of NSSCDCL Mahesh Moroney also accompanied the mayor to brief him about the status of the project.During the tour locals alleged the project had actually reduced their civic amenities. Citing an example, residents said that NSSCDCL was to widen the existing tar road and had dug up the stretch almost eight months ago. The work was yet to start forcing citizens to ride on bumpy roads, they said. TOI spotted many 2-wheeler riders skidding on the pebbles on the road.NSSCDCL admitted to the slow progress and informed the mayor that of the 50km road network, they had completed only 12km. “The work on another 10km is under progress,” the official said.Khopde, who is one of the invitee directors on NSSCDCL board, claimed that despite being informed about the problems being faced by the citizens due to tardy pace, NSSCDCL officials took no measures to accelerate the work. The mayor wondered how NMC had already paid Rs 10 crore out of Rs17.50 crore work order to the project management consultant for DPR of ABD even though the work was going on at snail’s pace.The officials admitted that municipal commissioner had issued oral instruction to release third instalment to project affected people and said he as a CEO wanted to review the past decisions of paying compensation to PAPs.Joshi later told media persons he would direct NSSCDCL to accelerate the work as it was prestigious project for both Union minister Nitin Gadkari and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe did not respond to TOI’s call and message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/smart-city-work-at-snails-pace-says-mla-khopde/articleshow/76758353.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 3, 2020||Dehradun||Shopkeeper detained for illegally storing wildlife items||Dehradun: A joint team of officials from Dehradun and Haridwar forest divisions detained a shopkeeper from Jwalapur on Wednesday night for allegedly storing and selling banned wildlife items. The items seized from the accused include Hathajadi, snake skin and porcupine scales. Haridwar DFO Neeraj Verma said, “We have also seized coral from him. However, it has been sent to Wildlife Institute of India for testing as some species of corals are protected under schedule I and II of Wildlife (protection) Act, 1972. Based on the response of WII, we will decide on the action to be taken against the accused.” The raid was done based on a tip-off that the shopkeeper had kept stored precious items under the garb of selling pooja articles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/shopkeeper-detained-for-illegally-storing-wildlife-items/articleshow/76757048.cms||Shivani Azad
July 3, 2020||Nashik||With temple still shut, Shirdi hotels see no reason to reopen||Nashik: Even as hotels across the state have reopened following the state government’s nod, nearly 1,500 big and small hotels in the temple town of Shirdi in Ahmednagar district continue to remain shut. Abhay Shekle Patil, president of the Shirdi Hotel Association told TOI that there was no point in reopening hotels as the Saibaba temple is closed. The state government is yet to decide when to reopen the religious places. “Our business is dependent on the Saibaba devotees who visit the temple town round the year from various parts of the country. There is no point in making the hotels functional again as there are no footfalls here at present,” he said. The novel coronavirus pandemic has impacted local economy of the temple town since mid-March this year. About one lakh Saibaba devotees visit the temple town on a daily basis, the bulk of whom are other parts of the country. They stay in the hotels spread across the town. “The hotel industry in Shirdi is facing an acute crisis ever since it closed down from March 17. On an average, the daily cumulative turnover of the hotels was the tune of over Rs 5 crore,” said Shelke Patil. According to some of the hotel owners, even if the state government allows reopening of religious places in the near future, the footfall in Shirdi would be low due to Covid-19 safety protocols. “The businesses of the hotels would remain low even after the temple reopens. And there is also a fear that the infection could spread and the temple town could be declared as containment zone, forcing us to close down the hotels again. The future of our business has become very uncertain due to the pandemic, added Shelke Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/with-temple-still-shut-shirdi-hotels-see-no-reason-to-reopen/articleshow/76880816.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||Neighbours lock up family of Amherst Street victim||KOLKATA: Trauma continued for the family of the 71-year-old Covid victim at Amherst Street — whose family had to keep his body in a freezer for two days before state health department personnel finally removed it on Wednesday — as neighbours locked the family members inside their home by putting up a lock from outside. The lock was opened only after health department officials visited the flat on Thursday morning to conduct Covid test on the family members. “Even after the body was taken away 48 hours past his death, the state authorities did nothing to contain movement of the family members who were using the common areas and the lift. Hence, we put up a lock on their flat door from outside and kept the keys with the security guard. For any need, they were asked to call the security guard,” said Raj Gupta, one of the neighbours in the 12-flat apartment. The family that included the elderly man’s wife, sons and some other relatives were locked in the flat the entire late Wednesday evening, the night and a better part of Thursday morning. When state health department officials came to check on their health status, conduct Covid tests and check the size of their home to ascertain if it is fit for home quarantine, the family members were allowed to come out. They also pleaded with the neighbours to not to lock them and promised to strictly follow the 14-day home quarantine protocol, following which the neighbours relented. “However all the residents of the building are still very scared to step out of their homes,” said Gupta. TOI tried to contact the family members of the elderly victim but all calls went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/neighbours-lock-up-family-of-amherst-street-victim/articleshow/76758381.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||Another cop succumbs to Covid-19, Mumbai police toll 40||MUMBAI: A 57-year-old assistant sub-inspector, Hashimali Mula, attached to Pydhonie police station died of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the Mumbai Police toll to 40. The state police death toll has increased to 62. Mulla, who was to retire in three months, was at home since April after the police chief had exempted all personnel above 55 years of age from duty. He was admitted to GT Hospital four days ago and was put on a ventilator on Wednesday, said a senior officer. "He was suffering from hypertension," added the officer. Meanwhile, doctors at KEM Hospital on Thursday conducted autopsy on the body of constable Mangesh Kamble (48) who had died on June 29 within 10 minutes of admission. They also took a swab to test for Covid-19. Both reports are awaited. Kamble's family had refused to claim the body demanding a post-mortem and a Covid test. His widow, Nita, was tested and had reported positive for Covid-19. She is undergoing treatment at the Marol Covid care centre. "At last, the government accepted our request and has undertaken the post-mortem. It will help us know the cause of death," said BJP leader Kirit Somaiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/another-cop-succumbs-to-covid-19-mumbai-police-toll-40/articleshow/76760620.cms||Mateen Hafeez
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to review decision on calling faculty to colleges||CHANDIGARH: The UT education department has planned to review its order on calling faculty members to colleges, after ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) asked them to allow teachers to work-from-home till July 31. The order was issued after the ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued guidelines on Unlock 2.0 on June 29, whereby it was directed that colleges and educational institutions will remain closed till July 31, 2020. It was further stated that the online or distance learning should continue and shall be encouraged at the same time. The order issued by the MHRD states that, “In order to ensure safety of the faculty members, teachers, researchers and non-teaching staff of the higher educational institutions, precautions like encouraging employees to continue to work-from-home till July 31, 2020 and that faculty members, teachers and researchers should utilise this period for various academic activities.” The letter issued by the MHRD also said that the said period should be counted as being on duty for all faculty members, teachers, researchers, and non-teaching staff, including those on Ad-hoc and teachers on contract, whose contracts are valid up to July 31. It was reiterated that the Aarogya Setu App, which enables easy identification of potential risk of infection, should be installed by students, faculty and employees. “In case of exigency, any faculty member, teacher, researcher or non-teaching staff may attend or be asked to attend the educational institution with all precautionary measures as mentioned in the guidelines issued by the MHA. All the employees should provide their contact details to their institutions so that they may be contacted in case of emergency,” read the letter. Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director of higher education, said, “We will review the orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-to-review-decision-on-calling-faculty-to-colleges/articleshow/76758390.cms||Kamini Mehta
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||74-yr-old woman is first Covid-19 casualty in Pkl||Panchkula: A 74-year old woman, resident of Sector 12, Panchkula, died of coronavirus on Thursday. She was admitted to a private hospital owing to kidney problem. This is the first death due to Covid-19 in Panchkula. Jasjeet Kaur, chief medical officer (CMO), said the elderly woman was admitted to a private hospital in Sector 21, Panchkula, for kidney treatment. She was tested for Covid-19 and her results tested positive on June 29. She was shifted to the isolation ward soon after her reports came and her treatment was initiated. She died due to coronavirus infection, confirmed the officials. In the meanwhile, t en positive cases were reported in Panchkula on Thursday. Chief medical officer Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “Of them, nine are from the district. They are: a 54-year-old woman, two men (aged 56 and 19) of Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5; two men (aged 25 and 59) of Sector 17; a 22-year-old resident of Indira Colony; a 63-year-old man of Vishwakarma Colony, Pinjore; a 29-year-old man of Kalka; and a 20-year-old woman of Marranwala village. Besides, a 41-year-old resident of Dhakoli, Punjab, has also caught the infection.” All the patients have travel history. The Dhakoli man has been sent to his home district after informing the local administration. With this, the district count stands at 122, including 31 active cases. Four more from UT catch the virus Chandigarh: Four persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the city on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 450. There are 55 active cases. The number of active cases reduced on Thursday after 22 people were cured and discharged. Those tested positive include a resident from Khudda Lahora, and three members of a family from Manimajra. The positive patients include a 44-year-old man from Khudda Lahora. He has four family contacts. All of them are asymptomatic and their samples have been taken. The family has a travel history to Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh. They travelled between June 14 and June 16. The three persons from Manimajra include a 19-year-old youth and a 56-year-old man and a 54-year-old woman. Their one family member and five family contacts are being sampled. Those discharged include 14 residents of Mauli Jagran, four residents of Sector 38, and one resident each from Bapu Dham Colony, Khuda Alisher, Sector 50 and Sector 38 (West). NRI from Spain, pvt hosp doc test +ve in Mohali Mohali: Four more persons have been tested positive of Covid-19 in Mohali on Thursday, taking the total tally to 280 with 73 active cases so far. Five persons have been discharged too Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, said of the four positive cases, one patient is an NRI from Spain and the other is a resident doctor at a private hospital. “The 33-year-old man, a resident of Sector 91, had recently returned from Spain and was under institutional quarantine. He was tested for the virus and turned to be positive. His family members are also being tested,” said the civil surgeon. He said the second patient is a 43-year-old man, a resident of Phase X and a doctor at a private hospital in Mohali. He reported at the flu corner with fever and was tested positive for Covid-19. The others who have been tested positive are a 41-year-old man from Dhakoli, who reported with flu symptoms and a 43-year-old man from Kurali having a travel history to New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/74-yr-old-woman-is-first-covid-19-casualty-in-pkl/articleshow/76758366.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Nashik||10-time rise in Covid cases in June||NASHIK: There has been a 10 times rise in Covid-19 cases in Nashik city in the month of June as compared to the number of patients registered in May. According to official figures, there were as many as 204 cases of Covid-19 in the month of May, and the number increased to 1,986 in June. In April there were only 10 Covid-19 patients across the city. The city’s death toll currently stands at 105. In April, there were no deaths reported due to the contagion, but in May the number increased to eight. In June, the number increased manifold to 97. “The first patient on April 6 and the situation was under control till May 19 as the city had 48 patients by that time. But the number of cases increased in the city after relaxation in the lockdown and free movement of people from affected areas like Mumbai, Malegaon and other affected cities,” an NMC official said. “But there will be a reverse trend soon like Malegaon after a certain peak level. We are giving major focus on surveillance to find out suspected cases. We are tracing maximum high risk contacts of positive patients. As per the Centre’s norms, up to 20 high risk contacts should be traced of each patient. But we have more high risk contacts here,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/10-time-rise-in-covid-cases-in-june/articleshow/76759252.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jewellery, Rs 50 lakh in cash stolen||Ahmedabad: In one of the biggest thefts in city since the lockdown, Rs 50 lakh in cash and gold jewellery worth Rs 2.40 lakh was stolen from a house in Kubernagar. The complaint was filed on Wednesday with Sardarnagar police. Police said the thieves were caught on CCTV of a nearby building and seen entering the upper floor of the house through an open door on that floor. “We are not ruling out the role of an insider, as the thieves opened the safe in the house with keys.,” said an official of Sardarnagar police. The FIR was lodged by Uttamchand Golani, 76, a retired teacher and resident of New G Ward, Rajaveer Circle in Kubernagar. The complainant stated that on Tuesday night he had kept the keys of the safe in the drawer beside his bed when he had gone to sleep. “On Wednesday, when he woke up at about 4.30am, he found the safe open and the money and jewellery missing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jewellery-rs-50-lakh-in-cash-stolen/articleshow/76758923.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||Infra projects in Mollem: CEC notice to wildlife board, Goa govt, Centre||Panaji: The Central Empowered Committee (CEC) constituted by the Supreme Court on Thursday sought replies from National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) and Goa government authorities on an application filed by NGO Goa Foundation alleging violation of law while granting wildlife clearance for three major infrastructure projects along Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park in Mollem. The committee issued notices and asked for replies within 30 days from the Centre, including ministries of power, railways and highways. The NGO has challenged the clearance granted for doubling of railway line from Castlerock to Vasco, 4-laning of NH4A and the Goa –Tamnar Power Transmission Project by allegedly flouting the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act. The NGO alleged that three projects have been almost simultaneously approved within the boundaries — and within the one km ecologically sensitive area (ESA) outside the boundary — of the Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park in contravention of the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Goa Foundation had moved the CEC earlier this month amidst an online petition and other representations made to the government by thousands of citizens for a review or cancellation of the project approvals The applicant said that the three projects, “which are all short sighted”, involve diversion of a substantial area of forest land and sanctuary land — approximately about 170 ha — from the protected area. “Diversion for the highway project is 31.015 ha, electricity project is 11.54 ha and railway project is 128.28 ha,” the applicant said While stating that the total number of trees within the wildlife sanctuary and national park to be felled is almost 37,000, the applicant alleged that that large numbers of trees have been intentionally excluded from the enumeration to minimise perception of environmental damage and gain approvals The application has challenged the approvals granted by standing committee of the NBWL at its meeting held on December 17, 2019 (railway project) and April 7, 2020 (highway and electricity projects). The applicant brought to the notice of the SC-appointed committee that the meeting dated April 7, 2020, took place during the time when the country was in the grip of a lockdown caused by the corona virus, hence the meeting had to be held through video conferencing. “There could hardly have been adequate and comprehensive discussion on the necessity for the projects and the impact they would have on the protected area,” the plea stated. The applicant stated that a proposal for the double tracking of this same railway line had been previously rejected by the chief wildlife warden, as the proposal would be destructive to the wildlife sanctuary. The wildlife sanctuary and national park cover an area of 240sqkm within Dharbandora and Sanguem talukas in Goa. The BMWLS is one of Goa’s oldest wildlife sanctuaries, notified in 1967. Subsequently, in 1978, a part of the sanctuary admeasuring around 107 sq km was notified as the Mollem National Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/infra-projects-in-mollem-cec-notice-to-wildlife-board-goa-govt-centre/articleshow/76759892.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Mosques urged to ready burial grounds for Covid victims||Mangaluru: The reprehensible incident of people denying permission to bury a Muslim Covid-19 victim in the city, has prompted religious leaders of the community to take a decision to avoid such a situation in the future. Muslim leaders have directed mosques in the city to keep their burial grounds ready, with volunteers to perform last rites, in case a community member dies of Covid-19. Khazi Alhaj Twaqa Ahmed Musliyar has directed mosque committees to be prepared to help the families of Covid-19 victims. On Sunday, the body of a 31-year-old from Idya was kept in an ambulance for nearly two hours, and then sent back from the burial ground of a mosque at Bolar in the city, after local residents opposed the burial, since the person was not from the area. Later, the issue was solved only after the intervention of the district administration, and the body was brought back and buried in the same ground. “The number of Covid-19 cases is increasing considerably in the nation, and many Muslims have lost their lives due to the disease. Hence, all jamaats should take necessary precautions to avoid any kind of confusion during the burial of a victim. Those jamaats having spacious burial grounds should make necessary preparations and keep the premises ready for victims. Jamaats should make efforts to bury the body, in case of any Covid-19 death in the community, in their premises itself,” the khazi stated in a communiqué. “Central Juma Masjid in the city, Badriya Juma Masjid, Krishnapura, Muhiyuddeen Juma Masjid, Bolar and Bajpe Juma Masjid have already made arrangements for the burial of Covid-19 victims,” he said. Mangaluru MLA U T Khader said that it is the responsibility of the government to ensure the dignity in death for Covid-19 victims. “Since the situation is getting worse, the government should identify a place in the outskirts of the city to bury the bodies,” he added. ASHA workers feted Madikeri: Cooperation minister S T Somshekar, who was in Kodagu on Thursday, confirmed that the state government is acquiring land to bury Covid-19 victims. “The revenue minister is in charge of acquiring land for a burial ground in Bengaluru, for those who die of Covid-19,” he said. He held a meeting with the Kodagu district administration at the zilla panchayat office in Madikeri, and took part in the felicitation ceremony of ASHA workers. The minister handed over a Rs 3,000 cheque to each ASHA worker in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mosques-urged-to-ready-burial-grounds-for-covid-victims/articleshow/76757049.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||Head constable’s complaint led to FIR against Gantawar couple||Nagpur: The alleged Disproportionate Assets (DA) case against NMC’s deputy chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar and his wife Dr Sheelu, also a medical officer, was based on a complaint filed by a police head constable in 2014. Booked a day ago by the State Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) , a special court granted ad-interim bail to the Gantawar couple on Thursday for a period of one month or till the completion of the hearing of their anticipatory bail plea whichever is earlier. The couple were released on furnishing the solvent surety bond of Rs one lakh each by the court after observing the investigation officer may not require their custodial interrogation based on the facts and documents presented during the argument by defence counsel Prasad Abhyankar. The court has also issued notice to the ACB to present their argument to oppose the pre-arrest bail on July 8. Sources from ACB said searches at Gantawars’ residence at Ramdaspeth and hospital at Dhantoli had yielded some crucial evidence for investigating team. Around Rs 86,000 cash was found at their place while another Rs 3.85 lakh was traced at their hospital.The ACB team also took note of the two cars at the home of Gantawars during the search operation under inspector Monali Chaudhury supervised by DySP Milind Totre, Addl SP Rajesh Duddalwar and SP Rashmi Nandedkar. It is learnt the head constable, Ravi Madavi, had taken his ailing wife to the Dhantoli-based hospital of the Gantawar couple when he learnt of their background as government servants. Madavi later sent his complaint against Gantawar to the director general of police, ACB. He also lodged a complaint with Lok Ayukta. It is learnt Lok Ayukta had vacated the complaint against Gantawars stating a public servant (the cop) cannot bring a complaint before the Lok Ayukta against another. The ACB is learnt to have later engaged a top Mumbai-based chartered accountant firm, as forensic auditor, in 2018 to scrutinize the financial documents, details and records furnished by the Gantawar couple in their defence during the open inquiry initiated by the investigating agency. The Gantawars have furnished their audited accounts between 2007 and 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/head-constables-complaint-led-to-fir-against-gantawar-couple/articleshow/76758358.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||Utilize grounded planes for transporting cargo: Gadkari||Nagpur: Mooting an idea that can be a win-win situation for all, Union minister Nitin Gadkari has suggested that grounded passenger aircraft, which are presently not being used due to restrictions in view of the Covid pandemic, should be used for transporting air cargo. Interacting with air cargo agents through a webinar, the member of Parliament from the city said these aircraft are lying idle at various airports. “Initiative needs to be taken on whether these aircraft could be converted to carry cargo. The government should grant quick permissions and come out with a policy in this regard,” he said. According to him, in the present situation, transporting cargo within the country has become unviable for farmers and businessmen because of higher expenses. “Only if the transportation of goods through air is made cheaper, the logistical problems being faced now can be reduced,” said Gadkari. There are innumerable opportunities in export sector and people should explore them, he said. Gadkari, who is also minister for medium and small scale industries (MSME), said government will help fisheries sector to tap its true potential of Rs6 lakh crore from the present Rs1 lakh crore. “Nagpur’s oranges, Jalgaon’s banana and Bihar’s litchi could be transported to various parts of the country through cargo planes, but for that the existing charges need to be reduced so that farmers and businessmen could afford it,” said Gadkari. In India, prawns are sold at Rs700 a kg while in countries like Dubai it costs around Rs5,000. “If these are exported through air cargo, the country would gain substantially,” he said. Reiterating his stand on use of water transport, the minister said it is the most cheap medium of transportation. “In comparison to other countries, our cargo business through aircraft is costly affair. It’s the reason the business has not grown. There is need for complete overhaul in this sector to make it affordable,” he said. “At present, cargo flights take off only from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Bangalore, whereas there are several airports in the country which remain underutilized. Even if cargo planes start operating from other airports on a regular basis, it would help boost trade,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/utilize-grounded-planes-for-transporting-cargo-gadkari/articleshow/76758384.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University issues admission notice, submit your forms by August 8||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University has issued admission notice for postgraduate, undergraduate, certificate, diploma and advance diploma and PG diploma courses for the academ ic session 2022-2021. According to the notice, interested students, including those who have already applied for entrance test to be held in July/August 2020, are required to submit online admission forms for all the undergraduate(UG), postgraduate (PG) courses by August 8 (tentative date), irrespective of the declaration of the result of qualifying exam or entrance test. Admission forms for courses based on entrance test (CET-PG), LLB 3-year course, courses based on aptitude test, courses without entrance/aptitude test, and courses at department of evening studies-multidisciplinary research centre are to be submitted online. The web link for filling the online admission forms will be operational from July 8. Handbook of information 2020, carrying course details, eligibility criteria, number of seats, etc. can be downloaded from important documents section of the Panjab University’s website. According to the notice, it will be available in the first week of July 2020. Candidates seeking admission in sports category, will have to submit certificates and documents along with the admission form in the office of the Campus Sports (Gymnasium Building, Jawaharlal Nehru Complex), PU Chandigarh on or before the last date of submission. Admission to courses like Bachelor of Engineering (BE) in food technology, chemical, biotechnology, electronics and communication, information technology, computer science and engineering, mechanical and electrical and electronics, integrated BE (chemical) MBA, will be based on JEE result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-issues-admission-notice-submit-your-forms-by-aug-8/articleshow/76758378.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Dehradun||With Kanwar Yatra cancelled, U’khand to provide Ganga water to states||Dehradun: With the Kanwar Yatra called off this year, the Uttarakhand government has decided to permit nearby states like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and Rajasthan, which account for the maximum kanwariya footfall, to fetch Ganga water for distribution among devotees. Government spokesperson and urban development minister Madan Kaushik said, “Chief minister Trivendra Rawat and his counterparts in the other states had unanimously decided to call off this year’s yatra in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. We have, however, decided to allow them to take Ganga water to their respective destinations. As a goodwill gesture, we will also send Ganga jal to the neighbouring states’ CMs.” The minister was quoted by news agency PTI as saying that Ganga water will be sent from Haridwar in large brass urns to these states. “The brass urns will be filled with the holy Ganga water at Har-ki-Pauri and will be loaded into trucks and sent to the chief ministers, Lt governors and ministers of the states and Union territories for distribution among Shiva devotees,” the minister was quoted as saying by the news agency. Notably, a total of 3.7 crore devotees collected water from the river Ganga during the 2017 Kanwar Yatra and it rose to 4.25 crore in 2018. The numbers saw a marginal dip in 2019 at 3.3 crore. Meanwhile, the minister said that preparations are going on in full swing for the Kumbh Mela next year. “We have scheduled a meeting with the Akhada Parishad members later this month. We will consult them and provide them the best facilities for the event.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-kanwar-yatra-cancelled-ukhand-to-provide-ganga-water-to-states/articleshow/76757061.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra: 63-year-old man ‘disappears’ from hospital||VIJAYAWADA: A 63-year-old man, T Vasantha Rao, went missing from the New Government General Hospital, designated Covid-19 hospital, on June 24. The matter came to light on Thursday after Dhanalakshmi, his wife, who was on her way to submit a representation regarding the matter to collector Mohammed Imtiaz, suddenly fainted. After locals came to her aide, she revealed the entire story. Rao was taken to the hospital after he complained of breathlessness and other Covid-19-like symptoms. CCTV footage from the hospital too shows medical staff in PPE taking him into the isolation ward in a wheelchair. Two days later, when Dhanalakshmi visited the hospital, authorities informed her that ‘he had run away’. She then approached One-Town police, who registered a missing complaint. “Initially, the hospital authorities claimed that he wasn’t admitted at all and later said that he had run away. How can a man who was taken in a wheelchair with breathing issues just walk away that easily,” Dhanalakshmi said while addressing the media. One-Town police inspector P Venkateswarlu said they have served requisition form seeking details of the person and would question all the staff members involved on||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/63-yr-old-man-disappears-from-hospital/articleshow/76757046.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Three-fold increase in active cases in Hadapsar-Mundhwa||PUNE: The Covid-19 spread in areas like Mundhwa goathan, Sadesatranali, Hadapsar goathan, Mohammadwadi-Kausarbaug and Phursungi have led to three-fold rise in active cases in the Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward limits in just 12 days. On June 17, the ward had 186 active cases that shot up to 573 by June-end, catapulting it to the second spot in terms of active cases in the 15 civic wards in Pune municipal limits. “The total number of positive cases in the ward has gone breached the 1,000-mark. On an average, about 40 cases are getting added in the ward limits,”civic health officials said, adding that rigorous checks had been initiated in the affected areas, with emphasis on contact tracing and swab collection. The civic administration has identified seven localities in the ward limits as micro containment zones in the latest revision announced on July 1. These include areas of Hadapsar, Gadital, Phursungi, Hadapsar-Malwadi, Bankar colony, Kalepadal and Gondhalenagar. The Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward covers the areas of four villages including Keshavnagar, Phursungi, Undri and Uruli that were merged in the PMC limits two years ago. Local corporator Yogesh Sasane said people had been stepping out in large numbers since the Unlock phase started last month. “We are holding awareness drives and are also putting in all efforts to contain the spread. We feel that Janata curfew could play a vital role in controlling the movement,” Sasane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-fold-increase-in-active-cases-in-hadapsar-mundhwa/articleshow/76759254.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 3, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Three held with counterfeit notes||PITHORAGARH: Champawat police arrested three persons with counterfeit currency and printing equipment on Wednesday. Fake currency with the face value of Rs 4 lakh was seized from their possession. These persons circulated the money in rural pockets. Superintendent of police (SP) Lokeshwar Singh said, “Police, on a tipoff, checked a bike at Manihargod locality of Tanakpur police station on Wednesday evening and intercepted two persons. On searching, they recovered counterfeit currency with face value of Rs 4 lakh.” “The accused were identified as Vrij Kishor, resident of Amaria village and Riyaz, resident of Balia village, of Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-held-with-counterfeit-notes/articleshow/76757102.cms||Prem Punetha
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Panels to monitor Covid-19 treatment at private hosps||Mohali: Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has constituted two expert committees, an advisory committee and referral committee to monitor the treatment of a Covid-19 patients’ admitted to private hospital. Dayalan also urged private hospitals to focus on saving lives rather than minting money from people. During a meeting with the heads of the leading hospitals on on Thursday, the DC said the main emphasis is to ensure that precious lives are saved and for this, identification process of hospitals, who can admit Covid-19 patients and provide top-notch medical treatment to them, has to be carried out. MoUs in this regard have already been signed. The DC said the price of treatment in the identified hospitals will also be uploaded on the official website of the district administration for transparency. “We have asked various private hospitals to present their list of charges for treatment of a Covid-19 patient so that they can be fixed after checking and approval. The charges will be uploaded at the Mohali administration’s website,” he said. The deputy commissioner also honoured doctors, present in the meeting, with Mission Fateh badges and exorted them to continue serving the humanity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panels-to-monitor-covid-19-treatment-at-private-hosps/articleshow/76758403.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Delhi||MLA, councillor spar over GK market encroachments||NEW DELHI: The issue of encroachment in Greater Kailash took an ugly turn on Thursday with AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj and BJP councillor Shikha Rai getting into a verbal spat. Bharadwaj, in a video, while pointing towards a stall established barely a day ago opposite Prince Paan Bhandar in M-Block market, blamed the councillor, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and local police for encouraging encroachments in the area. He alleged that the fast food kiosk was erected with Rai’s permission and the corporation was taking Rs 1-1.5 lakh per month from such encroachments in prominent markets. “The corporation supports illegal kiosks by installing benches, construction of platforms, among other things. The preparations for this stall were started 15 days ago by constructing a platform and creating space opposite Prince Paan Bhandar. This raised the suspicion of the shopkeepers. Finally, on Wednesday a vendor occupied the place for selling fast food,” the MLA claimed. When traders raised objections, the vendor refused to go. “The shopkeepers then approached me and I asked them to call police and the corporation for action. However, nobody turned up. When I questioned the vendor, he said the councillor had given him approval to set up the stall,” said Bharadwaj. SDMC deputy commissioner Aman Gupta denied the MLA’s allegations. “We have been taking strict action against violators and conducting regular anti-encroachment drives, except for the past three months when all operations came to a halt due to the pandemic. We have no information about who created the platform in GK-I and installed the benches. Our officials will visit the market, verify the facts and take action if any illegal activity is found.” Rai, meanwhile, said the vendor was a poor guy who had approached her for help. She also expressed surprise over Bharadwaj’s attitude in dealing with the issue of encroachment. “During this time of crisis, people are losing their jobs and trades. One such person, who is also a party worker, approached me for help. I asked him to take permission from the market association to set up the kiosk. Surprisingly, the area MLA, who had been missing for three months, came to take action against the vendor on the complaint of a shopkeeper who is an AAP worker,” claimed Rai. The councillor added, “In the past six years, we didn’t see the MLA carrying out any anti-encroachment drive. Moreover, he has no right to remove anyone and can only complain to the authorities for action. His language and attitude were rude. He and his party workers even shot videos to make false allegations.” The MLA alleged that pavements along Hansraj Gupta Marg and other important stretches were occupied by illegal vendors, which was not the case six years ago. “They are supported by the councillors and the corporation. Even on Wednesday, after the vendor started wrapping up the kiosk, the councillor expressed unhappiness over the action,” added Bharadwaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mla-councillor-spar-over-gk-mkt-encroachments/articleshow/76759267.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Fuel prices on upswing, NSUI targets Kirron||Chandigarh: Targeting the sitting MP of Chandigarh, Kirron Kher, the Nnational Students Union of India (NSUI), Panjab University launched, a “find my MP” campaign on the university campus. Around 20 to 25 activists approached people in the market and distributed a “Missing MP” pamphlet. The pamphlet announced a prize money of Rs 1,100, who suceeds in finding the missing MP of Chandigarh. The NSUI’s social media chairman Manoj Lubana said, “It is shocking that with fuel prices on upwsing, these people are nowhere to be seen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fuel-prices-on-upswing-nsui-targets-kirron/articleshow/76758398.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Kolkata||Strict codes delay Covid death certificates: Officials||KOLKATA: The new Covid-19 mortality coding guidelines issued by the Centre, and which is now mandatory in Bengal for all confirmed and suspected Covid deaths, may have a bearing on the reluctance of private medical practitioners to issue death certificates at home without ascertaining the exact reason(s) behind the death. For confirmed Covid positive cases, this may not pose any problem, but for Covid suspects, the doctors must specify whether the suspect was clinically diagnosed to be Covid, or was it a probable or a suspect case. This, many feel, may not be a problem for deaths in hospitals with a treatment history. But for those who die at home without treatment records, this may pose problems. TimesViewThe passing away of a family member is a painful incident. The extra precautions that doctors have had to take in the corona season has exacerbated the pain for many families. Any easing of this pain is welcome.State health department officers say it would be prudent to inform the state Covid helpline, even KMC and police, immediately for such deaths at home. Nearly three cases have surfaced over the last two days over the (non)issuance of death certificates, forcing family members to keep the bodies at home for several hours. “We ran from a government hospital to a local doctor’s chamber and from the local police station to the local councillor’s office but none could help us in arranging a death certificate for my brother. Everyone was asking for an original copy of the test report which we didn’t have till Thursday morning. Consequently, my brother’s body kept lying on the pavement and then inside the sweet shop for 18 hours,” said the brother of a 55-year-old Covid victim whose body was removed from a sweet shop at Gouribari crossing on Thursday. Just 24 hours ago, it had surfaced that family members of a 71-year-old Covid victim at an Amherst Street flat had to buy a freezer and keep the body at home for two days since they could not arrange for a death certificate. “We went from one private mortuary to other but in the absence of a death certificate, no mortuary was ready to keep the body. We couldn’t let my uncle rot and hence out of desperation to preserve the body till authorities reached us, we bought a freezer and kept the body at our home. It may sound bizarre but we had no other choice,” said a nephew of the elderly man. On the other hand, issuing death certificates in cases of Covid suspects is not easy now. Late April, the Medical Certification of Cause of Death (MCCD) unit of the Registrar-General of India had written to all states informing that WHO has created two emergency codes for Covid-19. The letter said the first code related to confirmed Covid cases and the second referred to those cases in which the virus had not been identified. In the latter, it must be specified whether the patient had been clinically-epidemiologically diagnosed Covid-19, whether it is probable Covid-19 or suspected Covid-19. The National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (NCDIR) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had also issued a detailed guideline on it. On June 19, the state government had issued a circular to all registration units referring to the WHO emergency codes and said: “It is requested that the data on mortality due to Covid-19 may please be collected and certified accordingly through the registration units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/strict-codes-delay-cov-death-certs-officials/articleshow/76758399.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Dehradun||16 non-locals found roaming at Har Ki Pauri, sent to paid quarantine||Haridwar: Sixteen people who came to Har Ki Pauri in Haridwar from Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh without permission and medical screening would be made to pay for quarantine facilities for the next 14 days, police said on Thursday. SHO city police station Amarjeet Singh told TOI, “Kanwar yatra has been suspended this year and we are not allowing people from other states to come to Ganga in Haridwar for taking Ganga Jal for kanwar yatra. We have quarantined 16 people (Delhi-8, Haryana-6 and Lucknow-2), as they were roaming freely at Har Ki Pauri without any valid reason. Similar action will be taken in the future if anyone is found loitering.” District administration had announced on Wednesday that the devotees who will reach Haridwar for kanwar yatra without permission would be quarantined and no permission would be given for the yatra. However, it is not clear whether the 16 people are devotees or tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/16-non-locals-found-roaming-at-har-ki-pauri-sent-to-paid-quarantine/articleshow/76757103.cms||MS Nawaz
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||Mundhe protecting NMC’s ‘tainted’ doc couple: Tiwari||Nagpur: Senior BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari accompanied by ruling party leader Sandeep Jadhav on Thursday accused municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe of protecting controversial deputy chief medical officer of Nagpur Municipal Corporation Dr Praveen Gantawar and his wife Dr Sheelu despite the couple facing several charges of irregularities.“Even though city unit of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has on Wednesday booked the doctor couple for amassing disproportionate assets of over Rs2.52 crore, the civic chief is yet to take action against both,” said Tiwari while addressing a press conference.“On February 14 also, Mundhe had received ‘documentary evidences’ against the doctor couple from one Madan Thool, but he did not act. This inaction shows municipal commissioner’s “love” towards the Gantawar couple,” claimed Tiwari.Mundhe did not respond to TOI’s calls and message. Tiwari also expressed surprise over Mundhe not initiating action against Gantawar couple despite mayor Sandip Joshi suspending both with immediate effect after corporators from all parties had ‘exposed’ their involvement in several irregularities during the general body meeting.“Not implementing the mayor’s decision to suspend the ‘tainted’ couple tarnishes the image of the municipal commissioner,” he said. “Is the municipal commissioner misusing the powers or is he not taking action under pressure,” asked Tiwari. He also pointed out that as per a notification issued by NMC’s samiti department on March 21, 2016 and under Maharashtra Nursing Home Act, 1949, any doctor working with NMC or government organizations cannot do private practice and could not run a private clinic. The couple has been engaged in private practice and is also operating a nursing home in Dhantoli for many years, he claimed. Under Rule 5 of Maharashtra Civil Services Act and Disclosure and Appeal Rules, 1979, a person working in government service cannot hold a post in a political organization and cannot participate in politics. Despite this, Dr Sheelu Gantawar is active member of Congress party in Madhya Pradesh. She had also sought ticket to contest the last assembly polls, he claimed showing Dr Sheelu’s Facebook page wherein she had posted many of her photos with heavyweight politicians including former MP chief minister Kamal Nath, Jyotiraditya Scindia among others. Dr Sheelu also runs a clinic in Betul in MP and visits there every Friday, Tiwari claimed showing her post on the FB page. “If Dr Sheelu is keeping the Betul clinic open every Friday, how could she drew salary from the NMC is a matter of investigation,” said Tiwari. Even though Dr Sheelu is working as medical officer with the NMC, she has hidden this fact in one of her social media accounts and mentioned herself to be self-employed. “Is she ashamed to admit working with the NMC,” he asked.Tiwari also accused Dr Gantawar’s nursing home of charging exorbitant money from patients which was exposed by late social activist Umesh Choubey. A probe by FDA had also exposed how fake bills were submitted by the hospital to claim excess money from ESIC, he claimed. The muster of employees working in Indira Gandhi Rugnalay for 2016 and 2017 has gone missing from Dr Gantawar’s custody, said Tiwari claiming that the doctor was trying to protect his wife. “If the municipal commissioner failed to act against the doctor couple, I will go to public to seek justice,” said Tiwari, adding he would be releasing an audio clip which will be enough to expose Dr Gantawar in the next press meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhe-protecting-nmcs-tainted-doc-couple-tiwari/articleshow/76758364.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||Doc booked for forcing wife to have unnatural sex||Nagpur: A 45-year-old doctor running a hospital at Wani in Yavatmal has been charged with assault, threatening and unnatural sex after a complaint by his wife, also a medical practitioner. The survivor has complained that her husband would repeatedly demand oral and anal sex, and harassed her if she refused. The husband has also been booked under relevant provisions of Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste (Prevention of Atrocity) Act. Charges under Dowry Act have also been invoked against him for having made a demand of 50 tola gold at the time of their marriage in 2010. Senior inspector Vijay Akot of Beltarodi police station said the offence was registered following detailed questioning of the woman and also scrutinizing some evidence she furnished. “An assistant CP ranking officer is now set to conduct the inquiry,” he said. It’s learnt the families had initially decided to marry with simple formalities but later the husband and his parents started pressing for valuables as the scheduled date came closer. Despite short notice, the survivor’s parents had to bear the expense of 25 tola gold ornaments, says the FIR, which is in possession of TOI. It’s learnt the couple, after a brief courtship, had decided to tie the knot against the wishes of the survivor’s parents. After the marriage, the couple had moved to Wani, where they had started a joint practice at a rented place converted into a hospital. As per the complaint, the husband would repeatedly target the woman for belonging to the backward class despite having promised before marriage he would not nurture such kind of attitude. Apart from her, the husband had allegedly also insulted her mother repeatedly with casteist remarks. Due to relentless torture, the woman had shifted to Nagpur with her son some years ago and started to work to support the child’s education. It’s learnt that the husband, and one other person, identified as Pathan, had come to her place at Narendra Nagar to threaten her with dire consequences. In her complaint, the survivor has also mentioned that the husband was spotted in compromising position with other women at their bedroom in Wani in CCTV cameras she had installed for security purpose inside the house. There was also a transfer of Rs1.50 lakh from his account to that of another woman, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doc-booked-for-forcing-wife-to-have-unnatural-sex/articleshow/76758431.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Punish those not wearing mask at public places’||CHANDIGARH: A Public Interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in the Punjab and Haryana high court pleading that any person without mask in public places should be punished under Section 188 of the IPC, instead of just imposing fine on him/her. It was argued that with these notifications, rather than curbing the disease effectively, the authorities are encouraging violators by charging only a nominal fine. It has been pleaded in the PIL to quash notifications issued by respondents i.e. Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh administration, whereby there is only imposition of fine on violators for not wearing mask, which violates the provisions under the Epidemic Diseases Act. However, regulations framed by the respective states and the Disaster Management Act provides that violating the norms of not wearing mask and not maintaining social distancing at public places, would attract provisions of Section 188 of the IPC and enabling legal provisions. Advocate Kamal Deep Sehra said he had approached the authorities concerned in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, pleading that in case a person doesn’t wear a mask, he/she should be punished under Section 188 of the IPC, rather than just imposing fine, but to no avail. Therefore, he moved a PIL in the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punish-those-not-wearing-mask-at-public-places/articleshow/76758419.cms||Neha Sharma
July 3, 2020||Pune||Remdesivir availability across Maharashtra will improve within two days: Rajesh Tope||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the drug Remdesivir would be made widely available in the state within the next two days. The minister was responding to complaints of low procurement and reports of shortages of the drug in many hospitals of the state. Tope told TOI on Thursday that he will ensure the injectible medicine is available at all government hospitals soon. “Collectors and commissioners have been allowed to procure it from state government hospitals. Remdesivir is required for moderate to serious Covid-19 patients,” Tope said. It is learnt that private hospitals in Tamil Nadu, Assam and Karnataka ended up with a bulk of the drug’s first batch after placing orders well in advance. Incidentally, Maharashtra was among the first to push for the drug after the Centre gave its approval a little over 10 days ago. The drug is being bought from Hyderabad-based Hetero — one of two firms (besides Cipla) approved to sell Remdesivir in India. Hetero has so far supplied 20,000 doses — most of that first batch has gone to Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Officials said that government hospitals in Maharashtra, the state with the highest number of active Covid-19 cases (nearly 77,000), are now facing a shortage of Remdesivir because local authorities are yet to place orders. One family member of a Covid-19 patient in the city said they had to visit several hospitals to find the drug. According to rules, the state governments are supposed to secure orders for public hospitals. In some states, including Gujarat and Delhi, public hospitals have set up their own procurement systems. Remdesivir from Hetero costs about Rs 7,000 per vial. Cipla makes it for Rs 4,000. Both companies have signed deals with US pharma major Gilead Sciences, which holds the patent for the drug.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/remdesivir-availability-across-state-will-improve-within-two-days-tope/articleshow/76759258.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Visakhapatnam: Rumours connecting pets to coronavirus continue to swirl||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following the outbreak of Covid-19, people have increasinly been abandoning their pets. Several cases of cats and dogs being abandoned by their owners has been noticed in big cities and small towns across the state, especially in Visakhapatnam. “Abandoning pets, especially dogs, is a common trend in Visakhapatnam. But it has increased considerably since March. Now even cats are being abandoned. We have rescued at least 100 dogs and 44 cats since the outbreak of the virus,” Pradeep Nath, the founder member of Visakha Society for Protection and Care Of Animals (VPCA), told TOI. Activists claimed, many owners usually abandon their pets because they are unable to handle them once they began growing up. Some also abandon their pets if they develop some kind of disease or skin infection. But, now, owners are abandoning their pets for two different reasons. First, rumors have spread that cats and dogs can transmit coronavirus to humans — this despite the World Health Organisation dispelling such rumours — and second, with the slowing down of the economy due to the lockdown and the resulting job losses and salary cuts, pet owners are unable to meet the expenses. “Cats are the worst sufferers. Earlier, we used to hardly find any cases where pet cats were abandoned. But since March there has been a rise in such instances. We have rescued 90 dogs and10 cats so far,” said BS Naidu from Blue Cross Youth Seva Sangham Kurnool. Most of the dogs rescued are Pomeranian, but there are other expensive breeds such as Golden Retrievers, Labradors and Pugs as well. “Abandoning your pets is never a good idea. Unlike stray dogs and cats these pet animals don’t develop the practice of searching for their own food. They won’t survive if they are being simply abandoned on the roads. If you really don’t want to keep your pets, giving it up for adoption,” said Raja Gopal, a veterinary practitioner in Visakhapatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rumours-connecting-pets-to-coronavirus-continue-to-swirl/articleshow/76757105.cms||Arpit Basu
July 3, 2020||Goa||Mahalaxmi temple to reopen from July 21||Panaji: Shree Mahalaxmi Temple in Panaji has announced it will open its doors to devotees from July 21, which is the first day of the holy month of Shravan. All major temples across Goa had voluntarily decided in the last week of March not to allow visitors during the pandemic, even before the instructions to this effect came from the central government. “As per Kaul Prasad obtained by the temple committee, the temple would reopen from the first day of Shravan i.e. July 21. The management would be complying with all standard operating procedures and guidelines suggested by the government,” the managing committee of the temple has said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mahalaxmi-temple-to-reopen-from-july-21/articleshow/76759279.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Bengaluru||In Karnataka, kids under 10 years with Covid treble in a month||BENGALURU: Karnataka has seen a 261% increase in children below the age of 10 years testing positive for Covid-19 in June alone. And while that is worrying enough, a majority of these children don’t have travel history. On June 1, there were 298 infected children upto 10 years and by July 1, the number had touched 1,076. Of the infected children, 423 are below the age of five. As on July 1, these children accounted for 6.5% of the total (16,514) infected in the state. Paediatricians say children confined to their homes may have been infected by elders, especially parents. In a majority of cases, the parents were negative. “It’s possible the parents were silent asymptomatic spreaders. They may have passed the virus on to their children, but when tested they returned negative. This is nothing but community spread,” says Dr AV Gurudutt, paediatrician and intensivist at People Tree hospital. He has treated over 12 Covid-19 children in Bengaluru. While earlier, children found infected had either returned from abroad or other states, or their parents had international or inter-state travel history, now a majority of cases have no travel history. Doctors also observed that most are visiting hospital to treat other diseases or conditions. “They manifest other conditions,” said Dr Supraja Chandrashekar, paediatrician and intensivist at Columbia Asia hospital, Yeshwantpur. “One child I treated had dengue and tested positive for Covid-19 also. Chest X-rays are normal and they have no breathing difficulties. But they are silent spreaders. Hence strict isolation is mandatory while treating children. Prophylaxis drug hydroxychloroquine can’t be given to these kids as they are below 12 years of age.” A rarely seen unique complication in paediatric Covid cases is multi-system inflammatory disease (MIS-C) which affects all the organs and presents a cytokine storm, Dr Supraja said. “This is usually a delayed complication of Covid-19 and we are still learning about it. Although we haven’t had a case so far in the country, this condition needs strict monitoring as it can become critical.” Earlier this week, a two-year-old boy from Tavarekere, who had convulsions, was taken to Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health (IGICH). He tested positive for Covid-19. “In this case, the mother was also infected. Still, we have not seen a rapid rise in cases among children,” Dr KS Sanjay, director, IGICH, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-karnataka-kids-under-10-years-with-covid-treble-in-a-month/articleshow/76757596.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Work on replacing mechanical barriers to resume soon||Ludhiana: After remaining suspended for more three-four months following lockdown, Northern Railway will soon resume work on its much awaited development work of replacing the rest of the 12 mechanical barriers with electronic ones in the first week of July for ensuring safety of road commuters. After Giaspura railway accident happened, railway authorities had started the work of replacing the mechanical barrier with electronic ones as after installation of these on railway crossing, the work of gateman will be reduced to a large extent as handling of the barrier will be digitised. This will reduce the chances of accidents. There are as many as 20 mechanical barriers at various railways crossing under the jurisdiction of the district but among them eight have been replaced with electronic barriers in the initial phase. Giving more information, Tarun Kumar, city station director, said, “After Gaispura railway accident happened, the higher authorities have speed up the work of replacing mechanical barrier with electronic ones to ensure the safety of those using the crossings.” “There are almost 350 barriers which come under the Ferozepur division. In the first phase of the project eight barriers were replaced and rest of them will be done in the coming days. The work for replacing the remaining 12 barriers will commence soon under the upgrading initiative of the railway board.” Ashok Salaria , station superintendent, said, “Upgrading of the mechanical barrier with electronic ones will help in saving time of commuters who have to wait at railway crossings. The electronic lifting barriers are easy to operate as compared to the mechanical ones. Moreover, these require negligible manpower, are less time consuming and easy to maintain.” Meanwhile, sources in the railway department have revealed that, “Some of the railway crossing in different areas of the city do not even have a proper mechanical barrier and this has led to various mishaps. Authorities will have to complete this project in a specific period of time to bring down accidents on railway tracks to some extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/work-on-replacing-mechanical-barriers-to-resume-soon/articleshow/76758451.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 3, 2020||Goa||Fees for cancelled beach weddings to be refunded||Panaji: With beaches also shut as part of the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, many weddings planned during this period could not take place. The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has now decided to refund the fees charged by it for permissions to hold weddings and other events during the lockdown period. Summer and winter months are normally peak seasons for beach weddings in the state. This year, however, many plans for summer beach weddings went for a toss because of the pandemic. This lead to many individuals and event managers, who had planned beach weddings and other events during the lockdown, to approach the coastal body asking for a refund of the application fees paid by them for an NOC for their events. Seeking a refund, one event manager stated to the coastal body, “In view of the coronavirus crisis, all beaches were closed with effect from March 22, 2020, by official order of the government. Consequently, the said wedding which was to be held on April 26, 2020, had to be cancelled. Further, applicant has requested for the refund.” Deliberating on this at its meeting last month, GCZMA decided to refund all such fees. The authority, however, made it clear that only those whose events were cancelled because of the lockdown will get a refund. “The authority observed that the cancellation of events was not on account of one’s own volition, but due to the lockdown that was ordered on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. The authority, after deliberations, decided to give refund to such applicants where events could not be held due to the lockdown and not otherwise,” GCZMA said in its decision. From April 1, 2020, the GCMA charges as much as Rs 50,000 per day as application fees for every event and beach wedding planned on Goa’s beaches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fees-for-cancelled-beach-weddings-to-be-refunded/articleshow/76759270.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 3, 2020||Dehradun||Private firm roped in to provide career counselling for government school students||Dehradun: The state education department has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with a private educational consultancy firm to provide free career counselling to the students of the state government schools. The initiative will cater to the students of classes 9, 10, 11 and 12. The counselling will take place online and will guide the students to pursue careers based on their interests and strength. Principals of the state-run schools have been directed to carry out the task in their respective schools and make sure that all the students of the above mentioned classes get themselves registered for the online career counselling program.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/private-firm-roped-in-to-provide-career-counselling-for-government-school-students/articleshow/76757112.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Woman loses gold chain to snatchers in Mohali||Mohali: Two bike-borne miscreants snatched a gold chain from a 50-year old woman in broad daylight in Sector 68, Mohali. The incident took place when the victim, Krishna, came out of her house to go to market. Inspector Rajneesh Kumar, SHO, Phase VIII police station, said, “We are investigating the matter. Both the accused were wearing helmets and were on a motorcycle. The vehicle has been captured in the CCTV footage.” A case has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-loses-gold-chain-to-snatchers-in-mohali/articleshow/76758438.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||2 flights bring back 246 from NZ, Kuwait||Mohali: Two evacuation flights from Auckland in New Zealand and Kuwait arrived at the Chandigarh International Airport with 246 stranded Indians on Thursday. With this, a total of 11 flights have arrived so far under the Vande Bharat evacuation mission Phase II. Air India flight number AI-1317 from Auckland (New Zealand) arrived at Chandigarh via Delhi at 7.24 am with 71 passengers on board. While another evacuation flight from Kuwait arrived at 5.51 pm. The GoAir flight number G8-7230 landed at the Chandigarh International Airport with 175 passengers. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all the passengers arriving from Auckland (New Zealand) and Kuwait have been asked to undergo strict institutional quarantine at their respective districts and their passports have also been taken into possession by the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-flights-bring-back-246-from-nz-kuwait/articleshow/76758434.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Pune||Registration of autos starts accelerating||PUNE: Registration of autorickshaws in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad has recorded a significant increase since last month. Officials of the Regional Transport Office (RTO) said though the numbers were not as good as they used to be before the lockdown, a steady growth was expected with permits opened by the state government last year. Registration of vehicles resumed in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad last month. “The Pune RTO registered 58 autorickshaws from May 18 to June 8. The number increased to 114 by June 15 and 309 by June 30. Some of the application for registrations must have come before the lockdown started. There has also been a healthy increase in registration of goods vehicles,” an RTO official said. At Pimpri Chinchwad, the registration touched almost 150 during the same period. Pradeep Bhalerao, president, Pune City Autorickshaw Federation, told TOI that they were getting queries from drivers who do not have permits as well as those wishing to become autorickshaw drivers. “An autorickshaw driver needs to have a commercial licence as well the badge. There are many who have the licence and badge, but don’t own vehicles and such people are now coming back from their hometowns and contacting the autorickshaw owners so that they can get a vehicle to drive. . Nitin Pawar of Rickshaw Panchayat said that before the lockdown, the regional transport office had given consent letters for permits to many applicants. “The open permit system for autorickshaws needs to stop as the number of passengers is less at present,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/registration-of-autos-starts-accelerating/articleshow/76759365.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 3, 2020||Dehradun||“Under pressure” over failure to clear board exams, class 12 student chokes himself to death||Dehradun: A class 12 student choked himself to death at his residence in Kashipur, US Nagar, on Wednesday. It is being suspected that the 22-year-old was under pressure, as had already failed his class 12 board exams four times. The deceased’s family found his body hanging in the room on Wednesday evening. The local police have taken the body for post-mortem examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/under-pressure-over-failure-to-clear-board-exams-class-12-student-chokes-himself-to-death/articleshow/76757140.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 3, 2020||Goa||Colleges to go online for new year, dedicated Youtube channel for lectures soon||PANAJI: Covid-19 cases in Goa are on the rise, and the state administration seems to have realised that classroom teaching may not be possible for the new academic year 2020-21. The directorate of higher education (DHE) has already begun work to convert at least 40% of the syllabus to e-content before colleges reopen. The directorate has already carried out a survey in general stream colleges to determine the availability of internet connectivity among students. Sources said that the survey found that many students do not have good internet connectivity at home. The government is in the process of setting up hotspots in such areas, but, in the meantime, the DHE is training teachers to prepare e-content and start off the academic year by delivering this content to students through WhatsApp and email. Already 300 government college teachers have been trained on how to prepare and deliver the e-content to students. Master trainers are being presently trained for aided colleges, who will then train their colleagues in the respective colleges. DHE is also launching its own YouTube channel where lectures will be uploaded for students to access at their convenience. “The directorate will launch its own Youtube channel, where any number of lectures can be uploaded and students can access what is relevant to them. The responsibility for creation of the lecture videos is being distributed amongst teachers of different colleges to share the burden. The studio at Goa University will be used to record and develop the videos,” a source said. If the Covid-19 situation does not improve, live teaching is planned via webcast. Colleges have also been told to pair students with poor internet connectivity with a ‘friend’ living in an area with good network and encourage them to partner on accessing the online learning content, officials said. Officials said that government college teachers have been provided licensed Microsoft 365 packages, which they will use to create PowerPoint presentations of chapters. If live lectures have to be held eventually, Microsoft Teams will be used by the teachers. Similarly, teachers of aided college are expected to use Google Meet. “Presently, once teachers complete the training, each one will start creating separate e-content for their own students during their college working hours and begin the academic year by making PPTs, etc, available to students through platforms like WhatsApp, etc,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/colleges-to-go-online-for-new-year-dedicated-youtube-channel-for-lectures-soon/articleshow/76759905.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 3, 2020||Business||Sebi slaps Rs 97 lakh penalty on Divi’s CFO, aides for alleged insider trading||Hyderabad: In a setback for Hyderabad-based pharma player Divi’s Laboratories Ltd, markets regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has slapped a penalty of around Rs 97 lakh on its chief financial officer L Kishore Babu and seven of his close associates, including his son Praveen Lingamneni, for allegedly indulging in insider trading in 2017. The Sebi order said that following investigations it has identified L Kishore Babu, Praveen Lingamneni, Nagesh Lingamneni, Sri Lakshmi Lingamneni, D Srinivasa Rao, Radhika Dronavalli, Gopichand Lingamneni and Pushpa Latha Devi as “insiders who had directly or indirectly traded in the scrip” between July 7 and July 10, 2017. The order, which was issued by Sebi’s whole-time director G Mahalingam, said the regulator is impounding the alleged unlawful gains of Rs 96,68,182.14, which includes the alleged gains of Rs 74,08,024 and interest of Rs 22,60,157 from July 10, 2017, to January 24, 2020. The markets regulator has alleged that though Divi’s made a corporate announcement on July 10, 2017, on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) website that USFDA would be lifting an import alert on its Unit-II at Visakhapatnam, these “insiders”, armed with prior information, traded in the company’s scrip before the public announcement and made unlawful gains. “The UPSI (unpublished price sensitive information) came into existence on July 07, 2017, pre-trading hours when Kiran Divi (director) received an email from the company’s regulatory counsel about the lifting of import alert…” Sebi said in its order. Sebi said that Kishore Babu, being CFO of the company, allegedly had access to the information even before the announcement was made public. Sebi also observed in the order that the “UPSI had filtered down to the manager level in the organisation before announcement on the exchange platform”. The regulator has also directed the abovementioned persons to provide, within seven days of the order, a full inventory of all their assets and properties and details of all their bank accounts, demat accounts and holdings of shares/securities, if held in physical form and details of companies in which they hold substantial or controlling interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-slaps-rs-97-lakh-penalty-on-divis-cfo-aides-for-alleged-insider-trading/articleshow/76758437.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Delhi||Urban forest created at polluted ITO in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A “dense” urban forest has been created at one of the national capital’s most polluted areas, in a park adjacent to the ITO metro station, by the government’s official auditor comptroller and auditor general. The urban forest, inaugurated by environment minister Prakash Javadekar along with CAG Rajiv Mehrishi on Thursday, has been created by planting at least 12,000 saplings of 59 indigenous species of trees. Javadekar appreciated the CAG’s initiative and said it has set an example to be followed by other offices in Delhi.Created over an area of one acre, the urban forest consists of recreational, artistic and meditation zones. “The winding pathways, watchtower, gazebo, and sitting spaces add to the character and experience of the urban forest,” CAG said. The urban forest has been designed to create “an ecosystem to restore habitat for birds, bees, butterflies and micro fauna”. These are essential for pollination of crops and fruits and to help maintain a balanced ecosystem, the auditor said. Inaugurating the forest, Javadekar said: “Creating such an oxygen bank in CAG park will be very useful as it will soak the carbon and give out oxygen.” The minister appreciated the CAG’s initiative and said it has set an example to be followed by other offices in Delhi. He said this will become a dense forest in another year or so and will be a new attraction for people of Delhi. “We believe that initiatives like these will help us move towards a state of better ecological balance, especially in cities. It is a small yet significant contribution to Delhi’s ecosystem, one that could inspire people to reclaim and restore their natural surroundings,” CAG Mehrishi observed. Watch Delhi: Urban forest created at polluted ITO||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/urban-forest-created-at-polluted-ito/articleshow/76759286.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||‘Give seamen priority on flights to India’||Panaji: The Goan Seamen’s Association of India has urged the government to give stranded seafarers preference on flights back to India. “Seafarers must be considered as essential workers and given first preference with the starting of commercial flights. This will help ease their burden and pain,” president Frank Viegas said. He stated that some seafarers have been unable to be included in the Vande Bharat mission and are still stranded outside India. The association has requested stranded Goan seafarers in need of assistance to contact the association on 0832-2710071 or via email - info@goanseamen.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/give-seamen-priority-on-flights-to-india/articleshow/76759282.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mysuru||Resorts in Kodagu remain open contrary to assn assurances to dist admin||Madikeri: Days after Kodagu Hotel and Resorts Association extended support to the district administration by voluntarily shutting down all the resorts, hotels and homestays here for 21 days, one resort near Mallalli falls in Somwarpet taluk was found to be violating the pact. As per the government guidelines, hotels, resorts and homestays are allowed to function by ensuring social distancing and hygiene. Alarmed about the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Kodagu, villagers have warned the resort authorities against giving accommodation to tourists. They have also raised a complaint with Somwarpet taluk tahsildar Govindarajiu and Somwarpet rural police against gathering of tourists in the village. Speaking to TOI, the taluk tahsildar said that he has sent the requisition by the villagers to the deputy commissioner’s office. However, sources in the district administration said they follow the guidelines issued by the government and the decision is left to the service providers. The association president B R Nagendraprasad said, “We took a decision to close down all the hotels and resorts in Kodagu from June 25 for 21 days. The homestay association has also has also extended support to the move. Although it will worsen the economic conditions of the establishments, we have unanimously decided to support the voice of people of Kodagu who fear the arrival of tourists may spread Covid-19 further. As per our understanding, six major resorts in Kodagu are functional, while over 40 resorts have closed down. When the association asked the managements of these six resorts to explain the reasons they said that they come under the corporate sector and there is no local jurisdiction for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/resorts-in-kodagu-remain-open-contrary-to-assn-assurances-to-dist-admin/articleshow/76757136.cms||G RAJENDRA
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cops book Pannun, aide for anti-national activities||Chandigarh: A day after the Union government designated Gurpatwant Singh Pannun of the Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) a terrorist, the Punjab Police on Thursday registered two cases against him and his associate Joginder Singh Gujjar for indulging in anti-national activities. The cases were registered in Amritsar and Kapurthala. Pannun, a pro-Khalistan activist, was actively involved in promoting terrorism in Punjab and is among the nine men designated as terrorists under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act by the ministry of home affairs on Wednesday. The Dalit Suraksha Sena (DSS) had filed a complaint against Pannun and his associates and got a case registered against him in Amritsar for allegedly burning the Indian Constitution and National Flag, and instigating others to do so. DSS claimed the act had hurt the sentiments of the entire SC community in the country. In its complaint, DSS said Pannun and his accomplices were seen dishonouring the Indian Constitution and the Tricolour in a video. They were seen setting a copy of the Constitution and the flag on fire, while raising slogans of ‘Khalistan Zindabad’. Pannun was also seen inciting the entire Sikh community in favour of Referendum 2020, said the complaint. According to the police spokesperson, immediate action was taken as Pannun and his associates were found involved in the commission of seditious acts through their actions and words, both spoken and written, thus attempting to create a communal divide, as well as instigating disaffection towards the government established by law in India. In addition, he and his associates have also committed unlawful activities, being members of a proscribed organisation and thus, have committed offences punishable under Section 2 of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971; Section 504, 124-A and 153-A of the Indian Penal Code; Sections 10(a) and 13(1) of UAPA and Section 3 of the SC/ST Act. The second FIR, in Kapurthala, is based on a tip off entry of Joginder Singh Gujjar alias Goga in February 2020. The spokesperson said Pannun and his associates have been charged with seditious and secessionist activities in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-cops-book-pannun-aide-for-anti-national-activities/articleshow/76759283.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Hubballi||Rangayana: Government Brings Curtain Down on High Drama||Dharwad: Curtains came down on the high drama that was going on at Dharwad Rangayana for a last few months with the state government acting decisively. It has accepted the resignations of 12 repertory artists and has asked the director to start the process of selecting new artists. The drama unfolded with the appointment of Ramesh Parvinaikar as the director of Dharwad Rangayana by the Yediyurappa government after terminating the tenure of Pramod Shiggaon, the incumbent director in September last year. Those who were aspiring for the post along with some other local artists strongly opposed Ramesh’s appointment saying that he had no experience or expertise in theater. Their contention was that Ramesh was a BJP functionary and hence was appointed. Ramesh had said he was a theatre lover and organizer and would work taking everybody into confidence. However, the local theatre leaders were not ready to relent. Meanwhile, the government had appointed 12 repertory artistes and a technician to Dharwad Rangayana for a period of three years. Egged by the protesting theater activists, the newly appointed artistes also raised a banner of revolt against Ramesh and accusing him of being non-co-operative and lacking in administration skills, all of them had resigned enmasse in March this year. Along with them one technician too has resigned to his post. Ramesh had denied these allegations and had claimed that he looked after them as his pals. He said he had issued notices to the artists who were undisciplined. “They were not following the minimum discipline. Some were remaining absent without intimation and permission. To discipline them, I had to issue notices,” Ramesh said. After trying for a rapprochement unsuccessfully he had forwarded their resignation to the government. Last week, the government has accepted the resignations of all the 12 repertory artists and has issued direction for new recruitment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rangayana-government-brings-curtain-down-on-high-drama/articleshow/76754936.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
July 3, 2020||Delhi||First blood: Donors drop in at plasma bank in Delhi||NEW DELHI: He had always wanted to donate blood, but 19-year-old Vijay Jeet Sharma had never imagined that actually doing this good deed would give him so much peace and satisfaction. The youth was one of the 20-odd Covid-19 survivors who donated blood at the newly opened plasma bank at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS). “My parents were very encouraging. They motivated me to donate plasma saying I should set an example. I felt really happy that my blood will save someone’s life,” Sharma said. He had to wait a few hours at the hospital to make the donation on Thursday as the staff were busy with the inauguration of the plasma bank. Sharma added, “A cab came to pick me and my father and it dropped us home in the evening. I was also given a Gaurav Patra (certificate of appreciation) signed by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.” An employee of Container Corporation of India, Bharat Bansal was also contacted by the hospital for plasma donation. He and some of his colleagues had tested positive for Covid-19 in May. “I had decided on donating on the weekend as I didn’t want my office work to suffer. But I had to reschedule for Friday. The feeling that I got after donating plasma was inexplicable,” he added. Bansal had heard about the importance of convalescent plasma therapy in treating Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms through the media and decided to donate it. With the system still developing, sources said the pace was slow as only 10 people donated plasma on Thursday and almost an equal number on Friday. Rajender Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha, who is working on the project at the hospital on behalf of the government, said about 130 callers had been contacting Covid-19 survivors to convince them to donate plasma. He added that over 60 people had confirmed the donation in the next couple of days and logistics had been arranged for them. “While some people were willing to donate, a large number of them had multiple doubts. Our team of callers comprising doctors and medical students cleared their confusion and told them that their noble act would help save lives,” Chadha said. Covid-19 patients aged 18-60 who have tested negative for at least 14 days and have had no symptoms since then can donate plasma. However, the donor should not be suffering from diabetes, hypertension or any other chronic disease of heart, lungs, kidney or liver. Women who have been pregnant even once can’t donate plasma. Chadha said ILBS currently had eight plasmapheresis and the number was likely to be increased in the next few days. Dr Girish Khurana, posted as a junior resident at Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital, said if donating increased chances of survival even by 30-40%, there was no harm in doing that. “That’s why I decided to donate plasma as soon as I was eligible for it on Friday,” he added. Head constable Mahesh Kumar, posted at the control room of DCP (West) office, said he regularly donated blood. When the opportunity to donate plasma came his way, he was more than willing. However, he didn’t tell his family about it. “If we can save lives, we should definitely do that. I have donated blood before and this was no different,” he added. However, Samarth Bansal, who was looking for plasma for his grandmother, said the system was yet to be streamlined. “We went to ILBS on Friday to submit three forms required to get a unit. But we were told that another form the treating hospital was supposed to send was not there. We returned empty handed, but we’ll try again on Saturday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/first-blood-donors-drop-in-at-plasma-bank/articleshow/76778380.cms||Atul Mathur
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||Soyabean seed failure complaints rise 6-fold in a week||Nagpur: The number of farmers affected by failing soyabean seeds in Vidarbha has increased six times in less than a week. As against 1,100-odd complaints registered by the agriculture department offices in Nagpur and Amravati divisions by June last week, the number stands at more than 6,600 as on Thursday. The department is planning to register offences against companies that are not giving farmers replacement seeds. The department is trying legal recourses other than the provisions laid in the Seeds Act, which may lead to stricter action, said a source. The Amravati division accounts for 6,000 of the complaints. The division covers western Vidarbha and the problem was seen at a larger scale here. The Nagpur office has received 600 complaints as against 110 a week ago. As rains have begun, it is expected that complaints may stop pouring in, said an official in the agriculture department. This is because the seeds may start germinating due to the rains In the meantime, the seed companies are replacing the stock on the basis of investigations carried out by the department, said sources. However, there are also cases where seeds have not germinated because of the farmers’ fault, for which no compensation is available, said an official. The soyabean seeds do not germinate if they are sowed deeper or before it rains enough. This year, an exceptionally high number of soyabean seeds had failed to clear the laboratory tests required to give a quality seal. After this, Union agriculture ministry had issued directives to lower the standards. As against the earlier rule that at least 70% of the seeds in a batch should germinate to clear the test, the standard was lowered to 60%. To compensate, the number of seeds were increased in each bag, and a line in red ink reading ‘relaxed standards’ was also printed on the packets. The seed were spoilt because of heavy rains during the harvest time last year, said sources. After cotton, soyabean is the second important crop of the region. This year the area under soyabean is expected to increase as farmers have cut down on cotton cultivation. Gajanan Singadwar, a farmer at Patanbori village bordering Telangana, in Yavatmal district, said farmers had taken out a rally after the soyabean seeds failed. This led to the dealers paying back the cost of the seeds. The villages in neighbouring Telangana have a larger area under soyabean as against the farms on the Maharashtra side, he said. Congress leader Devanand Pawar said he will be filing a PIL in the matter, and he has also demanded the state and central agriculture ministries should set up a seed dispute tribunal to address such issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/soyabean-seed-failure-complaints-rise-6-fold-in-a-week/articleshow/76758462.cms||Shishir Arya
July 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Skype meeting for passport applicants||Coimbatore: The Regional Passport Office (RPO) in Coimbatore would be holding Skype meetings with passport applicants to facilitate processing in urgent cases from July 6. A statement from the RPO said that the public inquiry counter at the passport office on Avinashi Road would be closed until further notice. However, to facilitate processing of pending passport applications in urgent cases, video call facility through Skype could be availed from July 6. The statement said applicants whose files are pending at the RPO could contact through the Skype user ID `rpo.cbe@outlook.com’ on any working day between 10am and 1pm. The video call facility is not available for general enquiries, the RPO said adding that for such general passport related queries public can contact through toll free number 1800 258 1800 or send email to rop.cbe@mea.gov.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/skype-meeting-for-passport-applicants/articleshow/76759284.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Woman ends life a day after her boyfriend hanged himself||Mohali: A day after a 22-year-old youth committed suicide at Phase XI, his 26-year-old girlfriend also ended her life. She was shocked after she got to know about the death of her boyfriend. The deceased has been identified as Pragya, who too was residing in Phase XI, in another paying guest accommodation. She was from Jamshedpur. According to the police officials, Pragya was working with Sahil at a mall in Mohali. They said the deceased took the extreme step on Thursday morning. The police said Pragya was residing with her roommate, who saw her body in the morning hanging from a ladder, following which she informed the police. SI Jagdeep Singh Brar, SHO, Phase XI, said, “The body has been kept at the Phase VI civil hospital. The family of the deceased is on its way from Jamshedpur.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-ends-life-a-day-after-her-boyfriend-hanged-himself/articleshow/76758443.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Chandigarh||One held for theft||Chandigarh: The police arrested a person for allegedly stealing laptops, hard disk, watch and mobile phone from the room of a BTech student in Sector 22. The accused was produced before a local court, which sent him in three days police remand. Sector 17 police said the accused has been identified as Sanjay Kumar, a resident of Jammu and Kashmir. In his complaint, Prabhat Kiran of Sector 22 alleged that some unknown person stole three laptops, one hard disk and mobile phone from his rented room in Sector 22 on May 21. Sector 17 police had registered a case and started probe. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/one-held-for-theft/articleshow/76758453.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Lockdown leaves Kondapalli toy artisans in the lurch||Vijayawada: The endangered art of Kondapalli toys is now facing the threat of extinction as more artisans have decided to leave the field as the business stood paralyzed due to the Covid-19 lockdown in Krishna district. The previous regime did extend aid through the state tourism department in terms of promotions and catering clients to craftsmen. Speaking to TOI, Anand Kumar, one of the handful of craftsman who continues the trade, explains that business was ‘zero’ during the period while liabilities began to pile up. To make ends meet, a few more persons had left the place to find other jobs in Hyderabad and Vijayawada. “We absolutely had no business during the last three months and now all our savings are over. I had bought a large amount of raw materials days prior to the lockdown which now haunts me as there is no means to make profit from the investment made,” Kumar told TOI. Despite the despair, several craftsmen continue to make more Kondapalli toys with the hope that someday it might sell. On the other hand, out of 200 craftsmen that remain at Kondapalli village, at least 10 of them have already left the place to cities like Vijayawada and Hyderabad to find alternate profession. S Nageswara Rao, another toy maker, explains that their business depends largely on the tourist economy. “After the tourism department’s support and getting the GI tag, we began getting large online orders. Now, even that has been stopped as many governments say that they are not ‘essential commodities’,” Rao told TOI. The next time they hope to sell some of their toys would be during Dasara and Diwali, however, in the meantime, they hope for some compensation from the government to ensure their art form survives. “If things continue, the entire indigenous artform of Kondapalli toys may disappear from the place it was born,” Rao added. Kondapalli toys are one of the significant cultural icons of Andhra Pradesh which are made from soft and malleable wood locally called ‘Tella Poniki’ while its scientific name ‘Jiuotia Rotteri Fromis’. Conventionally, the artisans began the artform by making idols of Hindu gods and goddesses. Later, they upgraded the art in recent times by making even popular TV characters like Chhota Bheem and Ben 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lockdown-leaves-kondapalli-toy-artisans-in-the-lurch/articleshow/76757143.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 3, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal sets up four new armed police outposts along border with Uttarakhand||Pithoragarh: Amidst the standoff between India and Nepal over the Kalapani-Lipulekh issue, the armed police force of Nepal has inaugurated four new border outposts (BOPs) along the India-Nepal border adjoining Uttarakhand this week. While one of the BOPs at Pancheshwar in Nepal was inaugurated on Tuesday by the DIG of the Nepalese armed police force, Hari Shankar Budhathoki, three others at Jauljibi, Lali and Dumling were inaugurated by him on Thursday. Sources said that Budhathoki was personally present at Jauljibi and Lali but he inaugurated the Dumling outpost remotely because the road between Darchula and Dumling is in a bad condition. Till now, ever since Nepal registered its protest at the inauguration of the Ghatiyabagar-Lipulekh road on May 8 by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, the neighbouring country has opened seven BOPs along the border with Uttarakhand. Three of the earlier BOPs were opened at Chhangru, Darchula and Jhulaghat. Sources said that Nepal’s plan is to increase the number of BOPs to over 500 from nearly 120 at present to match that of India’s along the 1,751km border that it shares with India. Of the recently-inaugurated BOPs, the one at Jauljibi has been set up in an old customs office building, the one at Lali in a government building while the one at Dumling is in a privately-owned building. Sources said that the government has acquired 15 nali of land for the BOP construction at Pancheshwar. Each BOP will have 35 personnel and will be commanded by a sub-inspector with four head constables and 30 constables making up the rest of the staff. The mandate of the BOPs, as per sources, is to prevent illegal trafficking and controlling border-related criminal activities. The BOP at Pancheshwar will also be involved in safeguarding the Pancheshwar hydropower project, a joint collaboration between India and Nepal, once it materialises. Incidentally, till last year, the border with India was being guarded by regular Nepalese police at most points. However, now, a decision has been taken by the Nepalese government to deploy armed police force for the purpose. The armed police was constituted by Nepal in 2001 when Moist insurgency was at its peak. It comprises of around 50,000 personnel who have been trained in counter-insurgency. Sources said that with the Maoist problem in Nepal largely under control, the force is now being redeployed at the border so that besides border security, issues like human and wildlife trafficking, smuggling etc can be checked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-sets-up-four-new-armed-police-outposts-along-border-with-uttarakhand/articleshow/76757160.cms||Prem Punetha
July 3, 2020||Dehradun||Rudrapur BJP MLA’s brother booked for assaulting councillor’s son||Rudrapur: The city police have booked the younger brother of Rudrapur BJP legislator for allegedly assaulting the son of a municipal councillor. A cross-complaint from the MLA’s brother has also been registered. Sanjay Thukral, brother of BJP MLA Rajkumar Thukral, was booked under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insulting and provocating someone to break public peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after councillor Sunita Munjal lodged a complaint against him at the main market police outpost. In her complaint, the councillor has alleged that her son, Sachin Munjal on Wednesday night went to inspect an under-construction road in Singh colony of her ward. When he quizzed the contractor, Abhishek Goyal, over low quality of the construction material used for road, Goyal called Sanjay who misbehaved and attacked Sachin, her complaint stated. "My son was brutally beaten and threatened to be killed. He is my official representative and has the right to inquire about the quality of the material used in constructing the road,” she said in her complaint. Meanwhile, Sanjay refuted all such charges. “When I reached there to pacify the situation, Munjal picked out his pistol and threatened to kill me. I have filed a complaint against him and the police have registered a case,” Sanjay told TOI. KC Bhatt, SHO of the city police station, said Munjal has also been booked under sections 504 and 506 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rudrapur-bjp-mlas-brother-booked-for-assaulting-councillors-son/articleshow/76757142.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 3, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Video captures elephant taking stairs, officials say it’s deviation from forest path that’s surprising||NAINITAL: After a few minutes of trying to negotiate its way into a shed, the elephant, one of three, gives up. A few minutes later, it starts climbing the stairs of the Girija Temple at Ramnagar in Nainital. CCTV footage of an elephant climbing stairs, like the one that went viral in February this year, has drawn curious interest but what's surprising, forest officials said, was just how close to human habitation they came. WATCH: CCTV footage captures elephant taking stairs in Nainital. #elephants #Uttarakhandhttps://t.co/bj5ITKUDSo https://t.co/heG9VX2YSY— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1593750264000Even until a decade ago, the area between Dhangarhi and Sundarkhal was an elephant corridor that the elephants would take. But with increased human activity, encroachment and repeated ecological disturbances, it fell into disuse. The lockdown however has eased their passage again. Over the past two months, locals around the area have been spotting elephants in the area. “But it is for the first time that they came this close to human habitation. Without damage, that is. As elephants wander into human habitations, there are greater chances of human-animal conflicts. Just last month, some elephants had demolished huts in the area," said Jittu Papne, a resident of the area. A Ramnagar forest division official told TOI that the temple has been shut because of the lockdown and few people step out now which is why, elephants are moving around freely. “Although elephants climbing stairs is not uncommon — they also trek hills with ease — the fact that they came this close to human settlements is surprising,” he added. Watch Watch: Wild elephants climbing small steps of a temple||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/video-captures-elephant-taking-stairs-officials-say-its-deviation-from-forest-path-thats-surprising/articleshow/76757159.cms||Prashant Jha
July 3, 2020||Goa||2 sarpanchs, 2 panchas gained from labour scheme: Govt||Panaji: The state admitted to the Lokayukta that at least six ineligible people took undue benefit of the Labour and Building Workers’ Scheme, which was meant to provide monetary relief to construction workers who lost theirJ livelihoods. In a written submission before Lokayukta, the chief secretary and the labour secretary said that the six ineligible persons include two sarpanchs and two panchas. The six had registered themselves as beneficiaries, but since the allegations surfaced, the six have refunded Rs 36,000 to the department. “There is a need to investigate how they registered themselves as labourers and who allowed them to register,” said Goa Forward Party vice-president Durgadas Kamat. At the hearing, the labour commissioner sought eight weeks to file his reply, but the Lokayukta refused to entertain the request and instead gave four weeks, fixing the next hearing for August 5. The labour department informed the Lokayukta that notices have been issued to all the labour inspectors to re-verify the details of the beneficiaries who have been registered with the department as building and other construction workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-sarpanchs-2-panchas-gained-from-labour-scheme-govt/articleshow/76759285.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Dehradun||Unlock 2.0: More easing of restrictions announced in U’khand||Dehradun: In a notification issued on Thursday by chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh, a comprehensive set of guidelines pertaining to Unlock 2.0 were issued. Under the guidelines, all hospitality facilities including hotels, B&Bs and homestays are now allowed to remain open in the state except those in containment zones. While the quarantine period for hotel guests coming from other states has still been kept for a minimum period of seven days, an exception has been made for those who have undergone a RT-PCR test not earlier than 72 hours from the time of arrival and carry a Covid-negative report. Hotels have been allowed to serve liquor as part of room service although they have not been allowed to open the bars situated in their premises. These easing of restrictions is apart from the earlier relaxations provided to restaurants, malls and markets. While restaurants can now remain open from 7am to 9pm, markets, religious places and shopping malls have permission to function from 7am to 8pm. Similarly, banquet halls and community halls have also been allowed to operate with not more than 50 guests and while maintaining the necessary social distancing norms in place. A night curfew will be in force from 9 pm to 7 am, although people involved in essential activities and those returning from attending marriage events will be exempt from this, the notification said. All inbound persons entering Uttarakhand are to mandatorily register on the Dehradun Smart City web portal. While those from non high-load Covid cities are to spend 14 days in home quarantine, those from high-load Covid towns are to be institutional quarantined for seven days followed by seven days of home quarantine. The relaxations, however, failed to lift the spirits of hoteliers in the state and a majority of them said that they are reluctant to reopen their businesses as most of the visitors come from high-load Covid infected cities. Hence on Thursday, only 35 of the 3,500 registered hotels opened up for business. Sandeep Sahni, president of Uttarakhand Hotel Association, said, “A person coming from a place like Delhi, Gurgaon or Noida has to spend a seven-day quarantine period in the state. Usually, people from such places visit during the weekends and nobody has so much time to spend in quarantine.” He added that barring some high-end hotels, majority of hotels are closed as it’s not possible for them to meet the expenses without tourist inflow.” Another hotel owner said that it’s virtually impossible to reopen until the government announces further relaxations. Meanwhile, chief minister TS Rawat said, “Things are moving in the right direction. We have now started Char Dham Yatra for Uttarakhand residents. There will be other relaxations too for both locals and visitors soon. The state has over 70% recovery rate and the number of active Covid cases are also going down.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unlock-2-0-more-easing-of-restrictions-announced-in-ukhand/articleshow/76757152.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 3, 2020||Dehradun||Migrant worker hangs self in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: A 30-year-old migrant worker committed suicide by hanging himself in Nakshtra Vatika colony under Jawalapur police station limits. He has been identified as Nikhil Kumar, native of Seetamarhi district in Bihar. He was daily wage worker in Haridwar. SHO Jawalapur police station Praveen Singh Koshiyari told TOI, "He was found hanging at his room. We did not find any suicide note. His body has been sent to the district hospital for autopsy. We are probing on why he took the extreme step."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/migrant-worker-hangs-self-in-haridwar/articleshow/76757172.cms||MS Nawaz
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||40 BEST staff sacked for absenteeism, 700 +ve cases||MUMBAI: Forty BEST staff, mainly drivers and conductors, have been dismissed for absenteeism during Covid-19 pandemic over the last few months, deputy general manager Rajendra Madne said on Thursday. He said indiscipline and absenteeism would not be tolerated when many drivers and conductors were risking lives to report to work and serve people. He said unions protesting against departmental charge-sheets of nearly 2,000 staff for absenteeism should send their leaders to check how drivers, conductors and other staff were working with dedication, and it would be unfair to pardon those who “shirked responsibility” during difficult times. BEST electric supply wing union leader Vitthalrao Gaikwad alleged that staff were not provided proper protective wear, including gloves and masks. “We demanded rotational duty, every alternate day. Inferior masks are not being replaced,” he said. BEST spokesperson Manoj Varade said staff were given adequate protective gear and PPE when they go to repair power supply faults in containment zones. Meanwhile, Covid cases crossed the 700-mark on Thursday. Nine employees’ deaths have been confirmed as Covid ones. BEST workers’ union, led by Shashank Rao, alleged that the management was not transparent and the death toll could be higher. BEST chief medical officer Dr Anil Kumar Singhal said more than 75% staff have recovered and are home. BEST has provided jobs to next of kin of nine employees who died due to Covid, a source said, adding that a compensation of Rs 50 lakh will be disbursed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/40-best-staff-sacked-for-absenteeism-700-ve-cases/articleshow/76758503.cms||Somit Sen
July 3, 2020||Bhopal||Several senior MLAs unhappy, Uma writes to BJP state chief||Bhopal: The second expansion of Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet undertaken on Thursday has left more dissatisfied faces than happy in the state BJP. The expansion coming the in backdrop of scheduled crucial by-polls to 24 assembly seats has caught several top leaders, who considered their elevation to cabinet natural, off guard. Firebrand leader and former chief minister Uma Bharti was among the first to express her displeasure over the cabinet expansion. Objecting to the decision, she said her supporters were sidelined. She also raised the issue of regional imbalance where none or very less representation has been given to Mahakaushal, Vindhya and Narmada belt region including Jabalpur. Uma was hopeful of a cabinet berth for MLAs Jalam Singh Patel, her nephew Rahul Singh Lodhi and Harishankar Khatik. An upset Uma, is learnt to have written to BJP state in-charge and Rajya Sabha member, Vinay Sahasrabuddhe and state president VD Sharma against the ‘lopsided’ cabinet expansion. Prominent leaders who won the 2018 assembly elections amid Congress' game-changer campaign on farm loan waiver, are also upset for being not considered for the cabinet. A total of 17 ministers had lost the assembly elections in 2018 while of the remaining, six heavyweights and former ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan team were dropped. They include Gaurishankar Bisen, Paras Jain, Rajendra Shukla, Rampal Singh, Surendra Patwa and Sanjay Pathak. Pathak and Rampal along with Arvind Bhadoria, were instrumental in managing resources during the defection by Scindia supporters. It was Pathak who had suffered major loss after the previous Congress government decided to shut down his mines and slapped him with a heavy penalty. Leaders from Vindhya and Mahakaushal regions were also not included in the team. Prominent face of Rewa, Rajendra Shukla was confident about his induction, but, he was dropped. Shukla and Pathak though accepted their fate. The same fate was in store for Kedar Shukla. "There is nothing wrong in the decision. I was inducted as a minister when I joined BJP in 2013. Now, I am still a BJP worker ready to fight for the party," Pathak told reporters on the decision. In Vindhya region, BJP workers have resented for ignoring senior leaders Girish Gautam and Kedar Shukla. BJP had won 24 seats in Vindhya region in 2018 assembly polls making a serious dent in the Congress stronghold but got only one berth. Sources said that the party could consider the name of Kedar Shukla for the post of Speaker. Former ministers Rampal Singh and Gaurishankar Bisen could not hide their disappointment and said they were deprived of ministerial berths due to Scindia camp leaders. They, however, claimed that they accepted the decision of the party high command with grace. Supporters of former minister Surendra Patwa were also upset over deletion of his name at the last moment. BJP must pacify his supporters in Begumganj, Silwani, Udaipura, Raisen, Obedullaganj and Mandideep, said sources. On the other side, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya’s close aide Ramesh Mendola too could not make it to the cabinet. Instead of Mendola, Usha Thakur, who is close to Union minister Rajnath Singh, was accommodated. Mendola’s supporters also protested in Indore against the decision. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has denied any unrest in the party, saying the decision was taken after thorough consideration and everyone inducted in the cabinet is a BJP worker and not from any camp. "The cabinet expansion was done after a thorough process. There is no resentment among party leaders. Those inducted are BJP workers and do not belong to any camp," said Chouhan. The old team members inducted as ministers in the cabinet from Chouhan camp are Gopal Bhargav, Bhupender Singh, Vijay Shah, Vishwas Sarang, Yashodhara Raje Scindia, Brijendra Pratap Singh and Jagdish Devda. Two old members inducted on April 21 include Kamal Patel and Narottam Mishra. Sources said that ahead of a final decision on the cabinet list, Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia was adamant on ministerial berths for his loyalists and eventually managed to get his demand fulfilled by getting a dozen of his followers included in the cabinet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/several-senior-mlas-unhappy-uma-writes-to-bjp-state-chief/articleshow/76758477.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||Runway reduction to have min impact on flying ops at Mopa||Panaji: The reduction in the runway length of the greenfield airport being built by GMR Goa International Airport Ltd (GGIAL) at Mopa will have minimal impact on long haul flights and will require minor changes in the design of the landing area. The need to reduce the runway length from 3,750m to 3,500m was felt in order to meet the revised ICAO operational and safety requirements for airports. The 250m, which have been removed from the runway length, will be used for Runway End Safety Areas (RESA), critical area of localizer, and to accommodate CAT-1 approach lights. With the reduction, GGIAL will have to rework the design of the airport and will have to relocate certain facilities like the MET Hut, isolation bay, perimeter road, aeronautical ground lighting, and other facilities, officials said. A payload penalty assessment for take-off and landing of various aircraft was done for both sides of the runway, which is 09 and 27 for destinations that are 4,200 nautical miles (nm) away. “Annually only 10% of operations are expected from runway 09. Calculations indicate that there is minimal impact on payload for most aircraft plying currently, for a range up to 4,200nm, like London and Tokyo,” said a report prepared to assess the impact on the reduced length of the runway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/runway-reduction-to-have-min-impact-on-flying-ops-at-mopa/articleshow/76759290.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Vijayawada||IoT-enabled cold storage units to be launched soon||Vijayawada: The energy department is set to launch the Internet of Things (IoT)-enabled power monitoring device project in cold storage units across the state. The IoT device developed by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Hyderabad, was tested on a pilot basis at some of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME) clusters in East Godavari district. As the pilot project yielded positive results in terms of energy savings and effective maintenance of power systems, the energy department, along with the industries department, decided to implement the project across the state in a phased manner. While the industries department will motivate MSME managements to go for IoT device for savings in power bill, the energy department will coordinate in supplying the devices to the MSME clusters. The project will be launched in cold storages in the first phase. The officials from energy and industries departments conducted a webinar on Thursday with the managements of cold storages in Guntur district to explain the benefits of the IoT device. Principal secretary for energy Nagulapalli Srikant said that the power consumption can be reduced by up to 11,000 units which would translate into Rs 90,000 savings per annum. “The cold storage units consume substantial energy in general due to a complex thermal system that is essential for the preservation of perishable food commodities. There is a considerable scope of energy savings through implementation of energy efficiency measures and the IoT technology can help the cold storage units in reducing energy and cost as well,” said Srikant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/iot-enabled-cold-storage-units-to-be-launched-soon/articleshow/76757163.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Amritsar||Scanner on call for ‘Referendum 2020’||AMRITSAR: Frustrated at being declared a terrorist, US-based Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, legal advisor of Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) is now making ‘new worded’ recorded calls to people, including journalists in Punjab. Pannun claims to have been running a secessionist movement for a separate Sikh state of Khalistan. In the nearly two-minute voice call made from a US number, Pannun made claims of “dismantling” the Indian system. Ahead of the beginning of the registration process for “Referendum 2020” from July 4, the Union home ministry, on Wednesday, declared Pannun along with Wadhawa Singh Babbar of Babbar Khalsa International, Lakhbir Singh of International Sikh Youth Federation, Ranjit Singh, Bhupinder Singh Bhinda, Gurmit Singh Bagga of the Germany-based Khalistan Zindabad Force, Paramjit Singh of Khalistan Commando Force, Hardip Singh Nijjar of Khalistan Tiger Force and Paramjit Singh of the UK-based Babbar Khalsa International as designated terrorists under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) (UAPA) Act. Sources said the police have strengthened and alerted the intelligence network to look for the remnant support system of SFJ. Saying that Pannun didn’t have any support system in Punjab, inspector general of police (border range) S P S Parmar told TOI on Thursday that police are monitoring all the calls made by Pannun from the US. He said they have a system in place to get hold of any of his supporters in Punjab pursuing the anti-national agenda. In the recent past, Pannun made calls through Pakistani and Chinese nationals in Urdu and Chinese language soliciting support for Referendum 2020, which seeks to mobilise public opinion on separating Punjab from the rest of India. Pannun, now a designated terrorist, has been trying to lure the youth of Punjab by assuring them jobs and reimbursement of $20 service fee to pilgrims who have visited Kartarpur Sahib, Pakistan, among other enticements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pannuns-call-for-referendum-2020-voting-under-scanner/articleshow/76759288.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore Corporation fines 700 shops for violating lockdown norms||COIMBATORE: The Coimbatore Corporation has been cracking down on shops, restaurants and other outlets that were not following Covid-19 prevention measures including social distancing and wearing masks. As on Thursday, the civic body had imposed a fine of Rs 72,900 on more than 700 shops. The west zone had the highest number of shops violating the prescribed norms. The civic body has deputed 242 staff members to monitor shops in all the 100 wards. They staff members were divided into five teams—one in charge of each zone. The teams as on Thursday had found 281 shops in west zone not following prevention measures like ensuring all their staff and customers wearing mask always, not maintaining a register recording the contact of person entering the premises and keeping sanitizers easily accessible. While 139 shops in north zone were fined Rs 12,700, 218 shops were fined Rs 2,300, 67 shops in east zone were fined Rs 5,900 and 56 shops in central zone were fined Rs 15,800.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-fines-700-shops-for-violating-lockdown-norms/articleshow/76759291.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ranchi||Ensure proper implementation of ration scheme: BJP to CM||Ranchi: BJP state president Deepak Prakash on Thursday asked chief minister Hemant Soren to properly implement the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, which was recently extended till November. During his address two days back, PM Narendra Modi announced an extension of the free ration scheme to the poor till November citing a host of festivals. Prakash, the newly-elected Rajya Sabha member, said, “The scheme will benefit around 60 lakh families in Jharkhand. We have asked the government to ensure that the scheme reached all its beneficiaries. During the lockdown, the state government failed in ensure ration to all. In fact, the Hemant government failed in all aspects in the fight against Covid-19 and resorted to blaming the Centre to hide his government’s inefficiencies.” Hitting back, JMM said it was Hemant who initially wrote to the PM demanding an extension of the scheme. “Last month, the CM had written to the Centre for an extension of the scheme till December and had also met the governor on June 25 to press for his demand. Days later, Modi announced it. What Hemant thinks today, India think tomorrow,” said JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya. Countering BJP’s charges of a derailed PDS system under their government, JMM said for the first time the state government suspended licenses of 150 PDS dealers across the state for alleged malpractices. “The PDS mess which the Raghubar Das government has created is being streamlined by us now by acting against erring PDS dealers and others,” Bhattacharya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ensure-proper-implementation-of-ration-scheme-bjp-to-cm/articleshow/76758045.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ranchi||Covid-19: 31 CRPF jawans from battalion engaged in anti-Red ops infected||RANCHI: Twenty-five jawans of a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) battalion engaged in anti-Maoist operations in Seraikela-Kharsawan district have been diagnosed with the novel coronavirus recently. CRPF inspector general Raj Kumar on Thursday said, “The jawans had returned from leave and were under quarantine when they tested positive for Covid-19. They are undergoing treatment at Tata Main Hospital in Jamshedpur.” Notably, CRPF had put a batch of 34 jawans of 196th battalion under quarantine after their return to different companies. About 10 days later, nine members of the group started developing Covid symptoms and were found infected in tests conducted at TMH. The samples of the remaining personnel were examined and more turned out to be positive. CRPF has started Covid tests for all its personnel returning after leave, particularly from the red zones. There are 22 CRPF batallions in the state. The 196th battalion is operating in areas that witnessed increased extremist activities in the recent past. A CRPF official said, “Immediate preventive measures helped us stop the spread of the disease among other jawans. Those who tested positive in the second round were asymptomatic and would have spread the disease in the battalion after the quarantine period. All the jawans had returned from different states including Bihar and West Bengal.” He added that the quarantine centre was located in a remote corner of the battalion headquarters and was equipped with a separate kitchen and bathroom. No one was allowed to move out of the centre during quarantine. Sources said 31 jawans of different CRPF companies in Jharkhand have been afflicted by Covid. All of them had returned from leave from various parts of country, with some coming from the red zones like Delhi. So far, four jawans have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/31-crpf-jawans-from-battalion-engaged-in-anti-red-ops-infected/articleshow/76758186.cms||Sanjay Sahay
July 3, 2020||Ranchi||Hemant cancels Shravani Mela a day before HC verdict||RANCHI: While the Jharkhand high court on Friday will deliver its verdict on a petition by BJP MP Nishikant Dubey seeking the court’s nod for the Shravani Mela in Deoghar, chief minister Hemant Soren asserted his government’s decision to not host the month-long religious ceremony on Thursday. During the hearing of the PIL, the state government’s counsel also expressed the administration’s reluctance to host the mela. Holding a review meeting with authorities in Deoghar and Dumka, Soren directed authorities to utilise the time to renovate the temples and listed out dos and don’ts to avoid unnecessary congregations during the month of Shravan. This year’s Shravani Mela was originally slated to be held from July 5. Deoghar’s Baba Baidyanath temple and Dumka’s Basukinath temple receive over 50 lakh devotees during the month-long affair. Soren said, “We have to restrain ourselves from holding religious, social or cultural activities as a precaution against Covid-19. The fight against the virus is still on and in view of this government has decided to not organise Shravani Mela.” He directed authorities of both the districts to renovate the iconic temples by weeding out infrastructural gaps, if any, during this period. He said, “Conduct inspections of both the temples and carry out reforms to make them look magnificent.” To avoid unwanted crowding, Soren asked the authorities to completely ban movement of buses in both the districts and put up hoardings across the districts announcing the cancellation of Shravani Mela. Jharkhand HC lawyer K K Verma said, “The court has not pronounced its verdict on Shravani Mela yet. At this juncture, the CM is well within his rights to pass directives to his officials. The state will be bound to comply with the court order once it is passed.” Deoghar deputy commissioner Nancy Sahay said they have already formed flying squads in the district to man border areas as well as peripheries of the temple. She said, “Six different check posts have been set up to prevent entry of devotees to the temple. Separate cordons have also been set up on roads leading to the temple.” Meanwhile, Dubey on Thursday said that the Hemant Soren government’s decision to cancel Shravani Mela even before the verdict of the court is out is disrespectful not only towards the court but towards “Baba Bholenath” as well. Talking to the media in Dumka, Dubey said, “I have seen people who disrespected Baba fall from the summit they have reached. No one should be surprised if government in Jharkhand falls in the near future. The state government has decided not to organise Shravani Mela even before the court pronounced its verdict. This is disrespectful to the court and to Baba Bholenath. My lawyers will challenge the decision of the state government in court.” On Wednesday, servitors from Baba Baidhyanathdham Temple had met Soren and asked him for financial relief owing to the cancellation of the mela. Places of worship have not been allowed to open in the state even as Unlock 2 began. Hemant asked the servitors to support the state in its fight against the pandemic. In an official statement, the CM said, “The government has decided not to host Shravani Mela this time in the wake of Covid-19. The fair attracts lakhs of people and curbing the virus spread will be difficult. I apologise to Baba Bholenath for not hosting the fair this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-cancels-shravani-mela-a-day-before-hc-verdict/articleshow/76758097.cms||ASRP Mukesh
July 3, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro police assures ONGC of safety around its Gomia CBD project||BOKARO: Police on Thursday assured Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) of proper safety around its project to identify coal-bed methane (CBD) gas in the Maoist-prone area of Gomia block. Bokaro SP Chandan Kumar Jha and ASP (operation) Umesh Kumar visited the project site to get acquainted with the details of the project to lay out the safety measures. A dispute during the land acquisition is also a problem which police officials assured to sort out amicably. The ASP said, “We have assured ONGC of providing all needed support. Visiting ONGC and meeting with officials was a kind of coordination meeting which we usually do. Around six months ago we had made similar visits. This time we visited with full Covid-19 precautions and discussed on the issues.” Though ONGC has placed guards in clusters around two-three wells, it still needs strict police vigil for smooth operation. A total of 141 wells are to be dug to explore CBM following which ONGC will commercially develop the site. The PSU aims to put its produced CBM gas in the Urja Ganga Project once the pipeline installation by GAIL is over by next year. The CBM gas project is one of the major investments by ONGC in Jharkhand at Rs 6,275 crore. The other sites include Telgadia in Bokaro, North Karanpura in Hazaribagh and Raniganj in West Bengal. Of the 337 wells to be developed in all the four areas of the two states, 269 are being drilled in Jharkhand. General Manager (in-charge), corporate communication, ONGC, Rajeev Prasad said they are in the process of digging 141 CBM wells in Gomia and 51 in Telgadia under Chandankyari block. He added, “The wells are dug at short distances and are scattered, which requires proper security.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-police-assures-ongc-of-safety-around-its-gomia-cbd-project/articleshow/76758671.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ranchi||S K Jha is new Ranchi SSP||RANCHI: The state government on Thursday appointed Surindra Kumar Jha as the senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Ranchi. Jha, who is presently SP Giridih, will replace SSP Anis Gupta. Additional director general (ADG) M L Meena, who has the charge of operations, has been shifted as ADG special branch. Deputy inspector general (DIG) homeguards and fire service Raj Kumar Lakra has been posted as DIG Palamu. SP (rural) Dhanbad Amit Renu is the new Giridih SP. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/s-k-jha-is-new-ranchi-ssp/articleshow/76758708.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ranchi||Bihar netas flout jail norms to meet Lalu at Ranchi hospital||RANCHI: Incarcerated RJD president Lalu Prasad continued ignoring the jail norms and met three of his party leaders from Bihar at the paying ward of Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (Rims) on Thursday. The former Bihar CM has been flouting jail regulations on numerous occasions since the JMM-led mahagathbandhan came to power in the state in December. Prasad spent almost 90 minutes with Bihar MLC Sunil Kumar Singh and former Parsa MLA Chhote Lal Rai at the hospital, where he has been housed since September 2018 on the directions of Jharkhand high court. Security officials posted at Rims, however, said they did not allow anyone to visit Lalu on Thursday. RJD sources said Singh, an old Lalu loyalist and the current chairperson of the Bihar State Cooperative Marketing Union, sought Lalu’s blessings after he was elected as a member to Bihar Vidhan Parishad on Monday on an RJD ticket. Rai is a ticket aspirant for the upcoming Bihar polls. When TOI approached the two, Rai denied meeting Lalu and left the Rims campus. Singh however said he had come to meet a relative who is admitted at Rims and met Laluji accidentally on the corridors. On being asked whether he had permissions from the prison authorities, Singh said: “I was walking on the corridors of the hospital building and I spotted him taking a walk. So I asked him about his health for a brief period,” Singh said. Hospital sources said there has been a significant increase in the number of political visitors at Rims ahead of the Bihar assembly elections and they are being allowed to meet their leader with co-operation of police authorities deployed at the hospital. A source employed at the hospital’s paying ward said, “Since the day Laluji celebrated his birthday with son Tejashwi last month, there has been a flurry of people visiting Rims from various parts of Bihar on a daily basis.” Jail superintendent Ashok Chaudhary said they have put a blanket ban on visitors for Lalu since the outbreak of Covid-19. When asked about the violations of jail norms, he said: “I do not have any such information and no one can meet Lalu Prasad without the permission of jail IG.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bihar-netas-flout-jail-norms-to-meet-lalu-at-ranchi-hosp/articleshow/76758139.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 3, 2020||Ranchi||FIR against mom, daughter for thrashing pregnant kin||HAZARIBAG: Hazaribag police on Wednesday night filed a case against a woman and her daughter for beating her pregnant daughter over a domestic tussle. The incident took place on Tuesday night in Hurhuru locality of Hazaribag town area where the mother-daughter duo thrashed the woman by tying her to an electric pole near their house. Some locals made a video of the incident which went viral on Wednesday morning, prompting the cops to lodge an FIR on the basis of suomoto cognisance. The victim had fled from her husband’s place in Uttar Pradesh owing to some problems and was refusing to return, as a result of which her mother lost her cool and thrashed her, police said. The officer-in-charge of Barabazari police station, Satyendra Kumar Singh, said, “Accused Savitri Devi (mother) and Rakhi Devi tied the pregnant woman to a pole and thrashed her. After seeing the viral video, we went to Savitri’s house but the victim refused to lodge an FIR.” Hazaribag SP Kartik S said that police have lodged an FIR on the basis of taking suo-moto cognisance. “It was purely a domestic tiff but police had no option but to file an FIR on the basis of suo-moto cognisance. The victim, who is in the advanced stage of her pregnancy, has currently been kept at a shelter home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fir-against-mom-daughter-for-thrashing-pregnant-kin/articleshow/76758538.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||‘Not enough testing done in Mangor’||Vasco: Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida on Thursday accused the BJP-led state government for giving “step-motherly treatment” to his constituency. Almeida referred to the 900-odd swab collections done at Moti Dongor in Margao on Wednesday. He said, “At Mangor Hill not even 300 tests were done on per day basis, even initially when it was the only containment zone in the state. Even now, when the cases are booming in the Mangor area, we don’t have enough facilities for testing here.” He also blamed the South Goa district administration for creating a “blunder in its notification” wherein it declared only wards 11 and 17 as part of the Mangor Hill containment zone. It came to light that even parts of wards 10, 12, 16, and 19 were included in the zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/not-enough-testing-done-in-mangor/articleshow/76759304.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ranchi||JMM to begin poll preparations in Bihar from August||RANCHI: Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), which recently announced that it will contest 12 seats in the upcoming Bihar assembly polls, on Thursday said it will begin the groundwork in the neighbouring state from August. The party’s Bihar committee members, who arrived in Ranchi on Wednesday, met JMM working president Hemant Soren on Thursday morning who asked them to strengthen JMM’s booth committees and begin door-to-door campaigns in the run up to the election in Bihar. “July is an important month for us as far as strengthening our organisational base in Bihar. From August onwards, the party’s central leadership will move to Bihar to oversee the poll preparations,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said. He added, “Hemant and party chief Shibu Soren will begin visiting Bihar before the polls and will also be the party’s star campaigners.” On June 29, JMM had announced to contest in the Bihar polls under Mahagatbandhan’s fold comprising RJD and Congress. It also announced that it will contest in Tarapur, Katoria, Manihari, Jhajha, Banka, Thakurganj, Rupauli, Pranpur, Banmankhi, Jamalpur, Pirpainti and Chakai assembly seats. On June 30, RJD’s Pirpainti MLA Ram Vilash Paswan had paid a courtesy visit to Hemant at his residential office on Kanke Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-to-begin-poll-preparations-in-bihar-from-august/articleshow/76758582.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Jamshedpur||JMM to begin poll preparations in Bihar from August||RANCHI: Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), which recently announced that it will contest 12 seats in the upcoming Bihar assembly polls, on Thursday said it will begin the groundwork in the neighbouring state from August. The party’s Bihar committee members, who arrived in Ranchi on Wednesday, met JMM working president Hemant Soren on Thursday morning who asked them to strengthen JMM’s booth committees and begin door-to-door campaigns in the run up to the election in Bihar. “July is an important month for us as far as strengthening our organisational base in Bihar. From August onwards, the party’s central leadership will move to Bihar to oversee the poll preparations,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said. He added, “Hemant and party chief Shibu Soren will begin visiting Bihar before the polls and will also be the party’s star campaigners.” On June 29, JMM had announced to contest in the Bihar polls under Mahagatbandhan’s fold comprising RJD and Congress. It also announced that it will contest in Tarapur, Katoria, Manihari, Jhajha, Banka, Thakurganj, Rupauli, Pranpur, Banmankhi, Jamalpur, Pirpainti and Chakai assembly seats. On June 30, RJD’s Pirpainti MLA Ram Vilash Paswan had paid a courtesy visit to Hemant at his residential office on Kanke Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jmm-to-begin-poll-preparations-in-bihar-from-august/articleshow/76768792.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Ranchi||Tribal youth from Giridih wins Diana Award||BOKARO: Neeraj Murmu (21), a tribal youth from Duliakaram village of Tisri block in Giridih district received the prestigious Diana Award 2020 given out in the memory of the late princess of Wales. Murmu received the award for the changes he brings through his efforts to send child labourers to school. Murmu was awarded in an online ceremony on Wednesday night. Every year, this award is given to children aged between 9 and 25 years who have worked on issues related to social concern in memory of Princess Diana of Wales. Murmu was accompanied by dozens of villagers along with representatives of Kailash Satyarthi Children Foundation in the virtual ceremony. In 2011, the NGO enrolled Murmu at Chandauri Middle School after he was found working at a Mica mine. Later, he decided to save children from engaging in laborious works and started sending them to school. Last year, Champa, a teenager of Gawa village in Giridih had received the Diana Award. Champa used to work as a Mica-picker at a closed mine in Dhibra. A son of a farmer, Murmu was later elected as a member of the bal panchayat, following which he gradually stopped child labour in his village and got several children enrolled to schools. As the chairman of the gram yuva mandal, Murmu started taking up issues faced by the people of his village and ensured pending works are done by coordinating with the block office. P Nagasayee Malathy, executive director (programmes), Bal Mitra Gram, a KSCF department, in a press note said Mumru has enabled 200 underprivileged children in his village to get education. “By sharing his own experience as a child labour in his classes, Murmu encourages children to think about their aspirations and motivates them to continue to pursue their education in a state where the dropout rate is high. Under his leadership, many socio-economic issues related to his village have been addressed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tribal-youth-from-giridih-wins-diana-award/articleshow/76758976.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||Old smartphones for children in need||Panaji: Most schools have begun online teaching for its students amidst the pandemic. But a number of students in the state are unable to access the classes because of not being able to afford smartphones or laptops. A Panaji-based non-profit organization has now come forward to make online classes available to the students. The organization, which calls itself STARS (Spending Time And Reaping Smiles), has begun a drive to collect old smartphones, laptops or computers from donors. The non-working gadgets will be repaired and then provided to the needy students so they can continue learning during the pandemic. “We were in the process of distributing notebooks and stationery to students in need with the help of donors. During this time, we realized that, as many classes are now online, some do not have the required smartphones or laptops for the online classes. It is quite an investment for parents to make because these gadgets are costly and some families have more than one child, who need to attend classes. So we felt if we can provide a gadget to even one family member, they could share,” said Lushan Fernandes of STARS, an organization set up in 2013. This led to the idea to get citizens to donate their old smartphones, tablets or laptops for such students’ use. “A new gadget would cost quite a lot, but there are many people who have them in surplus, even those which are not working. So we decided to have a drive to get people to donate these,” said Fernandes. STARS has already contacted different schools to provide it with a list of students who are in need of smartphones or laptops and the organisation will then act as the bridge between the gadgets and the children. “We have tied up with Devine Computers, who have been kind enough to agree to repair any devices free of cost for this good cause. Depending on the number of devices that we receive and that are good to use after repair, we plan to reach out to as many students in need as possible,” said Fernandes. STARS in a local NGO, which works with different underprivileged sections, mainly women and children. The organization is a volunteer drivern effort. Fernandes, appealing to citizens’ generosity, said that the organization will make sure that every donated smartphone, tablet, laptop or computers, which is either in working condition or can be repaired, reaches a child in need of it. “We hope this collection drive is successful as it can really benefit a lot of children,” said Fernandes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/02-gauree_old-smartphones-for-children-in-need/articleshow/76759316.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Over 1 lakh patients in Maharashtra have recovered, gone home||MUMBAI: On a day Maharashtra reported its highest single-day addition in Covid-19 cases, the total number of patients discharged in the state breached the one lakh mark. Maharashtra added 6,330 cases on Thursday, taking its total cases to 1,86,626, and Mumbai’s case tally crossed 80,000 to reach 80,262. A total of 8,018 people were discharged in the state, taking the number of people treated and sent home to 1,01,172. With this, the state’s recovery rate is 54.21%. Active cases are 77,260. Maharashtra on Thursday reported 125 deaths, of which 110 occurred in the last 48 hours and 15 were from a previous period, the state update said. The state’s toll was 8,176. Maharashtra has also completed carrying out 10 lakh tests, with a positivity rate of 18.20%. While 1,554 patients in Mumbai tested positive on Thursday, three times the number left various healthcare facilities after recovery. The BMC update showed the city’s recovery rate had increased to 63% -- up from 55% on June 25 – with 5,903 patients going home. The total number of recovered patients in the city too rose to 50,694. “Due to change in discharge policy, a number of patients came up for discharge simultaneously,” said a BMC official. On Wednesday, 621 patients were discharged. While BMC update registered only 6 deaths on Wednesday, the toll rose to 57 a day later. The state has added one death from a previous period to the city’s toll and 58 deaths were reported in Mumbai, the lowest in 23 days. The total deaths in the city as per the state update were 4,689. The growth rate of cases continued at 1.72% in this period. “Doubling rate of cases in the city is 41 days,” said an official. The rush of cases at BMC’s KEM Hospital has ebbed a bit, said dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. “We were used to 80 to 100 admissions a day, but we have been steady at 40 admissions a day for some time now,” he said. The hospital only gets seriously ill patients while mild and moderate cases are sent to dedicated Covid centres such as Kasturba Hospital. But BMC will continue to add beds as cities across the world registered a rise in cases after lockdowns were relaxed. “As part of our ‘Mission Save The Lives’, we are upscaling our jumbo health facilities by July 7,” said AMC Suresh Kakani. He said beds in Nesco facility in Goregaon would increase from 1,000 to 2,000 on July 7. “We will inaugurate ICU facilities in Nesco and MMRDA grounds,” he added. Health minister Rajesh Tope said there was no community transmission yet as most cases reported were from containment zones, quarantine facilities or patients’ contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/over-1-lakh-patients-in-maharashtra-have-recovered-gone-home/articleshow/76760641.cms||Bhavika Jain
July 3, 2020||Goa||Govt to explore extending employment subsidy to service sector: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant asked Goan entrepreneurs to explore new avenues that will make the country self-reliant and also improve the economic ecosystem in the state. The Goa government will look into the possibility of extending the employment subsidy scheme to the service sector, Sawant told entrepreneurs at a webinar organised by BNI Goa. Sawant spoke about the Atmanirbhar Bharat package, the steps taken by the Goa government to revive the state’s economy and urged MSMEs and entrepreneurs to focus on how the services of the package can be availed. “While thinking about the post-Covid era as an Atmanirbhar Bharat, we as Goans also need to think about Swayampurna Goa,” Sawant said. “Goa as a state was dependant on other states. It is important for industrialists to think about our needs of the present and of the near future for we need to keep in mind Goa’s ecosystem while thinking about utilisation of Goa’s manpower. Sawant was speaking during a panel discussion with BNI Goa executive director Rajkumar Kamat, GSIA president Damodar Kochkar, Goa Technology Association president Mangirish Salelkar and Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) general manager Ajit Nath Jha. The webinar, Decoding Financial Support to MSME in Goa, was aimed at shedding light on the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh crore economic package. The chief minister felt that the IT industry has a wide scope to thrive in Goa and that the industry can grow in the post-Covid era. While speaking about the startup policies, Sawant spoke about permitting private universities to function in the state. Asked by Kamat if the government’s employment subsidy scheme can be extended to the services sector, Sawant said he will look into it. “Apart from Goa’s Economic Revival Committee, I would appreciate and welcome suggestions and with this, let us lead our Goa on pathway of self-sufficiency,” said Sawant. Jha said that in the present situation SIDBI’s main aim is to provide the best assistance to MSMEs through various schemes and loans. Industries department planning officer Geeta Joshi spoke about the incentives offered by the state for MSMEs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-explore-extending-employment-subsidy-to-service-sector-cm/articleshow/76759332.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai ICUs filling with critical patients from infra-challenged satellite towns||MUMBAI: In a grim reminder of the poor healthcare infrastructure in the satellite cities around Mumbai, doctors said seriously ill Covid patients from these areas are getting admitted in increasing numbers at the city's intensive care facilities. "We are seeing more patients from greater Mumbai these days," said Suresh Kakani, BMC additional municipal commissioner. The Covid map of Greater Mumbai has changed in the past two weeks, with cases from Mumbai registering a decrease, even as its surrounding cities have begun to show a significant increase. While Mumbai used to make up 65% of the daily patient load in the state, its share has reduced to 25% while that of satellite cities has increased to 35% or more now. "While the BMC has increased the number of beds in Mumbai and cases are more or less steady, we noticed that 30% of the ICU beds were vacant," said Kakani. These beds are now being made available to patients coming from outside Mumbai, he added. Dr Santosh Kumar, a specialist from Kerala who has come to Mumbai as part of the Doctors Without Borders initiative, said a sizeable number of patients in the ICU at Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri are mainly from the far-flung suburbs or satellite towns. "The number of positive cases from Mumbai is decreasing a bit. It came down to 1,500 from 2,000 (around the middle of June when the daily mortality was around 100 in Mumbai). But the increase in cases is mainly from the surrounding districts and suburban areas such as Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan, Panvel," he said. "Health facilities in these places are not up to the level of Mumbai. So, patients with severe symptoms from these areas are pouring into Mumbai again," said Dr Kumar, adding the demand for ICU beds could climb across the state in the coming days. The trend of satellite town patients coming to Mumbai is noticeable in private sector hospitals as well. Dr Prince Surana, who owns hospitals in Sanpada and Chembur, said the number of patients has gone up. "We have noticed that patients are coming from Karjat as well," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-icus-filling-with-critical-patients-from-infra-challenged-satellite-towns/articleshow/76760642.cms||Malathy Iyer
July 3, 2020||Thane||39 Thane cops, two doctors test +ve; civic chief visits hotspots across city||THANE: Thirty-nine Thane police staff and two government doctors tested positive for Covid-19, the authorities said on Thursday. They included two officers and 37 from the constabulary and state reserve police. Officials said they were taking adequate safety measures. Two doctors, including one in the casualty ward of a government hospital, also tested positive. Thane civic body stepped up sanitization of wards and commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma visited hotspots across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/39-thane-cops-two-doctors-test-ve-civic-chief-visits-hotspots-across-city/articleshow/76760643.cms||Manoj Badgeri
July 3, 2020||Business||Production at Chinese phone cos in India hit||NEW DELHI: Smartphone production worth thousands of crores of rupees at units of Chinese companies such as Oppo, Vivo, Realme and Xiaomi has been badly impacted as disruption in component imports from China — due to strict checks at ports — has squeezed supplies. The shortage of labour due to the Covid-19 safety protocols has only made matters worse, reducing production to nearly 30-40% of pre-pandemic days. Senior industry executives said Chinese companies have been in a bind as they are unable to fulfil demand despite pending orders. The companies have been talking to authorities on the matter and primary conversations have been around freeing up consignments at ports. “Most of my time is spent only around resolving (component) supply issues, rather than running factory operations,” a senior executive at a top Chinese phone company told TOI. Companies said that while supplies seem to be freeing up now with some ease provided at the ports, the situation still remains “uncertain”. “It is very difficult to do business in this scenario as we are not able to have a clear view on future supplies. How do we plan new models, and how do we do sales planning?” another top executive at a large-selling Chinese company said. The executives requested anonymity, considering the growing anti-Chinese sentiment. Pankaj Mohindroo, chairman of Indian Cellular and Electronics Association (ICEA), however, said things have started to ease on the front of component supplies, and he expects the production to be around 80% by the month-end. “Moreover, we are putting in a lot of efforts to ensure that there is a larger component ecosystem within the country so that our dependence on imports go down,” Mohindroo said. The restrictions have also impacted production at non-Chinese companies such as Samsung, and homegrown makers. The factory of Jaina Group, that contract-makes phones for Samsung, Nokia and Xiaomi, has been shut for a few days as availability of parts was hit, chairman Pardeep Jain said. Watch Supplies squeezed, production at Chinese phone cos in India hit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/production-at-chinese-phone-cos-in-india-hit/articleshow/76760645.cms||Pankaj Doval
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||UGC lists 24 clone journals, teachers taken for a ride||Nagpur: Many university level teachers, including several from Nagpur University and nearby districts, have been left baffled after they found that the journal they preferred to publish their papers are clones of the reputed ones recommended by the apex body UGC-CARE (University Grants Commission — Consortium of Academic Research and Ethics). In its quarterly update, the UGC released a list of 24 clone journals which are allegedly operating online on the pretext of original and believed to have misguided the entire research community for a long period across the country. The reason to trust the publications for submission of their works was the almost similar titles and International Standard Serial Number (ISSN), which is an 8-digit serial number used to distinguish between different journals having same titles. When TOI checked one of the websites of the clone journals, it found that proper address of the publication was missing. Only an email id was published for correspondence on the website. While the editor-in-chief seemed to be Indian, the editorial board had names of only foreigners. Probably to skip legal action, the clones have prefixed a different name or suffixed ‘journal’ after the title and added a couple of different languages for accepting papers. However, the researchers failed to factor in that the original UGC-CARE list journals have print version only while the clones are mostly online versions. Set up in 2018, the UGC-CARE list is updated quarterly in January, April, July, and October every year. The consortium objectives are “to prevent publications in predatory, dubious, sub-standard journals, which reflect adversely and tarnish the image of Indian academia”. Since its inception, “UGC-CARE Reference List of Quality Journals” (UGC-CARE List) has helped several researchers from falling prey to frauds. The development has come as a big loss to teachers who have published papers in such journals. They say it has turned out to be a wastage of their work as such papers won’t be considered at the time of career advancement scheme (CAS). A humanities teacher from NU affiliated college said, “I too had published one research paper in March thinking it as UGC-CARE listed Journal. But it was a clone journal. My paper was in English. Original journal has only print version and published in Marathi,” the teacher said. A colleague of this teacher too submitted his work in one such dubious journal now red-flagged by the UGC-CARE. “This is a fraud with researchers. The apex body must initiate or advise legal action against the tricksters,” the colleague said. UGC-CARE empowered committee members didn’t answer to TOI’s calls and message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ugc-lists-24-clone-journals-teachers-taken-for-a-ride/articleshow/76758598.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 a hurdle in MahaJyoti’s way||Nagpur: The delay in setting up Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Research and Training Institute (MahaJyoti), headquarters of which was shifted from Pune to Nagpur earlier this year, has left several OBC students in the lurch. Modelled on the lines of Babasaheb Ambedkar Research and Training Institute (BARTI) and Sarathi for SC/ST and Maratha students, respectively, MahaJyoti is meant to provide training platform for OBC students preparing for various competitive exams. Minister for backward classes Vijay Wadettiwar had shifted the centre to Nagpur and announced to run it temporarily from the Social Justice Bhavan near Deekshabhoomi. “Though Covid pandemic is posing a hurdle, efforts are on to set up the centre in a month. Managing director has been appointed. Office set-up work would commence in two weeks. We need to open an account and constitute board of directors,” Wadettiwar told TOI. “Rs50 crore have been sanctioned for MahaJyoti. Had it not been for the pandemic, the centre would have started by now. A lot of formalities are pending in Mantralaya because of lack of staff who are unable to report to work because of Covid restrictions,” said the minister. Highlighting the need for MahaJyoti, son of a farmer Pushpak Bawane (22), who belongs to NT category and preparing for UPSC, said fees charged by coaching classes is unaffordable for students like him. “BARTI is exclusively for SC/STs, while Sarathi is for Marathas. There is no such exclusive scheme for OBC groups like us. I also want to go Delhi for exam preparations, but cannot afford it. If the government extends support, I would get a fair chance at the UPSC,” said Bawane, who has completed BE electrical. Manisha Sanap (34), who is preparing for MPSC, aspires to get a top administrative job. “MahaJyoti is under process since 2018, but never expedited. Many students aspire to go to Pune, Mumbai and Delhi for exam preparation as these cities have better coaching facilities. If this centre starts early, it will be huge relief for many like me. If the government starts it this month, OBC students will benefit from it for preparing for MPSC mains,” she said. Manisha, who has completed MSc, is living in Pune in a rented flat. “My family is paying for my expenses. I haven’t paid the rent for the last four months. OBC is a biggest community which is economically backward and hence government help is needed,” she said. Student activist Atul Khobragade, who has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on the issue, said government must ensure OBCs are not deprived of the benefits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-a-hurdle-in-mahajyotis-way/articleshow/76758640.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||SECR breaks own record, runs 4-in-1 freight train||Nagpur: The South East Central Railway (SECR) zone broke its own record on Thursday by running a freight train attaching four rakes. The entire rake of 236 wagons was nicknamed ‘Super Python’. According to Shobhana Bandopadhyaya, divisional railway manager (DRM), Nagpur, the ‘Super Python’ left Parmalkasa at 12.20pm and reached Durg at 1.05pm. The train is headed to Korba via Bilaspur. The goods train is 2.8km-long and consists of 236 wagons, 4 brake vans, and 9 locomotives. It covered a distance of 22km in 45 minutes. This is the first time in the history of Indian Railways that such a goods train was operated. “Normally, the freight trains operate at 30 kmph but the ‘Super Python’ travelled at a speed of 63 kmph. We are increasing the speed of freight trains to 80 kmph,” officials said. On June 30, SECR had created a unique record when it attached three rakes of freight train together with three electric locomotives — each with a capacity of 6000 horsepower. The Raipur division of SECR operated 2km-long freight train ‘Super Anaconda’ by clubbing three rakes together. It ran with 177 loaded wagons between Lajkura and Rourkela in Odisha. On February 26, 2019, the East Coast Railway (ECR) had joined three freight trains as one unit and ran it as a 2km-long goods train. The train had 147 wagons, three brake and guard vans, along with four locomotives. “These trains use latest technology of distributed power control system (DPCS), where the leading engine controls the entire train. The engines in the middle help haul the wagons, while also maintaining the integrity of the rake,” officials said. It was in 2012 when the Research Design and Standards organization (RDSO) of the Indian Railways had approved the speed for amalgamation of two or more freight trains in one, named as ‘Python’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/secr-breaks-own-record-runs-4-in-1-freight-train/articleshow/76758667.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 3, 2020||Delhi||CPWD invites bids for new Parliament||NEW DELHI: Expediting the new Parliament project, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has invited bids to shortlist companies that can qualify to compete to bag the work. As per the bid document, the successful bidder will have to complete the project within 21 months. The government plans to hold the monsoon session of 2022 in the new Parliament Building, which will come up adjacent to the existing one. To fast track the process, the CPWD has set August 14 deadline to submit the technical bids. “The work is estimated to cost Rs 889 crore. This estimate, however, is given merely as a rough guide,” the bid document said. Meanwhile, this move to invite separate pre-qualification bid has surprised many considering that in almost all infrastructure projects, government agencies invite bids for both technical and financial qualification together to prevent any chance of cartelisation among the bidders. “Once the bidders know who all have qualified for any project, they can create a cartel. CPWD has list of qualified contracts under different categories. It could have simply said all Class-1 contractors are qualified to bid,” said an ex-chief of a government construction agency. The CPWD has listed the challenges and constraints that the construction companies need to keep in mind while bidding for the project. These include the proximity of the site to the existing Parliament House Complex. “The plinth of building shall match with plinth of existing building which is approximately 1.8 metre above the ground level. The existing Parliament Building shall continue to function during the entire period of execution of this project, therefore utmost care is required to minimise construction noise, dust free area and other construction activity related issues,” the document said. Though the government will provide free of cost land to the contractor for establishing labour camp, batching plant, fabrication yard, laboratory, storage yard, the contractor shall make his own arrangement of transportation of labour from labour camp to site for working in three shifts. They also need to make arrangements for certification of at least 50% of skilled workers and training of at least 40% of unskilled workers. It will have to identify source of natural material like white and red stones for cladding, carving work, jalis, white and green marble, lakha red and black granite for flooring. The total plinth area of the proposed building is approximately 65,000 sqm including the basement area of approximately 16,921 sqm. The building shall be ground plus two storeyed with one basement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cpwd-invites-bids-for-new-parliament/articleshow/76759094.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 3, 2020||Thane||Satellite cities overtake Mumbai’s 1-day tally, biggest spurt in KDMC, Thane||MUMBAI/THANE: On a day when Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli went under total lockdown, both regions recorded the highest single-day spikes in Covid-19 cases on Thursday. While Mumbai registered 1,554 cases on Thursday, six of the nine civic corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region — Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Navi Mumbai, Panvel, Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar— registered a total of 1,997 cases. Mumbai seems to have hit a plateau in terms of daily cases, but its satellite cities seem to be heading toward a peak, said a member of the state government task force on Covid. “It could be another fortnight before cases in Greater Mumbai (minus Mumbai city) start to stabilise,” he said. With a record single-day jump of 560 cases on Thursday, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) touched 7,485 cases, overtaking NMMC (Navi Mumbai), which has 7,088 cases, including 265 on Thursday. KDMC now has the second highest Covid -19 tally among the six corporations. It also recorded 4 deaths on Thursday. Thane continues to be on the top of the Covid-19 chart with cases spiralling to 9,530. In a record single-day high, 395 cases were detected on Thursday, while the toll was 11. Men in khaki out on streets as 10-day lockdown sets inMumbai seems to have hit a plateau in terms of daily cases, but its satellite cities seem to be heading toward a peak, said a member of the state government task force on Covid. “It could be another fortnight before cases in Greater Mumbai (minus Mumbai city) start to stabilise,” he said. With a record single-day jump of 560 cases on Thursday, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) touched 7,485 cases, overtaking NMMC (Navi Mumbai), which has 7,088 cases, including 265 on Thursday. KDMC now has the second highest Covid -19 tally among the six corporations. It also recorded 4 deaths on Thursday. Thane continues to be on the top of the Covid-19 chart with cases spiralling to 9,530. In a record single-day high, 395 cases were detected on Thursday, while the toll was 11. The satellite cites of Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli entered into a total lockdown on Thursday amid highest single-day spike in cases. Mira-Bhayander, where the 10-day lockdown kicked in on Wednesday, also witnessed the highest singleday tally with 171 cases and four deaths on Thursday. Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 115 cases, taking the total to 2,392, while two deaths have pushed the toll to 79. With rising cases, police were out on the streets keeping away vehicles and people. In Mira-Bhayander, barricades were put up at every nook and corner. In Kalyan-Dombivli, cops cracked down on two-wheeler riders who were out without a valid reason. The arterial vegetable market at Jambhli in Thane was open till 11am, but with barely any customers. Grocers were given time slots to operate, but most stayed shut as there was no clarity on timings. Pillion riders and cars flouting rules were penalized. BJP corporator Narayan Pawar has sought relaxation for autos and taxis in the first half of the lockdown. In Ulhasnagar, cops were deployed at junctions to control vehicular movement. While residents stayed indoors in Kalyan-Dombivli, in PCMC areas, people thronged grocery shops and vegetable markets. Prices of essential commodities spiked, and stocks were wiped out in several retail outlets in Panvel. Navi Mumbai residents said they were cautiously buying essential goods as the region is under lockdown from Friday midnight. Nerul-based citizen activist, Anarjit Chauhan, questioned why the APMC wholesale market at Vashi has not been closed. “APMC was a hotspot during the initial lockdown phases, it should not be spared in the new lockdown,” said Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtra-men-in-khaki-out-on-streets-as-10-day-lockdown-sets-in/articleshow/76760659.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||Satellite cities overtake Mumbai’s 1-day tally, biggest spurt in KDMC, Thane||MUMBAI/THANE: On a day when Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli went under total lockdown, both regions recorded the highest single-day spikes in Covid-19 cases on Thursday. While Mumbai registered 1,554 cases on Thursday, six of the nine civic corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region — Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Navi Mumbai, Panvel, Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar— registered a total of 1,997 cases. Mumbai seems to have hit a plateau in terms of daily cases, but its satellite cities seem to be heading toward a peak, said a member of the state government task force on Covid. “It could be another fortnight before cases in Greater Mumbai (minus Mumbai city) start to stabilise,” he said. With a record single-day jump of 560 cases on Thursday, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) touched 7,485 cases, overtaking NMMC (Navi Mumbai), which has 7,088 cases, including 265 on Thursday. KDMC now has the second highest Covid -19 tally among the six corporations. It also recorded 4 deaths on Thursday. Thane continues to be on the top of the Covid-19 chart with cases spiralling to 9,530. In a record single-day high, 395 cases were detected on Thursday, while the toll was 11. Men in khaki out on streets as 10-day lockdown sets inMumbai seems to have hit a plateau in terms of daily cases, but its satellite cities seem to be heading toward a peak, said a member of the state government task force on Covid. “It could be another fortnight before cases in Greater Mumbai (minus Mumbai city) start to stabilise,” he said. With a record single-day jump of 560 cases on Thursday, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) touched 7,485 cases, overtaking NMMC (Navi Mumbai), which has 7,088 cases, including 265 on Thursday. KDMC now has the second highest Covid -19 tally among the six corporations. It also recorded 4 deaths on Thursday. Thane continues to be on the top of the Covid-19 chart with cases spiralling to 9,530. In a record single-day high, 395 cases were detected on Thursday, while the toll was 11. The satellite cites of Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli entered into a total lockdown on Thursday amid highest single-day spike in cases. Mira-Bhayander, where the 10-day lockdown kicked in on Wednesday, also witnessed the highest singleday tally with 171 cases and four deaths on Thursday. Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 115 cases, taking the total to 2,392, while two deaths have pushed the toll to 79. With rising cases, police were out on the streets keeping away vehicles and people. In Mira-Bhayander, barricades were put up at every nook and corner. In Kalyan-Dombivli, cops cracked down on two-wheeler riders who were out without a valid reason. The arterial vegetable market at Jambhli in Thane was open till 11am, but with barely any customers. Grocers were given time slots to operate, but most stayed shut as there was no clarity on timings. Pillion riders and cars flouting rules were penalized. BJP corporator Narayan Pawar has sought relaxation for autos and taxis in the first half of the lockdown. In Ulhasnagar, cops were deployed at junctions to control vehicular movement. While residents stayed indoors in Kalyan-Dombivli, in PCMC areas, people thronged grocery shops and vegetable markets. Prices of essential commodities spiked, and stocks were wiped out in several retail outlets in Panvel. Navi Mumbai residents said they were cautiously buying essential goods as the region is under lockdown from Friday midnight. Nerul-based citizen activist, Anarjit Chauhan, questioned why the APMC wholesale market at Vashi has not been closed. “APMC was a hotspot during the initial lockdown phases, it should not be spared in the new lockdown,” said Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-men-in-khaki-out-on-streets-as-10-day-lockdown-sets-in/articleshow/76760619.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||Remdesivir for the needy too in two days: Maharashtra minister||MUMBAI: State health minister Rajesh Tope said that antiviral drugs, Remdesivir and Favipiravir, will now be made available by the government not only for those who can afford, but also to poor patients. The drugs, he said, would be available in all districts of the state in the next two days. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had on Sunday said the state was considering giving these drugs for free in government and semi-government hospitals. Tope also said that since the ambulance policy, which aims to address shortage of ambulances in the state and overcharging by private players, is being implemented. If complaints of violations come in, strict action will be taken against the ambulance owner and licence revoked, he said. Helplines have been set up in all districts for people to complain of overcharging. "We are also increasing plasma therapy centres. There will be one centre in each district. We have received some very good results from people who were given this therapy," said Tope.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/remdesivir-for-the-needy-too-in-two-days-maharashtra-minister/articleshow/76760660.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||BMC eyes 100 tests/hour in both slums and housing societies using CLIA antibody kits||MUMBAI: The sero survey currently on in R-North (Dahisar), M-West (Chembur) and F-North (Wadala) wards is being conducted with CLIA (chemiluminescence enzyme immunoassay)-based antibody test kits instead of ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay), which the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had used for its study in May. A sero survey involves testing blood serum to detect exposure to a virus and presence of antibodies in a community. Senior doctors, who are spearheading the survey, said CLIA-based tests are quicker, more accurate and useful for mass testing. These allow for 100 tests per hour unlike ELISA, which has a capacity of 90 over three to five hours. Times ViewMumbai is at a delicate stage in the fight against the virus. Though it has not shown rapid growth in daily caseload over the past few weeks, the unlocking of economic activity and easing of restrictions on interdistrict and interstate travel is bound to bring a second wave, unless the city intensifies testing and takes pre-emptive measures. Citizens from all strata need to cooperate with public health authorities in such surveys.Testing more samples at one time is the need of the hour, say officials; 10,000 random samples are in the process of being collected from slum and non-slum areas. Healthcare workers are being tested too. Dr Jayanthi Shastri, head of civic-run Kasturba Hospital's Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory, said the CLIA test is more specific and has higher sensitivity than ELISA. "The sero survey started on Monday and is being done very scientifically by the BMC in partnership with NITI Aayog, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) and other institutions. We are conducting CLIA tests for detection of SARS- CoV2 IgG antibodies at the molecular laboratory, Kasturba Hospital, for all samples. This test has a very good sensitivity and specificity and the number of tests performed is also high. After the survey is complete, a subset of positive samples will be sent to Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI), Faridabad, for tests, which will provide information about neutralizing antibodies in positive samples-the determinant of immunity in an individual," she said. Unlike the earlier sero survey, now samples would be collected from non-slum areas and healthcare workers too. There are plans to collect samples of 500 health workers from each ward because they have been going door to door for screenings. Till Thursday, slum pockets in the three wards were surveyed. From Friday, ward officials plan to collect samples from housing societies too. Opposition leader and corporator Ravi Raja said, "In my ward, civic officials are collecting samples from two slum pockets -Kokri Agar and Almeida Compound-and a housing board colony."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-eyes-100-tests/hour-in-both-slums-and-housing-societies-using-clia-antibody-kits/articleshow/76760661.cms||Richa Pinto
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Shop timings restricted in Vasai-Virar||MUMBAI: Authorities in Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC), which has been spared a complete lockdown, brought in curbs in activity on Thursday amid a highest single-day spike in cases. VVMC recorded 491 cases and two deaths. Shops in the region were told to shut down at 5pm instead of 10pm. Even as the total cases touched 4,628 and the death toll climbed to 119, a 1,000-bed dedicated Covid hospital was inaugurated at Valiv, Vasai (E) by Palghar district guardian minister Dadaji Bhuse. It is the first hospital in the region to have centralised oxygen supply system (150 beds).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-shop-timings-restricted-in-vasai-virar/articleshow/76760670.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Many dying in government hospitals after futile run for private bed||HYDERABAD: At least 15 out of 43 novel coronavirus patients who died at state-run hospitals over the past week had either made several rounds for a bed at private hospitals or spent a few days there, health department officials said on Thursday. “By the time they are reaching government hospitals, they have already lost the golden hour period for treatment and are in extremely critical condition,” said Dr Raja Rao, superintendent of Gandhi hospital. Dozens of novel coronavirus patients are landing in state-run hospitals at the last minute, giving doctors little time to save their lives, officials said. “Majority of the critical patients who have reached Gandhi have either exhausted their money or have been denied admission by many private hospitals, as they don’t have enough beds,” added Dr Rao. Dr G Srinivas Rao, director (public health) Telangana, said patients should utilise the government facilities. “Instead of doing rounds of private hospitals, patients should come to us directly. Timely intervention can go a long way in saving their lives,” he said. Many confessed of not coming to government facilities initially and coming only at the last minute. Cost of treatment at pvt hosps unclearWe went to two private hospitals when my mother developed breathing trouble and we were offered a package of Rs 20 lakh and Rs 10 lakh with half the money to be paid upfront even before admission or a Covid-19 test,” said a patient attendant who reached Gandhi Hospital on Wednesday night, after making rounds of two more hospitals. Dr Bhaskar Rao, president, Telangana Super Speciality Hospitals, acknowledged that there was problem and patients should check availability of beds in state-run Covid-19 centres first. “There are a lot of beds available in government hospitals. People who cannot pay can go to Osmania General Hospital, Chest hospital or Gandhi hospital,” he said. There are 3,000 Covid-19 beds in private hospitals in Hyderabad. However, there are no clarity on how many beds are allotted at government-approved rates. Other hospitals also said scores of patients and their families are landing late in government hospitals for treatment. “Some patients have even turned up at our hospital after undergoing treatment at private hospitals for two to three days,” said Dr Mahaboob Khan, Chest hospital superintendent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-many-dying-in-government-hospitals-after-futile-run-for-private-bed/articleshow/76760664.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||First Covid-19 death in Gondia, Vid cases nearing 5k||Nagpur: Gondia, where Covid-19 spread had remained fairly in control for the last four months, registered its first Covid death on July 1. A 72-year-old man, a resident of Khodseoni village of Sadak-Arjuni tehsil, died during treatment at GMC, Gondia. He had tested positive on June 29. While most of the patients in Gondia are returnees and getting cured, this patient was a close contact of a young patient who had returned last month from one of the Covid hotspot zones. Akola, where Covid-19 death rate is highest in Vidarbha, also registered three deaths in a day on Thursday. With this, Vidarbha’s Covid-19 death count surged to 163. Now, only Chandrapur and Bhandara are the only two districts in Vidarbha from where no Covid death has been reported so far. July began with 165 cases on day 1 and the surge continued on second day too. Total 141 cases were reported from Vidarbha on Thursday. Highest 39 were reported from Akola, followed by Nagpur (33), Amravati (25), Gondia (14), Washim (9), Yavatmal (8), Buldhana (7), Gadchiroli (5), and Wardha (1). With this, total cases in Vidarbha have reached 4,950, 50 short of 5,000-mark. As per earlier projections, 5,000 cases were to recorded by July 8, but it seems this will surpass on July 3 itself. Against 141 new cases, only 73 patients recovered in a day, and 35 of them were from Akola. Nagpur (16), Buldhana (7), Amravati (6), Yavatmal (3), Washim (3), Chandrapur (2), and Gadchiroli (1) followed. Total 3,672 patients have recovered till date which means more than 74% recovery rate for Vidarbha. AKOLA: Worst hit by Covid-19, Akola reported 39 new cases and three deaths on July 2. A 65-year-old woman from Telhara was admitted on June 29 and died on June 30. Her swab samples tested positive on July 2. A 65-year-old woman from Jalgaon-Jamod in Buldhana district was admitted as Covid-19 patient in GMCH Akola since June 21. She also died during treatment on July 2. A 71-year-old man from Akot, who was admitted since June 22, also died. This took total death toll of Akola to 83. A man who returned from Kyrgyzstan tested positive in Akola. District administration said he was kept in institutional quarantine since his arrival, which saved further spread of infection. Akola now has 324 active cases. AMRAVATI: Spike of 25 new Covid-19 cases took Amravati’s patient count 600 past to 617. It took just five days for the district to record a jump from 500 to 600, the fastest of the six 100s. While the first 100 came in 43 days on May 16 since the reporting of the first case on April 4, the next two 100s took 13 days each on May 29 and June 11. The fourth and fifth 100 came in eight days each on June 19 and June 27, respectively, and 600 was crossed on July 2 in just five since June 27. A release from civil surgeon’s office said six patients tested positive from Ashoknagar to take the locality’s patient count to 15 while a man from Datta Colony in Old City, Badnera, and a girl from New City tested positive to take the town’s count to 82. Anjangaon Surji, which reported the district’s 25th death on Wednesday, today gave three new cases, males aged 37 and 22 and a female aged 55, to take the town’s count to 18 since the detection of the first case on June 22. PDMC Hospital here today saw its two staffers contracting the virus when two 27 years old females tested positive to take the number of hospital staffers infected with the virus to 13. A 70-year-old female from Sayma Colony in Paratwada tested positive on Thursday to take the town’s patient count to six. Gopalnagar here too posted its sixth case through a 24 years old female, while Mahendra Colony opened its account with a 41-year-old male testing positive. The youngest of the day’s case is a boy aged one-and-a-half years, who tested positive from Om Colony to post the colony’s third case. In the evening, new cases came from Chakradharnagar, Chavarenagar, Daroga Plot, Kanwarnagar, Sindhunagar, Ambikanagar, Pannalalnagar and Sahakarnagar. With six patients getting discharge on Thursday, the number of recovered patients has gone up to 416. YAVATMAL: The district recorded 8 new positive cases on Thursday. The virus revisited Yavatmal city, with two men from Bhosa Road testing positive for Covid-19. The administration on Thursday sealed Kannya Society area of the city. Of the 8 new positive patients, 6 are men and 2 women. Two men each have tested positive in Yavatmal city, Pusad and Darwha, and one woman each from Digras and Arni, respectively. Currently, 63 Covid patients are in the isolation ward of Government Medical College and Hospital, Yavatmal. Three patients were discharged on Thursday. The district has recorded 300 Covid-19 positive cases since March 11, of whom 226 patients have been discharged. An electronic media professional was earlier found positive and has been admitted in the isolation ward for the last four days. 42 swab samples were sent to the lab on Thursday. In all, 5,149 samples have been sent to lab so far, of which 4,952 reports have been received and 197 awaited. A total of 4,654 persons tested negative for Covid-19 in the district. WARDHA: A 27-year-old, who had returned from Tirupati recently, tested Covid positive on Thursday. The youth, a resident of Vivekanand Nagar in Nalwadi area, was placed in home quarantine soon after his arrival on June 27. On June 30, he was admitted to civil hospital here after it was learnt that his cousin had tested Covid positive in Tirupati. His swab samples were sent for testing on Wednesday and the report came positive on Thursday. The patient was later shifted to Kasturba hospital, said district health officer. BULDHANA: Total seven new Covid-19 cases were reported from Khamgaon, Sindakhed Raja, Buldhana and worst-hit Malkapur tehsil in Buldhana. These include 74-year-old man from Malkapur from where three deaths have already been reported. Buldhana now has 260 cases, including 154 recoveries and 12 deaths. GADCHIROLI: Five new cases were reported in Gadchiroli, all of them are returnees from other districts or states. This took total cases to 72. One woman recovered from Covid-19 on Thursday taking total recoveries to 58. Now, Gadchiroli has 13 active patients. GONDIA: Number of Covid-19 cases continued to surge in Gondia with 14 fresh cases on July 2 apart from a death of a 72-year-old patient. District collector Dr Kadambari Balkawde has issued an order on July 1 to take strict action against individuals and establishments violating guidelines issued by administration to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in district. CHANDRAPUR: While no new case was reported from Chandrapur and Bhandara, two patients recovered from Chandrapur taking total count of recovered patients to 56 out of total 98 cases. Now, Chandrapur has 42 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/first-covid-19-death-in-gondia-vid-cases-nearing-5k/articleshow/76758872.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||Goons released due to Covid outbreak leading to spike in crime||Nagpur: The release of around 850 prisoners, who were either given bail or released on parole citing corona risk inside Nagpur central jail, has led to a spike in crime raising concern of city police.After 17 murders in the city in little more than a month, the hassled police officials are learnt to have met a senior judicial official to share their predicament about release of large numbers of goons within a short time. The police have also prepared data on the crimes committed by the such goons in the past few days and also in the cases where ciminals themselves were targeted by their rivals. Addl CP, crime, Nilesh Bharne, also in charge of Joint CP, said 10 out of 17 murders in the city in the last few days have connections to the released goons either as victims, perpetrators or conspirators. “We had to present the current crime data before the judges underlining the fact that the goons were misleading the court to get bail and then targeting each other after stepping out,” he said.In the latest murder at Imambada, Nilesh Ambadarera was allegedly involved in the murder of Girish Wasnik. Ambadarera was released from jail just a day ago. He was slapped with the charges of attempting to kidnap a businessman. Sunny Jagir was also released from jail after getting bail in March but went on to get booked in a rape case. Navin Gormate, after being released from jail in March, went on to commit a murder at Nandanvan.Shaikh Jaleel Sabir was released from jail on June 3 but went committed a murder within a few days following his rivalry with Annu Thakur. Addl CP Bharne said 759 released goons have been checked during ‘Operation Crackdown Phase II’ but still many of them got involved in serious offences after consuming liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/goons-released-due-to-covid-outbreak-leading-to-spike-in-crime/articleshow/76758898.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||Soldier shoots pregnant wife dead, kills self||WARDHA: An Indian Army soldier shot dead his pregnant wife and himself, late Wednesday night at central ammunition depot, Pulgaon. After Ajay Kumar Singh (26) returned home on Wednesday night post duty, he had an argument with his wife Priyanka Kumari (26), a source said. Ajay shot at her from his service gun and she died on the spot. Ajay then pulled the trigger on himself and sustained serious injury. When neighbours heard the sound of gunfire, they rushed to the couple’s home and found Priyanka’s body lying in a pool of blood, and Ajay injured. He was admitted to Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital, Sawangi but breathed his last on Thursday morning. A case has been registered at Pulgaon police station. Priyanka and Ajay — both originally from Bihar — got married two years ago. “There was dispute between them from the last 4-5 months. We came to know that they argued last night and due to sudden provocation, he shot his wife and himself dead. The matter is being investigated,” said police inspector Ravindra Gaikwad from Pulgaon station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/soldier-shoots-pregnant-wife-dead-kills-self/articleshow/76758925.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Antigen tests get big boost in Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: All district magistrates in the capital have been asked by the Delhi government to conduct 2,000 antigen tests for Covid-19 daily in areas under their jurisdiction so that the number of people being tested could be doubled. Delhi has 11 districts. Over 10,000 antigen tests were conducted on Wednesday along with 9,913 RTPCR tests. The focus is now on testing because the positivity rate in Delhi has been going down for the past one week, which many believe is a sign that the disease is finally under check. In pursuance of his call for a unified strategy for Delhi-NCR in the fight against Covid, home minister Amit Shah too has stressed the need to reduce the infection transmission rate by conducting more testing through antigen kits. At a review meeting on the situation and containment strategies, which was chaired by Shah and attended by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and the CMs of Delhi, UP & Haryana through videoconferencing, the home minister said that more testing through rapid antigen kits would help bring down the infection transmission rate below 10%, as suggested by WHO. Field teams to double number of antigen testsObserving that nearly 90% screening was possible through these kits, he offered to provide these kits to UP and Haryana according to their requirement. Rapid antigen tests started in the capital on June 18 after the Centre provided nearly six lakh kits to the Delhi government. On the first day, 7,040 people were tested at more than 160 centres. Of these, 456 people were found positive for Covid-19. “Each district has been conducting 500-1,000 tests daily. Till date, the focus of antigen testing has been on the containment zones because people living there were considered to be facing a high risk of getting infected. All the red zones have been covered, except some that were created recently," said an official. Delhi high court had recently called the daily antigen test number "abysmal" and asked the state government to increase it. Currently, there are 167 antigen testing centres in the capital — eight in East district, six in Northeast, 10 in South, 25 in North, 12 in West, 10 in Southeast, 21 in Northwest, 44 in Southwest, 15 in Central and eight each in Shahdara and New Delhi. A district official said that while the number of antigen tests were being increased, teams on the ground realised that people were not eager to come to the testing centres. “The field teams have been asked to increase the number of tests to 2,000 daily. They are making all efforts to motivate people to come forward and get themselves tested," added the official. Currently, there are 406 active containment zones with the Southwest district having the highest number — 78. The Northeast district has only six zones. "Apart from containment zones, we are conducting tests in buffer zones and at hospitals where the exposure to Covid-19 is greater," said an official. The state government wants to expand the testing base to ascertain if the situation is really under control. So far, Delhi has tested 5.7 lakh people, of which 92,175 have tested positive, nearly 2,800 have died and nearly 63,007 have recovered. The capital has around 26,304 active cases. Watch To check Covid-19, antigen tests get big boost in Delhi-NCR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-antigen-tests-get-big-boost-in-delhi-ncr/articleshow/76760679.cms||Alok K N Mishra
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||CBI books GVK, son for Rs 705 crore fraud in Mumbai international airport work||HYDERABAD/MUMBAI: The CBI has registered a case of cheating and forgery against Hyderabad's top business house, the GVK Group, its chairman G Venkata Krishna Reddy, and Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) managing director Sanjay Reddy, among others, for wrongful gain of Rs 705 crore to themselves and a loss to the public exchequer in the period 2012-2018. The central agency has also carried out searches at the premises of GVK Group companies in Mumbai and Hyderabad. The CBI has alleged that promoters of GVK Group, in connivance with unknown officials of Airports Authority of India (AAI), committed fraud that caused the loss. The agency alleged the accused siphoned funds meant for development of Mumbai airport by showing bogus work contracts, misusing the reserve fund, inflating expenditure and underreporting earnings. GVK pumped Rs 395 crore of MIAL into group firms: CBIMIAL is a joint venture company formed in April 2006, where GVK Airport Holdings holds 50.5% shareholding, AAI 26%, and the rest is with foreign entities. MIAL was entrusted the task of operational management and maintenance of city airport. An MIAL spokesperson said, “MIAL is surprised to note the registration of a case by CBI against MIAL and others. MIAL would have provided every assistance had the agency sought explanation or any document even if a preliminary enquiry had been initiated. MIAL is a transparent and responsible corporate entity which is committed to co-operate with the agency in its investigation to arrive at the truth.” CBI sources declined to disclose details on the premises searched but claimed to have collected documents along with other material for examination. A CBI source said they would call the accused for recording statements after scrutinising the material collected. MIAL has been accused of preparing bogus work contracts for development of 200 acres of AAI land near the airport in 2017 and siphoning off Rs 310 crore. MIAL has transferred the amount to nine companies. These companies also availed input tax credit with the help of forged invoices, the FIR said. Beginning 2012, the promoters, with ‘criminal intention’, misused Rs 395 crore surplus funds of MIAL to fund group companies, the FIR said. The FIR alleged the accused forged board meeting resolutions of MIAL and deposited funds in public sector banks in Hyderabad, GVK’s headquarters. The group companies availed loans and overdraft facilities on these deposits, the FIR said. Employees who were not part of MIAL were being paid salaries, thus causing loss to AAI. CBI said the GVK group connived with their family members, relatives and employees to give undue monetary advantage to them, thus causing a corresponding unlawful loss to AAI. The group assigned premium retail areas of Mumbai airport to family members at low rates, thereby reducing MIAL’s revenues in the form of rentals and sales. GVK Group also used funds of MIAL by entering into agreements with a company owned by family members, relatives and employees to book train and air tickets and hotels for themselves as well as group employees of GVK who were not connected to MIAL, CBI said in the FIR. The agreement between MIAL and AAI stated 38.7% of the annual revenue would be shared with AAI. The balance earning of MIAL was meant to be used for modernisation and upgradation, operation and maintenance of airport. The idea was to make it a world-class facility and at the same time protect the interests of government, promoters and passengers. The agency has named 13 persons, including unknown officials of AAI and companies, as accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cbi-books-gvk-son-for-rs-705-crore-fraud-in-mumbai-international-airport-work/articleshow/76760716.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||CBI books GVK, son for Rs 705 crore fraud in Mumbai international airport work||HYDERABAD/MUMBAI: The CBI has registered a case of cheating and forgery against Hyderabad's top business house, the GVK Group, its chairman G Venkata Krishna Reddy, and Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) managing director Sanjay Reddy, among others, for wrongful gain of Rs 705 crore to themselves and a loss to the public exchequer in the period 2012-2018. The central agency has also carried out searches at the premises of GVK Group companies in Mumbai and Hyderabad. The CBI has alleged that promoters of GVK Group, in connivance with unknown officials of Airports Authority of India (AAI), committed fraud that caused the loss. The agency alleged the accused siphoned funds meant for development of Mumbai airport by showing bogus work contracts, misusing the reserve fund, inflating expenditure and underreporting earnings. GVK pumped Rs 395 crore of MIAL into group firms: CBIMIAL is a joint venture company formed in April 2006, where GVK Airport Holdings holds 50.5% shareholding, AAI 26%, and the rest is with foreign entities. MIAL was entrusted the task of operational management and maintenance of city airport. An MIAL spokesperson said, “MIAL is surprised to note the registration of a case by CBI against MIAL and others. MIAL would have provided every assistance had the agency sought explanation or any document even if a preliminary enquiry had been initiated. MIAL is a transparent and responsible corporate entity which is committed to co-operate with the agency in its investigation to arrive at the truth.” CBI sources declined to disclose details on the premises searched but claimed to have collected documents along with other material for examination. A CBI source said they would call the accused for recording statements after scrutinising the material collected. MIAL has been accused of preparing bogus work contracts for development of 200 acres of AAI land near the airport in 2017 and siphoning off Rs 310 crore. MIAL has transferred the amount to nine companies. These companies also availed input tax credit with the help of forged invoices, the FIR said. Beginning 2012, the promoters, with ‘criminal intention’, misused Rs 395 crore surplus funds of MIAL to fund group companies, the FIR said. The FIR alleged the accused forged board meeting resolutions of MIAL and deposited funds in public sector banks in Hyderabad, GVK’s headquarters. The group companies availed loans and overdraft facilities on these deposits, the FIR said. Employees who were not part of MIAL were being paid salaries, thus causing loss to AAI. CBI said the GVK group connived with their family members, relatives and employees to give undue monetary advantage to them, thus causing a corresponding unlawful loss to AAI. The group assigned premium retail areas of Mumbai airport to family members at low rates, thereby reducing MIAL’s revenues in the form of rentals and sales. GVK Group also used funds of MIAL by entering into agreements with a company owned by family members, relatives and employees to book train and air tickets and hotels for themselves as well as group employees of GVK who were not connected to MIAL, CBI said in the FIR. The agreement between MIAL and AAI stated 38.7% of the annual revenue would be shared with AAI. The balance earning of MIAL was meant to be used for modernisation and upgradation, operation and maintenance of airport. The idea was to make it a world-class facility and at the same time protect the interests of government, promoters and passengers. The agency has named 13 persons, including unknown officials of AAI and companies, as accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-books-gvk-son-for-rs-705-crore-fraud-in-mumbai-international-airport-work/articleshow/76760692.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||For quick Covid diagnosis, 1 lakh antigen tests at BMC hospitals||MUMBAI: A week after announcing universal testing for Covid-19, the BMC received a consignment of 1 lakh antigen testing kits on Thursday. It has spent Rs. 4.5 crore for purchasing the same. The test kits were distributed to BMC’s four medical colleges — Seth GS Medical College attached to KEM Hospital in Parel, LTM Medical College popularly known as Sion medical college, Topiwala National Medical College near Mumbai Central and HBT Medical College attached to Cooper municipal general Hospital in Juhu. The antigen test’s USP is that it will provide a diagnosis between 15 and 30 minutes. Patients who are brought to hospital in a serious condition or need an urgent operation can now undergo the antigen test to find out their Covid status almost immediately. “This will hasten treatment decisions,” said a doctor from a civic hospital. When Covid first appeared in March, the only test available was the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) that tests swab samples from nose and throat to provide a diagnosis within six to eight hours. While RT-PCR is still considered the most efficient test, newer methods such as antigen tests have flooded the market. Incidentally, Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has classified the antigen test as a diagnostic test (unlike a blood-based antibody test that mainly establishes exposure to the virus). “If a patient gets a positive result with the antigen test, it will be considered as the final diagnosis. Only if a patient tests negative for Covid despite showing all symptoms, the doctor could order a PCR test,” said a senior BMC official. The BMC decided to distribute the first consignment among its teaching colleges as each has a laboratory with trained staff. “Some of the kits will also be distributed to our field staff to test suspected patients,” said an officer. The BMC will also test its frontline workers as well as those living in containment zones in the northern suburbs. Later, BMC will invite expression of interest from private labs so that the test is widely available. The number of tests conducted daily will go up in coming days. On Thursday, BMC conducted 6,000-plus tests—almost 25% more than the number of tests done over the previous days. “The numbers may go up further as the use of antigen tests increases,” said the official. Asked about guidelines on which test to be used for various patients, an official said the RT-PCR test will be done for high-risk contacts with symptoms while antigen test will be done on suspected cases coming from containment zones or those in the Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/for-quick-covid-diagnosis-1-lakh-antigen-tests-at-bmc-hospitals/articleshow/76760677.cms||Malathy Iyer
July 3, 2020||Nagpur||Corona scare at HC after staffer’s brother found +ve||NAGPUR: Criminal section at Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court was sealed on Thursday after a staffer’s brother working in the Central Jail here tested positive for Covid-19, as per the HC sources. However, the HC administration heaved a sigh of relief after his test came out negative. The staffer was working at government pleader (GP) Sumant Deopujari’s office located at the ground floor. Deopujari didn’t received TOI’s calls. The staffer stays with his brother in a joint family. He worked normally on Thursday and came in contact with many assistant/additional government pleaders and others in his section. After learning that his brother had tested positive the HC administration informed the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Civic officials rushed the spot and sanitized entire criminal section before sealing it, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/corona-scare-at-hc-after-staffers-brother-found-ve/articleshow/76758967.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||Four months into Covid crisis, over 10 lakh patients tested in Maharashtra, but Delhi ratio 4 times higher||MUMBAI: Nearly four months after the first Covid cases were reported in Maharashtra, tests for the virus across the state crossed the 10 lakh mark on Thursday. Maharashtra's testing rate is 7,715 tests per a million (10 lakh) population - higher than the national average of 6,334, though considerably lower than states such as Karnataka, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi. Currently, Delhi leads all others with a testing capacity of 29,037 tests per million population. State officials, though, said Maharashtra has a higher population than these states which have a higher ratio. They further said Maharashtra has 114 Covid testing laboratories-64 government and 50 private-up from just two four months ago. These 105 labs can conduct the RT-PCR (real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) Covid tests. On an average, 24,000-26,000 tests are being conducted in the state daily; so far, 10.2 lakh (1,2 million) tests have been done. The opposition, led by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, though, has alleged the state was using only about 50% of its testing capacity to keep the Covid numbers low. A senior state official said, "Initially testing was limited to Mumbai and Pune alone, but to add to the capacity, we have started labs across the state. There are very few districts that do not have their own testing labs today." On Thursday, the chief minister's office tweeted: "Maharashtra has conducted over 10 lakh Covid tests in the state. As we 'Chase the Virus' we will continue to Trace, Test and Treat." Senior officials have said Maharashtra's contribution to the national tests is on the decline as several states were ramping up their testing facilities and conducting more tests. Till July 1, 90.6 lakh tests have been conducted across the country, 11.3% of which were done in Maharashtra. "Besides the RT-PCR tests, the state will also be conducting the antigen test. Results of this test will be given in less than one hour. This will help us identify more cases and treat them," said health minister Rajesh Tope.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/four-months-into-covid-crisis-over-10-lakh-patients-tested-in-maharashtra-but-delhi-ratio-4-times-higher/articleshow/76760721.cms||Bhavika Jain
July 3, 2020||India||Covid testing to hit 1-cr mark soon||NEW DELHI: The total number of Covid-19 tests in India is set to touch the one crore-mark soon with the Centre making all round efforts to remove bottlenecks and facilitate enhanced testing, the health ministry said on Thursday. The ministry said diagnostic testing network is expanding very fast and there are now 1,065 testing labs in the country. “The total number of people being tested for Covid-19 in the country will soon touch one crore. This has been possible due to removal of all bottlenecks by government of India. Various steps taken by the central government have paved the way for enhanced testing for Covid-19,” health ministry said. Till Wednesday (July 1), India tested 90.56 lakh samples, of which 2.29 lakh samples were tested on the same day. With better utilisation of private facilities, the government is hopeful that testing rate will expand faster, helping in early detection, contact tracing and treatment. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has again asked states to fix prices of RT-PCR tests at private labs so that the option is not out of reach for many. ICMR had initially capped price of RT-PCR test at Rs 4,500 but with increased availability of testing kits, it later removed the cap in May and instead asked states to negotiate with private labs and arrive at a “mutually agreeable” rates. To expand testing, ICMR has also set aside the condition to have a prescription from a government doctor to get Covid-l9 test done. ICMR has advised States/UTs to facilitate testing at the earliest by enabling all qualified medical practitioners, including private practitioners, to prescribe Covid tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-testing-to-hit-1-cr-mark-soon/articleshow/76760717.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai police start process of returning 34,000 vehicles seized in four days||MUMBAI: After impounding over 34,000 vehicles for lockdown violations in just four days, Mumbai Police have started the process of returning them to their owners gradually. The police's main headache was a lack of parking space, plus the risk of theft of luxury vehicles. While nakabandis are still on, some of the locations where impounded vehicles had accumulated — such as at Jogeshwari on Western Express Highway (WEH) , Khar Danda and LBS Marg — are getting cleared up. The police had come up with a new directive on Sunday which prohibited people from travelling more than 2km from their home, except for going to the office and for essentials. The majority of vehicles that were impounded were from the eastern and western suburbs. “It is not feasible to keep impounded vehicles with us for too long. There’s a risk of damage or rusting. We do not want a vehicle’s owner to come at us later, complaining about its condition,” said an officer from the eastern suburbs. After impounding a vehicle, the first option for the cops is to tow it to the nearest police station. For instance, vehicles impounded at the Mulund check naka were towed to the Navghar police station, which is in Mulund (E). It is easier for cops to keep an eye on vehicles in the compound where they work. But space at police stations is limited. On LBS Marg, many vehicles were parked close to the BEST depot and in open areas. At Jogeshwari, special squads were formed to guard vehicles parked on WEH. At other locations, patrolling police cars or staff on bandobast duty kept an eye on vehicles parked outside police stations or below flyovers. “We were particularly concerned about luxury vehicles like Mercedes, Audi and BMWs. A theft would be very embarrassing for the department and so luxury vehicles had to be kept inside police station compounds only,” said an officer. Depending on the charges applied in each case, vehicle owners can either make a plea in court or give an affidavit at the police station concerned. “If charges are applied under the IPC’s section 188, the vehicle owner needs to make an application in court for 'return of property’. Once the court gives an order in his favour, the vehicle owner can then approach the police for claiming his car or bike,” said an officer. In other instances, the police demand a bond -- an affidavit on a Rs 100 stamped paper-- from the vehicle owner and release his vehicle. If the traffic police have issued a challan, then the vehicle owner would have to pay a fine as well At Khar Danda, police have been returning impounded motorcycles on the same day — within five to six hours — to avoid congestion on the roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cops-start-returning-34000-vehicles-seized-in-four-days/articleshow/76760722.cms||Nitasha Natu
July 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid bills go up, kin turn to crowdfunding||HYDERABAD: Mohammed Shakeel buried two of his family members in a span of one week. "My cousin Mustafa passed away last Wednesday after he contracted the coronavirus and his mother too died exactly a week later," he said. Their bill at a private hospital in Nampally: Rs 16 lakh. Mustafa, a hawker selling clothes in Old City's bylanes, was just 34. His family had to sell their gold and use his meagre savings to meet medical expenses. But that was not enough. "I started a campaign on crowdfunding platform Milaap, but he passed away the next day," said Shakeel. Now Shakeel plans to appeal again for his cousin's three little kids. "They now have no father and no money," he said. With private hospitals charging astronomical amounts for Covid-19 care, many patients and their family members have taken to crowdfunding to meet medical expenses. The amounts collected range from Rs 4 lakh to Rs 15 lakh. Most crowdfunding pleas from poor families who recently lost their jobsAdithya Srinivas G also started a campaign for a patient from Muthangi in the city. “A friend's father was being charged Rs 4.5 lakh for an eight-day stay after he tested positive,” he said. His friends decided to contribute whatever they could, but also crowdsourced for the central government employee who was not able to meet expenses on his salary. “We raised Rs 50,000 ourselves and another Rs 2 lakh through crowdfunding.” Not surprisingly, most of the pleas come from poor and middle-class families. Some have lost their jobs recently. On Milaap, a plea for a patient reads: “He's currently out of work, the funds will be solely used for his extended hospitalization and support for his family.” The campaign raised Rs 1.22 lakh of a Rs 10 lakh target. A campaign for a journalist, who passed way, hoped to raise Rs15lakh for the family. On Ketto, a Covid-19 patient has posted how no amount of money seems enough: “We have done all we can to collect the total amount required for the treatment but Rs 7 lakh more is required to pay for all the medical expenses. As the amount required is huge, I request you to kindly contribute towards my treatment and help me during this time of need.” As much as Rs 3.7 lakh was raised for him. Multiple such requests have been made on social media as well. Activists blame unchecked private hospital billing for the distress of families. “In one case that I came across, the family of a deceased Covid19 patient was denied his body by a private hospital for the non-settlement of hospital bills. The government may have capped treatment expenses in private hospitals but it should regulate all charges,” said Sai Teja, vice-president, Forum Against Corruption. In Telangana, bed charges have been capped at private hospitals for Rs4,000 in normal wards and Rs7,500 in ICU without ventilator, Rs 9,000 with ventilator. But hospitals are allowed to collect additional charges for anti-viral drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-covid-bills-go-up-kin-turn-to-crowdfunding/articleshow/76760732.cms||Uttara Varma
July 3, 2020||Goa||Verna police for IRB at Zuarinagar||Vasco: Although two days have passed since the Zuarinagar slum at Sancoale was declared a containment zone, the Verna police is yet to get more personnel to man the volatile area. It has now sought the deployment of at least one platoon of the Indian Reserve Battalion at the earliest. Sources said barricades have been erected at seven locations, but cops have been deployed only in three areas while the other places are constantly patrolled. A senior police officer said 27 personnel, including two sub-inspectors, have been deployed in three shifts at Zuarinagar. With regard to mobile toilets for people in the containment zone, executive magistrate and Mormugao mamlatdar Saiesh Naik said the Sancoale panchayat has been instructed to make the necessary arrangements. “We will be arranging for a KTC bus to transport patients to healthcare facilities,” he said. The government will also begin distributing rice and dal , from Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/verna-police-for-irb-at-zuarinagar/articleshow/76738379.cms||Ruvina Khan
July 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Ramesh Kumar appointed as new CIC||Vijayawada: The state government has appointed P Ramesh Kumar, a retired IAS officer from West Bengal cadre, as chief information commissioner (CIC). Repala Srinivas, an auditor from Prakasam district, was appointed as information commissioner. They would stay in the office for a period of three years as per the amended Act. The government issued the appointment orders after getting clearance from governor Biswabhushan Harichandan.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ramesh-kumar-appointed-as-new-cic/articleshow/76758184.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Industrial policy to focus on jobs and environment||VIJAYAWADA: The state government is sprucing up its industrial policy for 2020-23. The new industrial policy is aimed at creating new jobs, protecting environment, besides giving some handholding to the MSMEs and other industries in the state. This was made known to the officials by chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy during a review with the industries department at the Tadepalli camp office on Wednesday. The chief minister instructed the officials to remove regional disparities in planning and promoting industries in the state. The officials told the chief minister that the focus is also being laid on attracting foreign investment and to reduce the time span in establishing the unit. They told him that steps are being taken to provide basic infrastructure to encourage industries which will help the weaker sections socially and economically. The chief minister said that special interest should be taken on MSMEs and the ReStart package we have given to revive them.”Care should be taken to check the polluting industries as controlling pollution is equally important to incentives we give to the industries,” he said. If industrial parks are set up as per sectors, pollution control would be easy, the chief minister said and told the officials to ensure that all industries follow the guidelines in pollution control. Skill Development Centres should also be taken into consideration and we should go forward in developing the high-end IT Skill University coming up at Visakhapatnam which will open a new chapter in IT industry. With regard to the curriculum, experts in the field should be consulted, the said. The chief minister asked the officials to concentrate on establishing skill training centres across the state and connecting them with the skill development university. He also told the officials to be cautious in identifying the skills among the people and the industry requirement. He wanted the officials to complete the identification of industries in the state and their employment potential. “The employment potential from the industry should match with the employment potential in the state. The skill training centres would impart training as per the requirement of the industry,” Jaganmohan Reddy told the officials. Industries and IT minister M Goutham Reddy, industries department special chief secretary, K Valavan, chief advisor to chief minister Ajeya Kallam and other officials attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/industrial-policy-to-focus-on-jobs-and-environment/articleshow/76758145.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Delegation of YSRC MPs to meet LS Speaker today||Vijayawada: A delegation of YSRC MPs are scheduled to meet Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Friday and lodge a complaint against the party’s Narasapuram MP, K Raghurama Krishnam Raju. Senior leader V Vijayasai Reddy will lead the delegation. Krishnam Raju is locked in a controversy with the party leadership by openly criticising the government’s decisions, besides making corruption charges against some ruling party leaders. He also spoke in the Lok Sabha against the AP government’s decision to introduce English medium in state schools. After Vijayasai served him a show-cause notice, he replied by challenging the Rajya Sabha MP’s authority to serve him the notice. Krishnam Raju also lodged a complaint with the Election Commission and wrote a letter to the Lok Sabha Speaker seeking protection by central forces. The party leadership seems to have taken the issue seriously and is likely to give a representation to the Lok Sabha Speaker to disqualify the MP on charges of anti-party activities.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/delegation-of-ysrc-mps-to-meet-ls-speaker-today/articleshow/76758191.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 1,000 treated at cop housing project-turned-Covid centre||MUMBAI: A plush police housing project at Kalina that was converted into a Covid care centre has treated more than 1,000 cops in a little more than a month. When the city was grappling with the shortage of hospital beds and ventilators amid the uptick in coronavirus cases, the Mumbai police set up three Covid care centres for the treatment of its personnel and their families -at Kalina, Marol and Marine Drive. "The Maharashtra state police housing and welfare corporation limited had readied around 144 2BHK flats for inspector rank officers in the two nine-storey buildings at Kole Kalyan Kalina. Only civil work was left-there was no power or water connection and the flats had to be painted. We got all the work done in 10-15 days and set up around 500 beds in mid-May," said deputy commissioner of police (zone VIII) Manjunath Shinge, in-charge of the centre. Last month, Shinge had tested positive for Covid-19, but he is now back on duty after full recovery. Till June 30, Shinge said, 1,050 patients had been admitted at the Kalina Covid care centre. Of these, 878 patients have been discharged after recovery and 54 shifted to hospitals as they needed ventilator. Now, there are only 118 patients at the centre. At the three Covid care centres for cops, four beds have been set up in one room. Indoor games like carrom and chess have been provided for patients. In addition, a small library has also been set up, said sources. Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh said: "I thank the BMC health workers as well my joint commissioners of police who regularly visited the centres and took stock of the situation. A protein-rich breakfast with fruit juices, eggs and medicines were made available to the patients. We have given them the best of facilities." The Covid-19 case tally in Mumbai Police has touched 2,803 so far, including 40 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-1000-treated-at-cop-housing-project-turned-covid-centre/articleshow/76760738.cms||Ahmed Ali
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Tomato costlier at Rs 80 a kg, lockdown blamed||MUMBAI/ NAVI MUMBAI: Retail prices of certain vegetables, especially tomato, have risen sharply since Tuesday. Tomato, which sold for Rs 50 per kilo two days ago, is now priced at Rs 70-80 in the retail markets of Bhandup, Ghatkopar, Bandra, Khar, Andheri, Breach Candy and Navi Mumbai. Wholesalers blame the lockdown. Trader Mangal Gupta said, "No sowing took place for months because seeds were unavailable and labourers migrated to their villages. Farmers suffered big losses." Another wholesaler, Sachin Shitole, said, "Farmers sold their pre-lockdown crop for a pittance in March-April." In APMC Vashi, the wholesale rate has risen from Rs 28-30 per kg to Rs 45-47 in a week, pushing retail prices to Rs 70-80 from Rs 40-50. Trader Balasaheb Badade said, "Tomato and capsicum from the state have dwindled due to unsuitable weather. Mumbai is now dependent on supplies from Bangalore. Export to Pakistan where tomato sells for Rs 300 is another factor." Bitter gourd, capsicum, ginger and green peas have crossed Rs 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-tomato-costlier-at-rs-80-a-kg-lockdown-blamed/articleshow/76760742.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
July 3, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Tomato costlier at Rs 80 a kg, lockdown blamed||MUMBAI/ NAVI MUMBAI: Retail prices of certain vegetables, especially tomato, have risen sharply since Tuesday. Tomato, which sold for Rs 50 per kilo two days ago, is now priced at Rs 70-80 in the retail markets of Bhandup, Ghatkopar, Bandra, Khar, Andheri, Breach Candy and Navi Mumbai. Wholesalers blame the lockdown. Trader Mangal Gupta said, "No sowing took place for months because seeds were unavailable and labourers migrated to their villages. Farmers suffered big losses." Another wholesaler, Sachin Shitole, said, "Farmers sold their pre-lockdown crop for a pittance in March-April." In APMC Vashi, the wholesale rate has risen from Rs 28-30 per kg to Rs 45-47 in a week, pushing retail prices to Rs 70-80 from Rs 40-50. Trader Balasaheb Badade said, "Tomato and capsicum from the state have dwindled due to unsuitable weather. Mumbai is now dependent on supplies from Bangalore. Export to Pakistan where tomato sells for Rs 300 is another factor." Bitter gourd, capsicum, ginger and green peas have crossed Rs 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-tomato-costlier-at-rs-80-a-kg-lockdown-blamed/articleshow/76760748.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
July 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Woman kills self, 2 kids on rail tracks, infant survives||NEW DELHI: A woman pushed her two daughters, aged five and six, and one-year-old son before an oncoming train and jumped after them at the Mandawali railway station early on Thursday. While the woman and the two girls were crushed under the train, the boy survived after falling on railway track sleepers. When police found the boy, he was trying to wake up his mother. The woman was identified by police as Kiran (30) from an ID card found with her. Police called her husband, Rakesh, who lives near the Mandawali railway colony, from her phon and informed about the incident. DCP (Railways) Harendra Kumar Singh said they were informed about the incident around 3.40am when a railway staff heard the woman’s phone ringing on the tracks. Death on rly tracks: Woman mentally ill, says husbandHe found the woman and her two daughters lying in a pool of blood, while the boy was trying to wake them up. RPF recovered the bodies from the tracks and took them to a hospital. The boy was also taken there for a check-up. Rakesh, who pulls a rickshaw around Mandawali railway station, told police that Kiran was suffering from a mental condition where she couldn’t tolerate the presence of the children in the house. On Wednesday night, she went missing along with the three children. He claimed that he was fast asleep at that time. A probe is on to find out how Kiran and the children managed to reach the platform without a ticket and then jump in front of a train. Police suspect they were crushed by a freight train around midnight. The loco pilots of such trains might be questioned. The bodies of the woman and the two girls were handed over to family members after an autopsy on Thursday evening. The boy will be discharged after he recuperates from his injuries and trauma. Kiran got married to Rakesh in 2013. Watch Delhi: Woman kills self, 2 kids on rail tracks, infant survives||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-woman-kills-self-2-kids-on-rail-tracks-infant-survives/articleshow/76760743.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Revenue showers in Guntur railway division amid lockdown||GUNTUR: The lockdown seems to have been a blessing for the Guntur railway division in terms of revenue. The railway division mopped up massive revenues from the export of chillies, turmeric and ginger to Bangladesh in the last month. Exporters quickly changed over to trains for freight movement in the wake of restrictions on cargo vehicles across the nation as part of the lockdown. And with many states yet to ease the curbs, railways are being continued to use for exports. The Guntur division netted a whopping Rs 34.07 crore during June 2020 through freight revenue, that is, a 177% growth compared to the corresponding period in 2019. Senior divisional commercial manager D Narendra Varma said that their revenues have shot up from just Rs 12.3 crore last June to Rs 34.07 crore in June 2020. “We have handled 2.46 lakh tonnage freight in the last month against the 93,974 tonnage of freight in June 2019. The growth rate in terms of tonnage is 162%,” Narendra Varma told TOI. Narendra Varma explained that Rs 34.07 crore is the highest ever freight revenue reported for any month in the last seven financial years of Guntur division. He said about 47 rakes with 1,23,871 tonnes of of foodgrains were transported helping them make Rs 16.54 crore. In June 2019, the division handled just around seven rakes with 19,335 tonnes of of food grains and earned a revenue of Rs 2.73 crore. This time, the division has recorded a 505% higher revenue in the foodgrain section alone. He said that 12 rakes of 44,349 tonnes of clinkers were transported that helped them earn Rs 6.76 crore. In fact, the division had not handled any clinker stock in June 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/revenue-showers-in-guntur-rly-division-amid-lockdown/articleshow/76758200.cms||Samdani MN
July 3, 2020||Vijayawada||APCOS completes recruitment of its first batch of outsourced staff||VIJAYAWADA: The AP Corporation for Outsourced Services (APCOS) has completed recruitment of its first batch of outsourced employees for all government departments. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy would formally hand over appointment letters to these first batch staff at the camp office in Tadepalli on Friday. The APCOS had recruited 47,000 outsourced staff in the first batch who would be assigned to various government departments. The state government had made a law in the first session of the assembly led by Jaganmohan Reddy early 2019. This initiative was launched with an objective to keep transparency in recruitments and payments and giving no room for middlemen or corruption. In addition to this, the state government will ensure to carry government policy of reservations in the recruitments, where 50 per cent reservations will be given to SCs, STs, BCs, and minorities in outsourced jobs—15% for SCs, 6% for STs, 29% for BCs and minorities. Similarly, 50 per cent of outsourcing jobs will be reserved for women. Through APCOS, all outsourcing placements right from housekeeping staff to security personnel, all the workforce from district to secretariat level will be recruited. Besides ensuring transparency, even their pay would be credited to the bank accounts on time with benefits like EPF and ESI, by the APCOS in an organised manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/apcos-completes-recruitment-of-its-first-batch-of-outsourced-staff/articleshow/76758239.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Three-day Shakambari fest begins today||VIJAYAWADA: The Sri Durga Malleswara Swamy Varla Devastanams atop Indrakeeladri shrine is ready for the three-day Shakambari festival. The festival will start on Friday. Temple authorities have decorated the temple with fresh fruits and flowers procured from various parts of the country. Vedic scholars will be performing special prayers during the fest. “The ‘Ashada Sudha Thrayodashi’ is very auspicious and Shakambari festivities begin on this day. The festivities will end on the day of Guru Purnima, Sunday. The sanctum sanctorum of the temple will be decorated with vegetables and Goddess Kanaka Durga will be adorned as Shankambari Devi,” said the Sthana Acharya of the temple, Shiva Prasada Sharma. The Sthana Acharya further said that the worship of Shakambari Devi is said to lead to prosperity, according to the Vedas. Every year, nearly 2 lakh people offer prayers at the temple during the Shakambari festival. However, this year, the situation is quite different in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Temple authorities have decided that devotees will have to register on the temple’s official website for darshan. Moreover, social distancing and sanitation measures have been made mandatory. Special teams will be deployed to maintain social distancing in queues. MV Suresh Babu, the executive officer of the temple said, “We are celebrating the Shakambari festival in peculiar circumstances this year. As Covid-19 cases are rising, we need to protect ourselves. We are allowing a limited number of devotees. Wearing masks is mandatory and devotees without masks will not be allowed.” He informed that Vellampalli Srinivas, the endowments minister, will offer special prayers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-day-shakambari-fest-begins-today/articleshow/76758263.cms||Venu Lanka
July 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Four killed as truck rams car in Andhra's Guntur district||VIJAYAWADA: Four persons died when a truck jumped the divider and collided with a car coming from the other side near Timmapuram village of Edlapadu mandal in Guntur district on Thursday morning. The deceased were identified as Sheikh Firoz Ahmed (35), Vinjamuri Harikrishna (27), Medasani Venkata Srichandu (25) and Attluri Balaram (26). The deceased were going to Vijayawada from Narasaraopet town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/four-killed-as-truck-rams-car/articleshow/76758281.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BJP neta, mandal group urge rethink on Lalbaugcha Raja||MUMBAI: Senior BJP functionary and ex-minister Ashish Shelar has urged the Lalbaugcha Raja Ganeshotsav Mandal to reconsider its decision to cancel the festival this year in view of Covid-19. In a tweet, Bandra MLA Shelar said the mandal should go ahead with the festival within rules laid down by the state government. "Faith brings hope during times of crisis. Even online darshan of Lalbaugcha Raja may fill the faithful with courage. In this country faith is priceless. Faith cannot be weighed. Why should there be a schism between Lord Ganesh and the faithful?" While Shelar complimented the mandal for its decision to conduct a blood and plasma donation camp, he said, "But they can set a precedent by hosting the festival in adherence to rules set by the state government. The 87-year-old tradition shouldn't be broken," he said. The Lalbaug mandal's decision has sparked unease among other mandals, it has ben learnt. The Chinchpokli, Kala Chowkie, Byculla, Girgaum, Keshavji Naik Chawl, Kurla and Ganesh Galli mandals are set to go ahead with the festival in accordance with state guidelines, including a cap on the idol's height. The GSB Ganesh Samiti plans to hold the festival in February to coincide with the Magh Ganesh utsav. "There is no question of cancelling the festival as we have a tradition of over 90 years. The mandal will instal a smaller idol and we will create an artificial lake to immerse it," said Swapnil Parab, a mandal member. The Akhil Maharashtra Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Mahasangh has jumped into the fray to take on the Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanway Samiti, which is reportedly tilted in Shiv Sena's favour. The Mahasangh has taken exception to the Lalbaug samiti's decision to suspend the festival. Jayendra Salgaonkar, president of the Mahasangh, said, "Under no circumstances can the sacred tradition be discontinued. They can't deprive devotees of at least online darshan." Urging the Lalbaug mandal to rethink its decision, he said Mahasangh was not interested in politicising the issue. Another Mahasangh functionary said, "Lalbaug samiti's principal concern is height of the idol. Had the state allowed them to instal an 18 ft idol, they would have gone ahead with their high-profile celebrations."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bjp-neta-mandal-group-urge-rethink-on-lalbaugcha-raja/articleshow/76760750.cms||Ambarish Mishra
July 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: In a first, FIR against hospital for overcharging Covid patient||MUMBAI: In a first, police have registered an FIR against Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital at Vile Parle, its chairman and trustee on charges of overcharging a Covid patient’s family last month. The FIR follows a probe by BMC’s audit team on a complaint by a 52-year old woman’s family who was billed Rs 6.65 lakh. Sources said kin of the deceased and hospital authorities had a tiff as the latter insisted on clearing dues before releasing the body. The family approached BMC which lodged a complainant. An officer from Santacruz police station said they will question the hospital management before taking action. BMC’s audit team checked hospital records and cross-checked charges with government doctors, an officer said. DCP Abhishek Trimukhe confirmed that an FIR has been registered. The hospital spokesperson said, “We have learnt from media reports that an FIR has been filed owing to alleged discrepancy in a bill. We are awaiting a copy of the complaint... and will cooperate with the authorities.” The hospital was the first private one to offer dedicated Covid-19 services. It now manages 150 Covid beds, including 42 in ICU, and has treated over 1,100 so far, it said. The state had appointed five IAS officers to keep a check on hospitals and prevent them from overcharging Covid patients. IAS officer Prashant Narnaware who supervises Nanavati Hospital and other suburban hospitals said, “Earlier too there was a complaint about the hospital and they reversed the charge. But we got frequent complaints of overcharging and decided to file a police complaint.” The auditor found that the hospital inflated bills for Covid treatment in violation of a BMC order, an official said. “The hospital billed individual patients for PPE kits and other equipment which should have been split among all patients being treated,’’ said a police officer. Officials said the hospital charged rates fixed by the government for bed and few other facilities but charged “exorbitantly” for many pathology tests and consumable items. It charged patients for oximeters, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-in-a-first-fir-against-hospital-for-overcharging-covid-patient/articleshow/76760714.cms||V Narayan
July 3, 2020||Goa||For logistical reasons, Taleigao Covid victim cremated in Margao||Margao: The funeral of the fourth victim of Covid 19, the 66-year-old resident of Taleigao, was finally conducted at the Mathagramasth Hindu sabha’s crematorium at Pajifond, Margao, on Thursday evening, after the authorities changed their choice of place for conducting the final rites twice. The decease’s son lit the funeral pyre while his sister solemnly watched their father’s body being consigned to flames, even as health officials kept a watchful eye to ensure that infection control measures were fully in place. The crematorium was sanitised after the funeral. While South Goa collector Ajit Roy said that the funeral was “very smooth”, sources said that the team of health and administration officials put in a lot of effort to overcome hurdles that came their way. Asked about the reasons for having had to change the venue, Roy said it was purely due to “administrative convenience”. “Transporting the body to Taleigao would have been a task. As we have notified the Margao crematorium as the place for cremating Covid bodies, it was decided to conduct the funeral there,” Roy said. Sources said that the authorities had earlier also considered conducting the funeral at the St Inez crematorium, it being a public facility. However, some issues concerning unavailability of a hearse van to transport the body from Margao prompted the authorities to finalise the Margao crematorium to conduct the last rites. The venue was changed at the eleventh hour, keeping everybody guessing. “After everything was ready I received a message from the South Goa Collector that the cremation would be done in Margao. It’s our duty to help and we are ready to give permission for cremation of any Covid positive person,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. Salcete mamlatdar Prataprao Gaonkar along with Ghodkirekar coordinated with all stakeholders and local authorities to ensure that the covid victim was accorded a dignified farewell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-logistical-reasons-taleigao-covid-victim-cremated-in-margao/articleshow/76759261.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||Three more test +ve in Moti Dongor||Margao: Of the over 500 swab samples from Moti Dongor containment zone tested on Thursday, reports of three returned positive. Testing of the rest of the samples was underway at the Covid testing laboratory at the new South Goa district hospital Margao. Swab samples of the residents of the remaining areas of the containment zone will be drawn on Friday, health officials said. Though movement of inhabitants of the containment zone has been completely restricted, with policemen manning entry and exit points, sources said that there are many alternative routes through less trodden paths along hills and woods that can be used to move in and out. Aware of this possibility, police and district administration officials are keeping a close watch on movements in the vicinity. South Goa district administration officials engaged in overseeing the law and order arrangement at Moti Dongor have currently focused their activities in creating awareness among the residents of observing personal hygiene and maintaining social distancing norms. A number of volunteers were deployed to distribute informative pamphlets about Covid-19 to the residents on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-more-test-ve-in-moti-dongor/articleshow/76759271.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||Bicholim RTO shuts after visitor tests positive for virus||Panaji: Bicholim RTO was shut from Thursday after a person who tested positive for Covid-19 recently said he had visited the transport office for some work. The RTO staff was tested on Tuesday and Wednesday. Though the reports are awaited, the Bicholim RTO has shut from Thursday as a precautionary measure. “Until the test reports arrive, we cannot keep our doors open for public. Once the staff’s results are with us, we can take a call on what to do next,” a transport official said. Sources said that the staff may go for a second Covid-19 test after some days, even if the results of the current test turn out negative. The assistant director of transport attached to the Bicholim RTO is in touch with the health officials for the same, sources said. Since most of the transport services, like vehicle registration, drivers’ license and fitness certificate, and renewal of other documents have been moved online, transport officials said that the RTO’s work is not likely to be drastically affected. Recently, the transport minister also launched the Goa Transport app for the e-payment of taxes and cess related to transport in the state. Prior to this, the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Mangor Hill compelled the Vasco RTO to temporarily shut its HSRP bookings counter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bicholim-rto-shuts-after-visitor-tests-positive-for-virus/articleshow/76759287.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||15 personnel from Ponda police station test Covid +ve||PONDA: The Ponda police station has been badly affected as 15 personnel have tested positive for Covid-19. On Thursday, 12 more police personnel were detected with the virus. Among the 15 police personnel who tested positive are two officers, four head constable and nine constables. A home guard and an EMRI health provider posted at the police station have also tested positive. Of the 146 swab samples collected on Wednesday 130 policemen have tested negative. However, although short-staffed, the Ponda police have decided to manage with the existing staff strength. Although 15 members of the 160 workforce are being treated for the coronavirus infection, Ponda deputy superintenden of police (DySP) Nelson Albuquerque said they would manage with the existing strength, but no outside staff will be brought in despite the Ponda police station having to man seven outposts. The Ponda police station has in its jurisdiction the outposts at Farmagudi, Mardol, Kundaim, Marcel, Usgao, Shiroda and Bethora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/15-personnel-from-ponda-police-station-test-ve/articleshow/76759280.cms||---
July 3, 2020||Goa||With Camra bhat outbreak, parts of St Inez & Taleigao sanitized||Panaji: Taleigao swung into action following the outbreak of Covid-19 cases in Camra bhat on Wednesday on instructions of the local MLA, Jennifer Monserrate. Areas close to Camra bhat including parts of St Inez were sanitized on Thursday as a precautionary measure. Camra bhat shares its jurisdiction with the commercial and residential area of St Inez, but falls under the purview of Taleigao administration. Taleigao’s Peter bhat, St Inez bandh, St Inez crematorium, some residential complexes in St Inez like Zarina Towers, Basilio’s complex etc and the office of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) were among the sanitized spaces. Camra bhat was sealed after a man who works at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital, Bambolm tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. His wife, who works as a sweeper for the CCP and other family members have also been tested. Of the population of about 500 people in this area, almost 100 workers are employed by the CCP. These workers who are engaged in garbage collection, garbage management, driving trucks and as sweepers were then instructed not to report to work until further notice. Sources said that the workers often move about in the spaces that have been sanitized for door-to-door garbage collection. “The residents of Camra bhat have been tested for Covid-19 and their results are awaited. Until then, it was resolved to sanitize the spaces close to Camra bhat as a precaution,” Panaji mayor, Uday Madkaikar said. Prior to this, reports of Covid positive cases emerged from the Xivrem and Indranagar areas in Chimbel. CCP had then urged vegetable vendors from the village to produce a Covid-19 negative certification to be allowed to do business in the Panaji market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-camra-bhat-outbreak-parts-of-st-inez-taleigao-sanitized/articleshow/76759296.cms||---
