July 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Cloud kitchens are Bengaluru's answer to those looking for safe takeaway||It was factors like traffic, cost of real estate and the high restaurant upkeep that led to restaurateurs embracing the idea of cloud kitchens in Bengaluru. And the Covid-19 pandemic has only hastened the process with more people opting for this option. For instance, Rohan Beliappa, director, CC India, has made the nostalgic Windsor Pub food available in a cloud kitchen. "Deliveries and cloud kitchens were projected to grow at an exponential rate in India even before the lockdown. I was thinking about it for a while. Restaurants have high overhead costs and rents, while profit is less." Rohan adds that cloud kitchens have been accepted well now. "We've had our first kitchen operational for a few weeks, delivering to corporates looking for quick lunches or even work from home customers," he says. 'People are wary of eating out'Kartikeyan Selvaraj from Biryani2Home, points out that the pandemic has made people wary of eating out. This, he says, has accelerated the acceptance of cloud kitchens. "For outlets like ours, being in a prime location, closer to big apartment complexes, makes the model work better. People drop by to pick up their parcels," he shares. Takeaway is here to stayFor the forseeable future, takeaway seems to be the choice of most people. Divya Prabhakar from Bengaluru Oota Company says, "We have been doing takeaway since March, with daily menus. We've collaborated with another company that brings in different chefs to offer a wider range. People might not be stepping out, but they do want variety when it comes to food. While our physical space is open for small groups, we have been doing more takeaway. This has been a huge shift in business for us. We used to do catering earlier, but individual meals have become the need of the hour now, and we've adapted." People are cautious when orderingSteven Thirumalai, who started a highway restaurant Malgudi Mylari Mane offering native Karnataka cuisine, just before the lockdown, reopened after two and a half months only to find no takers. "There weren't as many takers on the highway and delivering was not a viable option because we needed assured volumes. So we began catering to specific areas with advance orders. These times have made people apprehensive and they want to know who is delivering their food. So we deliver ourselves." Unique delivery models on the riseSanthosh K, an IT recruiter, quit his job to help his family during the pandemic. "My family had a food cart where my father would sell South Indian fare and soon bagged a food contract at a factory. But since the pandemic hit us, things changed. We had to close our food cart and we weren't sure about the contract. So, we began looking at other options. That is when my former employer suggested I start a home delivery breakfast. We are looking at selling breakfast kits which will comprise of homemade batter and all the materials for the chutneys in a packet. All the customer will have to do is, make the dosa and grind the contents of the chutney packet."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cloud-kitchens-are-bengalurus-answer-to-those-looking-for-safe-takeaway/articleshow/76774715.cms||Sunayana Suresh
July 4, 2020||Goa||Goans have a physique that suits athletics the best, says fitness expert Deckline||PANAJI: For the past 10 years, Deckline Leitao has been working with elite sportspersons from various disciplines and one thing has always struck him: the absence of a Goan at the top. Having worked at the RxDx sports medicine centre, Padukone-Dravid Centre of Sports Excellence and Olympic Gold Quest foundation, the strength and conditioning specialist explains why Goans have failed to make the cut. Excerpts from an interview with TOI. You’ve been in Bengaluru for some time now and worked with several elite sportspersons. Are you surprised that there are no Goans at the top?I work with several athletes at the moment like swimmer Srihari Nataraj, badminton players Ashwini Ponnappa and Lakshya Sen, table tennis national champion Archana Kamath amongst others, but it’s true that there is no Goan. It’s sad. We have footballers who can be compared to the best in India, but not much with individual sports. Why do you think Goans have not been able to climb up the ladder?It’s probably cultural. Goans in general are too relaxed and not driven enough because of the happy and sufficient nature of the state. I am not surprised that they are unwilling to take calculated risks. If you look at the nature of Goans, the aggression is just not there. In the north, which produces a lot of elite sportspersons, the mindset is different. They have an unforgiving climate. When it’s cold, it’s crazy. During summer, people even die. We don’t face those extremes in Goa. Here, the people are very nice, but decency doesn’t help in sports. The good guy finishes last! But that’s not true of Goa and its football. The good guys finish on top…I feel it’s more of a Portuguese influence. The western approach has helped in football. Because Goa is a state with lower population, there are a lot of open spaces which allows you to play football. People turn fields into grounds. The diet habits have also played a role, besides football remains a team sport where you have support from others like in a family. A sport will only thrive when people in the state play. In Mumbai, for example, everyone has held a bat in their hand at some point, even if its underarm cricket. In Goa, that’s the case with football. A sport should suit you culturally. Football has suited Goans well. Everyone wants to be a footballer in Goa. It’s no surprise that parents push their children towards football and not other sports. Is that the right approach?When the child is young, it’s important to try at least four sports between the age of eight and 12. When you do that, you can find what aptitude the child has. I have seen so much of talent get destroyed because they have followed a sport which doesn’t suit them. Some of them don’t have the mindset or the structure. Badminton, for example, is a tough sport. You need to be fit, technically sound and mentally calm. If you take athletics, you just need to be fit. The event is a test of fitness. Sports has to be chosen according to the child, rather than the child fitting into sports.. What’s best for Goa?First is maybe to get into sports which doesn’t cost much. Sport is not a necessity for life, it's a luxury. It shouldn’t cost much. The best would be to bring running to the state, like what Sri Lanka, with similar characteristics, have done. You just need to have races. There should be a culture of racing. Young kids should be racing each other and that's how you find talent. I feel we have not tried athletics as a sport. All that you need is just good shoes. Many Goans are also naturally athletic. The physique is good. Your pet subject of sports science hasn’t been given much importance in Goa. Is that why Goans have been found wanting?Sports science is necessary. Goa is far behind because the culture of watching sports from a scientific point of view is missing. If you notice, players get injured a lot in training, but that should not happen. My philosophy has been ‘don’t injure anyone’. With injuries, the problem of work hard starts. The sports science attitude is to always work smart and peak at the right time. There is no point training like a donkey. Sportspersons are like racing horses, they should be preparing like that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goans-have-a-physique-that-suits-athletics-the-best-says-fitness-expert-deckline/articleshow/76777426.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
July 4, 2020||India||Cyber attackers put out details of some stolen NHAI files, probe on||NEW DELHI: Days after the Maze ransomware attack on NHAI’s mail server, details of some of the stolen files have surfaced on the internet. The operators of the ransomware have claimed to have leaked just 5% of the total volume of data they have copied and encrypted. The attackers have leaked two data sets relating to a former NHAI chairman and a former senior official, claiming that the folder relating to ex-NHAI chief has information including details of his passport, bank statement, travel and investments. Similarly, the zip (compressed) file of the other former officer has his personal details, financial records of companies and tax records. Sources said the operators have also shared a template of how to purchase the key to decrypt the file that they have encrypted. Responding to questions about the data loss and whether they have got any indication from attackers, the NHAI said, “The NHAI has the best security system, Network Access Control, Firewall, IPS and Software Defined Network etc. As NHAI is going digital, it is advancing its security posture further by adopting the world’s best cyber security measures at all levels. It is also adopting more proactive measures towards improving the end users’ IT skills by adopting tool-based user awareness training where users’ IT skill improvement can be monitored and measured.” Sources said experts from the national nodal agency for responding to computer security incidents, CERT-In, visited NHAI office and are investigating the matter. “They have the expertise on such matters. Most of our data and information is in public domain,” an official said. TOI had reported earlier that though NHAI had back-up data, which it uploaded on the mail server after the cyber attack, there was some loss of data. Meanwhile, the webpage of “mazedecrypt” says, “If you are waiting for free solutions to come, we must disappoint you…We understand that the customer cannot always pay the fee. We have discounts and price can be negotiated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cyber-attackers-put-out-details-of-some-stolen-nhai-files-probe-on/articleshow/76777925.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 4, 2020||Kochi||'Exorbitant power bills': Kerala HC dismisses PIL||KOCHI: The Kerala high court has dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking monthly billing system for KSEB in view of the exorbitant bills issued to consumers during lockdown. After considering the PIL (WP-C No. 11282/2020) filed by Vinay Kumar MC of Muvattupuzha, a division bench comprising chief justice S Manikumar and justice Shaji P Chaly, said a PIL is not a solution to rectify any defects occurred in the bimonthly bills issued. No material has been produced by the petitioner to show to the court that all the bills issued by KSEB are bad and irregular, the court said while noting that only the case of four consumers are pointed out. The case put forth by the petitioner is without adequate materials to show that a substantial number of consumers are affected by the irregular bimonthly bills, the court said while holding that the PIL is not sustainable in law and does not warrant the interference of the court. KSEB had informed the court that higher consumption during the lockdown resulted in higher bills being issued to consumers. The system of bimonthly billing has been followed by KSEB for more than 30 years and it is an accepted formula by domestic consumers, KSEB had submitted. KSEB had also claimed that bimonthly billing is beneficial to consumers by stating that they can avail the benefit of telescopic billing by consuming less within a period spread over 60 days. KSEB also told the court that 97 per cent of domestic consumers have consumption of less than 250 units and are eligible for telescopic tariff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/exorbitant-power-bills-kerala-hc-dismisses-pil/articleshow/76778119.cms||Mahir Haneef
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||2 held with 1.80L intoxicating tablets, 2 lakh drug money||BARNALA: Police on Friday arrested two men and seized 1.80 lakh intoxicating tablets and Rs 2 lakh from their possession. The arrested duo have been identified as Humesh Kumar of Kadail village in Sangrur and Baljit Singh of Bhikhi village in Mansa. Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel said police stopped a car coming from Mansa side following a tip off and seized 1.80 lakh intoxicating tablets and Rs 2 lakh drug money from it. The arrested accused have confessed to getting supplies from other states and selling them in Sangrur, Mansa, Barnala and Patiala districts. Humesh already faces four cases of NDPS Act and Baljit five, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-held-with-1-80l-intoxicating-tablets-2-lakh-drug-money/articleshow/76778233.cms||Neel Kamal
July 4, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Ambala reports four new Covid-19 cases||AMBALA: The district reported four new cases of Covid-19 infection on Friday while two patients got discharged after testing negative, said district civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. “With the recovery rate of 89.37%, the tally of coronavirus cases reached 348 in Ambala district, out of which, 311 patients got discharged, three patients died, and 34 are active cases,” said Dr Kuldeep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-ambala-reports-four-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76778268.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 4, 2020||Gurgaon||Four new Covid-19 cases reported in in Kurukshetra||KURUKSHETRA: The district reported four new cases of Covid-19 on Friday while three patients got discharged after they reported negative, said district civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh. “With zero fatality, the tally of Covid-19 cases reached 137 in the district up to Friday, out of which, 107 patients got discharged while 30 are active cases,” said Dr Sukhbir. “So far, a total of 12,239 samples have been sent for Covid-19 testing in Kurukshetra district, out of which, 11,399 tested negative, 703 reports are awaited, and 137 have tested positive,” said Dr Sukhbir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/four-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-in-kurukshetra/articleshow/76778293.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP to reach out to farmers on agri ordinances||JALANDHAR: Realising that they are in tough perception battle in Punjab over the recent ordinances on agriculture marketing, BJP state unit has decided to reach out to individual farmers through a personal contact programme. So far, BJP’s alliance partner the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) was trying to defend the Union government on issue but the political rhetoric has been going against the move with various farmer unions and the Congress taking an aggressive stance. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, BJP national vice-president Avinash Rai Khanna said Punjab BJP would be launching an awareness drive and would go to each village in the state and make farmers aware of the truth about these ordinances through personal contact programme. As SAD’s support base mainly comes from farmers, any loss for the latter would directly hit prospects of BJP also. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has, meanwhile, managed to take different farmers’ unions on board. Launching the offensive against the Congress on the issue, Khanna on Friday, “We want to remind that the Congress was in power for 10 long years and Manmohan Singh did not bother to implement the Swaminathan report on agriculture. BJP has taken the considerations and suggestions of the long-forgotten report and tried its best to come up with plans to address the duress in the agrarian sector”. He said that Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and AAP MP Bhagwant Mann were resorting to false propaganda on the issue and resorting to lies. “Actually, the Congress and AAP have nothing to show on what they have done for the agriculture sector and are now in a desperate situation. They are thus misleading farmers,” the BJP senior functionaries said. “They are creating fear among farmers on MSP. We are very clear that MSP would stay and procurement of farmers’ produce would also continue,” he assured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-bjp-to-reach-out-to-farmers-on-agri-ordinances/articleshow/76778092.cms||IP Singh
July 4, 2020||India||LAC face-off: Ladakh triggers Andamans build-up plans||NEW DELHI: India is now looking to fast-track plans for basing additional military forces in the strategically-located Andaman & Nicobar archipelago, along with the requisite development of infrastructure, as an effective counter to China’s expanding strategic presence in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR). Defence sources on Friday said the long-pending plans for “force accretion” and “military infrastructure development” at the A&N Islands have “gained a sense of urgency” with China’s aggressive and expansionist moves both along the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control as well as the IOR. India-China border stand-off: Complete coverageThe Andaman Nicobar Command (ANC) was set up in 2001 as the country’s first — and till now the only — “theatre” command with all land, sea and air forces under one operational commander. But it has for long suffered from general apathy, fund crunches, lack of environmental clearances to build infrastructure and, of course, crippling turf wars among the three services. Read Also‘Age of expansionism is over’: PM Modi sends message to ChinaPM Modi on Friday sent a clear message to China — that India will not back off — by paying a surprise visit to troops at a forward location in Ladakh where he said the era of expansionism was over while adding that the bravery of jawans at Galwan has sent a powerful message. "Those who are driven byBut that could be a thing of the past now. The ongoing troop confrontation in eastern Ladakh with China is making the defence establishment re-examine ANC’s role as India’s crucial military outpost that overlooks China’s critical sea lanes transporting the bulk of its crude oil imports and other trade through the Malacca Strait. These “choke points” of China can be swiftly threatened, if required, by Indian warships and aircraft operating from the ANC. Read AlsoLAC face-off: Govt rewrites playbook for expansionist ChinaAgreements from 1993 onwards built on protocols for maintaining "peace and tranquillity" on a boundary that is not demarcated, allowing each side to largely patrol its established lines. However, the Prime Minister’s remarks in Leh sharpened the reversal of that policy. The bilateral relationship“Some initiatives to augment the ANC have already been set in motion, while others are being finalised,” said a source. Land allotments and clearances for the extension of the runway at naval air station INS Kohassa at Shibpur in North Andaman, for instance, have just been completed, he added. The plan is to extend the runways at both INS Kohassa and INS Baaz at Campbell Bay in the south of the archipelago to 10,000-ft to support operations by larger aircraft. India will be able to base additional warships, aircraft, missile batteries and infantry soldiers in the A&N Islands under the overall 10-year infrastructure development “roll-on” plan, which is pegged at Rs 5,650 crore. It also includes an air enclave with a 10,000-ft runway at Kamorta island as well. As was first reported by TOI earlier, a plan for “phased military force accretion” at the ANC by 2027 is also being finalised simultaneously. It ranges for additional infantry battalions, surveillance and target acquisition batteries to surface-to-air missile systems, additional flights of Mi-17 V5 helicopters, transport aircraft and Dornier-228 maritime patrol planes, said sources. India, of course, also wants to permanently base fighter jets in the archipelago in the coming years. Fighters like Sukhoi-30MKIs as well as long-range maritime patrol Poseidon-8I aircraft do frequently operate from the island cluster but are not stationed there as of now. Under the civilian infrastructure development programme, new greenfield airports at Port Blair and Great Nicobar Island are also in the works because the existing dual-use airfields at Port Blair and Car Nicobar have limitations for full-sale operations. Watch Chinese expansionist moves trigger Andamans build-up||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ladakh-triggers-andamans-build-up/articleshow/76778355.cms||Rajat Pandit
July 4, 2020||India||‘Age of expansionism is over’: PM Modi sends message to China||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday sent a clear message to China — that India will not back off — by paying a surprise visit to troops at a forward location in Ladakh where he said the era of expansionism was over while adding that the bravery of jawans at Galwan has sent a powerful message about the country’s strength. “The age of expansionism is over. This is the age of development. In the centuries gone by, it was expansionism which hurt humanity the most and sought to destroy it. Those who are driven by expansionism have always posed a danger to the world. History bears testimony that such forces have either been destroyed or been forced to turn back. It is due to this experience that the world is coming together against expansionist forces,” the PM said. Read AlsoLAC face-off: Govt rewrites playbook for expansionist ChinaAgreements from 1993 onwards built on protocols for maintaining "peace and tranquillity" on a boundary that is not demarcated, allowing each side to largely patrol its established lines. However, the Prime Minister’s remarks in Leh sharpened the reversal of that policy. The bilateral relationshipModi did not take names but left no doubt as to whom he was referring to by praising the Indian Army for taking on China’s PLA in a bloody confrontation in Galwan Valley on June 15. “The valour you and your fellow soldiers recently showed has sent a powerful message across the world about India's strength. I pay my tributes again to the courageous jawans who attained martyrdom in Galwan Valley. The entire country has shown gratitude to the brave,” he said. Read AlsoLAC face-off: Ladakh triggers Andamans build-up plansDefence sources on Friday said the long-pending plans for “force accretion” and “military infrastructure development” at the Andaman &amp; Nicobar Islands have “gained a sense of urgency” with China’s aggressive and expansionist moves both along the Ladakh LAC as well as the Indian Ocean Region (IOR).The defiant martial note ran through the PM’s speech before jawans of the Army, ITBP, BSF, IAF as well as Border Roads Organisation at Nimu, some 35km from Leh. “The enemies of India have seen the fire and fury of its forces. We have been known to be a people who love not only the flute-playing Krishna but also the one who wields the Sudarshan Chakra,” he continued in the same vein, indicating that India's quest for peace should not be seen as a sign of weakness. While talking to the jawans who were injured in the bloody confrontation with the PLA, Modi stopped just short of saying that the Army had inflicted losses on the Chinese side. “Given the current international situation, the international community is discussing the feat of courage you pulled off, especially because of the sort of forces it was achieved against. They are curious to know about our young brave, their level of commitment. The training you go through is being analysed,” Modi said. “Your courage encourages me to declare that India, which has never bowed to anyone, will not succumb in future and will become self-reliant,” he added. Read AlsoIndia bringing modern technologies from around world for armed forces: PMOn a surprise visit to Ladakh in the midst of heightened tension between India and China, PM Narendra Modi told soldiers that modernisation of the armed forces is a priority and that the spending on border infrastructure has almost tripled. Modi said India is manufacturing critical weapons andModi began his speech in Nimu by chanting “Bharat Mata Ki Jai”. While concluding, he raised the chant of “Vande Mataram” with jawans and officers joining in. The address at 11,000 feet was a bold stroke, intended to boost the morale of the forces and signal defiance to Beijing. It was also meant to counter the opposition’s charge that the government had acquiesced to China’s incursions across eastern Ladakh, with the PM ruling out any deal which might entail concessions in the region that he described as blessed by the river Sindhu. “The entire Ladakh region is the head of India. The symbol of the prestige and honour of 130 crore Indians, this land belongs to those who have always been willing to make sacrifices,” he said. Modi quoted from Tamil and Hindi poems of Thiruvalluvar and Ramdhari Singh Dinkar, respectively, as well as a Sanskrit shloka and a saying of Gautam Buddha to drive home his themes of sacrifice, valour and defiance. “Peace cannot be ensured by the weak... bravery is the pre-condition for peace,” he said. The PM’s plan to visit the troops was kept under wraps. Official sources tweeted about it only after he had reached the base. Watch 'Era of expansionism' has ended: PM Modi to jawans||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/age-of-expansionism-is-over-pm-modi-sends-message-to-china/articleshow/76778542.cms||---
July 4, 2020||India||Covid-19: ICMR’s Aug 15 deadline to vaccine maker stirs a row||NEW DELHI: An Indian Council of Medical Research letter which sought fast-tracking of approvals relating to clinical trials and spoke of the launch of a vaccine by August 15 stirred the medical and scientific community on Friday, with questions being asked on how such deadlines could be adhered to given the complexity and time required for trials on humans. A vaccine candidate by Bharat Biotech received approval to enter initial phases of human clinical trials only earlier this week. In a letter to Bharat Biotech and chosen hospitals for trials, ICMR director general Balram Bhargava advised “to fast-track all approvals related to initiation of the clinical trial and ensure that the subject enrolment is initiated no later than July 7” in view of the public health emergency and “urgency to launch the vaccine”. ICMR has partnered with Bharat Biotech to develop a vaccine called Covaxin. Official sources said the health ministry had asked ICMR about the letter and was informed that the objective was to speed up the processes relating to vaccine development rather than set any hard deadlines. “We need the vaccine at the earliest and that was what ICMR wanted to convey,” a source said. ICMR officials also told TOI that no deadlines were being set. However, the tone of the letter, suggesting that noncompliance will be treated seriously, generated concern over whether processes were being rushed. “It is envisaged to launch the vaccine for public health use latest by August 15 after completion of all clinical trials. BBIL is working expeditiously to meet the target, however final outcome will depend on the cooperation of all trial sites involved in this project,” Bhargava said. While calling the vaccine a “top priority” project which was “being monitored at the topmost level of the government”, Bhargava said “non-compliance will be viewed seriously”. Watch Good news! ICMR aims to launch indigenous Covid-19 vaccine by August 15||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-icmrs-aug-15-deadline-to-vaccine-maker-stirs-a-row/articleshow/76778724.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 4, 2020||India||Bengal bump hits Bangladesh ties||NEW DELHI: West Bengal is proving to be a major obstacle to India’s neighbourhood policy. A decision by the Mamata Banerjee government to stop all goods from Bangladesh through the Petrapole-Benapole border since March has resulted in serious damage to bilateral trade and it came to a head on Wednesday with Bangladesh refusing to allow Indian trucks to cross the border. As a result of Bengal’s actions, bilateral trade with Bangladesh dropped to $424 million in April-May, as compared to nearly $2 billion for the same period in 2019, with serious disruption to imports from Bangladesh. In the first five calendar months of 2019 (Jan-May), it was $4.1 billion but in 2020, it is just $2.9 billion. Bangladeshi traders and government have been expressing unhappiness for some time, which spilled over on July 1 leading to Bangladesh stopping Indian trucks. Even so, sources said, 106 trucks had been let through into Bangladesh. No exports from Bangladesh have been allowed to come via Petrapole-Benapole since March 23, day before the lockdown was ordered. It briefly resumed on April 29, but shut down again on May 2, following some local protests. Trade restarted on June 7 and slowly the volume rose to around 250 trucks per day from around 24 aday. But it was all one-way trade with only trucks from India going to Bangladesh but nothing being allowed to come from the other side. Interestingly, there has been no stoppage of goods from Bangladesh via Tripura, but only through Petrapole-Benapole which accounts for about 70% of Indo-Bangla trade. Sources here said Bengal even went so far as to stop trucks going to Nepal and Bhutan via the state. In April, the home ministry asked the Mamata Banerjee government to allow truck movement to these countries since they are landlocked and depend on India for goods movement. This is also part of India’s global commitments. The Centre had told Bengal its actions were in “clear violation of the MHA orders issued under Disaster Management Act 2005 as well as well as Articles 253, 256 and 257 of the Constitution”. On the domestic front, this was also the time when the Centre and the Bengal government were at loggerheads over the state’s handling of the Covid crisis. Faced with a serious disruption in trade which could have a negative impact on other aspects of bilateral ties, the Centre is looking for other options to bypass the Petrapole-Benapole ICP. For the first time, goods have been moving through the resurrected India-Bangladesh rail network. On Friday, the Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port, Kolkata, announced that it would serve Indo-Bangla trade by introducing a new service between Kolkata Dock System and Chattogram (Chittagong) through Indo-Bangladesh Protocol Route. Watch After West Bengal's import curb from Bangladesh, Dhaka stops Indian trucks at border||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengal-bump-hits-bangladesh-ties/articleshow/76778778.cms||Indrani Bagchi
July 4, 2020||World||China says it’s not expansionist||NEW DELHI: PM Modi’s visit to Leh in the middle of the military stand-off seemed to have peeved China with its foreign ministry saying that neither side should take any action that may complicate the border situation and its embassy in India countering Modi’s charge of Chinese “expansionism”. While Modi had in his address to jawans, without naming China, said that the age of “expansionism” was over, the Chinese embassy here responded by saying it was “groundless” to view China as expansionist and to “fabricate” its disputes with neighbours. “China has demarcated boundary with 12 of its 14 neighbouring countries through peaceful negotiations, turning land borders into bonds of friendly cooperation. It’s groundless to view China as ‘expansionist’, exaggerate and fabricate its disputes with neighbours,” the embassy said. The PM’s decision to visit Leh, ostensibly at the risk of sending an escalatory signal, saw Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian earlier saying that China and India were in communication with each other through military and diplomatic channels. Significantly, he also asked India to avoid any “strategic miscalculation” with regard to China, a message that has been amplified by Chinese media earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-says-its-not-expansionist/articleshow/76778792.cms||---
July 4, 2020||India||China says it’s not expansionist||NEW DELHI: PM Modi’s visit to Leh in the middle of the military stand-off seemed to have peeved China with its foreign ministry saying that neither side should take any action that may complicate the border situation and its embassy in India countering Modi’s charge of Chinese “expansionism”. While Modi had in his address to jawans, without naming China, said that the age of “expansionism” was over, the Chinese embassy here responded by saying it was “groundless” to view China as expansionist and to “fabricate” its disputes with neighbours. “China has demarcated boundary with 12 of its 14 neighbouring countries through peaceful negotiations, turning land borders into bonds of friendly cooperation. It’s groundless to view China as ‘expansionist’, exaggerate and fabricate its disputes with neighbours,” the embassy said. The PM’s decision to visit Leh, ostensibly at the risk of sending an escalatory signal, saw Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian earlier saying that China and India were in communication with each other through military and diplomatic channels. Significantly, he also asked India to avoid any “strategic miscalculation” with regard to China, a message that has been amplified by Chinese media earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-says-its-not-expansionist/articleshow/76778793.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi gets the jitters yet again||NEW DELHI: Tremors were felt across Delhi and the National Capital Region on Friday evening as a medium-intensity earthquake measuring 4.7 on the Richter Scale struck Alwar in Rajasthan. No initial damage to any property or loss of life was reported, however, there were several instances of people rushing out of their homes and buildings when the tremors were felt at 7.00pm. J L Gautam from the National Centre for Seismology said the earthquake occurred at a depth of 35 kms below the ground and had its epicentre in Alwar. “The earthquake had a magnitude of 4.7, making it the strongest amongst the recent earthquakes in the last three months in NCR. It occurred at 19:00:50 at a latitude of 28.00 N and a longitude of 76.69E,” said Gautam. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also tweeted on Friday evening, “Mild earthquake tremors were felt in Delhi some time ago. Hope you are all safe, take care of yourself.” Delhi-NCR has recorded a series of earthquakes since April 12, when an earthquake measuring 3.5 on the Richter scale struck the region. Since then, the capital has recorded at least 24 more earthquakes in NCR, according to NCS data. While majorly the earthquakes have had their epicentre in Rohtak, Haryana, this was the first in this series of earthquakes with the epicentre in Alwar. Before this, the strongest earthquake recorded during this spell was on May 29, when an earthquake measuring 4.5 on the Richter scale struck NCR, with its epicentre again in Rohtak. The Bureau of Indian Standards has classified the entire country into four seismic groups – ranging from zone II (low intensity) to zone V (very severe). Large parts of NCR including Delhi and Haryana fall in Zone-IV (severe), making them prone to earthquakes. The region also has several fault lines like Moradabad, Panipat and Sohna faults. Last month, the three municipal corporations in the city began an exercise to identify older buildings in the capital, which had come up before the seismic provisions were incorporated in Delhi’s building bylaws, to obtain a structural safety certificate. All three corporations have fixed a deadline of six months for the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/capital-gets-the-jitters-yet-again/articleshow/76778261.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Centre’s isolation rules same as ours, says AAP||NEW DELHI: After the central government issued revised timelines for patients in home isolation, Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha claimed on Friday that the new guidelines issued by the Centre were taken verbatim from the Aam Aadmi Party government’s guidelines on the same. Chadha said that the AAP government had formulated a full-proof plan for keeping asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms in home isolation, and over 40,000 had recovered after staying within their homes. He said the AAP government had framed the rules after intense discussions with experts and doctors. “I will request the BJP government to cooperate with the AAP government and to not try to create chaos in Delhi,” Chadha said. The MLA added, “The Centre has also advised the implementation of telephonic consultancy to Covid-19 patients in home isolation across the country. Significantly, the same BJP government scrapped the same telephonic consultancy provisions for home isolation patients implemented in Delhi.” He wondered why the AAP government’s mechanism was scrapped. Chadha alleged that the central government wanted to create chaos by passing politically motivated orders through the lieutenant governor to show up the state government in poor light. Recently, LG Anil Baijal made it mandatory for all Covid-positive individuals to go into institutional quarantine for five days but later rolled back the order after facing opposition from chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. The LG, however, ordered that all those testing positive should be taken to a Covid care centre for assessment on whether the person was fit for home isolation. Later, this condition was also withdrawn. “The passing of these orders and then withdrawing them show that the BJP government has no mission or vision on combating Covid in Delhi," Chadha maintained. The LG’s Office did not response to the allegations. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said: “Kejriwal is trying to cover up his government's goof ups on Covid. He tries to show that he is working in tandem with the Centre, but his colleagues are spoiling Delhi-Centre relations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centres-isolation-rules-same-as-ours-aap/articleshow/76778373.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Surat||Pharma major’s plant in DNH shut after 14 worker test positive||Surat: The Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) administration has issued a closure notice to a leading pharmaceutical company’s plant located in Dadra after 14 of its employees tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday.Official sources said that the drug major Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd’s (Sun Pharma) Dadra plant has been shut for the last three days for the contact tracing and isolation of other employees working in the plant who may have come in the contact of the infected workers. Sources said that Sun Pharma is operating two plants in the DNH. The plant located in Pipariya village in Silvassa is into manufacturing of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) tablets. About 10 lakh HCQ tablets are manufactured there per day. Sandeep Kumar Singh, district collector, DNH told TOI, “The Dadra plant of Sun Pharma is making drugs and syrups, while the hydroxychloroquine tablets are manufactured at the other plant located at Pipariya village.”Singh added, “Our health teams have been deployed at the Pipariya plant of the company for the medical surveillance of the workers and other staff members.”According to Singh, about 400 samples are being collected and sent for laboratory testing every day. A total of 600 samples from Daman, DNH and Diu are tested at the laboratory set-up in DNH. The DNH recorded 15 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total cases in the territory to 123 on Thursday. There are about 50 active coronavirus cases and that about 58 patients have been discharged from hospital.Meanwhile, Daman recorded 10 fresh cases, out of which five were already in the quarantine centre as they were the high-risk contacts of the previous positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pharma-majors-plant-in-dnh-shut-after-14-worker-test-positive/articleshow/76758700.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Patna||Coronavirus scare: Paliganj incident a wake-up call for wedding attendees||PATNA: The first case in the state of the mass spread of Covid-19 virus among those who attended a wedding in rural Patna has come as a wake-up call for those who are planning to get married or organize any such function. Altogether 95 people of the groom’s Dihpali village under Paliganj block were infected by the virus after attending the wedding on June 15. Not more than 50 guests are allowed to attend any function amid Covid-19 pandemic. Many people have extended the wedding date. Kanhaiya Shrivastava, who was planning to get his daughter married this year, has postponed it to February next year. The Parsa resident said, “As soon as I heard about the Paliganj case, I talked to the groom’s family and extended the date of marriage, which cannot take place with limited number of people. Moreover, several unknown people, including photographer, cook and event organizer attend a wedding. Taking risk during a pandemic will only show our stupidity.” Rupal Sinha (23) had planned to celebrate her parents’ 25th marriage anniversary on July 13. “As only limited number of people are allowed, I had planned to invite around 45 guests. Now I have decided to invite only 10 people very close to us. The increasing number of coronavirus cases has scared me,” she said. Banquet halls and hotels ensure that less than 50 people, including the priest, cook, waiter and other staff, are present at any function. Pankaj, an executive at a hotel and banquet hall near RPS Mor said: “We maintain social distancing as our hall is big. Only 50 people are allowed and they as well as their luggage are sanitized at the main gate.” Nirbhaya Chauhan, an executive of a banquet hall, said, “Organising wedding ceremonies is not just risky but also a waste of money and resources. Moreover, the Paliganj case has intimidated us. We have temporarily stopped providing services to people.” Patna DM Kumar Ravi has already threatened legal action against anyone found violating precautionary measures during such ceremonies. “Not more than 50 people are allowed to attend ceremonies like weddings. Apart from this, attendees should ensure that they are wearing masks and maintain distance. Those found defying the rules will be punished,” he has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/coronavirus-scare-paliganj-incident-a-wake-up-call-for-wedding-attendees/articleshow/76776576.cms||Archi Rani
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: Total cases cross 20,000, deaths breach 700-mark||KOLKATA: Fresh Covid-19 cases as well as the casualty figure on Friday set new records with the total number of infected crossing 20,000 and the death tally breaching the 700 mark. Health experts expect the rising trend to continue for at least two more months and fear that the worst is yet to come. Six hundred and sixty nine new cases of Covid positive were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of infected in the state to 20,488 till Friday. Though there are only 6,200 active cases at present due to a high discharge rate of 66.2%, experts said the active number will also rise as the number of single-day spike shoots up. Of the 669 new cases, 182 were from Kolkata while eight out of the 18 deaths were reported from the city. “I sense that more records will be broken in terms of fresh cases and deaths. The cases are likely to surge in July and August at least. We need to keep a close track on how the infection spreads in these two months before looking ahead,” said virologist Sumon Poddar, an associate professor at the Institute of Child, Kolkata. For the past five days, daily new cases have been above 600 and 3,235 cases have been reported during the period. Case positivity rate, which had declined to 2.7% in early June, has now gone up to 3.9%. “This was anticipated. With more tests, the number of cases is bound to rise. But what is worrying is the kind of carefree attitude people have adopted ever since the unlocking started. Social distancing norms and protocols like wearing masks have been brushed aside by most. This is going to have a huge repercussion. We are headed for the worst,” said infection control and infectious diseases consultant Debkishore Gupta. With 18 deaths in the past 24 hours, the previous record for highest single-day spike in death — 17 — was broken on Friday. Till Friday, Covid has claimed 717 lives in the state. “There are two extreme kinds of people — those who are absolutely carefree and the other extremely afraid of getting tested and anxious about timely medical intervention. And with the increasing number of cases, the pressure will go up on hospitals. But all hospitals do not have the same infrastructure. For example, a hospital in Kolkata will have better facilities for a severely infected patient than hospitals in the periphery. Therefore, mortality is also likely to spike,” explained Poddar. “Treatment protocols have changed with the asymptomatic and patients with mild symptoms being allowed to be in home isolation. But if these patients don’t adhere to home isolation norms, they will end up infecting people, especially those with co-morbid conditions,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/total-cases-cross-20000-deaths-breach-700-mark/articleshow/76777745.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 4, 2020||Business||SoftBank buys more stake in PolicyBazaar in $130 million deal||BENGALURU: SoftBank Vision Fund has picked up an additional stake for $130 million in EtechAces Marketing and Consulting, which owns online financial services portals PolicyBazaar and PaisaBazaar, according to three sources familiar with the development. The new investment will give it an over 15% stake in the company and value it at about $1.5 billion, according to these sources. The investment is a mix of primary infusion of capital into the company at about $50 million, which was agreed upon earlier, and purchase of shares worth another $80 million. The shares have been bought from existing investors like Tiger Global Management, Ribbit Capital and Inventus Capital India, said one of the sources briefed on the matter. “SoftBank has bought the secondary shares at a premium to the valuation at which they did the primary at $1 billion in 2018,” said this source, adding that with this the total investment by SoftBank in the company stands at about $200 million. Spokespersons for PolicyBazaar and SoftBank declined to comment when contacted by TOI on the matter. The development signals SoftBank’s continued bullishness on some of its India portfolio companies even as it is plagued by losses related to investments like WeWork and Uber. These have taken a further hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic. SoftBank Vision Fund CEO Rajeev Misra had told TOI in April that it sees potential consolidation and bargain deals in the Indian internet space, and is looking at investments in new areas like education technology, online pharmacy, and software services. The stake purchase comes after the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) notified an amendment to the foreign direct investment (FDI) policy in February. Allowing 100% FDI in insurance intermediaries, the policy was initially announced by finance minister Niramala Sitharaman in her Budget speech in July 2019. Till now, FDI in companies like PolicyBazaar had been capped at 49%, which had left it to rely on registered domestic investors like PremjiInvest and Info Edge to buy more stake to continue meeting the norms. Paisabazaar, which focuses on the lending segment, had laid off about 1,500 employees — around half of its workforce — last month as the business had been hit. But sources said that the insurance business under PolicyBazaar has been doing well. “PolicyBazaar will make up more than the business downside at Paisabazaar, which is a temporary blip, and economy cannot run without loans. PolicyBazaar got a major boost as offline agents were not active and people have increasingly realised the importance of health and life insurance,” said one of the sources mentioned earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/softbank-buys-more-stake-in-policybazaar-in-130m-deal/articleshow/76776972.cms||Madhav Chanchani
July 4, 2020||Surat||Only one passenger flight to operate from Surat till July 30||Surat: Surtis hoping to fly to various domestic destinations has dashed after Indigo announced the cancellation of its Benguluru, Chennai, Delhi and Goa flights via Surat till July 30 due to the operational issues. Now the city is left with lone Surat-Delhi passenger flight operated by Indigo. The Spice Jet has already cancelled all its flights from Surat till further notice. When the domestic flight operations resumed across the country from May 25, Spice Jet and Indigo were operating flights connecting Surat to Delhi and Hyderabad. While Indigo is operating Surat-Delhi flight, the Spice Jet cancelled its Surat-Delhi and Surat-Hyderabad flight for indefinite period. Sources at Surat airport said that the Indigo had announced the resumption of its four flights from Surat starting from July 1. However, the airline company abruptly cancelled all the flights till July 30. They added that most of the states including Maharashtra have set operational limitations for the domestic flights. The airlines are unable to operate the pairing flights from the bigger airports due to parking issues. Also, the passengers are avoiding air travel due to the mandatory quarantine rule for 14 days.According to the latest data from the Airports Authority of India (AAI), about 6,500 passengers travelled to and from Surat airport since May 25. There were about 174 flight movements at the airport, out of which 100 were commercial flights.Before lockdown, there were about 20 flight movements per day from Surat airport to various destinations across the country. About 4,000 passengers travelled from the airport per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/only-one-passenger-flight-to-operate-from-surat-till-july-30/articleshow/76778186.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Patna||Kishanganj court employee dies due to coronavirus||PATNA: A Kishanganj civil court staff died on Friday after testing positive for Covid-19. This is probably the first case of death of a court staff due to Covid-19 in the state. The civil court in Kishanganj is expected to remain shut till Wednesday next week for intensive sanitization work and sampling as two of its more staffs had been tested Covid-19 positive besides the one who died. Kishanganj district and sessions judge had shut the court urgently on June 30 after first case was reported. Friday was the fifth continuous day when civil court remained closed physically while only urgent hearing were conducted virtually. Kishanganj DM Aditya Prakash while talking to TOI over phone said that civil court staff was also suffering from comorbidities like high blood sugar and lung ailment before being tested Covid-19 positive. “He was being taken to JLNMCH in Bhagalpur when his situation started becoming critical. However, the staff died when he was about to reach hospital after midnight on Thursday,” DM said adding his death news was received on Friday morning. “The staff’s residential area in Ruidhansa had already been transformed into containment zone after he was tested positive,” he said adding rest two staffs were under treatment in Covid care centre. DM said district and sessions judge took decision to close court and it is expected to remain closed till Wednesday next week after proper sanitization and completion of sample collection work for testing. Meanwhile, a section of Patna high court had also kept been closed as precautionary measure and staffs were working from home after it came to light that a peon in concerned section had attended a marriage in Khusrupur on June 30 in which one of the invitees was later tested to be Covid-19 positive. High court registrar general NK Pandey in a press release said concerned staff was presently under home quarantine and his test result was awaited. The physical functioning of Patna civil court along with sub-divisional courts at Danapur and Patna City would also remain suspended till Saturday due to ongoing sanitization work of entire premises. The order for closing physical functioning of subordinate courts were issued late in night on June 30 by district and sessions judge Rudra Prakash Mishra after it surfaced that a lawyer of civil court, who is also state government’s special public prosecutor, was tested Covid-19 positive. Only very urgent matters are being take up for hearing by judges from their residence via video conferencing for time being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kishanganj-court-employee-dies-due-to-coronavirus/articleshow/76776625.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 4, 2020||Surat||CM to visit Surat today||Surat: Chief Minister Vijay Rupani will visit Surat on Saturday to take stock of the situation amid the surge in Covid-19 cases. Rupani, who will be accompanied by state chief principal secretary, K Kailashnathan, will hold a series meetings with Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials and district collector and visit the New Civil Hospital (NCH) and other facilities to evaluate the preparedness in the city. Meanwhile, Gujarat’s principal secretary (health), Jayanti Ravi said that the community care isolation centre (CCIC) concept will serve as a role model for the entire state and the country for aiding the isolation facilities. Asked about the miss-match in the Covid-19 death numbers between the city and the State, Ravi said, “We will discuss with the state and the SMC authorities regarding the mismatch in the numbers. As of now, we are trying to streamline the Covid-19 situation in the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cm-to-visit-surat-today/articleshow/76778164.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rly employee held for stalking colleague||Ahmedabad: Chandkheda police on Friday nabbed a railway official for allegedly stalking and harassing a woman colleague. The woman, 45, had been given a job in the railways after her husband’s death. The accused, identified as Hanifkhan Pathan, was caught by police when he was directing sexual remarks at the woman near Visat Circle. According to the complaint filed with Chandkheda police, the woman got a job in the divisional railway manager’s office in Ahmedabad in 2013. Her husband had died in 2011. She stated in her complaint that the accused often called her to his office and made obscene comments. Over the past few years, he had begun stalking her when she left office for the day. She had even filed an application with Ranip police two months ago over the stalking. On Friday, while she was refuelling her car, Pathan again accosted her. Sources in the railways said that Pathan had been shunted to Dhrangdhra recently as other employees had also complained against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rly-employee-held-for-stalking-colleague/articleshow/76778067.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Patna||Rahul Gandhi asks Bihar Congress to sort out alliance issues||PATNA: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi held a three-hour online meeting of the party’s Bihar unit advisory committee on Friday where he is said to have given a deadline to sort out “alliance issues” or else explore “other alternatives”. “It was decided to sort out alliance issues with other Grand Alliance constituents or we can go ahead with other alternatives. Whatever be the outcome, it has to be decided soon so that we can prepare accordingly for the polls,” said a senior Congress member, who was present at the meeting. He added, “If we remain in the alliance, we will stress on bringing the ground level party workers together so that they know who are the alliance candidates. In the parliamentary election, ground-level workers of our alliance partners were not united and we had to suffer because of that.” AICC general secretary KC Venugopal, Congress state in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil, AICC secretaries and Bihar in-charge Virendra Rathore and Ajay Kapoor, state president Madan Mohan Jha, CLP leader Sadanand Singh and Tariq Anwar were among others present at the meeting. As per the statement issued by state Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore, Rahul said people of Bihar were fed up with the NDA government and wanted a change. “It is time that all the forces against the present government should be united and fight together and help in formation of a new government which will provide a better life to the people of Bihar.” Rahul said that even though Bihar was culturally a rich state, because of bad governance, it was at the bottom with regard to development. “Gohil will discuss issues related to our alliance and other poll preparations. Be it issues related to seat sharing or the seat from where we have to contest, all these have to be decided soon. We will not repeat the mistake we made in Lok Sabha elections and we will not compromise because of smaller parties this time,” the Congress leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rahul-sets-deadline-for-bihar-cong-to-sort-out-alliance-issues/articleshow/76776053.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 4, 2020||Business||Write-downs to surge for companies as Covid hits demand||MUMBAI: An increasing number of Indian companies are staring at write-downs in their business this fiscal as they will be forced to record the demand-collapse for their products on profit and loss accounts due to the coronavirus pandemic. They will have to provide for impairments starting June quarter, which could either pull their profits lower or push them into losses. Early signs of Covid-19-related impairment charges were visible in some entities when they announced their fourth quarter numbers for fiscal 2020. Industry watchers expect impairments to accelerate going forward. Vedanta, for instance, took an exceptional charge of Rs 17,132 crore in the three months through March of fiscal 2020, mainly due to the Rs 16,576-crore impairment of assets in its oil and gas business, triggered by the fall in crude oil prices following the coronavirus outbreak. “Impairments are triggered due to falling demand/revenue/profitability, rising losses, increased competition intensity, among other factors. The cumulative effect of which is to reduce the economic viability of the subject business,” said RBSA Advisors MD Rajeev Shah. “Where the subject business is into commodities, it suffers a double whammy, wherein falling demand immediately triggers fall in prices, putting the company in a miserable position.” Since Covid-19 manifested in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, companies have been making judgments and estimates on the impact of the pandemic on their business and have been reflecting the same in their impairment assessments while finalising their annual accounts. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news “We don’t expect this (write-downs) to be a one-time impact as most companies will need to continuously monitor the situation and reassess the economic scenarios that could play out in the future,” said KPMG partner Sai Venkateshwaran. “Where the assessment continues to show a decline or a prolonged impact on business, companies may need to record further losses in the coming quarters and we can expect to see more of these reflected on a quarter-by-quarter basis rather than only in the last quarter of fiscal 2021.” Generally, firms carry out asset impairment assessments as and when there is an indication of a possible impact from either external or internal indicators. However, for goodwill and intangible assets, companies typically carry out assessments in the fourth quarter as this coincides with the annual audit process. Companies in the non-essential businesses — such as automobiles, hospitality, aviation and shadow banking — are expected to take impairments on inventories and recoverability of loans/receivables this fiscal. RBSA Advisors MD Ravishu Shah pointed out that certain businesses had been weak even before the onset of Covid-19 and the pandemic has only made matters worse for them. These companies have taken impairments in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. Globally, capital-intensive sectors like energy, airlines and steel have been hit the hardest with impairments. Last week, Microsoft announced that it will take an impairment charge of $450 million in the June quarter after it decided to permanently close all its brick-and-mortar stores due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/write-downs-to-surge-for-cos-as-covid-hits-demand/articleshow/76777133.cms||Reeba Zachariah
July 4, 2020||Rajkot||Builder survives bid on his life near Jamnagar||Rajkot: The case involving Jayesh Ranparia, an accused in multi-crore land scams, took a new turn on Friday when he allegedly sent three henchmen to fire two rounds at a builder near Lalpur bypass on the outskirts of Jamnagar on Friday morning. The builder, Girish Der (50), however, retaliated by firing upon the three assailants in Krishna Park Society, said police. The trio had arrived on two bikes at Der’s construction site and opened fire at him. “After the bullets failed to hit their target, two of the henchmen ran towards Der to attack him with a hammer and iron pipe. In his defence, Der fired three rounds from his licensed revolver, but even he missed the aim. Thereafter, the assailants sped away on their bikes,” said K K Gohil, sub-inspector with Jamnagar crime branch. Der later lodged a complaint blaming Ranparia, who is allegedly involved in the murder of advocate Kirit Joshi, to be behind the sinister attempt on his life. He accused Ranparia of sending Hardik Pujara, his aide who had stabbed Joshi to death below Jyot Tower opposite Town Hall in Jamnagar on the night of April 28, 2018. Joshi was fighting cases against Ranparia for his involvement in land scams worth more than Rs 150 crore. Before the murder, Ranparia had fled to Dubai. In another incident that took place on November 15, 2019, Ranparia had also allegedly ordered his men to open fire on the house and car of Parshottam Rajani, a professor with Jamnagar Mahila College, after the latter refused to cough up Rs 1 crore as an extortion sum. Rajani had acted as an agent in the sale of plots in Krishna Park Society to which Ranparia had staked his claim. After the murder of Joshi, Ranparia had circulated a message in Jamnagar that whoever tried to sell off any plot in Krishna Park Society would be killed. Der had bought some plots in Krishna Park Society from Mahesh Varotaria and had started the construction work against the wishes of Ranparia. Harbouring a grudge against him, Ranparia carried out an attack on him. Police booked Ranparia under sections 307 (attempt to murder) 120 (B) (pre-planned conspiracy) 25 (1) (Arms Act) of Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/builder-survives-bid-on-his-life-near-jamnagar/articleshow/76777665.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Business||Draft e-tail rules target imports, eye growth for all||BENGALURU: E-tailers should ensure they have an integrated system that connects customs, the RBI and India Post to track imports of product shipments coming from other countries, according to the draft e-commerce policy reviewed by TOI. The draft has made other proposals for the online retail sector, which is dominated by Amazon India and Walmart’s Flipkart. These include a proposal that only one or two e-commerce firms should not have a digital monopoly in the sector and, as a consequence, exercise control over a big part of the consumer data repository. This would benefit consumers and local startups, according to the draft. The government has also highlighted that growth in e-commerce should not “unnecessarily disrupt” the offline retail trade, which provides jobs and livelihoods to millions. There should be hand-holding to bring offline sellers online, it has recommended. During the lockdown, e-tailers were upset that while offline stores were allowed to sell all goods, online retail was allowed to only sell essentials like medicine and grocery. Despite signs of lines blurring between online and offline retail with growing omni-channel plays, small traders have been complaining to the government over the advantageous position of e-tailers, largely due to discounts they offer to consumers. On matters related to imports and building integrated systems, the draft noted, “Any non-compliant e-commerce entity/platform will not be given approval to operate in India. Necessary mechanisms may be put in place by ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) and the other government departments concerned. E-commerce regulator may identify such platforms and directly deny access to such platforms.” This comes when e-tailers are being asked by the government to ensure their products show ‘country of origin’ on a priority basis amid border issues with China in Ladakh, as TOI reported in its Friday edition. E-commerce executives said some of the proposals would add another layer of compliance burden on them. Independent sellers, on the other hand, are largely concerned over their survival in the coming months than long-term policy changes. According to legal experts, the draft policy has largely stuck to the country’s broader consumer data policy of keeping it in India, while allowing some elements to be mirrored outside. “Tracking imports for private brands is easier, but that’s early double-digits of volume on e-commerce platforms. A system integrating the RBI and customs would be complex. We would have to highlight this concern once the draft is public,” an e-commerce executive, aware of government deliberations, said. Another executive said this would end up regulating sellers instead of the marketplace. “Sellers bring their own goods according to their deals with suppliers. This would put more restrictions and liability on them than the platform, which is connecting the buyer and seller,” he added. “Some of the issues like hand-holding small sellers are already being addressed by some e-tailers. The whole objective, I think, is to push a lot of products that can be manufactured here. The way it did for smartphones, which are now assembled in India,” said Satish Meena, senior forecast analyst at Forrester, a market research firm. Flipkart, Amazon India and Snapdeal spokespeople did not respond to TOI’s query. Among other proposals, the draft noted the sale of counterfeit products as an issue in e-commerce and that both platform and sellers would be liable for such products when it is fulfilled by an e-tailer. So far, platforms put this responsibility on sellers. The draft, which mentioned a need for a sector regulator, is expected to be made public soon inviting feedback from stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/draft-e-tail-rules-target-imports-eye-growth-for-all/articleshow/76777054.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||GST slice in pizza price: Relief for Hut||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has said that only the ‘Veggie Supreme’ of Pizza Hut can be a matter of investigation in an anti-profiteering case.Pizza Hut has been fighting a legal battle after a customer accused its SG Road outlet of overcharging though GST rates had been slashed.On Wednesday, the Gujarat HC directed the anti-profiteering authority of the GST department to focus its scrutiny only on the pizza ordered by the aggrieved customer.The case dates back to December 2017 when the SG Road branch of Pizza Hut delivered the Veggie Supreme pizza, serving an online order. The customer was charged Rs 545. The customer lodged a complaint with the anti-profiteering authority claiming that the same product had been sold for Rs 490 on November 2017.The complainant said that a higher rate was charged for the pizza though on November 15, 2017, GST rates had been reduced from 18% to 5% on food items from restaurants. In October 2019, the director general of the anti-profiteering authority began to investigate if the outlet had withheld the benefit of reduced taxes from customers.The company that manages the outlets of Pizza Hut and KFC — Sapphire Foods India — contended that GST cuts had come with the denial of Input Tax Credit (ITC) paid on inward supplies. GST paid on inward supplies is a cost falling on restaurants, the company said. It said that due to the denial of ITC, the cost of outward supplies had increased, necessitating a rise in the prices of food items. As against estimated 11.48% cost of ITC based on previous year’s financials, Sapphire had increased prices on average by 10.5%. Thus, there was no case of undue profiteering by the restaurant, the company argued.However, Sapphire continued to receive summons. The company then moved the Bombay high court in May 2020 and upon instructions submitted its reply by June 8. Still, it received another summon seeking information.This brought the company before the Gujarat HC in the last week of June. Senior advocate Deven Parikh represented the company and raised questions on the methodology of the investigation. He also challenged the authority of the director general to investigate products other than Veggie Supreme under Section 171 of the GST Act and 126 of GST rules.The Gujarat HC on Wednesday issued notices to authorities concerned and sought a reply by July 30.PointersNot saying cheese*The case dates back to December 2017*The SG Road branch of Pizza Hut delivered the Veggie Supreme pizza for Rs 545 *The customer lodged a complaint with the anti-profiteering authority of GST dept*The customer claimed that the same product had been sold for Rs 490 on November 2017The complainant said in that period, GST rates had been cut from 18% to 5% on food items from restaurants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gst-slice-in-pizza-price-relief-for-hut/articleshow/76777938.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||A snapshot of Ahmedabad as microcosm||AHMEDABAD: The city with a 600-plus year history has never stopped to look back. Expanding in all directions, Ahmedabad is a potpourri of the old and new. Now a book captures its rich story. “It was a challenge to encapsulate such a concept for students who had come from abroad for an architectural event at Cept University in 2016,” said Prof Jigna Desai, the co-editor of the book and a faculty member at Cept University. “The exercise at that time laid roots that eventually took the form of the book — Ahmedabad Cross Section.” The book was launched through an online event on Friday in the presence of its authors, designers and contributors. The book is designed as a continuous 9-metre scroll to give it the look of an architectural plan. On the lower quarter of the book is a continuous drawing of various areas and landmarks of Ahmedabad. The city symbolically starts from a farmland and ends at BRTS and multi-level parking. The design and data visualization were supervised by Ignio Cornago, a teaching fellow at Cept University. Prof Desai said that generally a book on the city has sketches, articles or data. But the Cept project envisioned micro narratives of a mega city. “When we started working on the book, the city was already going towards the mega city status,” she said. “The next year, it became India’s first World Unesco World Heritage City. Thus, it was an interesting exercise to see it from the prism of development, city management, infrastructure, aspirations and experience of its residents.” She said that some of the data is a little old, but it has been retained to provide a reference point for future researchers. The book is published by the Center for Heritage Conservation (CHC) at Cept Research and Development Foundation in collaboration with TCGL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/a-snapshot-of-city-as-microcosm/articleshow/76778020.cms||Parth Shastri
July 4, 2020||Rajkot||Six arrested for sand theft||Rajkot: Six persons were arrested for an alleged sand theft on the outskirts of Dobar village of Jodiya taluka in Jamnagar district on Friday. The seized sand was 70 tonnes. Also seized were a truck, three dumpers and two loaders. The accused were identified as Altaf Sandhi, Kripalsinh Parmar, Gajendrasinh Sodha, Shaktisinh Jadeja, Shehjad Sameja and Mahavirsinh Parmar. They were booked under sections 379 and 120 (B) of Indian Penal Code and Gujarat Mineral Act. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/six-arrested-for-sand-theft/articleshow/76778265.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Patna||40.4mm of rain floods several localities in Patna||PATNA: Two hours of downpour on Friday morning caused waterlogging in several low-lying areas, including New Patliputra Colony and Rajendra Nagar in the city. Residents of Thakurbari Road, Kadamkuan, Bhikhna Pahadi and Kankarbagh also woke up to waterlogged roads in front of their residences only after 40.4mm rainfall. Aayush Ranjan of Lohanipur said rainwater gets accumulated in the lanes even after one spell of smart showers. “It becomes quite difficult to commute in the lanes of Lohanipur after rainfall. It is the same story for so many years now,” he said. Even though accumulated water was removed from most areas of the colony, Patliputra Vikas Manch secretary Abhay Nandan fears the situation might worsen in the coming days. “Nehru Nagar drain is completely choked with garbage due to which several localities of Patliputra Colony are facing waterlogging. Until and unless the drain is cleaned, waterlogging problem will persist,” he said. Vehicular movement was also hit due to puddles and muddy ditches at dug-up roads in Bakarganj, Arya Kumar Road, Nala Road, Punaichak and Mithapur. Vishal Shrivastava, a motorist at Mithapur bus stand, said commuting on dirty roads filled with mud is not just time taking but dangerous as well. “The fear of my motorcycle skidding on the road terrifies me. I have to be extra cautious because the slightest carelessness might land me in trouble,” he said. Civic body officials claimed that accumulated water from most streets was drained out within three-four hours. Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) executive officer (Kankarbagh circle) SK Mishra said several changes have been made to get rid of the waterlogging problem in the city. “The existing pipelines at several areas such as Kankarbagh were initially made for sewerage. Besides, the city’s population has extensively increased. From our end, we have taken several measures, including cleaning of Bypass Nullah and setting up pumps at different locations,” he said. He added: “Rainwater was drained out very quickly from most areas with the help of motor pumps on Friday morning.” Meanwhile, an expert wishing anonymity said the officials should set up stormwater drainage system instead of digging roads and making drains. “Re-evaluation of population and usage of water should also be done to keep a track on areas with maximum chances of waterlogging,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/40-4mm-of-rain-floods-several-localities-in-city/articleshow/76776760.cms||Archi Rani
July 4, 2020||Patna||Eight Paliganj areas sealed, groom’s father booked||PATNA: At least eight areas in Paliganj block in rural Patna have been sealed after at least 95 people of Dihpali, who attended a wedding function on June 15, were tested positive for Covid-19. Paliganj additional sub-divisional officer (SDO) Rakesh Kumar said on Friday that altogether 364 people, who attended the wedding or came in contact with them, were tested. “As the incident took place on June 15, several people have been discharged after being Covid-19 negative. Contact tracing is being continued in other areas in order to curb the spread of the virus,” he said. An FIR has also been lodged against groom’s father Ambika Chaudhary by Paliganj BDO Chiranjeevi Pandey on Thursday on the instructions of Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi. DM Ravi said Chaudhary has been charged for violating the norms related to restriction on number of people attending a wedding ceremony, social distancing norms and not wearing masks during the wedding ceremony of his son. Incidentally, only 50 persons, all wearing masks, are allowed in a wedding ceremony as per relaxations allowed by the government under Unlock activities. “Chaudhary is under treatment in Masaurhi as he has been tested positive for the virus. Action would be taken against him for violating social distancing and other precautionary measures as soon as he gets discharged,” Rakesh told this newspaper. Chaudhary’s 30-year-old son, a software engineer who worked at Gurugram, died two days after the marriage on June 17 and cremated without Covid-19 test. He was suffering from cough and cold, loose motions and weakness after returning from Gurugram by a hired car on May 12. He died on way to being taken to AIIMS-Patna after his condition turned critical. The wedding was held at Aadampur Piplawan village in Naubatpur and the accompanying rituals during which the infection is said to have spread were performed at Dihpali. Both the bride and groom’s father are teachers and the bride is a civil engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/8-paliganj-areas-sealed-grooms-father-booked/articleshow/76776585.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Business||Lockdown halts insolvency process||MUMBAI: Lenders who have put on sale assets worth thousands of crores under the insolvency process are finding it difficult to complete deals because of the lockdown. Bidders are reluctant to put in a firm bid as physical visits and informal talks with the management are not happening. As a result, lenders have kept putting off the last date for sale of companies. Also, bidders who put in expressions of interest are having a rethink on the valuation, given the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. Banks have been trying to sell several companies like DHFL, Jet Airways and SevenHills Hospital, long before the Covid-19 pandemic broke out and had even received bids. But in these transactions, they are yet to get a firm bid. In the case of Jet Airways, the last date for completing resolution was extended to August 21. Similarly, the sale of DHFL and SevenHills Hospital has also got delayed. Typically, the sale of a business first involves obtaining expressions of interest, after which the qualifying bidders are granted access to a physical data room, where documents are kept, after signing a non-disclosure agreement. After this, the interested parties put in a firm bid that they must honour, failing which there are penalties. “Lenders have digitised the process of due diligence and created virtual data rooms where the potential bidders can get access to all documents regarding the sale,” said UV Asset Reconstruction Company director Hari Hara Mishra. However, the key problem is the inability to do a physical inspection. “Due diligence is the first step for any transaction’s execution. While technology has taken over most of the work and proved efficient too, when it comes to a distressed asset, the base norms are slightly different. On account of trust deficit in a distressed scenario, especially with motivation levels not necessarily being at its optimum levels for the target, the finer touches of diligence become critical,” said law firm Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co partner Veena Sivaramakrishnan. These include discussions with key managerial personnel (KMP) and other non-written information. “It is like buying a house — until you have visited it personally, you would not get a clear idea about the valuation. Without this, putting in a firm bid is difficult,” he said. He points out that potential bidders are also having second thoughts about pre-Covid valuations as growth prospects have dropped from 6% to -5.9%. Mishra said, “This is a 12% drop in expected growth and no one has any idea what impact this will have on asset valuations.” Sivaramakrishnan also feels that physical visits are key. “Techno-economic viability, plant/factory visits, interviews with KMPs, etc, are a critical part of any such transaction to ensure smooth continuity of a going concern. From a legal perspective, especially for projects whose assets are real estate, it is imperative to have factory and project visits, which in these times prove to be challenging,” she said. According to Deloitte India partner Rajiv Chandak, for buyers, it is not just the conversation with management that is key to evaluation. “Physical visits and meetings with management give an idea about the real situation on the ground. A lot of non-verbal cues are lost in virtual meetings. With the virtual presence being the so-called new normal for the time being, it will be interesting to see how bidders adapt to this reality.” The handful of transactions that have taken place are those that have been in the pipeline where the bidders have had a chance to complete the due diligence before Covid-19 in the previous financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lockdown-halts-insolvency-process/articleshow/76776818.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 4, 2020||Patna||RT-PCR test to begin in Gaya soon||GAYA: RT-PCR, a confirmatory test for Covid-19, will begin in Gaya in a couple of days. As of now, the samples collected at Gaya are sent to the Patna-based Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS). About a month back, the state government approved the installation of test facility in the microbiology department of Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College (ANMMCH), Gaya. The installation got delayed and after several reprimands from senior functionaries of the state government, the facility has now finally been installed. Asked about the status of RT-PCR test at ANMMCH, Dr NK Paswan, deputy superintendent and nodal officer for Covid treatment said the test will begin within a couple of days. “Ten technical personnel of the hospital are currently undergoing training to conduct the tests,” said Dr Paswan. According to Dr Paswan, “The machine installed at the hospital has the capacity to produce result of 14 test samples every hour. To begin with, 90-100 results will be available each day.” Sources said that the hospital administration was prompted to fast track the installation of the test facility following the recent revelation made by the WHO that 70% of the TrueNat test positive results were found negative in the RT-PCR test in Patna. As per information released by the district public relations department, altogether 10,815 samples have been collected. Of these, 1016 results are still awaited. ANMMCH caters to the positive cases of seven districts including all the five districts of Magadh division and the districts of Rohtas and Kaimur. The number of isolation beds in the district has been officially put at 469 including the 325 isolation beds at ANMMCH and 44 beds in Hotel Imperial, Bodh Gaya. The hotel has been notified as an isolation centre to keep asymptomatic Covid-19 positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rt-pcr-test-to-begin-in-gaya-soon/articleshow/76776673.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Business||Goldman buys out Purplle’s key investors||Rupali.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Global investment bank Goldman Sachs has bought out key angel investors in JSW Ventures-backed Purplle, a beauty products e-tailer, in a Rs 60-crore transaction that closed recently. The secondary transaction, which values the company at Rs 1,100 crore, also includes a small component of ESOPs offloaded by a clutch of ex-employees, sources close to the development told TOI. Goldman Sachs is an existing investor in the online beauty platform, having led the firm’s series-C fund-raise in January by investing $30 million. With a GMV (gross merchandise value) of $50 million, the firm also attracted $8 million from Belgium-based family investment firm Verlinvest, taking the overall funding to nearly $50 million. Abhinav Sinha and Anirudha Gopalakrishnan (former Fidelity executives) offloaded their holding in Purplle, mopping up a 40x return on their investment of eight years. Further, a clutch of ex-employees and employees sold their ESOPs to Verlinvest, for a combined value of Rs 12 crore recently. When contacted, Purplle founder and CEO Manish Taneja told TOI, “As Purplle is looking to create a multi-billion dollar digital-first beauty company over the next 7-10 years, a lot of wealth would be distributed to everyone in the organisation. The current ESOP sale by the employees is a small step in the same direction.” Launched in 2012, Purplle turned cash-profitable in 2018 and expects to achieve a doubling of GMV to $100 million in FY21, with skincare spends showing an uptick. It does not expect much of an impact from Covid-19, while the share of tier-2 towns in revenue is expected to grow in the coming months as most metros are affected by Covid-related restrictions. JSW Ventures managing partner & CEO Gaurav Sachdeva said, “Purplle has a strong playbook for capital-efficient growth that focuses on the creation of differentiated supply and customer experiences.” Taneja, along with co-founders Rahul Dash and Suyash Katyayani, together hold 23% in Purplle, while the rest is held by five institutional investors. Besides Goldman Sachs and Verlinvest, other investors in the beauty e-tailer include IvyCap Ventures, JSW Ventures and early investor Blume Ventures. Goldman Sachs MD Niladri Mukhopadhyay said, “The successful combination of best-in-class technology with their (Purplle) own innovative brands and localised beauty content is a key differentiator in this rapidly growing segment of India’s online market.” The online beauty market is around $600 million, growing at a CAGR of 30%, with Nykaa cornering a majority share, while other players which include Amazon, Flipkart and Purplle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/goldman-buys-out-purplles-key-investors/articleshow/76776858.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
July 4, 2020||Business||Intel chips in Rs 1,895 crore for 0.39% stake in Jio||MUMBAI: Intel Capital, the investment arm of US chipmaker Intel Corp, will buy a 0.39% stake in Jio Platforms for Rs 1,895 crore, becoming the 11th investor to acquire a piece of the digital company’s pie in 11 weeks. Foreign investors — such as Facebook and Saudi Arabia’s PIF — now own a quarter of Jio, after agreeing to plough Rs 1.17 lakh crore into the company amid the pandemic. Friday’s announcement comes two weeks after Jio’s parent RIL said that PIF’s Rs 11,367-crore investment marks the end of the digital company’s current phase of induction of financial partners. The foreign investors’ interest in Jio indicates the growth potential they see in the Indian company. Since launching telecom services in 2016, Jio now counts 400 million subscribers and has branched into music & movie apps and e-commerce. On Thursday, the company launched JioMeet, a video conferencing app to take on Zoom and Google Meet. Intel Capital has pegged Jio’s valuation at Rs 5.16 lakh crore. This is similar to the valuation assigned by other financial investors to the Indian company. It will help Jio as it plans to go public in the future. The inflow of international money into Jio comes as the pandemic disrupts business models. RIL’s core refining and petrochemicals operations have been hit by a drop in demand for oil products, but stay-at-home measures have boosted data consumption and online services for Jio. The share-sales in Jio and other fund-raise programmes have helped RIL become net-debt free, the energy-to-education enterprise said on June 19. Intel Capital has invested about $13 billion in over 1,582 companies worldwide since its incorporation in 1991. Intel has been operating in India for more than two decades and employs thousands of people at its design facilities in Bengaluru and Hyderabad. “Jio’s focus on applying its impressive engineering capabilities to bring the power of low-cost digital services to India aligns with Intel’s purpose of delivering breakthrough technology that enriches lives. We believe digital access and data can transform business and society for the better. Through this investment, we are excited to help fuel digital transformation in India, where Intel maintains an important presence,” said Intel Capital president Wendell Brooks. Last week, India’s anti-trust regulator approved Facebook’s acquisition of a 9.99% stake in Jio for Rs 43,574 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/intel-chips-in-rs-1-9k-cr-for-0-39-stake-in-jio/articleshow/76776909.cms||Reeba Zachariah
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops mask traffic offences to meet targets||Ahmedabad: If you are caught not wearing a helmet, don’t be surprised if the policeman asks you to pay for not wearing a mask instead. To meet their daily target of ‘mask fines’ cops posted at various check posts are making traffic violators pay fines for not wearing masks, rather than helmets or seatbelts.One such incident happened at Koba Circle in Gandhinagar, where cops were fining people Rs 200 for not wearing masks despite the person wearing one and being caught for a separate traffic offence. Also, the no-mask fine is Rs 300 cheaper than for paying for not wearing a helmet, which makes it a win-win proposition. On Friday morning, a man from Rakhial was driving towards Sector 27 in Gandhinagar and was stopped by police near Koba Circle. “The cops asked me my name and address and then gave me a receipt for Rs 200, which states that I was fined for not wearing a mask. As I had worn a mask, I asked the cops why they charged me for the wrong offence. They told me that I could be booked for not wearing a helmet, Cops told me that I could be booked for not wearing a helmet but because they had printed receipts for the Rs 200 fine for not wearing masks, they were charging me for the lesser offence,” said Kaleem Siddiqui, showing the receipt. Many two-wheeler user were fined for not wearing masks despite having them on and having committed other traffic violations. A man who was not using his car seatbelt and did not have papers for his vehicle was also fined for not wearing a mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-mask-traffic-offences-to-meet-targets/articleshow/76778144.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Salt Lake Covid-19 spike triggers fresh drive||KOLKATA: A daily average of 20 to 25 new Covid cases in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area has taken the case figure to 550. The authorities have now escalated their drive to arrest the rapid rise. Single-gate entry in markets, Covid-test camps and sanitization of markets and localities are some steps being taken. “Since the lockdown, only one gate has been open at EC market and everyone is thermal scanned. The market is sanitized each Monday,” said ward 40 councillor Tulsi Sinha Roy. In BD Market, only two of the four gates are open. “We have been sanitizing at regular intervals,” said ward 41 councillor Anindya Chatterjee. Shyamal Kanti Roy, secretary of Bidhannagar Kendriya Bazar Byabosayee Samity, assured no shopkeeper of CK Market, which was closed for two days this week, has been affected by Covid so far. Ward 29, of which mayor Krishna Chakraborty is the councillor, recently organized a free Covid camp at CK-CL community hall. Ward 40 also held a camp for shopkeepers and ward 38 councillor Nirmal Dutta has been holding such camps at regular intervals in Duttabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salt-lake-cov-spike-triggers-fresh-drive/articleshow/76777781.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Snacks franchise used as lure in Rs 99,999 con||Ahmedabad: A Sardarnagar resident has lodged a complaint stating that he has been cheated of Rs 99,999 with the lure of a snacks company franchise. Vinay Vardhani, 27, approached the Sardarnagar police station on Thursday. Sardarnagar police have lodged a complaint under sections relating to cheating as well as the IT Act. Vardhani has mentioned in his FIR that on February 1, 2020, he had applied online for a franchise of the prominent company. “That afternoon, Vardhani got a call from a man who identified himself as Devrajkumar,” said a police official. “The caller said he was from the franchise department of the company and asked for details of the place where Vardhani intended to set up the franchise.” According to the FIR, after Vardhani provided the details, he was told to fill up a form and pay Rs 99,999 to set the process in motion. Devrajkumar then sent Vardhani a form on WhatsApp and bank account details. Vardhani filled the form and transferred the money. According to the FIR, Vardhani later contacted the company to check whether it had received the payment. He then learnt that the company had no employee by the name of Devrajkumar. “We are probing the number used in the scam,” said police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/snacks-franchise-used-as-lure-in-rs-99999-con/articleshow/76778127.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Patna||Cabinet nod to grant for non-aided +2 institutions||PATNA: The state cabinet on Friday approved the government’s proposal regarding the release of the grant for the 2014-16 academic session pertaining to 599 +2 level Intermediate colleges and 16 secondary schools under the scheme meant for the non-aided Intermediate colleges and secondary schools. While the proposal had been put up by the education department, the cabinet also gave its approval to the proposal to increase the last date for the submission of the detailed reports by the non-aided Intermediate (+2) colleges and secondary schools concerned for their compliance with the criteria set for their affiliation for availing themselves of the grant under the scheme. The last date has been extended from November 14, 2016 to December 31, 2020. The non-aided Intermediate colleges and secondary schools concerned had not submitted the reports regarding infrastructure and other requirements by November 14, 2016. The grants are given in proportion to the success of the boy and girl students in the examinations. The need to extend the last date was felt because if it had not been done, then their academic sessions would have lapsed and no admission of students would have been possible. The cabinet also gave its approval to the release of Rs9.90 crore for expenditure in 2020-21 on the construction of the State Ambedkar Residential High School at Motihara in Kishanganj district and the 560-bed residential school at Forbesganj (Araria), both meant for the scheduled caste and scheduled tribe students. The cabinet also approved the revised estimate of the expenditure of Rs45.50 crore that would be incurred on the construction of the two residential schools. The building construction department’s proposal to increase the fine on unauthorized occupation of the government quarters by the gazetted officers and Grade-III employees beyond the stipulated period of their allotment also got the cabinet nod. The fine has been increased from 15 times of the rental of the quarters at market value to 30 times (or six times the existing fine) for the period of unauthorized occupation of the quarters. Monsoon session from Aug 3: The cabinet approved the government’s proposal to hold the four-day monsoon session of the state legislature from August 3 to August 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cabinet-nod-to-grant-for-non-aided-2-institutions/articleshow/76776698.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Vadodara||Ventilators donated to GMERS Hospital||Vadodara: GMERS Hospital at Gotri in the city that is admitting the largest number of Covid-19 patients so far was donated six high-end ventilators on Friday. Officer on special duty at the hospital Dr Minoo Patel said that the ventilators included five that were donated by the United Way of Baroda and one by the Rotary Club of Baroda (Main). Sources said that the hospital had 28 operational ventilators so far . The ventilators provided under the PM CARES Fund were high-end ones too, but only for invasive treatment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ventilators-donated-to-gmers-hospital/articleshow/76778298.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Patna||Patna: No Covid-19 test at RMRI, PMCH for two days||PATNA: The Rajendra Memorial Research Institute for Medical Sciences ( RMRI) will remain closed for two days for sanitisation purpose. “It will reopen on Monday,” said director Dr P Das. “The decision was taken after three persons—two canteen staff and one staff of NMCH—currently on training at RMRI were tested Covid-19 positive. The entire premises including the test lab, research and other wings will be closed till Sunday,” added Das. “Meanwhile, the microbiology department of Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), where swabs of Covid-19 suspects are being tested, and the office of medical superintendent were sealed for three days after some doctors and staff were found infected,” said medical superintendent Dr Bimal Karak. Two other departments being sealed after doctors and staff found infected are physiology and virology. Karak said all those found corona positive were being sent for home isolation or shifted to cottage ward for isolation purpose. The total number of departments affected by the pandemic in this biggest hospital of Bihar now reached seven. The departments of anaesthesia, gynaecology, paediatrics and clinical pathology were earlier sealed for fumigation after doctors, nurses and staff of these departments were found positive. The office of the medical superintendent sealed for fumigation for three days was also temporary shifted to that of the deputy superintendent. Karak said about 30 doctors and staff including paramedics were tested positive of the Covid-19 in about two weeks time that sent alarms in the entire hospital premises. Karak said, “However, unfazed of the growing number of health care workers falling victim to the virus infection, all other clinical departments are running as usual with full number of doctors and staff present on their duty.” Principal VP Choudhary said that fast spread of Covid-19 virus in healthcare workers are those associated with hospital security like security guards was concerning. “However, the PMCH administration was doing it’s best to provide uninterrupted medical services to all patients reaching there,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-covid-19-test-at-rmri-pmch-for-two-days/articleshow/76776600.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Patna||All Shiva temples in Patna closed till August 4||PATNA: With fears of rapid spread of Covid-19 infection, the district administration on Friday ordered to keep all Shiva temples in Patna closed till August 4. The decision was taken after the Bihar State Board of Religious Trust stated that all Shiva temples where ‘jalabhishek’, ‘rudrabhishek’, Shrawani Mela, ‘kanwar yatra’ and other rituals take place would remain shut during Shrawan month owing to concerns over the well-being of the residents. Patna DM Kumar Ravi directed all his subordinates and police officers to increase vigil on the roads and areas of public gathering in view of the holy month of Shrawan, which will begin on Monday. “Officials have been directed to ensure deputation of police personnel at places of religious importance. The officials concerned have also been asked to keep a check on crowding during Shrawan,” he said. Meanwhile, gathering of people for offering water and milk to Lord Shiva in Shrawan will remain prohibited at the Mahavir Mandir. Mahavir Mandir Trust secretary Acharya Kishore Kunal said certain restrictions have been imposed to stop the spread of the virus. “Several restrictions have been made for performing ‘rudrabhishek’ at the temple. We have limited crowding and implemented social distancing norms for the welfare of devotees,” he said. The Saran district administration on Friday also prohibited devotees from offering holy water or milk to Lord Shiva in temples during Shrawan. Saran DPRO G Prakash said no ‘Shrawani Mela’ would be organized this time. The devotees have been prohibited from collecting holy water from the Ganga for ‘jalabhishek’ in different temples. Quoting Saran DM Subrat Kumar Sen, he said devotees have been advised to worship at their respective homes. “He has also advised people to maintain safe distancing and those not wearing mask will have to pay Rs50 as fine,” he said. As thousands of Hindus perform rudrabhishek and jalabhishek, the preventive measures taken by the district administration have disappointed them. “Looks like the announcement of Shrawani Mela not being organized at Deoghar was not enough to disappoint the ardent followers of Lord Shiva that another set of prohibitions have come. I respect the administration’s decision, but keeping temples closed is not fair,” said Amit Kumar, a resident of Saguna Mor. (With inputs from H K Verma in Chhapra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-shiva-temples-closed-till-august-4/articleshow/76776811.cms||Archi Rani
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Alternate-day formula for electrical goods markets||KOLKATA: The sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in various wholesale and retail markets has unnerved the business community that is now grappling to figure out a way to stop the virus transmission while conducting their businesses. Several markets for electrical fittings, lights and wires have decided to remain shut on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays from next week. Members of another 50 markets will meet on Saturday to decide to adopt the same formula. “We are worried over the increasing number of cases in the past few weeks. Thousands of people visit the markets every day. While this is good news for business, there is also a risk of virus transmitting rapidly. We are going to meet soon to figure out a way of safeguarding both the business and our members,” said Sushil Poddar, president of the Confederation of West Bengal Trade Associations. Associations of traders dealing in electrical fittings, cables and lights, which have more than 10,000 members, including wholesalers, retailers, importers and dealers, have decided to keep their shops shut on three days every week. These markets are spread across New CIT Road, Tiretta Market, Lalbazar, Canning Street, India Exchange Place and Chandni Chowk.  “We have requested our members to open their establishments only on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. The idea behind keeping the markets shut is to regulate the crowds,” Madan Bamalwa, an office-bearer of one of the associations. Many markets have adopted the odd-even strategy of opening shops but even that has not had the desired result. “Since local trains are not operating, the footfall is not even 50 percent. This is the time to figure out the right strategy to contain the crowds and conduct business in a safe environment,’ said a trader on Ezra Street.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/alternate-day-formula-for-electrical-goods-mkts/articleshow/76777769.cms||Zeeshan Javed
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: New SOP for safety of forensic teams||KOLKATA: Lalbazar has issued a standard operating procedure to all police stations, asking them to abide by it to provide forensic experts a safer working environment. According to sources, all OCs will have to be present at the spot every time a forensic team visits a crime scene. The vehicle in which the experts will be travelling will have to be properly sanitized. All necessary gear — PPEs, face shields, masks and gloves — have to be arranged by the respective police stations. The area ACP will have to ensure that all these measures are taken. If required, he, too, has to be at the spot. In addition to the investigating officer briefing them about the case, which is the normal procedure, the local police will also have to ensure that the team is briefed about the possible micro containment zones — if any — around the crime scene. Forensic experts are happy with efforts made by the state forensic units and Kolkata Police to ensure their safety. “It serves two critical functions — safety as well the demands of forensic evidence collection,“ explained an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-sop-for-safety-of-forensic-teams/articleshow/76777775.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 4, 2020||Patna||In Patna, lack of chargesheet drags cases of child sexual abuse||PATNA: Special public prosecutor (POCSO court, Patna) Suresh Chandra Prasad has alleged that chargesheet has not been submitted in many cases even in seven-year-old cases related to offences committed under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. He said at least 261 cases lodged in relation to offences under POCSO Act were awaiting filing of chargesheet by the end of 2019. “At least two cases from Patna are of year 2013. Police have so far not filed chargesheets against the accused people in these cases. At least 15 more cases under POCSO Act from year 2015 are also awaiting filing of chargesheet. There are many such cases from 2016, 2017 and 2018 too,” Prasad said. While in routine criminal cases, chargesheet is filed in court in 90 days, it comes down to 60 days in cases under POCSO Act. “I had written to DGP and SSP about the matter. However, large number of cases are still pending in want of chargesheet against the accused people,” Prasad said. He said altogether 119 cases under POCSO Act have been registered with different police stations in Patna district since January this year. “Out of these cases, police have filed chargesheets in 21 cases only,” he said. According to the POSCO court records, 191 cases were registered with different police stations in Patna district in 2016 and 194 in 2017. The count of cases jumped to 250 in 2018 and 244 in 2019. IG (central range) Sanjay Singh said such old cases under POCSO Act should not be pending for filing of chargesheet. “If old cases are still pending, I will look into the matter and get them disposed by filing chargesheet as soon as possible,” he added. “Cases of rape, gang rape, POCSO Act and SC/ST Act always get priority for filing of chargehseet and speedy trial. In POCSO Act cases, police try to file chargesheet in 60 days as per law. Sometimes, however, the process gets delayed,” he added. The IG said he has already asked police officers to ensure filing of chargesheet within two months and speedy trial in gang-rape and rape cases in which minor girls are victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lack-of-chargesheet-drags-cases-of-child-sexual-abuse/articleshow/76776793.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 4, 2020||Patna||How Patna became a hotbed of Covid-19 cases||PATNA: The state capital has emerged as the hotbed of Covid-19 cases in Bihar with the total number of patients all set to breach the 1,000 cases mark. Patna already has the highest number of cases among all districts in the state. Senior health officials attributed Patna’s status as major commercial activities as the main reason behind the city contributing almost 10% of all the cases in the state. “With three big railway stations and an airport, Patna is the main entry point for a majority of people. Passengers from all over the country entering the city before leaving for other districts have quadrupled the number of cases here. The city is also a hub for major markets, including medicine and vegetables where huge crowds are witnessed on a daily basis,” Patna DM Kumar Ravi said on Friday. He added, “Tens of hundreds of migrants, who arrived in the city from other states, have also played a significant role in surge in number of cases here.” Officials also said people are not taking the pandemic seriously because of which there has been a surge in the number of cases lately. Patna civil surgeon Raj Kishore Chaudhary said, “Hundreds of people from other states travel to the city everyday but instead of isolating themselves they move around without any precaution. Moreover they violate social distancing norms and go outside without masks.” He added that another lockdown of 21 days might slowdown the number of increasing cases. Meanwhile, parts of several areas in Patna City, which has been declared a Covid hotspot, have been sealed to curb the virus spread. Parts of several other residential areas in the city, including Kankarbagh, Boring Road, Buddha Colony, Kadamkuan, Karbigahiya, Krishna Puri, Patel Nagar, Bhootnath Road, Digha, and Gola Road, have also been sealed. Health officials at NMCH, a dedicated Covid hospital, claimed that 87% of the positive cases are asymptomatic virus careers. “A good percentage of corona patients do not have any symptoms. They don’t even know that they are corona positive, hence they roam around. However, these asymptomatic cases are virus carriers and they infect others due to their negligence and careless behaviour of not taking precautions. There’s a reason why we have been telling people to cover their faces. If only they followed the instructions, the situation wouldn’t have been so bad,” said NMCH epidemiologist Dr Mukul Kumar Singh. A big concern for health experts is the increasing number of doctors being affected by the virus. Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president of Bihar chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said the association has demanded making AIIMS an entirely Covid-19 hospital dedicated to doctors. “Several doctors and health staff from the city have been found covid-19 positive. Their safety should be our priority as they are the ones who treat everyone. Hence, measures should be taken in order to protect them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/how-patna-became-a-hotbed-of-covid-cases/articleshow/76776563.cms||Archi Rani
July 4, 2020||Allahabad||Wanted in 33 cases & on the run since 3 yrs, former MLA nabbed||Prayagraj: Former Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA Khalid Azim alias Ashraf who had over 30 criminal cases lodged against him and a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head was arrested in Shivala market in the city on Friday. Azim is the brother of jailed politician Atiq Ahmed’s brother and had been evading arrest since the past three years. The arrest was made by a joint team of crime branch, and Shahganj, Dhoomangnaj and Khuldabad police. Police seized an illegal pistol of 0.32 bore along with six live cartridges, a SUV, Rs 8,490 and two voter IDs, a PAN card and a driving licence from his possession. ADG (Prayagraj zone) Prem Prakash said, “We were tipped off that Azim would be visiting his in-laws’ house in Hatwa village under the limits of Puramufti police station in Kaushambi district on Friday. We cordoned off the area, but later got to know that he had come to his in-laws’ house on Thursday night and had later moved to a relative’s house in Shivala Market, under the jurisdiction of Dhoomanganj police station, on Friday morning. He was in Shivala Market to finalise a land deal.” The ADG said “Police arrested the former MLA while he was trying to escape from the back of his relative’s house. He had been evading arrest since the past three years,” Prakash added. IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh said that the former MLA was wanted in connection with four criminal cases by Dhoomanganj police. “Currently, there are 33 criminal cases registered against the Azim with different police stations of the Prayagraj under charges like extortion, land grabbing, and possession of illegal weapons,” said Singh The CBI had also issued a warrant against the former MLA in connection with the murder of Bahujan Samaj Party MLA Raju Pal, said the IG. SSP(Prayagraj) Abhishek Dixit said, “We had launched a special operation to arrest Azim last month and had raided at his suspected hideouts in Khuldabad, Dhoomanganj, Kareli in Prayagraj, and Hatwa village in Kaushambi district. We are have also compiled information about other accomplices of ex-MLA . The SSP said that the ex-MLA had taken shelter at his in-laws’ house in Hatwa in Kaushambi and at a hideout in Delhi over the last few months. The first case to be lodged against Azim was registered with Mutthiganj police under sections 147,148,149,364, 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and section 7 CLA Act in 1992. More cases were registered against him in 1996, 1997, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, and 2007 in different districts of UP. Police started stepped up efforts to nab the ex-MLA soon after a case was registered against Azim at Dhoomanganj police station for not depositing a licensed firearm. Prayagraj police too had moved a file to state authorities to increase the cash prize on head the absconding former MLA from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/wanted-in-33-cases-on-the-run-since-3-yrs-former-mla-nabbed/articleshow/76775175.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Patna||Patna: English teacher among five held in PNB loot case||PATNA: An English tutor and a black belt karate trainer had masterminded the bank dacoity at Anisabad in Patna on June 22. The duo and three others were arrested from Bank Colony under Jakkanpur police station in the city on Friday. They are in their late 20s. Police recovered Rs33.13 lakh out of the Rs52.33 lakh looted from the Anisabad branch of Punjab National Bank by over half a dozen criminals by taking the bank employees and customers hostage at gunpoint. They were identified as Aman Kumar alias Satyam Shukla, the tutor, Hari Narayan (karate trainer), mechanic Sone Lal, compounder Praffulla Kumar, who works at a clinic on Boring Road and one Ganesh Kumar. Police also recovered from their possession five pistols, including a semi-automatic one, 16 live cartridges, three two-wheelers, including the two used in the crime, liquor bottles purchased to sell in the market and gold jewellery worth Rs4 lakh looted in February this year. Three criminals were still evading arrest. The arrested criminals told the police that they had actually looted Rs46 lakh, and not Rs52.33 lakh as mentioned by the bank manager in the FIR. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said Aman, Hari and Sone knew each other and had been planning the loot since December last year. “Aman teaches English at a coaching institute in Anisabad. He lived at a rented accommodation in Bank Colony. He was well known and used to take classes at several institutes in Patna as well as in Muzaffarpur. The other four had come to meet Aman when they were nabbed on the basis of human surveillance for the last several days,” he said, adding it was Aman who had first planned the bank loot as it was on way to his residence. “Aman, Hari and Sone also confessed that they had looted a gas agency in SK Puri in 2015 and Rs1.8 lakh along with gold jewellery worth around Rs4 lakh from First Cry showroom in Kankarbagh on February 23 this year,” the SSP said. The SSP said none of them had been booked in any case earlier. That is why it was difficult for the police to track them. “We believe Aman, Hari and Sone are involved in several other loots but were successful in evading the police’s radar. It is impossible that they dared loot a bank just after committing two crimes,” he said. The SSP said Aman’s share was Rs25 lakh of which he spent Rs2 lakh, including on renting a new flat for his family in Bank Colony. Hari got Rs3 lakh and Sone Rs7 lakh of which he gave Rs1 lakh to his sister. Prafulla had got Rs2 lakh as his share of which Rs50,000 was recovered. Ganesh had received Rs2 lakh of which he spent Rs1 lakh on buying liquor to sell it at a higher price. “The three criminals evading arrest have Rs10 lakh distributed among themselves. Those arrested say they looted only Rs46 lakh. But we assume that Rs52.33 lakh was looted and the bank manager has been asked to get amount verified once again,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/english-teacher-among-5-held-in-pnb-loot-case/articleshow/76776740.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 4, 2020||Patna||Test civic body officials for corona, says mayor||PATNA: Mayor Sita Sahu has demanded Covid-19 testing of the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials and staff posted at its headquarters on Maurya Lok Complex. She even hinted at getting the office sealed for sometime as a precautionary measure after one of the ward councillors tested positive for the virus. The councillor is from Patna City circle. His test report came late Wednesday night and was officially confirmed by the health department on Thursday. After knowing about him, Sahu wrote a letter to urban development and housing department secretary, Patna divisional commissioner and Patna district magistrate on Thursday, informing them that the councillor had met several officials and staff in the ‘C’ block of Maurya Lok. Sahu told TOI that the councillor had also visited her chamber as well as the PMC commissioner’s office on July 1, though he did not meet either of them in person. She said several staff were symptomatic and it was better to control the situation before it deteriorated further. “Several staff are now frightened. It is monsoon season and we have lots of work. So, it is better to sort out this issue,” said Sahu, adding, “If need be, the administration and civil surgeon can take a decision to seal the PMC office portion at Maurya Lok.” As a precautionary measure, PMC has even postponed its ESC meeting, which was scheduled for Saturday. Sources said the ward councillor who tested positive for Covid-19 has now been kept in isolation in one of the city hotels. Total 63 from his PMC circle, including himself, have tested positive for the virus. The administration has sealed several localities of that circle, including places of commercial activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/test-civic-body-officials-for-corona-says-mayor/articleshow/76776660.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Public grievance department can now address ration card issues||PATNA: The state government on Thursday issued an ordinance amending the right to public services (RTPS) Act, whereby all complaints regarding ration cards issued by the food and consumer protection department would now be resolved under the Public Grievances Redressal Act. The amendment has already been approved by the cabinet and consented to by the governor. Accordingly, complaints regarding ration cards would now be taken up by officials of the public grievance redressal department, the ordinance states. Earlier, all matters related to ration cards had been put under the RTPS Act, as a result of which, complaints could not be heard by the public grievance redressal department under the Public Grievances Redressal Act. The amendment addresses this issue. The state government on Thursday placed the proposal to amend the RTPS Act – calling it amendment, 2020 – through an ordinance, as the state legislature was not in session. The cabinet also approved five other proposals, chief secretary Deepak Prasad said. The cabinet approved the government’s proposal to create 644 new posts, including three under contractual system, for appointment in the public health engineering department (PHED). Their appointment would be done for handling ‘har ghar jal’ scheme to provide safe drinking water in the wards having arsenic, fluoride and iron content in ground water. It would entail an annual expenditure of Rs 39.84 crore during 2020-21 fiscal. There are as many as 5,085 wards having arsenic content in ground water, 3,814 others having fluoride content. Further, 21,598 wards have iron content in water. The ‘har ghar jal’ scheme has to be also implemented in 8,309 wards. The cabinet also approved the proposal to rechristen chief engineer (urban) posted at the PHED state headquarters into chief engineer (civil), south Bihar, PHED. The cabinet approved the proposal to fill the post of additional advocate general that was vacant in the committee constituted in 2015 to frame rules and parameters regarding change in the service conditions of teachers and library heads appointed through panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) and local urban bodies. The cabinet also approved the proposal to increase the food allowance for NCC cadets and officials during the period of their training camps. Accordingly, the food allowance for NCC officials has been increased from Rs 100 per day to Rs 150 per day, and for cadets from Rs 95 per day to Rs 150 per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/public-grievance-dept-can-now-address-ration-card-issues/articleshow/76756359.cms||Abhay Singh
July 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar against electricity amendment bill: Bijendra Prasad Yadav||PATNA: Bihar is against The Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, state energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said in the online conference of power ministers from across the country on Friday. The meeting was chaired by Union minister of state for power (independent charge) R K Singh. Yadav said since power is in the concurrent list of the Constitution, the states’ consent is required before making any amendments regarding policy matters. He also said Bihar is not in the favour of privatization of power distribution companies (discoms). “Bihar government has already made its position clear in writing on the proposed Bill. There should be no amendment to the Electricity Act (of 2003), which can reduce the power of the states in the energy sector. Different states have their own policies depending upon their social and economic status,” Yadav said. He also demanded ‘One Nation, One Tariff’ policy in the country at the earliest. “It has become imperative to implement ‘one nation, one tariff’ policy as states like Bihar are forced to buy electricity at higher rates under the current tariff policy. It is required to remove the regional imbalances in the electricity tariff. The electricity produced by all NTPC power plants should be considered electricity from central pool and an average rate should be fixed for the entire country,” he said. The Bihar minister also said electricity tariff rate is at times higher as the quality of coal is not as per the standards set for the same. “The unnecessary tariff rate hike can be avoided by ensuring timely supply of quality coal by proper coordination among coal and power ministries,” Yadav said. He also raised the issue of unavailability of prepaid smart electricity meters. “Though more than 43,000 prepaid meters have been installed in Bihar, unavailability of smart prepaid meters is a big challenge,” Yadav said. Speaking on the situation during lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic, he said electricity consumption in domestic sector was higher due to return of lakhs of migrant workers to Bihar. Deliberating on the issue of reform linked new distribution scheme, Yadav said Bihar was the first state to introduce tariff reforms, which is being replicated across the country. “The Saubhagya scheme (of the Centre) was conceptualized on the lines of Bihar’s ‘Har Ghar Bijli’ scheme,” he said. Yadav also appealed that any policy based on reforms should be conceptualized by considering the special situation of Bihar. “Bihar is an agriculture-based state. Thus, the number of industrial electricity consumers is comparatively less here. Hence, the financial position of discoms here is different,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-against-electricity-amendment-bill-min/articleshow/76777478.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 4, 2020||Bhopal||MP: 1.23 crore families covered under ‘Kill Corona’campaign||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, reviewed the progress of "Kill Corona" campaign being carried out across the state on Friday. A total of 10,664 teams are carrying out the campaign. So far, 1.23 crore families have been covered in the door-to-door survey and 11,087 suspected Coronavirus cases identified. A total of 15,533 suspected patients including those of dengue and malaria have been found. The recovey rate from Coronavirus in the state is 77.3%, which is only second in the entire country. The chief minister, however, cautioned that Covid recovery rate and slow growth of positivity should not make us complacent and the aim should be to completely eliminate Covid-19 virus from the state. He asked officials in-charge of various districts to keep a watch on Coronavirus situation and to remain vigilant and not allow the virus to spread in areas under their jurisdiction at any cost. Situation in Gwalior, Bhind and Morena was discussed at length in his video conferencing with the district officials. The chief minister said that in view of heavy crowd in markets at Gwalior and Chambal regions, market timings should be restricted as recommended by the district crisis management group of different districts. Officials informed that two days of market closure on weekends is being practiced in the region and malls are opening only up to 2.00 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1-23-crore-families-covered-under-kill-coronacampaign/articleshow/76777740.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Surat||Surat: Diamond unit caught operating in nCov cluster||SURAT: Police arrested the manager of a diamond unit from Gotalawadi of Katargam area on Friday for continuing operations clandestinely in the unit that falls within the limits of a cluster containment zone. Altogether 26 employees were found working in the unit, when cops raided the place and arrested Chandu Dungrani, 43, manager, booking him under various sections of Indian Penal Code including violation of orders issued under public notification and negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life. He was also booked under Epidemic Diseases Act.  Katargam has been a hotspot of Covid-19 cases since Unlock-1 phase started. A team of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) was checking in the area when they noticed that a unit in Gangotri Tower near Kesarba Market was operating. After confirmation, the SMC staff called police for action. Initially the accused refused to open the gates, but after cops warned him of severe action, Dungrani opened doors. Police detained the accused from the spot. “Our teams visit the cluster areas regularly to check violations of norms like social distancing and wearing of masks in public. During checking, our team found the unit operating after which police was informed,” said an SMC officer. “The manager was arrested for starting the unit in a cluster zone and also asking his employees to come for work,” said an officer at the Katargam police station. Meanwhile, SMC team suspected another unit nearby to be operational, but despite repeated knocking nobody answered. Even cops stood outside for nearly an hour when a security guard in the building informed that the unit is closed but the exhaust fan has been kept switched on for ventilation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-unit-caught-operating-in-ncov-cluster/articleshow/76777366.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chennai||18 Enforcement Directorate officials in Chennai test Covid-19 positive||CHENNAI: Covid-19 has breached the offices of Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Chennai, with at least 18 employees working in the Nungambakkam and Greams Road offices testing positive for the virus on Friday, city corporation officials confirmed. Sources said this included a few senior officials as well. Most of them, however, are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic and are recuperating in home isolation. “Some officials have co-morbidities like blood pressure and diabetes but it is largely under control,” sources said. The spread is attributed to one lower grade employee, who was the first to test positive last week, sources said. “His father had tested Covid-19 positive. He is believed to have passed on the infection to the others,” the source said. Around 70 samples have been collected by Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) from the ED’s offices. The first batch of test results came on Friday morning. A few more are expected tomorrow, an official said. The offices were sanitised on Friday, a senior GCC official said. This development comes even as DMK member of parliament (MP) Jagathratchagan visited the Nungambakkam office on Wednesday, ED sources said. He had been summoned for inquiry into an old case pertaining to land grabbing and money laundering, ED sources said. “He was questioned for a few hours,” the source added. Enforcement Directorate (ED), which falls under the Central Government’s revenue department, is handling several important cases in Tamil Nadu including the gutka scam, the granite mining cases and the Subhikhsha case as well. It has two joint directors, one additional director and one special director in Chennai, along with several other employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/18-enforcement-directorate-officials-in-city-test-covid-ve/articleshow/76777759.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Women’s police station PSI booked for Rs 35 lakh bribe||AHMEDABAD: Personnel of the special operation group (SOG) detained PSI Shweta Jadeja of the Women’s police station (West) for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs 35 lakh. She allegedly received the money through one Jayubha of Jamjodhpur. SOG sources said the money was sent through an angadia office on CG Road. According to the complaint lodged by inspector R S Suvera of crime branch, a man had submitted an application on June 26, alleging that PSI Shweta Jadeja of the Women’s police station (West) demanded a bribe of Rs 35 lakh to not put up a proposal under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) against his brother. SOG sources said that complaint alleges that Jadeja had called complainant’s brother, against whom two rape complaints were filed at the Women’s police station, and threatened to put him behind bars under PASA if a bribe of Rs 35 lakh was not paid. The complaint states that the complainant first sent Rs 20 lakh through an angadia firm based on CG Road to one Jayubha in Jamjodhpur, at the instance of Jadeja, and then another Rs 15 lakh, by the same method. “In Suvera’s complaint, he stated that the statement of the girl who went to deposit the money with the angadia in February has been recorded,” added an SOG official. The FIR states that that the complainant produced the angadia slip and proof that he had withdrawn the money from his bank account in the same period. “The complainant also produced before the investigating officer recorded conversations and WhatsApp messages through which the bribe money was demanded by Jadeja. The allegations have also been supported by the statements of the angadia firm employees,” a senior SOG official said. Senior SOG officials said PSI Shweta Jadeja has been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act and has been detained. “She will be tested for Covid before we arrest her,” added a senior SOG official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/womens-police-station-psi-booked-for-rs-35-lakh-bribe/articleshow/76777997.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Man cremated 24 hrs after death as kin battle procedural delay||KOLKATA: The new Covid-19 mortality coding guidelines issued by the Centre and now in place in Bengal continue to pose a major problem for the family of those who are dying at home without treatment records. The latest example is a 48-year-old security guard from Satyen Park near Thakurpukur who passed away on Thursday evening apparently after running a fever for a couple of days. His 43-year-old wife, a mother of two girls, had to run from pillar to post for over 24 hours to ensure cremation of her husband even though all the agencies were clearly following the set procedures and guidelines. “My husband had high fever and developed some breathing problems around 5pm on Thursday. I took some help from neighbours and rushed him to a nursing home near Thakurpukur 3A bus stand. But they refused admission and asked me to take him to Vidyasagar Hospital in Behala. He had stopped responding on the way and I realized that he had passed away even before we could reach the hospital,” said the patient’s wife. He had been coughing for the past four days but had not consulted a doctor, his wife told TOI. At Vidyasagar Hospital, doctors checked on him and said a post-mortem was necessary since he was brought dead. They also asked the woman about details of her husband’s health (whether he was a SARI or ILI patient). She refused saying it was a natural death. “I told them that I will rather take him back home than carry out the post-mortem. They said I can take him back home but they cannot issue a death certificate,” she said. By 6.30pm, the woman returned with her husband’s body. “For the next six and a half hours, we kept trying to get a doctor to issue a certificate. But none agreed. Around 12.45am on Friday, I contacted Vidyasagar Hospital through Haridevpur police where doctors asked me to bring him to the hospital. We took him there but they said they needed police clearance and a letter from the councillor before they can hand me over the body. But they said that post-mortem was a must as per procedure. This time, I agreed. All Friday morning, I kept running for these documents, shuttling between Haridevpur (home police station) and Parnasree police stations (where the hospital is located). Though the councillor and cops helped, it was not before evening that the body was sent for post-mortem,” she told TOI. Police said they had tried to help the woman in all possible ways. “It was a problem of procedures. We have ensured that the cremation took place without a hassle,” said an IPS officer. DC (Behala) Nilanjan Biswas confirmed the incident but said there was little scope for police to have played a role given the procedural delay. Ranjit Das, superintendent of the Vidyasagar Hospital, said he was not aware of the developments. “I will have to know the details before I comment,” he said. Health officials said they will get in touch with the family and ascertain details of the nature of death before they take the next step. “This might include isolation or undergoing Covid tests,” said an officer. Neighbours though claimed the family had consulted a doctor earlier and said they want the area disinfected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-cremated-24-hrs-after-death-as-kin-battle-procedural-delay/articleshow/76777761.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man tries to set wife ablaze||Ahmedabad: Kokila Naik, 52, of Nikol lodged a complaint on Friday stating that her husband Jeetu Naik tried to set her ablaze. Nikol police have registered a case of attempt to murder and are hunting for the husband. According to police, Kokila Naik suffered minor burns and has been admitted to a private hospital. Her condition is stable, police said. The FIR says that when the woman was entering the bathroom, her husband threw some inflammable liquid on her and tried to set her on fire. “Hearing her cries for help, her daughters and neighbours rushed to the scene,” said an official of the Nikol police station. “The accused fled amid the confusion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-tries-to-set-wife-ablaze/articleshow/76778117.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||12-year-old girl hangs self in Ahmedabad's Vadaj area||AHMEDABAD: A 12-year-old girl from the Vadaj area of the city allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself at her house on Thursday. Police said the girl was a Class VIII student at a private school in Vadaj. Her father is a daily-wage labourer. The suicide was discovered on Thursday evening, when her mother returned after buying vegetables. “She found hanging from the ceiling fan,” said inspector Jignesh Rathwa of Vadaj police. Rathwa said they did not find a suicide note or discover any probable reason but they suspect a domestic quarrel may be the immediate cause. A police official said the family are of a humble background and did not have any issues with their neighbours. Police said that they will also inquire if the girl was facing any pressure in her studies or she was suffering with any illness. Vadaj police registered a case of accidental death and began an investigation by taking statements of her family members and other locals. The body was sent for a post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/12-year-old-girl-hangs-self/articleshow/76778054.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Patna||EC allows voters above 65 years to use postal ballots||PATNA: The forthcoming assembly election in the state scheduled for October-November will have many firsts in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. For the first time, the Election Commission (EC) has allowed the voters of 65 years of age and those under institutional or home quarantine to cast their votes through postal ballot papers. As per the records available with the state chief electoral officer (CEO), 59 lakh voters are above 65 years, which comes to around 8.3% of the approximately 7.18 crore total electorate in Bihar. Of them, 30,21,957 voters are males and 28,80,459 females. A senior officer posted at the CEO office said on Friday, “Earlier, the ballot paper facility was meant only for the voters who were not physically able to visit the polling booths due to valid reasons. But this facility has now been made available to the voters of 65 years of age and above and even those under institutional or home quarantine due to Covid-19.” CEO H R Srinivasa said, “There are several proposals under the EC consideration in order to hold elections in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. There are three places inside the polling booths where physical contact could happen with voters — when the voter signs or puts thumb impression in the voter register, when the indelible ink is put on the voter’s finger and when the voter casts his/her vote. We have sent proposals to minimize contact at these three stages.” He said the Bihar assembly election will require 45% more polling booths compared to the 2015 polls to maintain social distancing norms during voting. “Arrangements are being made so that each polling booth will not have more than 1000 voters,” he said, adding 34,000 additional polling booths will be set up for the purpose. The number of polling booths in the state will go up to 1.06 lakh from existing 72,723. Similarly, additional polling staff will be required at the polling booths. Each polling booth will need four polling personnel, he added. The authoritative sources said the CEO office has proposed dividing line between the polling personnel and the voters with a thick glass at the polling booths to minimize the chances of psychical contact. Similarly, the use of toothpicks for voting and wearing khadi gloves have been proposed to maintain Covid-19 norms. Earlier, the EC had made provisions for all the registered political parties to explain the reasons for fielding tainted candidates. As per the new provisions, the political parties will have to upload the details to their websites within 48 hours of selection of the candidate or two weeks before filing of nomination papers and a compliance report submitted to the EC within 72 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ec-allows-voters-above-65-years-to-use-postal-ballots/articleshow/76776028.cms||Ramashankar
July 4, 2020||Rajkot||Cops nab accused of raping four-year-old girl||Rajkot: After more than a month, police arrested the accused of raping a four-year-old girl in Bhachau of Kutch district on Thursday night. Police said the accused, Ismaeel Lashkar (19), was nabbed on the basis of his cellphone location. “We recorded the fact that Lashkar used to frequent in the area. We had also received a tip-off about his involvement in the crime,” said M S Rana, inspector with Gandhidham local crime branch. On May 20, Lashkar had picked up the girl, who was playing near her hut in Yashoda Dham locality of Bhachau. He had taken the survivor to the bushes behind her house and had allegedly raped her. During his interrogation, Lashkar told the cops that he was addicted to watching porn on his cellphone which prompted him to commit the crime. “Lashkar has been booked under sections 376 (3) (A) (B) (rape) and 363 (abduction) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 4 and 5 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,” said Rana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cops-nab-accused-of-raping-four-year-old-girl/articleshow/76778244.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Vadodara||City bus service gets smarter in Vadodara||Vadodara: City bus service users will now be able to get information on the movement of their buses with the implementation of Integrated Transport Management System (ITMS). The system will also lead to a series of other improvements in the city bus service. ITMS was launched in 75 city buses on Wednesday by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) as a Smart City initiative. In the second phase of the programme, it will be launched in the remaining 75 buses. As a part of the ITMS, the city buses are also being equipped with CCTVs, Passenger Information System (PIS) displays, panic buttons, driver display units and GPS tracking. The CCTVs and panic buttons will ensure better passenger safety. Apart from live tracking of buses on VMC’s official mobile application and website, the estimated time of arrival of buses will also be seen on displays at bus stands soon. Officials said that if the bus diverts from its route or skips the bus stop, those monitoring the service will get an alert. The system will also ensure that the bus drivers do not overspeed and drive safely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/city-bus-service-gets-smarter-in-vadodara/articleshow/76776075.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ranchi||‘I got trolled... and I feared a backlash was coming’||Ranchi girl Kritika Pandey's story 'The Great Indian Tee and Snakes' won her the 2020 Commonwealth Short Story Prize. The tale of love and a lynching set in Jharkhand is very much a story of our times, the engineer-turned-writer tells Amava Bhattacharya over email ‘The Great Indian Tee and Snakes’ seems rooted in Jharkhand. There's the craze for Dhoni, the lynching of the boy in a skull cap and the lightning rod that is non-veg food. But these also place the story in any Tier-II city My attempt was to write a story that is deeply local and global at the same time. However, there is no one definition of local, to start with, especially not in India. Towns and cities in Jharkhand are distinct from those anywhere else. So my first and foremost challenge was to try and make the story accessible to readers all over the country. Which is why, while there are references to Dhoni and the Chhotanagpur Plateau, I also chose to highlight the tensions around non-vegetarian food, which is a more universal aspect of small-town India. Then there is also the fascinating relationship between the brides and the girl who applies mehendi on their hands. My hope is that readers think of it as a story of our times while getting a glimpse of Jharkhand. You’ve not named any of the characters in the story. The girl and the boy are introduced by the markers of their religious identity. Was this deliberate? This was a deliberate choice. Names are also identity markers. If I had referred to the protagonists with their respective names, I’d still be drawing attention to their religions. Which is why I turned this attempt on its head. The girl is ‘the girl with the black bindi’ and the boy is ‘the boy in white skull cap’. These are religiously charged markers, yes, but if you repeat them enough number of times, then they are just that, a bindi and a skull cap. I wanted the readers to see how easy it is to forget the religion of a person if you really got to know them. She is just a girl and he is just a boy and they are both human beings trying to make sense of an unfair world. Was it a choice to make the story a love story that is also political? Do you fear this will affect the reception to your work? This is definitely a story of love but it is not only a love story. The girl thinks she loves the boy, and she is allowed to think that, but who knows what love is? What I was more certain about was that the girl is attracted to the boy. We need to allow the girl to feel sexual attraction without having to shy away from calling it so. Right-wing Hindu men cannot stand the idea that a Hindu girl would chose to admire a Muslim boy. So, of course, I got trolled on social media. And I’d be lying if I said I don’t fear backlash against my work. But I also know that I write with a sense of responsibility towards people whose voices are historically marginalized. How much did growing up in Jharkhand make you the writer that you are today? I was born and brought up in Jharkhand. I have seen Ranchi changing from a very quiet, uneventful town to a bustling capital city. I went to school and college in Jharkhand. And I saw the structural discrimination against the Adivasis everywhere. My engineering college was built on land unfairly acquired from the Adivasi long before I was born. When I was a kid, every other day there was a bandh because of the conflict between the paramilitary and the Naxalites. But there was no attempt on the part of our parents or teachers to educate us about the issue. You’ve worked as a teacher in villages in the state. Do you agree with the remark that there exists two Indias? Absolutely. If you are reading this, then you know how to read and write in English, which means that you belong to the privileged minority. I saw the conditions of the government schools of Jharkhand and was appalled. Why did I get the kind of education that I did while those kids in Mesra couldn’t even spell their names in Class 5? As far as I was concerned, if I wasn’t going to use my education to raise the concerns of those who don’t have the sort of social capital and visibility that I do, then there was no point of me being educated in the first place. Does the debate about the relevance of the Commonwealth concern you as a postcolonial writer? Winning the Commonwealth Short Story Prize reminds me of my responsibilities as a writer. I think the debates around the contemporary relevance of the Commonwealth are important. As a citizen of a postcolonial nation, those debates concern me. But I have made peace with the fact that we live in an imperfect world. If there’s a platform that is helping me amplify my voice, then I believe I should use it to say something that needs to be said. You pursued engineering at BITS Mesra. What made you take up creative writing? I got 97.2% in Class X. After that, no one wanted to hear how much I loved literature. I was doomed to be an engineer because I was the school topper. I didn’t pick engineering. It was picked for me. And I had been writing since I was in Class VII. So I never had to transition from being an engineer to being a writer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/i-got-trolled-and-i-feared-a-backlash-was-coming/articleshow/76776730.cms||Amava Bhattacharya
July 4, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Same work but some paid less, complain fever survey workers||CHENNAI: Three months after Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) engaged 12,000 workers for door-step fever survey, some of them say their contracts are now employed by NGOs for a lower salary. While GCC paid Rs 15,000 a month (Rs Rs 500 per day worked) and two meals for a 7am-2pm job, the NGOs offer only Rs 12,000, at least three workers TOI spoke to said. This comes at a time when GCC has said contracts of such fever survey workers (FSWs) have been extended by three months. The first term ended on June 30. In addition, the workers complained that they are asked to bring their own smartphones, through which they record the Influenza like Illness (ILI) symptoms in a GCC application. “Without the smartphone, we are not welcome,” a worker from Alandur zone told TOI. The workers, who are either school teachers or social workers, have been contacted by NGOs this past month, asking them to register with them. “There is no explanation about the difference in salary. I got the calls as well but I told them off,” said N L Jagan, north zone secretary of the GCC employees union affiliated to the DMK. A FSW working in Tondiarpet, who also got calls from an NGO, said, “Many of my colleagues have spent Rs 14,000 to buy a smartphone so they can get this job.” R Srinivasulu, general secretary of the Red flag union of GCC employees, said while the contract for the first three months was executed by GCC, the extension was through an NGO. “The details regarding the salary and agreements are yet to be clarified,” he said. Jagan, however, said the NGOs were given charge of only some FSWs. “A majority of FSWs in Tondiarpet and Royapuram zones are still employed by GCC,” he said. A senior GCC official confirmed that NGOs had been given charge of some FSWs. “Since they are well versed with areas inaccessible to GCC workers, they can do a better job,” the official said. He also confirmed the difference in the pay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/same-work-but-some-paid-less-complain-fever-survey-workers/articleshow/76777770.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
July 4, 2020||Bhopal||234 infections take MP Covid count to 14297||Bhopal: The number of recoveries outnumbered the fresh infections in the state on Friday. As many as 234 patients were discharged after they recovered from the diseases on Friday, while 191 persons tested positive for Covid. With this, the tally of Covid-19 cases in state has reached 14,297. The new infections were reported from 37 of the 52 Covid-affected districts. Four deaths were also reported in state from Indore (2), Bhopal (1) and Satna (1), says the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. The Covid death toll of Madhya Pradesh is 593. Meanwhile, with 234 patients being discharged, the total recoveries in the state is now 11,049. Thus, 77.2% of the total people who have been tested positive so far, have recovered from the disease. There are only 2655 active patients in the state as of now.disease. Reports of more than 3.89 lakh samples have been received in the state so far and of those 14297 have tested positive. The administration has announced 1,077 localities across these 52 districts as containment zones. As of now Madhya Pradesh government has established 851 fever clinics in the state, where primary treatment is being provided and samples on the basis of the symptoms are being taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/234-infections-take-mp-covid-count-to-14297/articleshow/76777749.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Allahabad||50-year-old found dead with three kids at home||PRAYAGRAJ: A man, his son and two daughters were found murdered at their home in Devapur, under Holagarh police station, around 35 kilometres from the city early Friday morning. The deceased were identified as Lallan Prasad Pandey alias Vimlesh Pandey (50), his son Prince Pandey (18) and daughters — Shibu (19) and Somo (22). The four were found dead in separate rooms of the house in the morning. Police said that Pandey ran a private clinic after obtaining a certificate from a medical practitioner. The attackers also injured Pandey’s wife Usha Devi (45). She was admitted to Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital for treatment and her condition is stated to be critical. The assailants used a sharp-edged weapon to kill the four. Police suspect that there were at least four to five men who intruded into the house around midnight. Police said that while they are yet to determine the motive behind the gruesome attack, but they are not ruling out a property dispute or an old enmity. ASP (Soraon) Ashok Venket K told said, “While Pandey and Prince’s bodies were found in a room, Shibu and Somo were found dead in another room. Usha was found injured in the verandah of the house.” ADG (Prayagraj zone) Prem Prakash, IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh and Prayagraj SSP Abhishek Dixit reached the spot for investigation and a team of forensic experts was pressed into service. The ASP said that the family’s neighbours found the bodies around 8.30am. “They thought of entering the house when nobody came out of the house after 8.30am. They got suspicious as the main door of the house was not locked from inside. When the villagers pushed open the door, they saw some bloodstains. Going inside the house, they spotted the bodies in separate rooms. Usha was found lying in the verandah, but was unable to speak,” he added. Three police teams have been formed to crack the case. “It doesn’t appear as if any valuables were stolen from the house,” the ASP added. As the new of the murders spread in Devapur, local residents gathered near the house out of curiosity. A few residents also raised their voice to protest against the rising crime in the area and urged the police to nab the culprits at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/50-year-old-found-dead-with-three-kids-at-home/articleshow/76775201.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Coimbatore||18km stretch disinfected as patient rides to hosp||Coimbatore: A 59-year-old Covid-19 patient from Avinashi in Tirupur district rode on a two-wheeler, with his son riding pillion, for at least 18km to reach the government hospital after he waited for a 108 ambulance for 12 hours in vain. The entire route from Avinashi to Tirupur government hospital was subsequently disinfected, said Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan. According to a public health department source, the patient is a staffer of the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. He lives with his family members on Narasa Street at Avinashi in Tirupur. He used to assist nurses in the Covid-19 ward at the ESI Hospital. The source said samples were collected from the man on Sunday. The results, which arrived on Wednesday afternoon, showed him positive for Covid-19. Immediately, he contacted 108 ambulance services to go to the government hospital in Tirupur. However, no ambulance reached his home, as they were all occupied. Hence, he remained in home quarantine. Around 5am on Thursday, the man, along with his son, rode on his motorcycle to the hospital, where he was admitted around 5.30am. On Thursday afternoon, he was shifted to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. His son, who did not have any symptoms, was advised to remain in home quarantine. Some sources said health department officials were waiting near his house to take him to the hospital in a 108 ambulance on Wednesday afternoon. According to them, the ambulance was scheduled to arrive around 1.15pm that day. However, no ambulance reached his home until 9pm. The health department has taken samples from 75 residents (including his family members) of Narasa Street, which was sealed on Friday. The collector said the district administration was inquiring about the matter. “We will take necessary action. Private ambulances should also be made available in cases of emergency.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/18km-stretch-disinfected-as-patient-rides-to-hosp/articleshow/76778391.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 65-year-old, grandson drown in open well in Sircilla district||HYDERABAD: A 65-year-old farmer and his eight-year-old grandson drowned in an open well close to Manair river in Gambhiraopet mandal in Sircilla district on Thursday. Their bodies were recovered on Friday. Police said Oggu Mallaiah and his grandson Akiresh Nanda ventured into the well, which is located close to their agriculture field. Despite not knowing swimming, they got deep into the well and drowned within some time. After locals saw them drowning, they alerted police, who launched a search on Thursday evening. Their bodies floated in the waters on Friday morning. Akiresh was a class III student. A case was registered under section 174 (suspicious death) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/65-yr-old-grandson-drown-in-open-well-in-sircilla-district/articleshow/76777776.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Residents to wait more for canal-based water supply||Ludhiana: The project to provide canal-based water supply and storm sewerage in three wards of the city is yet to start. The foundation stone of the project was laid over two years ago, but nothing has been done so far. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had laid the foundation stone of the project in March 2018. However, the officials concerned have taken more than two-year time in finalising contractor and design of the project. Also, the augmentation of the existing sewerage system, which was a part of this project, was started in three wards over six months back. Roughly, 6,000 households are to be covered under the project and localities like Gurdev Nagar, Sarabha Nagar, Ghumar Mandi, Maharaj Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Hathi Complex, Prem Nagar and other adjoining areas are covered in the project too. For installation of the water treatment plant, the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) has already given its consent because this plant will come at a vacant land on Pakhowal Road, which very near to the Sidhwan Canal from where water can be supplied to households after treatment. The water will reach reservoirs first after treatment at the water treatment plant on Pakhowal Road and it will then be supplied to households. One of the officials of the operation and maintenance cell, on anonymity, said the contractor took a long time to finalise the designs for the project, but now the designs are approved. He said pipelines have also reached and it is expected that the work will start in a week’s time. However, Congress councillor Narinder Sharma objected to starting the project during the monsoon. He said work at Malhar Road and Hero Bakery chowk is already going on and residents are facing a tough time due to traffic jam. He said if the digging at the Gurdev Nagar is done, it will be difficult for people to pass. He said the officials concerned should not dig roads during the rains. Kapil Sharma, a resident of Ghumar Mandi, said, “The ground water table is depleting at a fast pace and therefore, the officials should come out with another alternative for providing water supply to residents.” He said canal-based water supply should be provided to residents of the entire city, but digging should be avoided at this time because in the last rainy season, digging took place at Malhar Road and cars got stuck in mud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/residents-to-wait-more-for-canal-based-water-supply/articleshow/76776744.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Kuwait expats relieved after state govt cancels mandatory rapid antibody test||Mangaluru: The Karnataka government has reportedly withdrawn the mandatory rapid antibody test for people flying home from abroad in chartered flights from some countries, after a backlash from airlines and expatriates. The expatriates had told the government that this test, which was made compulsory from July 1, was not feasible to perform in some foreign airports. According to sources from the state government, the rule was withdrawn on Friday, after the intervention of political representatives. Sources also added that the test is exempted only for a few countries, where such facilities are not available. Former MLC Captain Ganesh Karnik and Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karandlaje had taken up the matter related to a chartered repatriation flight from Kuwait, which was about to get cancelled for the second time, with the state government. “We had explained to the bureaucrats about the difficulty of conducting the test, after which the same was withdrawn from Friday for Kuwait,” said Karnik. Earlier, the same rule had been implemented by Kerala, and quickly withdrawn, after learning that it was not practical. A bureaucrat said that rapid antibody test will be exempted based on each case and country. Currently some of the Gulf countries are exempted from the same. An expatriate from Kuwait, explaining why antibody tests are not practical, said that the test is available, but it is conducted only by the state-owned airlines such as Kuwait Airways and Jazeera Airways, and all others flights have to do the test by themselves. “Chartered flight operators say that they don’t have the facilities to conduct such tests. As a result, hiring chartered flights in the absence of Vande Bharat Mission flights to Karnataka was another setback for expatriates to return home. However, we are relieved now with the government withdrawing the same,” said an expatriate. Mohandas M Kamath, an expatriate from Kuwait, said that with the withdrawal of mandatory antibody test, the chartered flights which were cancelled at the last minute on Saturday last week, will finally take off this Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kuwait-expats-relieved-after-state-govt-cancels-mandatory-rapid-antibody-test/articleshow/76776753.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Buses to start service from Monday||Ludhiana: The city bus service will finally start from Monday on a single route for now. The bus service will start from Clock Tower to Sahnewal. The private operator, who is running the service for the municipal corporation (MC), claimed that they conducted a survey on this route, following which they decided to start the service and will gradually start services on other routes. The district administration had allowed the civic body to run buses almost a month back and the officials concerned had asked the operator to start the service in the city, but the operator was not ready for the same as there was a condition to ply buses with only 50 per cent passengers. He also demanded an increase in fare because of increasing fuel prices. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has now allowed running of buses without any limit on the number of passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/buses-to-start-service-from-monday/articleshow/76776771.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu paramedics work with pride, battle prejudice||CHENNAI: Eight years ago, when T Prabhu graduated with an M.Sc in biotechnology and took an emergency medical technician course, he knew he had signed up to provide make or break care to accident victims and those facing medical emergencies. Since March, however, something about the way the 29-year-old with the 108 ambulance service looks at his job has changed for good. “It’s no more just a job, it’s a lifelong role, one that I take home with me, one that I go to bed and rise with,” says Prabhu, who has transported hundreds of Covid-19 patients to hospital. Ambulance pilots and technicians have emerged unparalleled warriors in the fight against Covid-19, as they handle 15 to 20 cases a day, with little time to reflect on the risks they run. “There are days when wives and mothers hold our hands and call us godsend, after we’ve transported their kin to hospitals just in time. There are others when we are the ones telling them loved ones are no more, minutes after they were breathless or passing out. In the beginning, I’d go home dazed, overwhelmed. These days, I fill these shoes with pride, even some compassion,” says Prabhu, whose family checks on him from Thanjavur every now and then. Ambulance staff have been working round the clock, fumigating vehicles after every case, performing CPR and medicating patients along the way. They soldiered on even when the public turned against them like when staff transporting the body of city neurosurgeon Dr Simon Hercules faced mob violence. There were several such incidents. And the risk of infection is constant. A driver from Chennai who had transported a Covid patient 3,000 kilometres by road to Tripura tested positive. More recently, a 22-year-old ambulance attender from Tiruppur district died after contracting the infection. Staff say they’re given fresh PPEs for every case, sanitizers and vitamin tablets. “But what amuses and at times saddens us is how we have become crowd repellents. When we go to a neighbourhood to pick up a patient, we see people running away, covering their faces, frowning at what we’re doing,” says 25-year-old ambulance emergency technician T Prakash. “And yet, there are times when we take homeless people with symptoms to the hospitals and get them all the tests and scans, and stay with them all the way until they’re admitted into a ward. And I feel there’s nothing else I’d rather be doing,” says Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-paramedics-work-with-pride-battle-prejudice/articleshow/76777782.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Hyderabad||No clarity on university exams yet in Telangana, but students asked to pay the fee||HYDERABAD: Though a decision on conducting university examinations in the state is pending, many colleges and state universities continue to charge examination fee from students. While hearing a case on the common entrance tests (CETs) on June 30, the Telangana high court sought to know from the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) and state universities whether they want to do away with the undergraduate and postgraduate exams for now. The bench asked TSCHE and the universities to respond to it by July 9. Students, however, raised concerns over the higher education institutions’ move to collect exam fee without any clarity on whether the exams will be held or not. Many colleges and universities have issued notification seeking payment of exam fee in the range of Rs 500 to Rs 2,000. In the absence of clear guidelines from the government on resumption of classes, the move has irked students. “The university is constantly extending the last date for payment of examination fee. On the notification, it clearly states that fee once paid cannot be refunded or adjusted for any future examination,” said Vamshi Reddy, a management student. He raised concerns over refund by the universities and colleges if the examination is postponed/cancelled. Students have called for boycott of exam fee until there is clarity from the TSCHE or universities on the examination. “If the universities decide to promote all the students based on their average marks of first seven semesters then what is the point of collecting exam fee? When there are no guidelines on resumption of online classes or on exams, how can the universities charge exam fee?” asked Venkat Balmoor, president, National Students Union of India, Telangana unit. Officials from state universities refused to comment on the subject as the matter is subjudice and said that their response will be submitted in court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-clarity-on-university-exams-yet-but-students-asked-to-pay-the-fee/articleshow/76780193.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Entry gates locked in many areas, people face trouble||Ludhiana: Entry gates in many localities are still locked by residents due to which commuters are facing a tough time. These gates were locked during the Covid-19 lockdown to curb unnecessary movement of people. However, even after the releasing restrictions on the lockdown norms, there are many areas where these gates are still locked. The civic authorities claimed that the gates cannot be kept locked during the day time as nobody can stop people to move for their work. However, members of the resident welfare association (RWA) claimed that due to the increasing cases of Covid-19, they do not want undue movement of outsiders in the colony and that is why they have kept the gates locked. Residential colonies like Model Town, Tagore Nagar, Kitchlu Nagar, Pakhowal Road, Haibowal and even in areas like Rajguru Nagar and SBS Nagar, residents complained about locked gates. Some of the residents in these colonies too complained that a section of residents, in a bid to take control in their hands, keep these gates locked and it has nothing to do with coronavirus. One of the residents from Kitchlu Nagar said, “I fought a long battle to get a few gates opened in the area, but then I was pressured by my fellow residents to stop indulging in the issue. I then stopped intervening as people were creating problem for me in the colony.” He said there are certain residents who want to restrict movement of other people in the colony so they keep the gates closed even during the day. Meanwhile, Anil Chopra from Tagore Nagar welfare association said they had kept one gate open while other gates have been locked because outsiders, beggars, rag pickers and even stray cattle get into the locality. Harish Sharma, a local resident, said, “I have to go to my office on Mall Road every morning. There is a short cut from Kitchlu Nagar, but both the gates of block A have been locked. Gates in Tagore Nagar are also locked.” Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The gates were allowed keeping in view security reasons of residents, but it does not mean that residents trouble other people. We had received complaints regarding locked gates in the past, and those were unlocked immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/entry-gates-locked-in-many-areas-people-face-trouble/articleshow/76776754.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Civic body conducts mock drill to check breaches at Buddha Nullah||Ludhiana: Ahead of the predication of heavy rainfall for the next few days, officials of the municipal corporation conducted a mock drill to check breaches at the banks of the Buddha Nullah on Friday. Two phone calls were made at the MC flood control room at Daresi about the breach in the Buddha Nullah near the fish market, Tajpur Road and Kundanpuri Bridge. Mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal made a surprise visit at these locations to check how the employees were handling the situation. The purpose of the mock drill was to keep employees on alert that in case of flooding in colonies around the Buddha Nullah, how they will control breach at the banks. Two points, which were selected for this mock drill, are sensitive. Breaches takes place at these points every year during the rainy season and filthy water from the drain enters the households. The officials of the operation and maintenance cell and bridges and the road department acted on the phone call. They started putting sand bags at the banks to fix the breach. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “This is being done to check preparedness of the staff ahead of the rainy season because we are trying to avoid waterlogging this time.” He said he checked the flood control room, Kundanpuri Bridge and Gopal Nagar bridge. Meanwhile, mayor Balkar Sandhu met people living near the Gopal Nagar bridge and asked them about the situation. He instructed the officials to pay attention at this point because it is a crucial point and poor people live around the drain. He said they are trying their best to check waterlogging this year. Meanwhile, the superintending engineer of the operation and maintenance cell, Rajinder Singh, said, “We have cleaned the Buddha Nullah and it has been widened to check flooding in the drain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/civic-body-conducts-mock-drill-to-check-breaches-at-buddha-nullah/articleshow/76776763.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Migrants return, but face hunger again in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Amit had left Delhi by bicycle with his wife and two children, promising never to return to the capital. But with conditions worse at home, the 45-year-old had no option but to come back to the capital. “I left for my village in Bihar in May and braved many setbacks, almost losing our lives, in fact, in going home,” said Amit. “But soon we had no money left and I had to decide to return to Delhi. But with the news of Covid-19 cases rising every day, I decided to leave my wife and two daughters behind.” In Delhi, however, Amit did not find such a convivial atmosphere. The plumber has been going from one shop to the other in search of some work, but little is coming his way. He is one of the thousands who left Delhi vouching never to return, but eventually felt forced to make the reverse journey to the city. However, most came back alone, not ready to risk their families to the viral scourge. Among the returnees that TOI spoke was Ravinder Kumar. “I was working at a construction site in south Delhi and went home when I was left with no money to sustain myself. Feeding my kids had become a big problem. Had we stayed back, we would have died of starvation,” said Kumar. When the lockdown ended, his employer called him several times cajoling him to return. “He told me that he would take care of my food and the other problems I had been facing in Delhi,” said Kumar. “Even though I wasn’t sure about returning, I was convinced when he told me he would pay me more than earlier. Since the condition back home was not quite as favourable as I expected, I returned prepared to risk the infection, but left my family behind.” Like Kumar, Santan Kumar, 53, made the tough choice of returning to Delhi when his savings got exhausted. “Even though I had not planned on returning quite so soon, I had no choice. My sons wanted to accompany me, but I ordered them to stay back,” said Santan. “I am an electrician and because of the nature of my work, meet many people during theday and I am susceptible to corona infection. I didn’t want my family to be at risk too.” Pawan, a shopkeeper in Possangipur in west Delhi, could not resume business until a week ago when he tempted three of his workers on the promise of almost double the salary they were getting pre-lockdown. “I came to my shop every day after the lockdown and realised I couldn’t start my business without the workers,” said Pawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/migrants-return-but-face-hunger-again/articleshow/76778404.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
July 4, 2020||Allahabad||Highest one-day surge in district’s Covid-19 count||Prayagraj: Prayagraj registered its highest single-day surge in novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases till now as 31 persons — including 14 bank employees and two policemen — were diagnosed with the disease in the city on Friday. The new cases took Prayagraj district’s tally to 343. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “The 14 employees of a private bank are aged between 24 years and 41 years. They had come in contact with an infected colleague, who tested positive for Covid-19 three days back.” He said that four of the bank employees were asymptomatic and were sent to Covid-19 Level One Hospital for treatment. The fresh cases included two policemen — sub-inspector (32) and a constable (31) — who were posted at a police outpost in Kydganj. They too had come in contact of a Covid-19 positive patient, who was diagnosed with the disease on Tuesday. “A 43-year-old resident of Mumfordganj also tested positive for novel coronavirus on Friday. The man had complained of fever and breathlessness, but did not have any travel history,” the ACMO added. A 32-year-old woman and resident of Leader Road also tested positive for the virus, while undergoing a pre-operative procedure. Moreover, a 40-year-old man from Shivkuti area in Govindpur tested positive for infection. A 59-year-old man and his 24-year-old son were diagnosed with the disease after complaining of cough and fever. “The two live on Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg and had returned from Pune via a flight on June 12,” said the nodal officer. A 47-year-old man living on Noorullah Road was admitted to SRN Hospital with respiratory distress, fever and breathlessness and later tested positive for novel coronavirus on Friday. Three members of a family aged between 29 years and 54 years and who lived in Mutthiganj also tested positive for Covid-19. Sahai said that the three are primary contacts of a Covid-19 patient, who was diagnosed in Lucknow and is undergoing treatment at SGPGI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/highest-one-day-surge-in-districts-covid-19-count/articleshow/76775227.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ghaziabad||26-yr-old city cop loved uniform, always wanted to be an officer||GHAZIABAD: A 26-year-old constable from Ghaziabad was among the eight policemen who were killed during an encounter with Vikas Dubey, a history sheeter facing 60 criminal cases, in Kanpur early on Friday. The constable, Rahul Kumar, was a native of Modinagar area and had joined Uttar Pradesh police in 2016. Ravi Kumar, his elder brother, said that Rahul always wanted to be a policeman. “He was in love with the uniform. He always wanted to be a police officer just like our father,” he said, adding that Rahul got married in 2019 and had a 2.5 month-old daughter. The news of his demise brought the family’s dreams crashing down. Rahul, the youngest of three siblings, was very close to his mother. Om Kumar, Rahul’s father, who was also a sub-inspector with UP police till 2017, said that his wife fell unconscious after seeing the news on TV. “I spoke to him last night. He said he was fine. He even did a video call and our family was so happy. The morning brought us devastating news. We had kept the news from his mother but she switched on the TV and saw everything.” Ravi told TOI, “As my mother heard Kanpur on the channel, she stopped all work. When she saw Rahul’s picture on TV and heard that shots have been fired, she started wailing. I immediately disconnected the cable wire but by then she fell unconscious. We had to take her to the hospital," he said. Ravi and his father have now left for Kanpur to get back the body. “We left for Kanpur around 12 noon. We will return with the body after paperwork,” Ravi said. The Ghaziabad police and residents of Modinagar village also mourned his untimely demise. They said that he was a sincere boy from his early childhood and had great dedication. “He always wanted to be a police officer and serve the nation,” said a relative. Rahul’s colleagues in Kanpur also fondly remember him as a hard worker. “He would diligently do his duty and after finishing work, rush to the corner to make a quick call to his family,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/03-n-ghaziabad-cop-avishek-aditi/articleshow/76778400.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
July 4, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Cabinet expansion over, all eyes now on portfolios||BHOPAL: After the expansion of Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet, all eyes are now on the distribution of portfolios. Sources in BJP disclosed that the party's central leadership had already discussed with chief minister Chouhan and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia about allocation of work to the ministers. The delay, in allocation of portfolios is however leading to speculations and suspense among the leaders and the new ministers. Sources further disclosed that after reports of Scindia having a lion's share in the cabinet with 14 supporters getting a berth, chief minister Chouhan is likely to keep important portfolios like home, health, finance and agriculture with his team. At present, all these departments are with Chouhan and his team, two of the Scindia supporters have been allotted water resources and food and civil supplies besides, cooperatives department. Speculations were rife that BJP is likely to clip the wings of some senior ministers and assign important duty to new faces. Some ministers will have to be satisfied with smaller portfolios. A meeting between BJP MLAs and chief minister Chouhan in the presence of Scindia, on Thursday night has also revealed that special focus will be given to Gwalior-Chambal region in view of upcoming by-polls. According to sources team Scindia is likely to get portfolios like sports, water resources, tourism, women and child development, cooperatives, food and civil supplies, labour, school education and panchayat. Keeping in view the influence of Scindia supporters in the cabinet, big changes could not be ruled out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cabinet-expansion-over-all-eyes-now-on-portfolios/articleshow/76777778.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mangaluru||No social distancing at Aadhar centre in containment zone||Mysuru: An Aadhaar service centre located in Vijay Nagar II stage has attracted attention as the authorities have allowed people to use the facility though it is located inside the containment zone. People who want to get a new Aadhaar card or make corrections in the existing ones are approaching the centre violating protocols in the containment zone. MCC has sealed down areas surrounding this service centre after a resident tested positive. Two roads including the road connecting to the service centre were closed and blocked with barricades by police. As the centre is functioning with permission from the district administration and MCC, people from across the district are visiting daily for new enrolment and corrections, violating restrictions in the containment zone. MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde told TOI that the Vijayanagar centre was given permission as neighbouring Aadhar centres in Saraswathipuram and Jayalakshmipuram were crowded. The centre was closed for a week and opened after all sanitization procedures were carried out. Permission was given with the consent of the deputy commissioner. “The centre was allowed to function with conditions of maintaining social distancing and adhering to containment zone restrictions. The centre will be shut down if they breach safety guidelines”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/no-social-distancing-at-aadhar-centre-in-containment-zone/articleshow/76776802.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Two aides of don shot dead in counter operation in forest||KANPUR: Four hours after eight cops were shot dead in an ambush by criminals in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur, police force regrouped and mobilized resources to launch a counter operation in the nearby forests, 4km from the encounter site, and neutralized two aides of the gangster Vikas Dubey. The duo was identified as gangster’s relative, Atul Dubey and his uncle, Prem Prakash Pandey. Two police personnel were injured in the second encounter and two firearms looted from the dead cops were recovered from the forest. “During the combing operation, two criminals holed up in nearby jungles were neutralised and two policemen injured. Villagers helped in identification of the bodies. A search operation is underway to nab other accused, including Vikas Dubey and his other aides,” said IG, Kanpur, Mohit Agarwal. Police have detained Vikas’ brother-in-law Dinesh Tiwari for questioning. “Police are scanning CCTV footage from his house to ascertain involvement of Dinesh and his family members in the midnight police encounter with criminals,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-aides-of-gangster-gunned-down-in-counter-op-in-forests/articleshow/76776491.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 4, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi’s Covid-19 tally rises to 576 with 30 more cases||VARANASI: As many as 30 more persons were tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday increasing the tally to 576 in the district. So far, 335 patients have recovered, while 21 patients died. Presently, there are 220 active cases of Covid-19 in the district. According to the district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, the 30 positive cases were found among the test reports received from BHU lab. The infected persons belong to various localities including Ganga Nagar colony, Bunkar market Doshipura, New Colony Ashapur, Sanjay Nagar colony, Shivdaspur, Nai Sadak, Naria, Ramapura, Shivpur, Ranipur, Assi, Sunderpur, Susuwahi, Indira Nagar colony Chhittupur, Bari Piyari, Paramhans Nagar colony Kandwa, Kazzakpura, Kotwali, and Lallapura. Meanwhile, seven persons were tested positive for Covid-19 in Azamgarh district on Friday. According to Azamgarh CMO Dr AK Mishra, so far 261 persons were found infected in the district. Of these183 patients recovered and were discharged from the hospital. Presently, there are 71 active cases of Covid-19 in the district, while seven patients lost their lives. In Ballia, only one person was confirmed as coronavirus positive on Friday. So far 148 persons have been found infected in Ballia of which 99 have been recovered so far wand two patients died. Presently, there are 49 active cases of coronavirus under treatment in Ballia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashis-covid-19-tally-rises-to-576-with-30-more-cases/articleshow/76775991.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Goa||Colva locals protest against ‘exorbitant’ electricity bills||Colva: Villagers from Colva on Friday gathered in front the office of the electricity department’s junior engineer and protested against the “exorbitant” power bills they have received. However, the villagers could not meet junior engineer Rahul Shirvadkar. Gregory Da Costa from Colva said he had paid a bill of Rs 2,347 on May 12, but received a bill of Rs 4,414 on June 25. He wondered how his electricity consumption had doubled. Mahesh Lotlikar said he recently paid a bill of Rs 3,379 for 33 days, but was shocked to receive the current bill of Rs 11,303 for 84 days. Lotlikar said the power department should bill consumers on a monthly basis so that consumers can easily calculate their average per-month consumption. “Withholding bills gives the department an opportunity to manipulate them,” he said. Elvis Vas, who led the protest, said, “It is highly unfair that the electricity department is issuing exorbitant bills during these testing times. People have lost their jobs, have taken pay cuts due to the coronavirus pandemic, but the insensitive government through its power department is fleecing citizens by charging inflated bills.” When contacted, Shirvadkar said he does not deal with billing and consumers should visit the sub-division at Aquem in Margao and sort the matter out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/colva-locals-protest-against-exorbitant-electricity-bills/articleshow/76778761.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Varanasi||Wanted criminal injured in police encounter, held||Varanasi: A wanted criminal Raj Narayan Yadav alias Raju, who carried a reward of Rs. 25,000, was arrested in Mughalsarai area in Chandauli district after a police encounter in the small hours on Friday. The arrested criminal sustained a bullet injury in his leg during the encounter, while his aide managed to flee. Yadav was admitted to the trauma centre in Varanasi. According to reports, following the Kanpur encounter in which eight policemen were killed, the police swung into action across the state. The Chandauli police too were on high alert when they encountered two criminals around 3 am. Chandauli ASP Prem Chand said that a police team led by Mugghalsarai inspector Shivanand Mishra was checking the vehicles near the Samajwadi Party office when the criminals were spotted on a motorcycle. When the police party tried to stop the trio, they opened fire. The bullet broke the windscreen of the police vehicle and hit the seat, but no one was hurt in the firing. The police then chased the criminals and intercepted them near Chakia trisection. In the exchange of fire, criminal Raj Narayan Yadav sustained bullet injury in his right leg. The arrested criminal is a resident of Piyari locality in Varanasi. He was involved in several cases of murder and loot in Varanasi and Ghazipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/wanted-criminal-injured-in-police-encounter-held/articleshow/76775938.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Coworking players down but not out, hope to ride flexi office trend||HYDERABAD: With the Covid-19 enforced work from home (WFH) changing workplace dynamics, the office as we know it is all set for a revamp as firms, large and small, look at reducing their real estate footprint as part of cost optimisation. And the traditional office space’s loss may well be the co-working sector’s gain, feel co-working operators and realtors. “The reduction in traditional office space footprint will compensated by the space take-up by co-working players as companies look for flexibility,” said Credai national chairman Jaxay Shah. Co-working operators are hoping that while business took a hit post the pandemic outbreak, in the mid to long term the sector will benefit from the change in the way companies look at the traditional office. “Many companies are reconsidering their dependence on utilisation of office premises and resources and considering flexible working schedules...As the economy begins to find its way back to growth, flexible workspaces will play an even more important role in rationalising cost, and maintaining financial agility particularly in times of turbulence,” explained Karan Virwani, CEO, We Work India. According to Harsh Lambah, CEO-India, IWG, which operates Regus and Spaces co-working centres, work will never be the same again after the Covid-19 storm but WFH is not a long-term option which is why they are bullish and have set aside a corpus of Pounds 300 million for future global acquisitions and network expansion opportunities. “Work is definitely becoming more decentralised and flexibility is the key. In the long term, the market will become very competitive and we will see a lot of co-working innovations based on core competencies and additional services,” he said. Pointing out that co-working has always been seen as a disruption in the corporate real estate industry, Amit Ramani, founder & CEO, Awfis Space Solutions, said today companies are looking for agile real estate strategies that can lower capex and fixed costs, enable upscaling or downscaling of businesses swiftly, decentralise workforce and provide employees flexibility to WFH or work near home (WNH). “Earlier the location used to be the holy grail of real estate but today time and employee choice have become fundamental to the discussion. When the dust settles, I feel 10-12% employees will continue with WFH and another 10-15% will WNH,” Ramani said. Large companies are today looking at a hub and spoke model with smaller satellite offices spread across geographies nearer employee residences instead of a large corporate office, added Neetish Sarda, founder, SmartWorks, pointing out that players are already actively stepping in to resolve pain points of clients by facilitate employee transport in the absence of public transport and offering touchless services like robots in reception areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/coworking-players-down-but-not-out-hope-to-ride-flexi-office-trend/articleshow/76777797.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
July 4, 2020||Noida||Son rushes woman to AIIMS after hurried release by pvt hosp ‘over Covid’||Ghaziabad: A 52-year-old woman, who had undergone an abdominal surgery at a private hospital in Raj Nagar on Thursday, was allegedly forcibly discharged from the hospital just a few hours later. Her son claimed the hospital told him she had tested positive for Covid-19. The hospital management denied that, saying the patient was referred to a higher facility as she had gangrene in her intestine and they did not have a gastro surgeon available. The HR manager of Gargi Hospital, Deepak Garg, and paediatrician Rahul Garg said the woman’s Covid report came only after she left the hospital. “The woman had gangrene in her intestine and we don’t have a gastro surgeon. We, therefore, asked the family to take her to a higher facility as she was critical. We even waived off the remaining charges when the family told us that they did not have enough money,” Deepak said. However, the patient’s son, Aditya Gupta, said the hospital discharged her around 10pm, saying she was Covid positive. “The hospital didn’t show us the report and when we demanded it, the staff misbehaved with us. My mother was in an ambulance and we waited till midnight as without the report, it would have been very difficult to admit her elsewhere. But they didn’t pay any heed,” he said, adding that even if she was Covid positive, the hospital couldn’t discharge her just hours after an invasive surgery. He took her to AIIMS in Delhi where she got admission at 2am on Friday. Gupta said a rapid antigen test showed her to be Covid negative. However, later on Friday evening, she was declared Covid positive after an RT-PCR test and was subsequently shifted to the hospital’s Covid ward. The patient, a resident of Kailash Nagar, was admitted to the private hospital in Raj Nagar around three days ago after she complained of stomach pain. Doctors advised her to undergo surgery, which was performed on Thursday. Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said the incident had come to his notice, and he would look into it. “Necessary action will be taken after we get a complaint from the family,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/son-rushes-woman-to-aiims-after-hurried-release-by-pvt-hosp-over-covid/articleshow/76778409.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kanpur||Eight cops killed, seven injured ingun battle with criminals in Kanpur||Kanpur:Eight police personnel, including a circle officer (CO) and three sub-inspectors (SIs), were shot while their seven other colleagues injured in a fierce gun battle with criminals in Chaubeypur police area of Kanpur late Thursday night. The incident took place past midnight in Bikru village when a police team headed by CO Billhaur Devendra Kumar Mishra went there in search of gangster Vikas Dubey, wanted in a case of attempt to murder filed by one Rahul Tiwari. Police sources said that Vikas and his aides had prior information about the police’s raid and were well-equipped with arms and ammunition and had also strategically chalked out a plan to trap and kill the police personnel. As the team arrived in the village, it came across a heavy JCB machine parked on the road which had blocked the way. As soon as the policemen alighted from their vehicles, the criminals, who had positioned themselves with sophisticated firearms on the roof-tops of the Vikas’s double-storey building as well as other adjacent houses opened indiscriminate firing at them. The policemen too retaliated but as the criminals were at a height, they had an upper-hand and in the ambush eight policemen including CO Billhaur Devendra Mishra, Shivrajpur police station in charge Mahesh Yadav and SIs Anup Kumar, Babu Lal and constables Sultan Singh, Rahul, Jitendra and Bablu lost their lives. Seven others including Bithoor police station in charge Kaushlendra Pratap Singh, SIs Sudhakar Pandey and Vikas Babu and constables Ajay Singh Sengar, Ajay Kashyap, Shivmurat Nishad and homeguard Jai Ram Patel were critically injured. The bodies of the eight policemen including that of the CO, SI Mahesh Yadav, who was the station officer of Shivrajpur, Anup Kumar, Babulal and constables Sultan Singh, Rahul, Jitendra and Bablu, have been shifted to mortuary, while six policemen including Bithoor SO, SIs Sudhakar Pandey and Vikas Babu and constables Ajay Singh Sengar, Ajay Kashyap, Shivmurat Nishad and homeguard Jai Ram Patel, who sustained bullet injuries are undergoing treatment at Regency Hospital in Kanpur. According to the police, preliminary reports suggested that the criminals had blocked the approach road to the area by placing a JCB machine and had also switched off the high-mast light hung from an electric pole near the entrance of Vikas’s house. “It was a meticulously planned attack and the policemen got trapped in it,” said the police. The police sources added that there were three teams for the operation. “It was when the criminals opened indiscriminate firing, two teams came in the front, while the third team was being used as a backup for the two police teams. When CO Devendra Kumar Mishra tried to take position by entering into a neighbouring house, some criminals dragged him outside and shot him in his head from close range following which he succumbed at the spot,” added police sources. Additional director general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar, along with SSP Dinesh Kumar Prabhu and IG Mohit Agarwal, reached the spot and supervised the investigation. Officials said all borders of the Kanpur division, comprising six districts, have been sealed. A forensic team from Lucknow have been roped in and the special task force (STF) has been given the charge of the case. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has paid his tributes to the eight police personnel who died on duty and asked the director general of police (DGP) to take toughest of action against those who were responsible for the firing. “Eight Police personnel died, seven were injured. They are being treated at Regency Hospital. Police from neighbouring districts Kannauj and Kanpur Dehat have also been called,” Kanpur ADG JN Singh said, adding that a combing operation is underway. All the borders in Kanpur comprising six districts were sealed. Dubey has over 52 cases registered against him, including a murder charge for the killing of Santosh Shukla, a former UP minister in the Rajnath Singh government, at Shivli police station in 2001.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/eight-cops-killed-seven-injured-ingun-battle-with-criminals-in-kanpur/articleshow/76776472.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 4, 2020||Noida||Kanpur aftermath: UP police issues high alert, intensifies checks||NOIDA: With the UP police issuing a high alert in the aftermath of the killing of as many as eight policemen, including a DSP-rank officer in Kanpur, the Gautam Budh Nagar police on Friday intensified checking on Noida-Delhi and Noida-Ghaziabad borders across the district to ensure the accused don’t sneak into Delhi via Noida. Drives were conducted at different entry points to Delhi, including DND Flyway, Kalindi Kunj, Sector 63 roundabout and the areas neighbouring Ghaziabad such as Tigri roundabout, Ghanta Chowk, etc and Yamuna Expressway. Cops focused on the vehicles having number plates with serial numbers different from those of Gautam Budh Nagar. Additional DCP Ranvijay Singh told TOI that the checking drives were carried out in the afternoon on the DND Flyway, Kalindi Kunj and Chilla, etc to ensure that the accused does not use the Noida route to enter Delhi. “Although it is unlikely that the accused would use the route, but one cannot contemplate the routes that the accused could possibly use. So a state-wide alert has been issued to keep a close watch. Hence, checking drives were increased on all the entry points of Delhi so that they don’t sneak into Delhi using the Noida route,” he said. In central Noida zone too, cops conducted checking at the Sector 63 roundabout which borders both Delhi and Ghaziabad, Tigri roundabout and Ghanta chowk. DCP (central Noida) Harish Chandra told TOI that the police focused on checking at the borders with Ghaziabad following orders from the commissioner of police. "Checking was started as early as 11 am and continued throughout the day. It was random checking and some of the suspicious vehicles were also checked after commuters were made to open their boots," he said. Jewar SHO Ajay Kumar Aggarwal told TOI that checking was enhanced at the Jewar toll and the Yamuna Expressway too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/kanpur-aftermath-up-police-issues-high-alert-intensifies-checks/articleshow/76778403.cms||Shikha Salaria
July 4, 2020||Vadodara||Technology makes lethal chemicals transport safer||Vadodara: To make transportation of hazardous chemicals safer in the country, a hi-tech control centre has been set up in Vadodara which handles all the chemical-related accidents across the country. Nicer Globe, run by the Indian Chemical Council (ICC), has set up the centre with about four years ago along with LCS India Private Ltd. “The centre’s primary purpose is to keep an eye on the trucks and tankers ferrying hazardous chemicals anywhere in the country,” said Shankar Kuppuswamy, CEO of Nicer Globe. He explained that if such a tanker meets with an accident on the road, a call will automatically be placed to the control centre in Vadodara, which will immediately contact the local disaster management authorities and firemen for necessary safety measures on the spot. “Every moment of the truck is tracked round the clock and if the vehicle faces any accident, immediate steps are taken to avoid further damage due to hazardous chemicals in the area concerned,” Kuppuswamy told TOI. Every vehicle carrying hazardous chemicals is fitted with the GPS. The centre also has the phone numbers of the drivers of such vehicles. A trained staff at the centre monitors trucks’ movements and even slight deviation from the route is flagged. “The company whose chemicals are being transported is alerted along with the person who owns the vehicle,” Kuppuswamy said. Till now, 50 big chemical companies have registered with Nicer Globe to ensure their chemicals get transported safely. “We assure transportation safety to these companies who are also apprised of their vehicles’ movements, routes and even the time they took to reach the destination,” he added. “The initiative is aimed at making transportation of chemicals safer in the country along with increasing efficiency of the transport,” said Ravi Kapoor, chairman, ICC Gujarat chapter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/technology-makes-lethal-chemicals-transport-safer/articleshow/76776619.cms||Tushar Tere
July 4, 2020||Mumbai||Shopkeeper held for killing woman, leaving body in van after sexual assault||Mumbai: A Nalasopara shopkeeper was arrested for allegedly killing a female customer and having sex with the corpse last week. The 32-year-old woman, who had gone to buy groceries, stepped into a novelty shop to check out toys for her children on June 26. When she did not return, her husband filed a missing complaint with Tuling police. A body was found in a pick-up van parked alongside a road on June 28. An autopsy confirmed death by strangulation and that sex was performed on the body. Palghar crime branch Vasai unit has begun an investigation. The van owner insisted the vehicle was parked for many days. CCTV images nailed the suspect. The woman had entered the novelty shop on June 26 and got into an argument with the 30-year-old shopkeeper over the price of some toys. The shopkeeper dragged her by her hair, took her to a room behind the shop, and as she was screaming, strangled her and slit her neck with a knife. He stayed with the body till night, wrapped it in plastic and dumped it in the van. He stayed in a room attached to the shop, and his wife and children have been in Rajasthan for around 10 months. He told police he did it in a fit of anger and kept his shop open to pretend everything was normal. A case of murder was registered and rape charges will be added, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shopkeeper-held-for-killing-woman-leaving-body-in-van-after-sexual-assault/articleshow/76777904.cms||Sandhya Nair
July 4, 2020||Kanpur||In fresh spike, city reports 48 more Covid cases, 2 deaths||Kanpur: On Friday, 48 more persons were tested positive for Covid-19. The total corona count has now increased to 1,274. Two Covid related death took the toll in the district to 55. Meanwhile, 11 Covid patients were discharged from hospitals and sent home. So far 912 persons have recovered from Covid-19. Now there are 307 active Corona cases in the city. One of the deceased was a 67-year-old resident of Gujjaini while the other was a resident of Harjinder Nagar. He was 78-year-old. Both the deceased were suffering from Type-II diabetes, health department stated. Both of them died in LLR hospital. Health department collected 645 samples for tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/in-fresh-spike-city-reports-48-more-covid-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/76777348.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
July 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav sorry for ‘any mistake’ during RJD regime||PATNA: The NDA has made the 15 years of incumbent Nitish Kumar versus 15 years of RJD regime as an election issue in state going to the polls in October-November. This was a hot topic of discussion on Friday after leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, sought an apology from people for any mistake committed in the 15 years of the Lalu-Rabri rule. “Yes, we had been in power for 15 years, but I was small that time and I was not in the government, though our party was ruling. One cannot deny the fact that Lalu ji had done social justice. That was another era. But if we did any mistake in those 15 years, then I am sorry for that,” said Tejashwi while addressing his party workers at the RJD headquarters on Thursday. However, soon after his statement, ruling NDA leaders took a dig at Tejashwi for his apology. “People have not forgiven Congress for the Sikh riots and the Kashmir situation. Similarly, people of Bihar will never forgive RJD for crime, murder, rape, kidnapping and migration which took place during their rule,” said BJP state spokesperson Nikhil Anand. He said Tejashwi was just doing drama and added, “Has Lalu ji ever apologised? Now, Tejashwi cannot befool people with such political stunt.” Even JD(U) took a jibe at Tejashwi. Party’s state spokesperson Anjum Ara said, “Since Tejashwi is the political successor and has got Rs28,000 crore and a mall in legacy, he will have to carry the burden of all mistakes which his party had committed.” She further said people will forgive him only after he returns the money grabbed by wrong means to the poor and stops giving shelter to criminals like Arun Yadav. Ruling NDA has been criticising the RJD for their 15 years (1990-2005) of “misrule”. Apart from several poster wars on this issue, chief minister Nitish Kumar had even asked his party workers to tell the new generation what Bihar was during the pati-patni (Lalu-Rabri) regime. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan, however, said Tejashwi was now their party leaders and it would be better to judge him through the work he did as deputy chief minister of Bihar and state’s road construction minister. “He (Tejashwi) was holding these charges for 20 months and did great development works in that period. Many pending schemes got approval and no one can point figure on him,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-sorry-for-any-mistake-during-rjd-regime/articleshow/76777820.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 4, 2020||Goa||GCCI supports move not to notify JERC’s tariffs, points out wide variation||Panaji: A sharp jump in the proposed electricity tariffs approved by the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) has raised eyebrows within Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI). The jump, along with the Rs 152.09 crore difference in the estimates prepared by the electricity department and the JERC’s projected expenditure figures, prompted some within the industry body to question if JERC was trying to pave the way for private players to enter the power sector. The state has not notified the JERC’s recommended power tariffs and GCCI president Manoj Caculo, in a letter to power minister Nilesh Cabral, has welcomed the decision. “Electricity department-Goa (ED-Goa) had proposed an increase of 3.1% in their tariff petition, but JERC, in its tariff order, proposed a hike of 5.31 % by not accepting ED-Goa’s proposal in respect of notional expenses,” said Caculo. As an example, the electricity department had proposed to increase the tariff for high tension 11/33kV connections from Rs 4.50 per unit to 4.60 per unit but JERC hiked the tariff to 4.80 per unit. Similarly, while the electricity department projected the interest on loans at 30.4 crore, the JERC disagreed and hiked the estimates to Rs 98.8 crore. JERC’s expenditure projections “It is surprising that the JERC is increasing the expenditure estimates. And if the estimates increase then to meet the estimates, the tariff must also increase,” said M Durairaj said in an earlier interaction with the media. Officials at GCCI said that if Goa electricity department is privatised, it would be easy for private operators to increase their revenue. Durairaj also said that the Goa government could be tempted to notify the higher tariffs in order to meet the drop in revenues caused due to the lockdown. GCCI has made some recommendations to the electricity department to address power reliability issues in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gcci-supports-move-not-to-notify-jercs-tariffs-points-out-wide-variation/articleshow/76778769.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Varanasi||Tributes paid to martyred policemen||The workers of Congress and Samajwadi Party, on Friday, paid rich tributes to the policemen martyred in Kanpur encounter. Raising question over the law and order in the state, they demanded stern steps against the criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/tributes-paid-to-martyred-policemen/articleshow/76775982.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata cop on duty at Writers’ found dead with gunshot wound||KOLKATA/MIDNAPORE: A 36-year-old Kolkata Police constable was found dead with a gunshot injury at Writers’ Buildings on Friday. The bullet that struck the cop, Biswajit Karak, had reportedly been fired from his own service rifle. The incident took place between 3.35pm and 3.45pm when he was on duty at Gate No. 6 of Writers’, which still houses some important state government departments. Joint CP (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha Roy said Karak, working with the 5th battalion of Kolkata Police for the past 10 years, had come in the second shift and took up sentry duty at 2.30pm. He had been sitting on a chair near the gate overlooking the window when the incident took place. Prima facie, cops at Lalbazar suspected that it was a case of suicide. “The chances that the bullet had been fired accidentally seems slim,” said an officer from the homicide section, who visited the spot. Cops cordoned off the high-security area after the incident. Karak was rushed to SSKM hospital where doctors declared him dead. Police said he used to live at Lake Town with his wife, a nurse with a government hospital, and his four-year-old son. “We have not found any suicide note so far. We found some medicines that suggest that he had been suffering from mental illness,” said DC (Central) Sudheer Kumar Neelakantam. Sources said he had consulted a few doctors at RG Kar and SSKM hospitals for that. The constable was originally from Shibra village in Daspur-2, West Midnapore. His sister said she had spoken to him around 10am on Friday and found nothing abnormal. Karak’s mother was presently staying at his Lake Town flat. Cops said the constable had been under medication. Looking into the suicide angle, cops are probing whether he had any workplace-related anxiety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cop-on-duty-at-writers-found-dead-with-gunshot-wound/articleshow/76777816.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 4, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Three time Sagar MLA denied berth, supporters stage ‘Jal Satyagraha’||BHOPAL: Irked after three time BJP MLA from Sagar, Shailendra Jain was not inducted in the state cabinet, his supporters staged ‘Jal Satyagraha’ in the Sagar lake situated in the middle of the town on Friday. Three other MLAs Gopal Bhargava, Bhupendra Singh and Govind Rajput were inducted in the cabinet, but Jain, who has been elected thrice as MLA from Sagar, could not make it to the list. Demanding that induction of Jain into the cabinet was necessary for the development of the constituency his supporters staged protests by doing ‘Jal Satyagraha’ in the Sagar lake while being semi-nude, the supporters included several former corporators, representatives of BJYM (BJP Yuva Morcha) and others. It is noteworthy that 28 new ministers were inducted in the state cabinet and a significant number of the newly-inducted ministers are former Congress MLAs from Jyotiraditya Scindia camp, who had left INC and joined BJP. Several of them are not MLAs now and are preparing for the by-polls. Induction of Congress leaders and non-induction of several BJP leaders has led to resentment among the BJP workers in several districts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/3-time-sagar-mla-denied-berth-supporters-stage-jal-satyagraha/articleshow/76777806.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ASI dies after being hit by car, professor held||NEW DELHI: A Delhi Police assistant sub-inspector died after he was hit by a car driven by an assistant professor of Rajasthan University near the US embassy in Chanakyapuri on Friday. The accused was caught on the spot. Police personnel present at the accident site said that around 10am, Siddharth Bhagat (41) was crossing the road next to the embassy towards Shanti Path in his Maruti Brezza car when he allegedly lost control of the vehicle and started riding on the footpath near the embassy. ASI Lal Man Singh Sisodiya (51), who was posted with the PCR unit deployed near the embassy, saw Bhagat speeding towards the high-security perimeter and tried to stop him. But the car hit Sisodiya and dragged him along for a few metres before ramming the embassy wall. The other policemen pulled out Sisodiya from under the car and caught Bhagat. The ASI was taken to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital where he died during treatment. Police have collected Bhagat’s blood samples to test if he was drunk during the incident. The vehicle, too, is being examined to find out whether some mechanical defects led to the accident. A case for causing death due to negligence and negligent driving has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/asi-dies-after-being-hit-by-car-prof-held/articleshow/76778411.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kanpur||CM Yogi Adityanath visits Kanpur to pay tribute to martyred policemen||KANPUR: Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath after paying tribute to police officials who were killed by gangster Vikas Dubey and his men, in strong words instructed the senior officers who had come here from capital city to camp in industrial town till Dubey is either caught or eliminated. Yogi also visited Regency hospital and met each injured cop and boosted their morale. He also met the families of the policemen in the hospital lobby and told them that the government was firmly standing by them in this hour of grief and all necessary assistance will be provided. He spoke to the doctors and asked about the medical condition of the injured policemen. He asked the doctors to provid best medical treatment to the cops. Chief Minister after returning to the police lines paid rich tribute to policemen who got killed in action. He was also accompanied by Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya. They were also accompanied by senior state minister Satish Mahana. He met the aggrieved family members of the policemen and consoled them, assuring them of action against the perpetrator of crime. The atmosphere at police lines was sombre when the tributes were paid. Cops vowed to avenge the death of their colleagues on whom bullets were sprayed by gangster Vikas Dubey and his men. Later, during a presser, Yogi said that the supreme sacrifice made by cops will not go in vain. “We will not let go in vain the sacrifice of life made by the cops. We stand by their families”, he added. He announced the families of the martyred cops would be given an ex-gratia of Rs one crore, government job to one family member and other benefits. He reteriated that those who have commited this henious crime would be got the harshest of the punishment within the ambit of law. He said that he has assured the grieving families that the government was with them in this hour of grief. He told media that police has gunned down two men in an encounter and recovered from their possession arms that were looted from police. He said police teams have been formed which are making efforts to nab the criminals. Earlier, CM spoke to the district officials who briefed him about the entire bloodbath incident. Yogi instructed them to act tough against the criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/03k-cm-yogi-adityanath-visits-kanpur-to-pay-tribute-to-martyred-policemen/articleshow/76777311.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur encounter: Intel failure, rooftop siege made police sitting ducks||KANPUR: The fierce gun battle in Kanpur that left 8 policemen dead and another seven hospitalised with gunshot wounds exposed chinks in police armour and investigators are zeroing in what went wrong and how criminals got an upper hand. Though senior police officers who visited the encounter site dismiss the theory that raids were conducted in a hurry and cops were ill equipped, experts attribute the high casualties in the force to an intelligence failure, lack of police informers in a predominantly Brahmin village where the gangster holds sway along caste lines and a probable mole who tipped off Dubey. The gangster has a limp and could not have fled during the shootout, giving rise to speculation that he wriggled out even before the police arrived. Dubey enjoys a Robin Hood image in Bikru village and adjoining areas. “None of the villagers came to the rescue of bleeding policemen and this was widely condemned even by DGP Hitesh Chandra Awasthy, while talking to the media. Also, the police brass agree their men became sitting ducks to a barrage of bullets from rooftops and suffered locational disadvantage. The policemen were under siege with criminals showering bullets from a height in pitch darkness. Senior officers recollect a similar high-altitude attack on Special Task Force commandos in Chitrakoot in July 2007 when six of their men fell to bullets fired by gangsters of Thokia gang, who were strategically perched atop a ridge. “The bandits opened fire from a vantage point, killing six of our men,” said a senior IPS officer who was then heading the STF. An element of surprise also took its toll on men in khaki. The team was on his way to raid the house of gangster Vikas Dubey, but were not prepared for a brutal resistance. The criminals had placed a JCB machine to block the path of police vehicles, forcing the unsuspecting cops to walk into a trap in the dark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/why-cops-became-sitting-ducks-intel-failure-rooftop-siege/articleshow/76777720.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 4, 2020||Varanasi||Kanpur encounter: Two cops of Gorakhpur, Maharajganj injured||GORAKHPUR: As many as eight cops were killed and six other cops and a civilian were injured during a gun battle between the criminals and police in Kanpur. 52-year-old sub-inspector Sudhakar Pandey, a native of Gorakhpur, and 25-year-old constable Shivmurat Nishad, a native of Maharajganj are among the seven injured. Sub-Inspector Sudhakar Pandey is native to Belpar Pathak village under Gola police station of Gorakhpur district. His family members were distraught to hear the news, and were slightly relieved to know that Sudhakar’s condition is improving. 82-year-old father Ramnayan Pandey said, “On Friday morning, the information about my son reached Gola police station, and soon after, my entire village came to know about it. I’m constantly praying for his life. He was first posted as a constable in Bareilly in 1985-86, and was promoted after 5-6 years. He became a sub-inspector after the departmental exam, and has been posted at Chaubepur police station in Kanpur since the last 1.5 years.” Sudhakar’s 76-year-old mother Sharda Devi, said, “My other son Amarnath, grandson Praveen and his wife Pushpa have reached Kanpur and are there with Sudhakar. They informed that his condition is improving.” Sudhakar Pandey’s son and daughter are married, and brother Amarnath lives with his parents, wife and children in Belpar Pathak village. Before the lockdown, Sudhakar had come to the village to meet his parents. Constable Shivmurat Nishad, 25, is native to Barvas village in Paniyara area of Maharajganj district. He is unmarried and his mother Mayawati is in a state of shock after hearing about his condition. Father Bhajuram Nishad, along with his other son and few villagers, reached Kanpur to see Shivmurat. Shivmurat is the youngest among five brothers and he joined the police in 2018. “He came home 25 days ago for four days. His elder brother Ramjatan got the news in the morning. He then reached Gorakhpur by his motorcycle, and from there, took a bus to Kanpur without telling us a word. Later, we ourselves got to know about Shivmurat. I just hope he recovers soon,” said mother Mayawati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-cops-of-gorakhpur-maharajganj-injured/articleshow/76776220.cms||Arjumand Bano
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Footfalls down to a trickle; pay cut, job loss across restaurants||KOLKATA: With footfall having come down to a trickle, bars shut and restrictions making it mandatory to reduce seating capacity by 50%, revenues have dropped sharply at restaurants, making it difficult to pay employees. Several restaurants have been forced to reduce their staff salaries by 50%-60% since May and fear that job cuts could be inevitable if alcohol is not allowed to push up sales by next month. For 90% of Kolkata’s restaurants, alcohol accounts for 60% of total sales. Most restaurants are operating with a reduced workforce and those not on duty have been struck off payrolls temporarily. A popular restaurant in central Kolkata reopened last month with a staff strength of 32, which is half of its original workforce. While around a dozen half have been asked not to join, the rest have not been paid more than half of their pre-Covid salaries. “Last month, my sales figure didn’t even reach 50% of what it would be in the pre-Covid period. Since my electricity bill, property tax and other overheads remain the same, there’s no way I can pay full salary to even those who are on duty. If footfall doesn’t rise by August, which seems unlikely with bars shut, I will either be forced to shut my restaurant or retrench some of my employees,” said the owner. With night curfew hours now beginning from 10pm instead 9pm, some restaurants expect a higher footfall for dinner. “We have an hour extra now, which will make a difference since Kolkatans prefer a late dinner. While things won’t change dramatically, a marginal improvement seems to be on the cards. This has encouraged us to organize our annual biryani festival this month,” said Shiladitya Ray, owner of Mughlai chain Oudh 1590. Dipping revenues remain a concern, though, admitted Ray. Volume of sales has not gone up over the last three weeks since restaurants were allowed to open, said Nitin Kothari who owns Mocambo and Peter Cat on Park Street. Amber in central Kolkata is yet to re-open due to the prospect of incurring losses, said owner Sanjay Khullar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/footfalls-down-to-a-trickle-pay-cut-job-loss-across-restaurants/articleshow/76777822.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
July 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Errant private hospitals in govt crosshairs, may lose licence||HYDERABAD: Following a barrage of complaints, the Telangana government is now mulling “serious action” against errant private hospitals, including suspension of their licence. It has decided to set up a task force to look into the issue of private hospitals refusing beds at government approved rates. According to state health authorities, many private facilities, in order to avoid adhering to the sanctioned rate-card, are turning away Covid-19 patients citing unavailability of beds. Multiple complaints about patients being asked to deposit huge sums of money — between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 20 lakh — even before being allowed in the emergency room, or of family members being forced to cough up lakhs to get the body of a deceased released, have also come to its notice. In fact, officials shared how in many cases patients have received bills of up to Rs 1.06 crore while in some instances private facilities have discharged patients — after a few days of treatment — only when they were in a critical state. “Hospitals are trying to extract as much money as they can, even at the time of pandemic. Despite being in the health services sector, there is a lot of inhuman behaviour being exhibited,” said a source from the state health department. While the department, following these complaints, have already been monitoring private hospitals, it is now contemplating serious action. “We will set up a task force to assess whether a hospital is purposefully not giving beds or have not kept enough beds at government approved rates. Action will be taken based on the findings. We are contemplating a plan of action as per the Clinical Establishment Act including suspension of licenses and fines,” said Dr G Srinivas Rao, Director of Public Health Telangana state, when asked about the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/errant-pvt-hosps-in-govt-crosshairs-may-lose-licence/articleshow/76777815.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 4, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur encounter: At Ground Zero, villagers trapped in the crossfire||KANPUR: An eerie silence hung over Bikru village, hours after TOI visited ground zero that witnessed one of the bloodiest encounters in decades, leaving eight cops dead. The hamlet, inhabited mostly by Brahmins, wore a deserted look with only a handful of elderly villagers huddled in their homes. Most of the village youth seemed to have moved to safer areas, fearing a police backlash.The villagers remained tight-lipped about the shootout. Nobody wanted to share clues on what happened after midnight — sound of gunshots, sudden blackout in the road leading to the fortified residence of gangster Vijay Dubey or whether their loyalty to the don stemmed from fear or caste compulsion. When women folk were asked about the absence of male members, they said, “All have gone to the fields to sow paddy.” Overcoming hesitation, a youth in his twenties, one of the few still around in Bikru village, told TOI, “Whatever be the reason for the encounter, the killings have left us deeply shaken. We are caught in a crossfire between criminals and police. Any of us can be picked up for questioning and never return home.” Dubey’s neighbour, a 75-year-old man, can recollect the din outside his house after midnight when he saw several people moving a JCB machine to block the path leading to the gangster’s residence. “We don’t know anything about Dubey or his gang. They just seemed angry and were hurling expletives at police while pushing the earthmover,” he said. Another neighbour said, he heard gunshots and initially thought someone was bursting crackers. “Reality sunk in when we heard the clank of police boots and sirens. Whatever could be the trigger for the gun battle, I felt sad when bodies of policemen kept piling up,” he said. Amidst the blame game, many villagers said, they find themselves caught in a Catch-22 situation. “We are poor, innocent farmers and fear both the gangster and policemen,” said another elderly woman. By evening only Rapid Action Force jawans and SWAT teams were seen marching through the empty dirt roads. “Raids are on to arrest the criminals,” SSP Dinesh Kumar Prabhu told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/eerie-silence-hangs-over-ground-zero-villagers-feel-trapped-in-the-crossfire/articleshow/76777708.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Lok Nayak Hospital panel suggests Ebola drug for Covid||NEW DELHI: A committee appointed by Lok Nayak Hospital to look into the use of newer drugs for Covid-19 treatment has recommended that Remdesivir, an anti-viral drug developed originally to treat Ebola, can be used in patients who don’t improve despite steroid medication for three days and oxygen therapy. According to the committee, chaired by Dr M K Daga, director professor of department of medicine at the hospital, Remdesivir shouldn’t be used with hydroxychloroquine. Then anti-malaria drug, Dr Daga points out in his report on June 29, interferes with Remdesivir’s action. Dr Daga and three other senior doctors from the hospitals also evaluated the efficacy of other drugs such as Favipiravir, Tocilizumab, Ivermectin and plasma therapy for Covid-19 treatment. Favipiravir is an anti-viral medication developed in Japan. The committee has recommended against its use in the hospital citing lack of available data to support its efficacy in Covid-19 treatment. Tocilizumab has been recommended for use among persons suffering from moderate to severe symptoms of the disease. “Patients to be carefully monitored for secondary infections and neutropenia,” the committee has recommended. Covid-19 has no known cure. To save lives, scientists across the globe are leading investigations for re-purposing of available medicines such as Remdesivir, Favipiravir and even plasma therapy. Tocilizumab is recommended for patients who have extensive and bilateral lung disease on x-ray and CT scan among others. Plasma therapy has been recommended for patients with severe Covid-19 infection within seven days of symptom onset. According to the Lok Nayak hospital’s committee’s recommendations, patients with known co-morbidities, those younger than 18 years or older than 60 years, pregnant women, obese and those with previous history of allergy to plasma shouldn’t be considered for the therapy. “We have used Remdesivir in a few cases and the results are positive so far. Plasma therapy has been conducted on about 20 patients and most of them are doing fine,” Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital, said. The hospital is conducting a clinical trial to assess the efficacy of plasma therapy. Officials said the trial will involve 400 Covid-19 patients; 200 will receive standard treatment while the rest will be given convalescent plasma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lok-nayak-panel-suggests-ebola-drug-for-covid/articleshow/76778418.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BJP releases white paper on Nesco Covid centre deal||MUMBAI: BJP released a white paper alleging that BMC paid multiple times the cost the market rate to a builder for facilities at Nesco Covid health centre in Goregaon and wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding a judicial inquiry. The contract was awarded to the builder without tenders. BJP corporator in BMC Vinod Mishra alleged corruption after highlighting charges/rent paid by BMC to the builder and market cost of material. BMC paid Rs 8.25 lakh for bedsheets though the same ones were available in the market for Rs 2 lakh, he said. BMC denied the allegations, stating that Covid-19 cases were increasing drastically when the contract was awarded in an emergency. BMC said the builder was providing the material cheaper than other contractors. BMC gave a Rs 8.5-crore contract to the builder for setting up 2,000 powder-coated beds, chairs, bedsheets, oxygen cylinders, CCTV camera and fans at Nesco. BMC pays rent for some things for three months. BMC stated the builder provided more material than the agreement, and will hand over everything after 90 days. BMC also said part payment was made through a corporate social responsibility (CSR) fund. Mishra alleged, “For several materials, BMC paid two to four times more as rent to the builder, than the actual cost of the materials. It is shocking that BMC awarded the contract to a builder with a criminal record.” BJP MLA Ameet Satam had written to Lokayukta demanding an inquiry as BMC failed to act on his complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-releases-white-paper-on-nesco-covid-centre-deal/articleshow/76777884.cms||Vijay V Singh
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||Carriers refund Rs 50 crore for tickets purchased in Kolkata and cancelled due to shutdown||KOLKATA: After months of uncertainty over what would happen with the money with which they had purchased tickets on flights that were eventually cancelled due to the lockdown, refunds have finally begun to flow in. Of the estimated Rs 400 crore worth tickets purchased in Kolkata for international travel after March 22 and domestic travel between March 25 and May 28 when flights were suspended, Rs 50 crore has been refunded by airlines. Entrepreneur Ranjan Dey, who had purchased a ticket on IndiGo to travel to Delhi from Kolkata in end March, received the refund from travel agent after the latter was able to encash the credit extended to it by the airline through ticket sales after flights resumed from Kolkata on May 28. “I was in a quandary over when I would be able to travel next to utilise credit note that the airline had initially extended in my name. But a few days ago, I received a communication from the agent that money would be credited to my bank account. That happened on Friday,” he recounted. Travel agents are glad airlines heeded their suggestion and transferred the credit note to their ID instead of issuing it in the passenger’s name that would have necessitated the latter to travel to utilize the funds. “Given the current situation, families that may have purchased the ticket in March for a summer holiday may decide not to travel anytime in near future. But there are others who may have urgent travel requirements. Now, we are utilizing the credit to buy tickets for the latter and refunding money to the former,” said Travel Agents Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi. But with passenger traffic from Kolkata down to a fifth of the numbers clocked prior to the Covid outbreak, travel agencies that had major transactions say it will take a long time before they can redeem the amount and refund passengers. “For companies like ours, there are several lakh rupees stuck in the account that can be unlocked only when we can sell tickets,” pointed out Gainwell MD Manoj Saraf. There are, however, instances like Shaina Ganguly who paid Rs 16,400 to return from Aurangabad via Hyderabad but has received only Rs 12,400 back till now. Travel agent Joydeep Mukherjee who booked the tickets said when April 24 flight was cancelled, the credit shell was used to purchase another Rs 12,400 ticket for May 5. But when the lockdown was extended, the airline refunded the amount for the ticket purchased during lockdown but not that was bought prior to it. International airlines, though, have initiated refunds to passengers. Singapore Airlines has cleared all refunds for travel till May 31 and initiated refunds for June. American carrier Delta Airlines, too, has refunded most of the passengers. Qatar, Emirates and Etihad have also initiated refunds. Though Cathay Pacific and Thai Airways haven’t done so yet, travel agents are confident it will happen soon. But, there are problems in refunds related to international flights by IndiGo with partner carrier Turkish Airines. Mukudbhai Hargobindas Patel and his wife Hausmoatiben who were to travel on April 29 to Amsterdam via Delhi and Istanbul have received refund for the international leg but are yet to get the money for the Kolkata-Delhi and return leg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/carriers-refund-rs-50cr-for-tickets-purchased-in-kol-and-cancelled-due-to-shutdown/articleshow/76777834.cms||Subhro Niyogi
July 4, 2020||Kanpur||Cop from Jhansi wished to make daughter a doc, gloom descends in Mauranipur tehsil||Jhansi: Gloom prevailed in Mauranipur tehsil of Jhansi district after the news of the death of constable Sultan Singh Verma, 35, reached early Friday morning. Sultan was part of the team that raided a village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur in search of gangster Vikas Dubey late on Thursday late night and was killed in action. Though originally he belonged to village Bura Bhojla in Jhansi, he shifted to Mauranipur during his early age to his maternal grandfather after the untimely demise of his mother. He is survived by his wife Urmila, 30, who originally belongs to Orai and a 7-year-old daughter whom he once dreamt to make a doctor. Not able to express his emotions, his aged grandfather Govindas told the media that Sultan was with him since grade VI and joined the police force in 2012. Earlier, he was posted in Jalaun and presently he was serving in Chaubeypur police station in Kanpur Dehat. “My only worry is the future of his wife and young daughter which has to be secured,” said Govindas, expecting a compensatory job for his daughter-in-law. As per SP Rural Rahul Mithas, a team from Jhansi along with the relatives of Sultan have gone to Kanpur to bring back the body of the slain cop and is expected to arrive here late in the evening following which it will be cremated with full state honour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cop-from-jhansi-wished-to-make-daughter-a-doc-gloom-descends-in-mauranipur-tehsil/articleshow/76777275.cms||Arindam Ghosh
July 4, 2020||Patna||In 24 hours, six deaths in Bihar; Covid tally crosses 11,000-mark||PATNA: The Covid-19 death toll in the state is inching towards the 100 mark with six more fatalities on Friday taking the total to 84. Altogether 428 coronavirus cases were also recorded, which took the statewide tally to 11,111. Patna recorded 81 fresh cases as per information provided by the district administration. According to the state health department, the death toll in Patna went up to 11 with a 55-year-old city resident, who was Covid positive, dying of cardiac arrest. With 8,211 recoveries, active cases now stand at 2,617 in the state. As per a health department press release, apart from Patna, one death each was reported from Kaimur, Nalanda and West Champaran, while East Champaran reported two deaths on Friday. Four of these deceased were at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. NMCH epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said the Patna deceased was from Gaighat locality in Alamganj. He was comorbid and was admitted at the hospital on June 29 and died due to cardiac arrest on Friday. “Another deceased, 50, was from Sripur in Motihari and was suffering from throat cancer, while Nalanda deceased, 45, was resident of Kohna Sarai in Laheri and was diabetic.” Dr Mukul further said the fourth deceased was from Ashram Road in Ruxaul in West Champaran. He was 42 years old and was suffering from transverse myelitis. He was admitted on Wednesday and died on Thursday. Friday’s Covid-19 cases were reported from 22 districts, including 32 from Muzaffarpur, 19 from Siwan, 17 from West Champaran and 16 from Bhagalpur. The state capital has reported cases from localities like Kankarbagh, SK Puri and Patna City. As per the information shared by state health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh, 217 people have recovered in the past 24 hours, and in the same time period, 519 new cases were registered. Lokesh said 2,43,167 samples have been tested so far, including 7,187 samples, which were tested in 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/6-deaths-in-state-covid-tally-crosses-11000-mark/articleshow/76777833.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 4, 2020||Kanpur||LLR hosp’s emergency ward to be equipped with CT scanning machine||Kanpur: A CT scan machine will be installed at the emergency ward of LLR hospital soon for the poor patients. The CT scan facility will be provided to patients free of cost. Superintendent, emergency ward of LLR Hospital, Dr Manish Singh said that district magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari had released Rs two crore from the corporate social responsibility fund (CSR) for the CT scan machine. The hospital administration had sent a proposal for the machine to the district administration on Wednesday last, he added. Serious patients, mostly suffering from head injury due to accidents, used to come from neighbouring districts to LLR hospital for treatment. Since no CT scan facility was available in the hospital ‘s emergency ward, the family members of such patients had to go to private radiology centres which was beyond their means, and sometimes due to delay in treatment patients would succumb to injuries. Dr Manish Singh, who is also head of the neurosurgery department, while working in the emergency ward of the hospital realized the problem and informed the district magistrate about the need of a CT scan machine. Dr Singh said that after coming to know of the problem of patients, the district magistrate had himself taken the initiative and asked to send the proposal. He not only gave his approval for the machine but even sanctioned the funds, Dr Singh added. The LLR hospital has both CT scan and MRI facilities but it is a paid facility and patients have to run several times to get reports. It is hoped the emergency ward would soon be equipped with a CT scan machine, Dr Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/llr-hosps-emergency-ward-to-be-equipped-with-ct-scanning-machine/articleshow/76777640.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
July 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: NIMS to begin human trials of Covid-19 vaccine soon||HYDERABAD: The Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) in Hyderabad is among 12 other centres across the country to begin human trials for a coronavirus vaccine soon. The vaccine trial proposal was placed before the ethics committee on Friday at NIMS after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) added the hospital cum-research-facility to the list of centres. “Any such trial needs permission from the hospital's ethics committee, and as a first step, we did that and expecting the nod in a day or two, before we start the trials,” a top official from the health department told TOI. The vaccine to be developed by Bharat Biotech will be applied intravenously to volunteers. The vaccine trial will continue for six months and only healthy people in the age group between 22-50 years will be selected for human trials, irrespective of gender. Institutes with clinical pharmacology wings and experience of handling similar human trials, have been selected for the human trials. NIMS in the last 12 years has the experience of conducting about a dozen human trials, including that of the successful meningococcal vaccine. “There are only six or seven very experienced institutes in the entire country having done phase 1 clinical trials,” said a doctor at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nims-to-begin-human-trials-of-covid-19-vaccine-soon/articleshow/76777828.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 4, 2020||Coimbatore||4,329 new coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu crosses 1 lakh-mark||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 count crossed the one lakh mark on Friday, 118 days after the first case was reported in the state. With 4,329 fresh cases, the TN tally rose to 1,02,721 though the number of active cases was much lower at 42,955, a recovery rate of 57%. Death toll rose to 1,385 with 64 more fatalities reported. The case fatality rate in TN is among the lowest at 1.3%. These deaths don’t include more than 200 Covid deaths registered by the Chennai Corporation, which may push up mortality to 1.6%. Tamil Nadu is the second state to cross the grim milestone after Maharashtra (1.9 lakh cases now), which recorded one lakh cases 96 days after its first Covid-19 case. TN reported its first case on March 7, when a 45-year-old passenger from Muscat tested positive. It took 88 days since then for the state to record nearly 25,000 cases on June 3. In the next two weeks, cases doubled to touch 50,000 on June 17 and nine days later it nudged 75,000. On Friday, in just a week, the tally breached one lakh. Chennai, the worst-hit city in TN, recorded 2,082 new cases, taking its tally to 64,689, though active cases were 23,581. Meanwhile, the doubling period the time it takes for the total cases to double – went up to 19 days in Chennai compared to TN’s average of 15 days, say epidemiologists from the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai. Although the city has 64% of the total cases, its share of the state’s daily fresh cases has dropped below 50%. While culture minister K Pandiarajan said the curve is flattening in the city with almost the same number of cases every day, epidemiologists and public health experts said it would take at least a week to see the effects of the lockdown. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the state was doubling beds in Stanley Medical College Hospital from 750 to 1,500 and adding another 750 beds at the new hospital at King Institute of Preventive Medicine. “These hospitals will have beds with oxygen. We are increasing the oxygen capacity at all hospitals from 6 kilolitre tanks to 40 kilolitre tanks. Similar efforts are being taken in other districts as well,” he said. Chennai’s adjoining districts Chengalpet (330) cases, Kancheepuram (121), Tiruvallur (172) together added 623 fresh cases and logged 13 deaths. “Most of these patients live closer to Chennai and seek treatment from hospitals here,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam. “But the situation in the south could be far worse,” he said, pointing to Madurai. Madurai, which reported 287 fresh cases, had a doubling time of six days and Ramanathapuram, which had 73 cases, of seven days. Among other southern districts, Theni recorded 126 cases, Sivaganga had 53 and Tirunelveli reported 41 cases. The deaths in these districts were also increasing. On Friday, Madurai reported eight deaths and Ramanathapuram reported three. “Madurai, may not be able to take the load of cases from the region like Chennai because the human resources and infrastructure in the region are limited. The deaths in these regions may also increase rapidly due to delay in testing,” Dr Kuganandam said. In the central region, Trichy reported 47 cases, Thanjavur had 13 cases. In the West, Salem had 99 cases, Coimbatore had 37, while the numbers in Karur and Tiruppur was five or less. Vellore, which reported 145 cases is also causing worry. The northern district has seen a more than twenty-fold increase in the number of cases over the last one month. In the last 24 hours, Ranipet had 90 cases and Tiruvannamalai recorded 172 cases. Among the 64 deaths, six people had no comorbidities and 38 of them were above the age of 60. There were two people in their 20s, three in 30s and 21 of them between 40 and 59 years. The report said 16 of them died within a day of admission; a 84-year-old man was declared brought dead by doctors at the Government Royapettah Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4329-new-virus-cases-tn-crosses-1-lakh-mark/articleshow/76779100.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Madurai||4,329 new coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu crosses 1 lakh-mark||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 count crossed the one lakh mark on Friday, 118 days after the first case was reported in the state. With 4,329 fresh cases, the TN tally rose to 1,02,721 though the number of active cases was much lower at 42,955, a recovery rate of 57%. Death toll rose to 1,385 with 64 more fatalities reported. The case fatality rate in TN is among the lowest at 1.3%. These deaths don’t include more than 200 Covid deaths registered by the Chennai Corporation, which may push up mortality to 1.6%. Tamil Nadu is the second state to cross the grim milestone after Maharashtra (1.9 lakh cases now), which recorded one lakh cases 96 days after its first Covid-19 case. TN reported its first case on March 7, when a 45-year-old passenger from Muscat tested positive. It took 88 days since then for the state to record nearly 25,000 cases on June 3. In the next two weeks, cases doubled to touch 50,000 on June 17 and nine days later it nudged 75,000. On Friday, in just a week, the tally breached one lakh. Chennai, the worst-hit city in TN, recorded 2,082 new cases, taking its tally to 64,689, though active cases were 23,581. Meanwhile, the doubling period the time it takes for the total cases to double – went up to 19 days in Chennai compared to TN’s average of 15 days, say epidemiologists from the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai. Although the city has 64% of the total cases, its share of the state’s daily fresh cases has dropped below 50%. While culture minister K Pandiarajan said the curve is flattening in the city with almost the same number of cases every day, epidemiologists and public health experts said it would take at least a week to see the effects of the lockdown. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the state was doubling beds in Stanley Medical College Hospital from 750 to 1,500 and adding another 750 beds at the new hospital at King Institute of Preventive Medicine. “These hospitals will have beds with oxygen. We are increasing the oxygen capacity at all hospitals from 6 kilolitre tanks to 40 kilolitre tanks. Similar efforts are being taken in other districts as well,” he said. Chennai’s adjoining districts Chengalpet (330) cases, Kancheepuram (121), Tiruvallur (172) together added 623 fresh cases and logged 13 deaths. “Most of these patients live closer to Chennai and seek treatment from hospitals here,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam. “But the situation in the south could be far worse,” he said, pointing to Madurai. Madurai, which reported 287 fresh cases, had a doubling time of six days and Ramanathapuram, which had 73 cases, of seven days. Among other southern districts, Theni recorded 126 cases, Sivaganga had 53 and Tirunelveli reported 41 cases. The deaths in these districts were also increasing. On Friday, Madurai reported eight deaths and Ramanathapuram reported three. “Madurai, may not be able to take the load of cases from the region like Chennai because the human resources and infrastructure in the region are limited. The deaths in these regions may also increase rapidly due to delay in testing,” Dr Kuganandam said. In the central region, Trichy reported 47 cases, Thanjavur had 13 cases. In the West, Salem had 99 cases, Coimbatore had 37, while the numbers in Karur and Tiruppur was five or less. Vellore, which reported 145 cases is also causing worry. The northern district has seen a more than twenty-fold increase in the number of cases over the last one month. In the last 24 hours, Ranipet had 90 cases and Tiruvannamalai recorded 172 cases. Among the 64 deaths, six people had no comorbidities and 38 of them were above the age of 60. There were two people in their 20s, three in 30s and 21 of them between 40 and 59 years. The report said 16 of them died within a day of admission; a 84-year-old man was declared brought dead by doctors at the Government Royapettah Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/4329-new-virus-cases-tn-crosses-1-lakh-mark/articleshow/76779101.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Ex-CS may be made head of a statutory panel||JAIPUR: The abrupt removal of chief secretary D B Gupta hardly three months before his retirement has come as a surprise to many even in the bureaucratic circles. The unceremonious exit of Gupta has raised many eyebrows and people kept wondering what he did to invite such an action from the chief minister, who is otherwise known to be very considerate to the officialdom. According to sources, Gupta may be given appointment as chairman of a statutory commission, which is the only face saver. Sources indicated that he may be accommodated in the post of chief information commissioner, which has been lying vacant for a long time. Gupta on Friday handed over the charge of chief secretary to his successor Rajeeva Swarup in the afternoon. A sombre-looking Gupta when asked about his future plans put the ball in chief minister’s court. He said,“It is the chief minister’s prerogative.” Soft-spoken Gupta, known for his reputation of an efficient officer, has been in the good books of both the BJP and the Congress governments. He was appointed to the highest bureaucratic post during the previous BJP government. There were talks of his replacement when the Congress was voted to power in December 2018. But the chief minister decided to continue with him in the post knowing his reputation as a good administrator. Under his stewardship, the Congress government’s pet scheme of agriculture loan waiver was successfully executed. Gupta, who was very close to former chief minister Vasundhara Raje, was the JDC when a controversy had erupted over allotment of prime land at C-scheme at throw away price to the Deen Dayal Upadhayay Trust headed by Raje. Finally, the land allotment was cancelled. It was during the first term of Raje government (2003-2008). Though sidelined initially, he managed to make a comeback in the Congress government under Gehlot in his second term of chief ministership holding important posts like agriculture, planning etc. In the BJP government that followed, he was handling the important post of additional chief secretary PWD, Finance, before he was elevated to the post of chief secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ex-cs-may-be-made-head-of-a-statutory-panel/articleshow/76778435.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Tension in Khargone after murder of minority leader||KHARGONE: Tension gripped Bhikangaon town in MP's Khargone district on Friday after a minority community leader was shot dead in clear daylight close to a police station. The accused surrendered before police, minutes after he pumped two bullets into the chest of 52-year-old Mansoor Pathan, police said. The victim was first taken to the district hospital and then referred to Indore, about 115km away, but died on the way. “Mansoor was the Sadar (Muslim community leader) of Bhikangaon. The reason for the attack is not yet known, but during interrogation, the accused claimed that he had been picking fights with Mansoor after they stared each other down on many occasions,” DIG Tilak Singh said. Police are yet to reveal the identity of the 21-year-old accused. Khargone SP Shailendra Singh Chouhan said the suspect is being interrogated and police are trying to identify the trigger for the shooting. “We are also trying to find out if anyone else was behind the attack,” the SP said. The shooting triggered protests in Bhikangaon town, forcing heavy deployment of police. “We are considering it a sensitive case, so police have been deployed in strength,” Singh said. Mansoor’s autopsy was performed at Kasrawad, around 57km from Bhikangaon. He was buried in the presence of police in his hometown. Markets in Bhikangaon shut down immediately after the shooting. Senior police officers are camping in town, and additional police forces have been roped in from adjoining districts and other parts of Khargone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tension-in-khargone-after-murder-of-minority-leader/articleshow/76777826.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chennai||4,329 new coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu crosses 1 lakh-mark||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 count crossed the one lakh mark on Friday, 118 days after the first case was reported in the state. With 4,329 fresh cases, the TN tally rose to 1,02,721 though the number of active cases was much lower at 42,955, a recovery rate of 57%. Death toll rose to 1,385 with 64 more fatalities reported. The case fatality rate in TN is among the lowest at 1.3%. These deaths don’t include more than 200 Covid deaths registered by the Chennai Corporation, which may push up mortality to 1.6%. Tamil Nadu is the second state to cross the grim milestone after Maharashtra (1.9 lakh cases now), which recorded one lakh cases 96 days after its first Covid-19 case. TN reported its first case on March 7, when a 45-year-old passenger from Muscat tested positive. It took 88 days since then for the state to record nearly 25,000 cases on June 3. In the next two weeks, cases doubled to touch 50,000 on June 17 and nine days later it nudged 75,000. On Friday, in just a week, the tally breached one lakh. Chennai, the worst-hit city in TN, recorded 2,082 new cases, taking its tally to 64,689, though active cases were 23,581. Meanwhile, the doubling period the time it takes for the total cases to double – went up to 19 days in Chennai compared to TN’s average of 15 days, say epidemiologists from the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai. Although the city has 64% of the total cases, its share of the state’s daily fresh cases has dropped below 50%. While culture minister K Pandiarajan said the curve is flattening in the city with almost the same number of cases every day, epidemiologists and public health experts said it would take at least a week to see the effects of the lockdown. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the state was doubling beds in Stanley Medical College Hospital from 750 to 1,500 and adding another 750 beds at the new hospital at King Institute of Preventive Medicine. “These hospitals will have beds with oxygen. We are increasing the oxygen capacity at all hospitals from 6 kilolitre tanks to 40 kilolitre tanks. Similar efforts are being taken in other districts as well,” he said. Chennai’s adjoining districts Chengalpet (330) cases, Kancheepuram (121), Tiruvallur (172) together added 623 fresh cases and logged 13 deaths. “Most of these patients live closer to Chennai and seek treatment from hospitals here,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam. “But the situation in the south could be far worse,” he said, pointing to Madurai. Madurai, which reported 287 fresh cases, had a doubling time of six days and Ramanathapuram, which had 73 cases, of seven days. Among other southern districts, Theni recorded 126 cases, Sivaganga had 53 and Tirunelveli reported 41 cases. The deaths in these districts were also increasing. On Friday, Madurai reported eight deaths and Ramanathapuram reported three. “Madurai, may not be able to take the load of cases from the region like Chennai because the human resources and infrastructure in the region are limited. The deaths in these regions may also increase rapidly due to delay in testing,” Dr Kuganandam said. In the central region, Trichy reported 47 cases, Thanjavur had 13 cases. In the West, Salem had 99 cases, Coimbatore had 37, while the numbers in Karur and Tiruppur was five or less. Vellore, which reported 145 cases is also causing worry. The northern district has seen a more than twenty-fold increase in the number of cases over the last one month. In the last 24 hours, Ranipet had 90 cases and Tiruvannamalai recorded 172 cases. Among the 64 deaths, six people had no comorbidities and 38 of them were above the age of 60. There were two people in their 20s, three in 30s and 21 of them between 40 and 59 years. The report said 16 of them died within a day of admission; a 84-year-old man was declared brought dead by doctors at the Government Royapettah Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/4329-new-virus-cases-tn-crosses-1-lakh-mark/articleshow/76777843.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 90% private ambulances lack even basic equipment||HYDERABAD: Accessing well-equipped ambulance services is turning out to be a huge challenge for the public during the Covid pandemic. Speaking to TOI, President of Telangana State 108 employees’ union Ashok Palle said, “About 90% of the private ambulances are not suitable to transport patients who need critical care. You will not find a qualified paramedic or equipment required in these ambulances.” B Kanaka Raju agrees. On Tuesday morning, as soon as the ambulance stopped in front of his residence at Balanagar, he rushed to shift his wife to the hospital. She was suffering from chest pain. But the moment he got inside, Raju realised the ambulance did not even have a first-aid kit or an oxygen cylinder. “It was just being used like a transport vehicle to shift the patient from one place to another,” said Raju. While Raju’s wife is slowly recovering after undergoing a surgery the same day, there are many who have died due to lack of medical equipment or a certified paramedic in the ambulance. In one such case, on Friday, relatives of a 61-year-old patient said that despite all their efforts, the patient passed away after his condition deteriorated due to the lack of an oxygen cylinder in the ambulance. The patient was shifted from SLG Hospital in Nizampet to Gandhi Hospital, after he tested positive. “The patient was on oxygen support while undergoing treatment at SLG hospital. We had informed the ambulance service, while booking it, that the patient was critical and yet there was no equipment in the vehicle except for a resuscitator. He collapsed in the ambulance due to no oxygen support and died on Friday morning,” said Samhith Basu, a close relative of the patient. Relatives of patients rue how these private ambulances, despite being unequipped, charge high rates. Basu said the cost is anywhere between Rs 9,000 and Rs 12,000 within a 20-km radius in the city. Agreeing that there was no mechanical ventilator in the ambulance which transported the 61-year-old, NVG Raja, founder of AMBUS, an ambulance booking app said, “The paramedic used an AMBU Bag instead of a ventilator. Ambu Bag does the same job as the ventilator but it is operated manually by the paramedic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/90-pvt-ambulances-lack-even-basic-equipment/articleshow/76777832.cms||Moulika.KV
July 4, 2020||Salem||4,329 new coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu crosses 1 lakh-mark||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 count crossed the one lakh mark on Friday, 118 days after the first case was reported in the state. With 4,329 fresh cases, the TN tally rose to 1,02,721 though the number of active cases was much lower at 42,955, a recovery rate of 57%. Death toll rose to 1,385 with 64 more fatalities reported. The case fatality rate in TN is among the lowest at 1.3%. These deaths don’t include more than 200 Covid deaths registered by the Chennai Corporation, which may push up mortality to 1.6%. Tamil Nadu is the second state to cross the grim milestone after Maharashtra (1.9 lakh cases now), which recorded one lakh cases 96 days after its first Covid-19 case. TN reported its first case on March 7, when a 45-year-old passenger from Muscat tested positive. It took 88 days since then for the state to record nearly 25,000 cases on June 3. In the next two weeks, cases doubled to touch 50,000 on June 17 and nine days later it nudged 75,000. On Friday, in just a week, the tally breached one lakh. Chennai, the worst-hit city in TN, recorded 2,082 new cases, taking its tally to 64,689, though active cases were 23,581. Meanwhile, the doubling period the time it takes for the total cases to double – went up to 19 days in Chennai compared to TN’s average of 15 days, say epidemiologists from the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai. Although the city has 64% of the total cases, its share of the state’s daily fresh cases has dropped below 50%. While culture minister K Pandiarajan said the curve is flattening in the city with almost the same number of cases every day, epidemiologists and public health experts said it would take at least a week to see the effects of the lockdown. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the state was doubling beds in Stanley Medical College Hospital from 750 to 1,500 and adding another 750 beds at the new hospital at King Institute of Preventive Medicine. “These hospitals will have beds with oxygen. We are increasing the oxygen capacity at all hospitals from 6 kilolitre tanks to 40 kilolitre tanks. Similar efforts are being taken in other districts as well,” he said. Chennai’s adjoining districts Chengalpet (330) cases, Kancheepuram (121), Tiruvallur (172) together added 623 fresh cases and logged 13 deaths. “Most of these patients live closer to Chennai and seek treatment from hospitals here,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam. “But the situation in the south could be far worse,” he said, pointing to Madurai. Madurai, which reported 287 fresh cases, had a doubling time of six days and Ramanathapuram, which had 73 cases, of seven days. Among other southern districts, Theni recorded 126 cases, Sivaganga had 53 and Tirunelveli reported 41 cases. The deaths in these districts were also increasing. On Friday, Madurai reported eight deaths and Ramanathapuram reported three. “Madurai, may not be able to take the load of cases from the region like Chennai because the human resources and infrastructure in the region are limited. The deaths in these regions may also increase rapidly due to delay in testing,” Dr Kuganandam said. In the central region, Trichy reported 47 cases, Thanjavur had 13 cases. In the West, Salem had 99 cases, Coimbatore had 37, while the numbers in Karur and Tiruppur was five or less. Vellore, which reported 145 cases is also causing worry. The northern district has seen a more than twenty-fold increase in the number of cases over the last one month. In the last 24 hours, Ranipet had 90 cases and Tiruvannamalai recorded 172 cases. Among the 64 deaths, six people had no comorbidities and 38 of them were above the age of 60. There were two people in their 20s, three in 30s and 21 of them between 40 and 59 years. The report said 16 of them died within a day of admission; a 84-year-old man was declared brought dead by doctors at the Government Royapettah Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/4329-new-virus-cases-tn-crosses-1-lakh-mark/articleshow/76779102.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Dilli Haats to reopen with safety measures||NEW DELHI: All three Dilli Haats are set to open for the public from Saturday. The haats had been closed due to the lockdown over the Covid-19 pandemic, but with other economic activities being allowed in the capital, the government decided to open them after over 100 days. The three Dilli Haats are located at INA market, Janakpuri and Pitampura. Other than the haats, Nature Bazaar, Garden of Five Senses, Azad Hind Gram and GTB Memorial will also be open from Saturday in compliance with the safety measures set by the central government and Delhi government. No entry fees will be charged at the spots for 15 days to encourage footfall. The opening of these shopping destinations will offer a venue for many while providing a much-needed remobilisation for artisans and craftsmen. Delhi Tourism, which runs the Dilli Haats across the capital, will ensure social distancing to ensure that the infection by the novel coronavirus does not spread. The department will ensure mandatory wearing of masks by all, social distancing among the visitors, daily sanitisation of the premises and will also make provisions for hand sanitisers. All visitors will have to undergo mandatory thermal screening. Managing director of Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation, Sanjay Goel, said: “Our properties have evolved as an integral part of the city. We offer the ecological and artistic richness of Garden of Five Senses and a chance to take home the pleasant experiences and handmade goods at the haats”. “While people can again relish these spaces, we urge all visitors to strictly adhere to the safety measures and protocols the government has set,” Goel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dilli-haats-to-reopen-with-safety-measures/articleshow/76778436.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Rajkot||Dalit man accuses Kutch barber of refusing to cut hair||Rajkot: After a salon owner refused to cut his hair, a Kutch villager on Thursday lodged an FIR with Adesar police alleging that the refusal stems from him being a lower caste. While the incident took place in March, an offence was lodged only on Thursday in the case after the village elders’ efforts for a truce did not materialize.In his complaint, Ramesh Parmar a resident of Padampar village of Rapar taluka in Kutch also accused the owner of hurling castiest slurs at him. The police have registered an offence under Atrocity Act and started investigation into the allegations.According to Parmar, he had gone for a hair cut to Dharamshi Valand’s shop on March 2. However, Valand asked him to go and said that he will meet the latter in the evening. When Valand came to meet, he allegedly told Parmar not to come to his shop “as it will invite difficulty for both of them”.At this, another villager, Karamshi Patel, tried to intervene in the matter, but Valand refused to provide Parmar his services, allegedly on the grounds that the latter is a Dalit. “Valand hurled castiest slurs and said he won’t cut my caste people’s hair even if he is forced to shut his shop,” Parmar alleged. When cops asked what delayed him in approaching the cops, Parmar said that village elders wanted to bring out a settlement in the matter, which led to the delay. However, as Valand remained firm on his decision, Parmar decided to file a complaint. When contacted, DySP (SC/ST Cell) Kishorsinh Zala said, “We have registered an offence under Atrocity Act and will probe into the allegations. We are recording statements of the persons concerned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dalit-man-accuses-kutch-barber-of-refusing-to-cut-hair/articleshow/76777688.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Vadodara||Jr cricketer suspended over ‘bogus’ birth papers||Vadodara: The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) on Friday suspended an under-19 cricketer for submitting a bogus birth certificate. A controversy had surfaced over a dubious certificate submitted by the 17-year-old junior cricketer who plays for the association. BCA officials after inquiry suspended the player from cricket camp till further decision by the apex council. “We had sent in our official to the village mentioned in the cricketer’s birth certificate. The government records available with the talati didn’t reflect his name. Also, his school leaving certificate and birth certificate reflects almost same handwriting that raised our suspicion,” said Ajit Lele, BCA secretary. The BCA had reportedly summoned the cricketer recently. He had maintained that the certificates he submitted were authentic. Interestingly, the boy has been playing for the association since last three years and last year he was part of the under-16 squad too. When asked why the BCA suddenly decided to inquire into his certificates, Lele said, “We had received information that his certificates were not authentic so we decided to inquire.” The boy, whose father works in a PSU, had submitted the birth certificate from Mankan village in Vadodara district. This village is adjacent to Bharuch district’s Ikhar village from where former India player, Munaf Patel hails and hence there is a demand from some BCA officials to inquire about his involvement in the matter. “I have been helping this cricketer like many other players in Baroda. He has good potential and needs support. But I have no idea about the certificates that he has submitted. Why didn’t BCA verify his certificates before registering him and even giving him green card?” questioned Munaf who is currently working as a bowling coach for Baroda team. “As of now, the cricketer has been suspended from the camp. The entire matter will be taken to the apex council and it will decide on action to be taken against the junior cricketer and inquire if any other person helped him,” Lele added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/jr-cricketer-suspended-over-bogus-birth-papers/articleshow/76776654.cms||Tushar Tere
July 4, 2020||Noida||Toy park scheme to be launched in 2 weeks||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) will launch a scheme to promote manufacturing of toys in the next two weeks, officials said. The authority has been chalking out the details to earmark 100 acres for the park. Land in Sector 33 has been earmarked for setting up the cluster. The scheme was conceived after the Toy Association of India sought land from the authority. The chief executive officer, YEIDA, Arun Vir Singh, said: “Eighty manufacturers registered with the association want land to start units. We will provide 50 acres to the association. The remaining 50 acres would be allocated on first come first serve basis to other interested entrepreneurs.” Vice president of the association, Naresh Kumar Gautam said, “We would bring in investments worth Rs 600 crore and generate at least 15,000 jobs. The association would keep 50% jobs only for women. We would cater to other countries also.” According to industry estimates, toys worth Rs 2,500 crore are imported in the country annually out of which majority of the toys are sourced from China. Union government had increased import duty on toys from 20% to 60% earlier making sourcing of toys from other countries extremely expensive. Gautam said that imposition of higher duties would promote indigenous products. “We would develop a 15-acre wide common facility so that all 80 companies can collaborate and produce quality products at affordable rates,” said Gautam. During the visit of industrial development minister Satish Mahana, the association had sought some relaxations and exemptions. The manufacturers have been assured of receiving subsidies from the government if they are able to operate the units within a period of 18 months after the allotment. From the time the Union government has curbed imports of non-essential items, toy manufacturers in Delhi – NCR belt have been left in the lurch. The manufacturers were scouting land in Delhi earlier. However industrial land was costing Rs 70,000 sqmt in the national capital. Land along the expressway would be available at the tenth of that cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/toy-park-scheme-to-be-launched-in-2-weeks/articleshow/76778441.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Surat||Health dept rejects weekly offs request by NCH doctors||Surat: Over 100 residents doctors New Civil Hospital (NCH) on Friday demanded weekly offs and duty schedules similar to their counterparts in Ahmedabad, but their request was promptly turned down by principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi on Friday. Ravi, who has been camping in the city since Tuesday due to spike in Covid-19 cases, instructed them to continue working as per current arrangement. The doctors also demanded that after 10 days of Covid duty they be given five days leave followed by 10 days of non-Covid duty. They informed Ravi that they have not got a single day's leave for the last three months. “All resident doctors have been working relentlessly for the last three months. This has taken a toll on their physical and mental health,” said one of the resident doctors. “We just went to demand for what the Ahmedabad residents doctors were getting.”“How can there be two different rules for doctors in different cities of the same state. If our demands are not met, we will protest,” said another resident doctor. NCH in-charge superintendent Dr Priti Kapadia said, “We have been making some changes in duties of the residents doctors on rotation. But no one is being allowed to take off in the current situation.”Ravi has been camping in the city since Tuesday as Covid-19 cases are on rise in the City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/health-dept-rejects-weekly-offs-request-by-nch-doctors/articleshow/76777539.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Heat, humidity raise power demand in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The hot and extremely humid weather being experienced for the past few days has resulted in a spike in the city’s peak power demand. On Friday, Delhi clocked a peak demand of 6,310 MW, just four notches lower than the season’s highest recorded on June 29. On Tuesday, the peak power demand was 5,895MW, 5,958MW a day later and 6,198MW on Thursday. Friday afternoon’s power demand is an increase of 5% from 5,958MW recorded on July 1. “Because of the sultry weather, peak power demand is likely to increase in the coming days. Last year, the highest peak demand was 7,409MW,” a discom official said. BSES said after Lockdown 3.0 ended on May 17 and restrictions were eased, peak power demand had increased by over 50%. “If we compare the demand of April with July, it has already increased by over 87%. Since June 1, when the demand was 3,807MW, a rise over 65% has been seen,” the official said. “Arrangements have been firmed up to source adequate electricity to meet the demand of over 44 lakh consumers. These include long-term PPAs and banking arrangements of up to 800MW with other states. In case of unforeseen contingencies because of low generation and outages at power plants, BSES will purchase short-term power from the exchange,” a statement from the distribution company said. The discom added that it was closely watching the Covid-19 situation in the capital and taking appropriate measures to ensure reliable supply to consumers without compromising on the safety of its employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/heat-humidity-raise-power-demand/articleshow/76778448.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Pratapgarh jail turns into Covid-19 hotspot, 58 positive in 3 days||UDAIPUR: Pratapgarh prison has become the next Covid-19 hotspot in Rajasthan. A total of 32 people, including a jail guard, have tested positive, taking the number of active cases to 60 in the district. So far, 74 people have been infected in Pratapgarh. The spread was reported from the jail two days back when 26 prisoners were found positive in a single day, which came as a shocker for the administration as well as the health department. It came to light that a prisoner brought on production warrant had been the carrier of the virus who infected others. A marathon screening was held and samples of 106 people, including close contacts, were taken of which 32 tested positive on Friday. The entire jail premises have been sealed and an isolation ward has been created inside the prison where the patients are being treated, jailor Shivendra Sharma said. According to sources, one of the prisoners who was brought in the jail on production warrant tested positive last week and another one in the jail, too, was found positive. When the close contacts of the persons were screened, 26 people were found infected on July 1, while 32 more were tested positive on Friday. The health department is on high alert after the second blast in the prison with the number of Covid patients increasing. People who came in contact with the positive persons were tested and their samples have been taken. CMHO V K Jain and PMO O P Daima inspected the arrangements at the isolation ward inside the prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pratapgarh-jail-turns-into-covid-19-hotspot-58-positive-in-3-days/articleshow/76778440.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Udaipur||Pratapgarh jail turns into Covid-19 hotspot, 58 positive in 3 days||UDAIPUR: Pratapgarh prison has become the next Covid-19 hotspot in Rajasthan. A total of 32 people, including a jail guard, have tested positive, taking the number of active cases to 60 in the district. So far, 74 people have been infected in Pratapgarh. The spread was reported from the jail two days back when 26 prisoners were found positive in a single day, which came as a shocker for the administration as well as the health department. It came to light that a prisoner brought on production warrant had been the carrier of the virus who infected others. A marathon screening was held and samples of 106 people, including close contacts, were taken of which 32 tested positive on Friday. The entire jail premises have been sealed and an isolation ward has been created inside the prison where the patients are being treated, jailor Shivendra Sharma said. According to sources, one of the prisoners who was brought in the jail on production warrant tested positive last week and another one in the jail, too, was found positive. When the close contacts of the persons were screened, 26 people were found infected on July 1, while 32 more were tested positive on Friday. The health department is on high alert after the second blast in the prison with the number of Covid patients increasing. People who came in contact with the positive persons were tested and their samples have been taken. CMHO V K Jain and PMO O P Daima inspected the arrangements at the isolation ward inside the prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/pratapgarh-jail-turns-into-covid-19-hotspot-58-positive-in-3-days/articleshow/76783873.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Top priority to get economy back on track: Rajasthan chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup||JAIPUR: Rajeeva Swarup, who has been appointed the new chief secretary of Rajasthan, said the main challenge for him would be to bring the state’s economy back on track as it got badly hit due to the corona pandemic. “The pandemic has affected the state’s economy badly. Our biggest challenge will be to put the state’s economy back on the rails. My objective will be to implement the priorities of the government promptly. In this challenging situation, the chief minister (Ashok Gehlot) has given me a heavy responsibility. We have to deal with Covid and also revive the economic condition that has been disrupted (due to the pandemic and lockdown),” said Swarup. The elevation of Swarup, who led as ACS (additional chief secretary) home during the lockdown period, is being seen as a reward for his work in fighting the Covid crisis. The new chief secretary is due to retire in October this year, but it is believed that he may get an extension for six months or even for a year. However, Swarup wants to focus on the next four months for now. During the Covid crisis in the state, he became the face of the government as he sent out video messages urging people to adhere to the Covid norms and protocol, preparing the guidelines for different phases of lockdown and unlock, executing the guidelines strictly and regulating inter-state movement of people. He was also instrumental in drafting and later bringing the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. Before becoming ACS home, Swarup held charges of industries, state enterprises and investment, micro, small and medium enterprises as ACS and RIICO as its chairman; He was also principal secretary to MSME department, higher education and technical education department and information and public relation and Devasthan department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/top-priority-to-get-economy-back-on-track-cs/articleshow/76778443.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 66 IPS officers transferred, including 20 SPs||JAIPUR: The state government on Friday evening transferred 66 IPS officers in the state, including 20 SPs of various districts. The transfer order, which had been in the pipeline for a while, came just a day after the order for IAS officials was issued. The transfer included appointment of M L Lather, who was holding the post of DG (Law and Order), as DG Crime Branch, which was earlier held by B L Soni who has now been appointed as DG Jail. Rajeev Kumar Sharma, who was ADG Personnel, has been appointed as ADG-cum-Director of Rajasthan Police Academy. Saurabh Srivastava has been appointed as ADG Law and Order, Jaipur, after being relieved from the post of ADG Anti-Corruption Bureau. Apart from this, Govind Gupta, ADG Vigilance, will now take over as ADG (Recruitment and Promotion), and will be replaced by Biju George Joseph in one-on-one transfer. Vijay Kumar Singh will take over from Vishal Bansal as IGP (CID CB). In the major reshuffle, Prafulla Kumar, who was holding the post of Commissioner of Police, Jodhpur, has been transferred as IGP Bikaner Range, and will be replaced by Jose Mohan, who was earlier the IGP Bikaner. Ajay Pal Lamba, who was ADG Law and Order, Jaipur, has been given the post of ADG Crime, Jaipur, to replace Ashok Gupta. Lamba will be replaced by Rahul Prakash, who was DCP Traffic, Jaipur. Haider Ali Zaidi, SP of Bharatpur district will take over as DIG Intelligence, Jaipur. He will be replaced by Amandeep Singh Kapoor who was SP Bhiwadi. Priti Chandra has been transferred from DCP (West) Jodhpur as SP Bhilwara. Her husband, Nagaur SP Vikas Pathak will take over as SP CID (Human Rights). The other SPs include transfers from Churu, Alwar, Karauli, Dholpur, Banswara, Sirohi, Jaisalmer, Tonk, Kota Rural, Jalore, Dausa, Jhalawar and others. Praveen Gupta is new chief electoral officer Two IAS officers have been transferred on Friday. Anand Kumar, who was the chief electoral officer (CEO) of the state, has been appointed principal secretary in-charge of revenue and Praveen Gupta, who was made principal secretary in-charge of tribal area development on Friday, was appointed CEO Rajasthan and principal secretary to the election department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/66-ips-officials-transferred/articleshow/76778447.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19 fears among kids: Watch out for diarrhoea and vomiting||NEW DELHI: Diarrhoea and vomiting are two uncommon symptoms seen in children suffering from Covid-19. A group of researchers from AIIMS and PGIMER, Chandigarh have concluded this following an analysis of 27 reports on clinical manifestation of the viral infection in over 4,800 children across the globe. Similar to adults, the most common clinical features are fever and cough; however, the frequency is much lower in children (60-100% in adults vs. 40-60% in children), according to the research published in Indian Paediatrics. Also, one-fourth of children are asymptomatic, it adds. Few children suffering from Covid-19 turn critical, according to the study, and only one per cent of all the symptomatic paediatric cases develop symptoms such as acute respiratory distress syndrome, respiratory failure and shock among others. The screening algorithms in adults rely primarily upon fever and cough as these are present in more than 80% of the patients; however, the same approach for the paediatric population is likely to miss out 40-50% of the cases. Therefore, the screening strategy for children should incorporate both respiratory and gastrointestinal features, the doctors say. Dr S K Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), said once the novel coronavirus enters the body, it goes into the throat. “From there it can go into the lower respiratory tract or attach itself to the cells of the gastrointestinal tract or the bile duct for multiplication. That’s why in many cases the virus causes diarrhoea and vomiting too,” he said. Scientific reports suggest that a Covid-19 positive patient can shed the virus in his or faeces too. “It is, therefore, important that one should flush the toilet after putting on its cover,” Dr Sarin said. According to Dr Anupam Sibal, paediatric gastroenterologist and group medical director at Apollo hospital, most children suffering from Covid-19 do not require hospitalisation. “They recover fast,” he said. However, Dr Sibal added, children can spread the infection to others and therefore it is important to take all preventive measures. Over the last two months, a new hyper-inflammatory condition manifesting as Kawasaki disease or Kawasaki-like shock syndrome has been described in children above four years of age, across Europe and USA, with increased risk of mortality. One case from India has also been reported too, according to a clinical case letter published in Indian Paediatrics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-fears-among-kids-watch-out-for-diarrhoea-and-vomiting/articleshow/76778452.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Veggie prices soar as local produce dries up in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The retail prices of vegetables are on fire again in the city as locally harvested produce has exhausted. Wholesale traders of Muhana Mandi said that the prices will continue to rise in the coming days due to low supply of vegetables. There would be no dip in the prices till September, they said. The prices of tomatoes are Rs 60-70 per kilogram in the retail market. “Even during complete lockdown, we were selling tomatoes for Rs 20-30 per kilogram in the retail market. But as the locally harvested tomatoes are over, we are dependent on Andhra Pradesh and Nashik for this vegetable,” said Abdul Sagir, a wholesale dealer at the Sodala Sabzi Mandi said on Thursday. Other locally harvested vegetables, including bottle gourd, ladyfinger, beans and others are completely exhausted. “These vegetables are available from January to June only. Thus, for coming months, we are dependent on other states for the timely vegetable supply,” said Ramesh Singh, a trader at Jhotwara. “In May 2020, the prices of bottle gourd, ladyfinger, round gourd, coriander, tomatoes and ginger were low to an extent that they were sold at cheaper prices compared to May 2019. However, since July 1, the prices are increasing mainly because of short supply, damage to local harvest and increased demand,” said Pappu Lal Prajapat, president of Rajasthan Phal Sabzi Thok Vyapaar Mahasangh. Bottle gourd was sold between Rs 15 and Rs 20 per kilogram in May. Now, it is sold between Rs 25 and Rs 25 per kilogram. “Similarly, the prices of ladyfinger were Rs 14-20 per kg and now they have gone up to Rs 40-60. Tomatoes that were sold at Rs 12-Rs 15 per kg are now at Rs 60 to Rs 70 per kg,” said a retailer in Jhotwara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/veggie-prices-soar-as-local-produce-dries-up/articleshow/76778450.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 4, 2020||Noida||Noida: Dadri market sealed with 19 containment zones near it||NOIDA: The Dadri market and its neighbouring areas were shut on Thursday evening after most of the area became part of containment zones due to increasing number of Covid-19 cases. While most of the area measuring about 1sqkm would be shut, shops selling essential items will stay open. Officials said the market will reopen in phases over the next 14 days, depending on which area completes the 14-day period when. Dadri and the rural part of the tehsil have 64 cases now with 19 active containment zones. On Friday, at NTPC, Dadri, 330 RT-PCR tests and 356 antigen tests were conducted. Of those tested, 26 were found positive. Dadri tehsil has seen 62 containment zones so far. . “This is a precautionary step that needed to be taken, as the number of cases had started rising. Dadri does not have a single big cluster. With more cases being reported from across various parts of the tehsil, the source of infection could be anywhere,” said Rajeev Rai, the subdivisional magistrate, Dadri. He added that the move was discussed with all stakeholders and several society representatives from the area. Officials said that while most cases were from societies in Bisrakh area, several cases have been reported from the rural parts of the tehsil, like Bisada and Jarcha villages. There are 52 villages in the area spread over 11 sqkm. “We are identifying clusters and organising camps in different areas to carry out rigorous sampling as a policy measure,” said Rai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/dadri-market-sealed-with-19-containment-zones-near-it/articleshow/76778451.cms||Snehil Sinha
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Litmus test for Akhil Arora||Jaipur: Principal secretary of health department Akhil Arora assumed office on Friday which is bustling with activities for containing the spread of Covid-19. Earlier, he was principal secretary of social justice and empowerment. He is joining the department at a time when the state is battling the Covid pandemic. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has been consistently reviewing the situation on the pandemic for the past three months and currently taking measures to provide much-needed respite to the economy by giving relaxations in movement of people. Current priorities of Arora include containing the spread of the virus and also to chalk out strategies for upcoming seasonal diseases such as dengue, scrub typhus, chikungunya and malaria. His experience of being the commissioner and secretary and again commissioner and principal secretary in two different stints with the Information technology and communication department (from 2013 to 2018) would help the health department which has a lot of scope for using IT to improve the infrastructure of the state. Gehlot had time and again given indication that amid the pandemic, he is aiming to boost the entire healthcare infrastructure, including maternal and childcare facilities, facilities to fight against non-communicable diseases such as diabetes and hypertension. Besides, cardiac care, kidney and cancer care facilities are on the list of priorities of the state government. However, currently, the pandemic is a major challenge and it would be a litmus test for Arora, who has been given the charge of the health department with a lot of expectation. The outgoing head of health department, additional chief secretary, Rohit Kumar Singh, who has been transferred to home department, has efficiently dealt with pandemic since the first case was reported in the state. The recovery rate of Covid in Rajasthan is over 80% and it is currently among the states having highest recovery rate. However, in June, when the state government provided relaxations to encourage economic activities, the state witnessed spike in Covid cases and deaths in June. Almost half of the Covid deaths in the state took place in June. Since positive cases and deaths are on the rise after relaxation given to people in Unlock 2.0, the state’s focus has shifted to preventing fatalities. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has also written to state’s chief secretary to increase the number of testing aiming to prevent deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/litmus-test-for-akhil-arora/articleshow/76778449.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Fire breaks out at cloth shop and bakery in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A major fire broke out at a cloth shop in Purohit ji ka Katla in Walled City on Friday. In another incident, a bakery was completely gutted at New Sanganer Road. At around 2 am on Friday morning, fire officials rush to Purohit ji ka Katla where major fire broke out at a cloth shop. Around five fire tenders were called from Ghat Gate, Bani Park and Bais Godam fire stations to control the fire. One contractual fire brigade employee Amardeep Singh got burn injuries during the operation and taken to hospital. However, he is out of danger. Jagdish Phulwari, fire deputy commissioner in Jaipur said that they had to face immense difficulties to douse the fire. “The area of Purohit ji ka Katla is very cramped due to congested lanes. We have to connect long pipes to reach to the spot. Fire broke out on the fourth floor of the cloth shop which was completely destroyed. For three hours, we struggled to control the fire,” said Phulwari. Congested lanes in the Walled City have always posed difficulty in dousing fire. The fire department recently purchased fire motorcycles especially built to get into such lanes to control fire but in such intense situation, low percentage of water carrying capacity of bikes is a problem. Hence, department has to call the fire tenders later on. Similarly, fire also broke out at Delight Bakery at New Sanganer Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fire-breaks-out-at-cloth-shop-and-bakery-in-city/articleshow/76778454.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Zydus’ vaccine gets DCGI nod for human trials||AHMEDABAD: Pharmaceuticals and healthcare major Zydus Cadila has received regulatory nod to start phase I and II human clinical trials in India of its vaccine candidate for Covid-19. Called ZyCoV-D, it is a plasmid DNA vaccine in trial stage. The approval has been issued by Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) - Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO. Zydus Cadila has become the second company after Bharat Biotech to have received the approval to conduct human clinical trials for the potential Covid-19 vaccine. “The company’s vaccine has successfully completed preclinical phase and has now received the permission to initiate phase I/II human clinical trials in India,” Zydus Cadila said in a statement on Friday. The company’s vaccine candidate has been indigenously developed at its Vaccine Technology Centre in Ahmedabad. Pankaj Patel-promoted Zydus Cadila has already manufactured clinical GMP batches of the vaccine candidate and plans to initiate the clinical trials in July 2020 across multiple sites in India in over 1,000 subjects. “In animal studies, the vaccine was found to elicit a strong immune response in species like mice, rats, guinea pigs and rabbits. No safety concerns were observed for the vaccine candidate in repeat dose toxicology studies by both intramuscular and intradermal routes of administration,” added the company. With ZyCoV-D, Zydus has successfully established the DNA vaccine platform, which can also be rapidly used to modify the vaccine in couple of weeks in case the virus mutates to ensure that the vaccine still elicits protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/zydus-vaccine-gets-dcgi-nod-for-human-trials/articleshow/76777872.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ludhiana||3 succumb to Covid-19, 60 test positive in dist||TNNLudhiana: Three Covid-19 positive patients, two from Ludhiana district and one from Delhi, died at different hospitals on Friday. Meanwhile, 60 from the district tested positive for the disease on the day.DMCH officials said a 62-year-old man from Field Ganj, who was admitted on June 27, breathed his last at 2.21pm. They said he was a diabetic, hypertensive and heart patient. A 68-year-old woman from Diesel Shed in the district died at Fortis Hospital in Mohali, while a 63-year-old from Lajpat Nagar in Delhi succumbed to Covid-19 at SPS Hospital here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said of the 1,011 samples sent for testing on Thursday, reports of 871 have come as negative and of 140 were pending. Health department officials said of the other 119 pending samples, reports of 87 came as negative on Friday and 32 were positive, of which 31 patients were from Ludhiana district and one from Sangrur.They said of the cases from Ludhiana, five are jail inmates, two each are from Jaswant Nagar, Haibowal, Mundiyan Kalan, Shimlapuri, Islam Ganj, Daba Road, Ram Nagar, Railway Station, one case each is from Doraha, Malakpur, Talwara, Dholewal, Giaspura, Pakhowal Road, Jamalpur, Laxman Nagar, New Pratap Nagar and Manjeet Nagar. They added that one report from PGI stated that a Ludhiana resident has tested positive for Covid-19 there. And as per a report from SPS Hospital, a Delhi resident was positive.Health department officials said of the 26 positive reports received from DMCH, 23 are from Ludhiana and one each is from Sangrur, Gurdaspur and Moga. They added that of the 23 persons from Ludhiana, six are from Khanna, four from Dugri, two each from Vikas Nagar, Miller Ganj, Basti Jodhewal and one each from Bhamiyan Kalan, Haibowal, Gurdev Nagar, Bihari Colony, Tibba Road, Payal and Dhokan Mohalla. The officials said of the five positive reports from a private laboratory, one case each was from Khanna and Basti Jodhewal and three patients were from other areas of the district.The civil surgeon said besides 60 from the district, five from outside also tested positive and till now 960 from Ludhiana and 206 from outside have tested positive here. He said with two deaths, the toll count of the district stood at 24. The toll tally of those from outside Ludhiana was 25. Health department officials said 1,026 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing on Friday. The positive casesThe persons who tested positive include five inmates of Ludhiana Central Jail, four healthcare professionals, including a billing supervisor at a private hospital, two pregnant women and a police Home Guards jawan from Sangrur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-succumb-to-covid-19-60-test-positive-in-dist/articleshow/76776945.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ludhiana||It’s old ways at New Ashok Nagar||Ludhiana: It was life as usual at New Ashok Nagar in Salem Tabri, which is the fourth containment zone in the city. On Friday, people were seen entering and exiting the zone freely and many were without masks inside the area. Four areas have been declared containment zones in the district so far (Chawni Mohalla is no longer in the category). Two days after the district administration declared New Ashok Nagar A, B and C as a containment zone after it reported 23 cases, a Times of India team found norms being thrown to the wind. Of the four barricaded streets visited by the team, in two, cops were on duty and in one a health team was taking samples of residents. In two streets, though cordons were in place, people were moving in and out, and two children also sneaked in. In one of the streets, a woman and a child were sitting on a chair without masks. Nearby, a mask-less woman was buying something from a street vendor and a scooterist drove past, also without a mask. In one of the streets, people were seen moving though barricades in the absence of cops. District administration officials said the police have to ensure strict implementation of restrictions in containment zones. They said as per the government guidelines, movement has to be monitored to ensure that nobody leaves or visits the area, except for medical emergencies and supply of essential goods and services. However, police authorities claimed norms related to containment zones were being enforced in New Ashok Nagar.  Ludhiana Police commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal said they have deputed adequate cops at the containment zones. “They are carrying out flag march. Besides posters are pasted and announcements made. We will address the shortcomings and register cases against those violating the norms .”BOX CASE FILEName of containment zone ---------- Cases*Habib Ganj, Sainsi Mohalla, Islam Ganj --------- 56Prem Nagar --------- 80New Ashok Nagar, A,B,C, Salem Tabri --------- 23* Cases as on July 1 Box 2: The firstOn June 5, Chawni Mohalla was declared a containment zone, the first in Ludhiana district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/its-old-ways-at-new-ashok-nagar/articleshow/76776951.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Labourer, 32, held for rape bid on neighbour||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Friday arrested a 32-year-old man for trying to rape his 18-year-old neighbour.Assistant sub-inspector Harbhajan Singh said, “The accused works as a labourer in fields. On June 29, the woman was going to a shop in their locality when the accused asked her to help him take fodder home. The woman agreed and accompanied him to the field. There, the accused started harassing her. When he was trying to rape her, the woman raised the alarm. Passersby rushed to her rescue.” On reaching home, she apprised her family of the issue. “Initially, the woman’s family and the accused tried to strike a compromise. However, on Thursday, she lodged a complaint with the police,” the ASI added. The police arrested the accused, father of four, under sections 376 (rape), 511 (attempt to commit an offence) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/labourer-32-held-for-rape-bid-on-neighbour/articleshow/76776964.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Brothers booked for killing mother’s former husband||Times News Network Ludhiana: A 55-year-old man succumbed at a hospital in Chandigarh on Thursday, two days after a brother-duo thrashed him in Talwara village, Ludhiana district. The deceased has been identified as Gurmail Singh, a priest at a shrine in Talwara. He was their mother’s former husband. The police have booked Jaspreet Singh, 23, and Jasdeep Singh, 25, residents of Thareeke village, on the charge of murder.PAU police station SHO inspector Paramdeep Singh said, “About 35 years ago, Gurmail had tied the knot with Jaspreet and Jasdeep’s mother. As the couple did not get along, they parted ways two years after their marriage. Thereafter, the woman married another man and the couple had two sons, Jaspreet and Jasdeep. About five years ago, the woman’s second husband died. Two years ago, she came across Gurmail and about one-and-a-half years later, she started living with him in the shrine. Both Jaspreet and Jasdeep were unhappy with it.” When Jaspreet and Jasdeep asked their mother to return home, she refused. “Around 9.30pm on June 29, the brothers reached the shrine. They had an argument with their mother and Gurmail. Thereafter, the duo thrashed Gurmail and escaped. An injured Gurmail called up his sister, Dharmjit Kaur, who took him to ESIC Hospital. From there, he was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh,” the SHO added. Gurmail succumbed during treatment on Thursday. Police have registered a case against Jaspreet and Jasdeep under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC on the statement of Dharmjit Kaur. The duo is on the run. On Friday, the autopsy of Gurmail was conducted at civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/brothers-booked-for-killing-mothers-former-husband/articleshow/76776965.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Amber residents face water woes, forced to rely on tankers||JAIPUR: Water crisis in the Amber region is giving the residents a hard time. They are forced to depend on private tankers for their water needs. Yogendra Jha, a resident of Bangaliyon ka Mohalla in Amber, said that they receive water only for 10 minutes in their area. “There has been some problem in our area’s water line due to which water is supplied only for 10 minutes. We have complained to everyone but nothing has changed. I have to order at least 10 tankers a month for my household needs,” said Jha. Residents here don’t use more than one cooler and have stopped using RO too. Saving water is their prime concern as private tankers cost Rs 300 each. Manisha Sharma, a housewife, said that sometimes they have to go to the nearby park to fill up some buckets. “Not everyone can afford tankers as it takes a toll on our pockets. My children go to nearby parks on their motorcycles to fill up buckets. Though we still need to purchase tankers but we try to make do with five tankers a month. My husband goes out of the house every day for work so the clothes have to be washed daily but water crisis is a hurdle,” said Sharma. MLA Satish Poonia visited the area on Friday and met the residents. He assured to find a solution to the problem. Ishwar Chand, another resident, said that they have given written complaints to PHED many times but no action has been taken. Most of the PHED officials have stopped picking up phones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/amber-residents-face-water-woes-forced-to-rely-on-tankers/articleshow/76778461.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt schools to distribute sanitary pads during lockdown||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government initiative to provide sanitary pads to girl students in classes VI to XII was halted due to the lockdown. The girls were finding it difficult to get sanitary pads exposing them to infections. Now, they can collect the pads from schools or aanganbadi centres. Saurabh Swami, director, directorate of secondary education, Bikaner, said, “As the schools have been opened for teachers so we have asked the principals to keep stock of sanitary pads. Any girl student can take pads from schools in the village. If the principal is finding it difficult to get pads, he/she can inform the nearby health centre and it will be provided to them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-schools-to-distribute-sanitary-pads-during-lockdown/articleshow/76778457.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Surat||Surge in positive cases continues in south Gujarat||Surat: Like the city, coronavirus has spread its tentacles in the rural areas of Surat as well. About 58 fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded from the district, taking the total cases to 635 on Thursday. Three persons — a 50-year-old woman and a 33-year-old man from Kamrej and a 54-year-old man from Choriyasi — succumbed to the deadly virus in the past 24 hours. Bharuch district recorded 13 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total number of cases in the district to 276 on Friday. Jambusar taluka recorded five Covid-19 positive cases followed by four cases in Bharuch town. Dr Nilesh Patel, epidemic medical officer, said, “Jambuar and Bharuch towns have turned into the coronavirus hotspot. Till now, 100 cases have been reported from Bharuch town, whereas 91 cases have been reported from Jambusar taluka.” Meanwhile, Navsari district recorded six fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 143. A 70-year-old woman in Tapi district was detected Covid-19 positive. Ranjan Panchal (70), a resident of Snehkunj Society in Vyara had visited his relative’s places in Unai on June 25. On her return, she suffered from high fever and cough and later she tested Covid-19 positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surge-in-positive-cases-continues-in-south-gujarat/articleshow/76777557.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Bharatpur bribery case: ACB gets more time to quiz Sharma||JAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) got an extension of remand for the main accused in the high-profile bribery case involving the former DIG Bharatpur till July 6. Accused Pramod Sharma was on five-day remand during which he was extensively questioned by the ACB officials. SHOs, inspectors and sub-inspectors, who came in contact with Sharma, were also questioned. He will be again produced in court on Monday. Saurabh Srivastava, ADG, ACB said, “We had sought an extension of Sharma’s remand which was granted to us till July 6 and now we will further question him about the alleged corruption.” ACB had arrested Sharma on June 24, apparently the middleman, who was allegedly caught accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh. He had demanded the bribe from the SHO of Udyog Nagar police station in Bharatpur for facilitating his good service record. Private bus owner Sharma used to extort junior police officers claiming to be a close aide of Bharatpur Range ex-DIG Laxman Gaur. During the investigation, ACB found that not only Sharma shared a good rapport with many political leaders but was also apparently close to Gaur and stayed at his residence. According to sources, the calls made by the accused were also from ex-DIG's house. The officials are yet to question the former DIG and Srivastava added, “At present, we have not reached the stage of questioning the ex-DIG and are focusing on the junior officials who were in touch with Sharma. Once we have more details the investigation will move in the required direction as it unfolds.” Following the allegation, Gaur was removed from his post and is awaiting posting orders. Once Sharma was arrested, cops also questioned around a dozen police personnel and confronted them with the accused. Sharma owned a tours and travel company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bribery-case-acb-gets-more-time-to-quiz-sharma/articleshow/76778465.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad civic body shifts Covid focus to western city||Ahmedabad: The increasing number of cases reported from the western part of the city over the past fortnight has compelled AMC to shift its focus there. Of the 55 micro-containment areas declared by the civic body on Wednesday and Thursday, 33 were from the western city parts. On Friday night a third list was issued by the AMC in which 18 of the 26 new micro-containment areas lay in the western city. On Thursday a second list had declared 9 of 14 new micro-containment areas added on the day also lay in the western city. AMC officials say over 50% of daily reported cases are from western city and they have intensified the battle against Covid-19 there with special focus on West Zone, North West Zone and South Zone. The micro-containment areas declared on Friday and Thursday included A block of Sundervan Epitome, Bungalow 21 to 27 Park Hill Society (Jodhpur), Chamunda Nagar Part-1, Fazal-e-Rehmani-1 (Juhapura), Ashvalekha Flats Block A-B, Janta Market (Both in Vejalpur ward), H Block Kanakkala-2 (Jodhpur ward) in South West zone. In the North West Zone ten new micro-containment areas were declared. These are fourth and fifth floor of G Block ICB Island, fourth and fith floor of A block Parth Indraprasth Tower, second and third lane of Devnagar gam (Gota), first floor of D block Sagar Sangit-I (Sola), fourth floor of O-block, fifth floor of K-Block, second floor of D-Block all in Vishwas City-2 (ChanakyapurI), first floor of E-block Samet Residency, Block T, Q and L of Saundarya Apartment (Ghatlodia), House number 1 to 61 and 17 to 27 of Mrudul Park-2 near Satadhar Crossroads(Thaltej), House No. 38 to 50 in Harsidhbaugh Society (Ghatlodia) and House No. 41, 42, 43 Tirthnagar-1 Society (Thaltej). In West zone nine areas were declared mirco-containment. These include 169 and 179 of Pratiksha Aparment (Sola Road), F and P block of Swaminarayan Park (Vasna), Block 27 and 73 of Hariom apartment, Rasdi Apartment (Juna Vadaj), Shreeji Apartment (Ranip), Sanskar Arcade (Chandkheda), C-block in Sankheswar and Padamnagar both in Sabarmati and 661 No. Lane, Jantanagar nr Bharat Bakery (Chandkheda ward). Among other areas included in micro-containment are Sector-I in Vivekanandnagar, Mirapark, Jainnagar Society, 440/122 Lane Choksi ni Chawl and Seema Park (Odhav ward) in East Zone and in South Zone the new micro-containment areas include house no 31 to 48 Parash Prabhu Society (Isanpur), Vijay Tower (Kankaria), Gagan Vihar (Shahwadi), house No. R-06 to R-11, Vasudev Bungalow, near Jasoda Nagar, and C block, Karnavati Apartment, nr Hirabaug Chhapara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-shifts-covid-focus-to-western-city/articleshow/76777886.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Adani to build infra at Hazira to restart Ro-Ro ferry service||RAJKOT: Adani Group’s Adani Hazira Ports Pvt Ltd (AHPPL) has won the contract to build the temporary infrastructure at Hazira port for re-starting the beleaguered Ghogha-Dahej Ro-Ro ferry service. AHPPL quoted the lowest - Re one - in the bids invited by Deendayal Port Trust (DPT), formerly Kandla Port, which has been tasked with re-starting the ferry service. DPT had last month invited bidders for the temporary structure which can enable the re-starting of the service that has been mired in a plethora of problems since September 2019. DPT chairman SK Mehta said, "Adani had quoted the lowest Re 1 (for 11 months) which means they will charge only this token amount from us for the construction." DPT, which will eventually operate the ferry service as per the shipping ministry's mandate, aims to commence the Ro-Ro operations as soon as monsoon ends. DPT on Thursday issued the letter of acceptance to AHPPL, which operates a container terminal at Hazira. “Adani has agreed to provide us the temporary infrastructure in the next three months. They have been given a contract for 11 months which is extendable by as many months with 25% escalation,” said DPT officials. Adani, which already operates a container terminal at Hazira, outbid Essar Ports and one more company to win the construction contract. Sources said that the investment required for the structure is at least Rs 25 crore. The infrastructure requires a linkspan and pontoon, which are the key to operating the Ro-Ro vessel and movement of transport vehicles into the ship. On Thursday, DPT handed over the letter of acceptance to Adani Ports. The Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB) has agreed to provide 600 m waterfront and 24 hectare land to DPT on lease, but the formalities are yet to be completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/adani-to-build-infra-at-hazira-to-restart-ro-ro-ferry-service/articleshow/76777704.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 4, 2020||Udaipur||Anandpal case: Rajasthan minister calls chargesheet ‘unfortunate’||JAIPUR: State cabinet minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas has called the chargesheet in the infamous Anandpal encounter naming several Rajput social and community leaders, ‘unfortunate’ on Friday. In a statement, the minister accused the BJP of misusing the law enforcement agencies to shift the blame of their involvement in the encounter on others. “It is a politically motivated move by the BJP to prove the encounter right and put the blame on others,” said the minister. His statement came after social leaders met him to raise the issue. The chargesheet filed by the CBI has named several social and community leaders creating an uproar in the state. Khachariyawas further added that some of those named in the chargesheet were not even present at the encounter site. He said that the role of BJP leaders has always been doubtful. “Then the BJP government has tried to stop the protesting family of Anandpal demanding fair probe in the encounter by filing an FIR and handed over the investigation to CBI.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/anandpal-case-min-calls-chargesheet-unfortunate/articleshow/76780589.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Business||Demand for pre-owned laptops, mobiles rises as classes go online||Chennai: With schools and colleges taking to online classes, students are firing up demand for pre-owned and refurbished phones, tablets and laptops, given that the prices of new gadgets have been rising, during the lockdown. Pre-owned smartphone seller Cashify has seen a 40% increase in orders. Mandeep Singh, founder, of the company said, “Online classes have been happening for over 3 months and students want to buy smartphones where they can watch uninterrupted video lessons for over 3-4 hours at a stretch.” Used Apple iPads — are sold at around Rs 15,000 and the average price of smartphone is at Rs 9,000. Tablets with Android OS have few takers while laptops with basic and intermediate configurations move fast. Riddhima S from Cognizant, Chennai, just purchased a refurbished laptop for Rs 22,000 for her son who is taking online classes. “We are working parents and it is difficult to share resources when we have work and he has to study. Plus, we don’t know how long the classes would go on for and investing too much on a laptop doesn’t make sense. It was a bargain to purchase a refurbished laptop with an i3 configuration that works well for online classes and basic projects that he needs to submit” she said. Some of these sellers are tying up with non-profit organisations to provide used/refurbished laptops and tablets to the underprivileged students. “The demand from the students segment has gone up 5x to 7x over the past few months. We are working with Parikrama Foundation, an NGO, to supply laptops to the rural students and some of them are also being funded by philanthropists. Considering the retail demand alone, tablets see faster movement since they have a larger screen,” said Rohit Pagaria, founder, Budli. In the case of Vijayalakshmi, she picked up a refurbished Dell laptop for her 10th grade son for whom the online classes are on full steam. “We dont know how long the online classes will go, and besides as a growing boy, my son will also need a personal device for himself,” she said. For PreLoved Device, students, who contributed less than 10% to the business pre-lockdown now take up 30% of the share. “They are brand agnostic and are looking for a phone at around Rs 6,000 to keep the online classes going and they prefer larger screens. We are just about managing the supply and demand situation because this segment is growing at 4-5x compared to February,” said Yogesh Bhatia, co-founder, PreLoved Device.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/demand-for-pre-owned-laptops-mobiles-rises-as-classes-go-online/articleshow/76776977.cms||Aparna Desikan
July 4, 2020||Surat||Western Railway’s 46 isolation coaches gather dust at Surat station||SURAT: While the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) is grappling with rising Covid-19 cases and arranging for more beds in private hospitals, the isolation facility created in train coaches by the Western Railway (WR) is gathering dust at the Surat railway station. In April, the WR had deployed two racks (trains) with 23 coaches each at the coaching depot of the Surat railway station to aid the treatment of the Covid-19 patients. The facility has air conditioned coaches for the doctors and healthcare staff with all the facilities. The 46 coaches can accommodate 736 patients. A senior SMC officer asking anonymity said, “We did not know that the WR has set up isolation coaches at railway station. We will have to survey the facility inside the coaches to take final decision on utilizing the facility.” C R Garuda, area railway manager (ARM) told TOI, “We are ready with the isolation coach infrastructure, but haven’t received request from the state government or local administration for utilizing the facility. In Delhi, the isolation coaches of the railways are already under use for treatment of Covid-19 patients.” Member of the Zonal Railway Users Consultative Committee (ZRUCC), Rakesh Shah told TOI, “Instead of bringing the private hospitals under the Covid-19 treatment, the isolation coaches should be used for the treatment of the patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/wrs-46-isolation-coaches-gather-dust-at-surat-station/articleshow/76777581.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi south corporation demolishes ‘illegal’ ramp in Greater Kailash market||NEW DELHI: A day after TOI reported about an encroachment row in the M-Block market of Greater Kailash-I between the local AAP MLA and the BJP councillor, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Friday demolished the ramp where a vendor had set up a fast food stall. The ramp was actually built by SDMC some time ago to stop accumulation of water in the market. “Some time ago, SDMC repaired the common areas in the market and laid granite stones in front of shops for beautification,” said a trader. However, the corner where the alleged encroachment took place was cluttered, the trader added. “It was just cleaned and repaired a bit before the stall was placed. The civic agency carried out the demolition on Friday morning before the market opened.” An SDMC official said some levelling was done on Friday and anti-encroachment drives will be carried out regularly. On Friday, some officials of SDMC’s south zone also visited the site, said traders. The corporation has also written to Delhi Development Authority for sharing the layout plan of the market to take action against encroachments. Pointing to the fast food kiosk in a video, AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj had alleged that BJP councillor Shikha Rai and the local police were encouraging encroachments in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/south-corpn-demolishes-illegal-ramp-in-gk-market/articleshow/76778472.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Jodhpur||Anandpal case: Rajasthan minister calls chargesheet ‘unfortunate’||JAIPUR: State cabinet minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas has called the chargesheet in the infamous Anandpal encounter naming several Rajput social and community leaders, ‘unfortunate’ on Friday. In a statement, the minister accused the BJP of misusing the law enforcement agencies to shift the blame of their involvement in the encounter on others. “It is a politically motivated move by the BJP to prove the encounter right and put the blame on others,” said the minister. His statement came after social leaders met him to raise the issue. The chargesheet filed by the CBI has named several social and community leaders creating an uproar in the state. Khachariyawas further added that some of those named in the chargesheet were not even present at the encounter site. He said that the role of BJP leaders has always been doubtful. “Then the BJP government has tried to stop the protesting family of Anandpal demanding fair probe in the encounter by filing an FIR and handed over the investigation to CBI.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/anandpal-case-min-calls-chargesheet-unfortunate/articleshow/76780587.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ajmer||Anandpal case: Rajasthan minister calls chargesheet ‘unfortunate’||JAIPUR: State cabinet minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas has called the chargesheet in the infamous Anandpal encounter naming several Rajput social and community leaders, ‘unfortunate’ on Friday. In a statement, the minister accused the BJP of misusing the law enforcement agencies to shift the blame of their involvement in the encounter on others. “It is a politically motivated move by the BJP to prove the encounter right and put the blame on others,” said the minister. His statement came after social leaders met him to raise the issue. The chargesheet filed by the CBI has named several social and community leaders creating an uproar in the state. Khachariyawas further added that some of those named in the chargesheet were not even present at the encounter site. He said that the role of BJP leaders has always been doubtful. “Then the BJP government has tried to stop the protesting family of Anandpal demanding fair probe in the encounter by filing an FIR and handed over the investigation to CBI.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/anandpal-case-min-calls-chargesheet-unfortunate/articleshow/76780590.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Vadodara||62 test positive, highest in a day so far||Vadodara: Fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the city and district made yet another peak with 62 persons testing positive since Thursday evening. With the new cases, 2,459 persons have been infected with Covid-19 since the pandemic. The new cases were reported from 314 tests conducted since Thursday evening. This is the highest number of tests conducted on a single day including both by hospitals treating Covid-19 patients or those getting tests done for surgeries or hospitalisation. The east zone of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) was the worst affected area in the city, with 15 cases being reported there. This was followed by the south zone where 12 cases were reported. North and west zone of the city reported 11 cases each. Thirteen fresh cases were reported in the rural areas of Vadodara district. The fresh cases in the rural areas that include those bordering the city include those from Bhayli Road, Dashrath, Undera, Ranoli, Padra and Dabhoi. On Friday, 29 persons were discharged from hospitals and home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/62-test-positive-highest-in-a-day-so-far/articleshow/76776692.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Anandpal case: Rajasthan minister calls chargesheet ‘unfortunate’||JAIPUR: State cabinet minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas has called the chargesheet in the infamous Anandpal encounter naming several Rajput social and community leaders, ‘unfortunate’ on Friday. In a statement, the minister accused the BJP of misusing the law enforcement agencies to shift the blame of their involvement in the encounter on others. “It is a politically motivated move by the BJP to prove the encounter right and put the blame on others,” said the minister. His statement came after social leaders met him to raise the issue. The chargesheet filed by the CBI has named several social and community leaders creating an uproar in the state. Khachariyawas further added that some of those named in the chargesheet were not even present at the encounter site. He said that the role of BJP leaders has always been doubtful. “Then the BJP government has tried to stop the protesting family of Anandpal demanding fair probe in the encounter by filing an FIR and handed over the investigation to CBI.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/anandpal-case-min-calls-chargesheet-unfortunate/articleshow/76778462.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Pune||Torrents of rain today could trigger urban flood, landslips in Pune||PUNE: Weathermen issued a red alert for extremely heavy rain in isolated places on Saturday for Konkan-Goa and Madhya Maharashtra, including the ghat areas of Pune, Nashik, Mumbai, Palghar, Raigad and Thane. Urban flooding in some parts of Mumbai city and its suburban areas is likely. Since there is a likelihood of a sudden rise in water levels of rivers, all precautions must be taken for the safety of road and railway bridges in Konkan and Goa, the Central Water Commission said. India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said high convergence of strong moist westerly/southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea along the west coast and a cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat and the neighbourhood in lower atmospheric (tropospheric) levels, may cause fairly widespread to widespread rainfall. Isolated heavy to very heavy rain is expected over the next five days over Gujarat, Konkan-Goa, Madhya Maharashtra and coastal Karnataka. The Central Water Commission (CWC) also issued a flood alert for parts of the state on Friday, for coastal rivers passing through districts of Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Palghar, Thane and Raigad. CWC sources told TOI that heavy to very heavy rainfall had occurred in Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri districts which led to a rise in the water of coastal rivers in those areas. “As rainfall of higher intensity is likely to continue for at least 3-4 days, there was likelihood of a rise in the level of coastal rivers along the west coast in Maharashtra and Goa in the districts of south and north Goa, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Palghar, Thane and Raigad,” the commission said. There was a likelihood of isolated extremely heavy rain in Nashik, Pune, Satara districts in the Western Ghat areas. It can lead to a rapid rise in water levels in Damanganga and its tributaries in Nashik district and Valsad district of Gujarat. “A rise in the water levels of Krishna and its tributaries in the districts of Pune and Satara during the next 3-4 days could also be expected. Since most dams in this region are only 25-40% of their full capacity, no major threat of spilling is anticipated,” the commission said. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune told TOI that weather systems akin to last year when very heavy rains were experienced over parts of Konkan and north Madhya Maharashtra in July were brewing. These include an upper air circulation over Gujarat and its neighbourhood appearing on July 4, coupled with strong westerly winds from the Arabian Sea. “This system is likely to develop into a mid-tropospheric cyclonic circulation around July 5-6, which may cause very heavy to extremely heavy rain in isolated places in North Maharashtra and Gujarat. The westerly winds are likely to get stronger on July 4 and 5. A pressure gradient force over Knkan-Goa and West Madhya Maharashtra is also likely to aid widespread rainfall,” he said. A sheer zone is also affecting the southern central part of Maharashtra and is likely to work in combination with other systems to bring fairly widespread rains to widespread rains in parts of the state till July 5, Kashyapi said. Rainfall intensity should start reducing from July 6 evening, he said. “Travellers have been cautioned about reduced visibility over the ghat areas in Pune and Nashik on July 4. Vehicles crossing ghats and the expressway should move slowly. Chances of landslides in prone areas in the affected districts cannot be ruled out during this wet spell,” Kashyapi added. In three hours till 10.30am on Friday, Mumbai city had already recorded more than 100mm rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/torrents-of-rain-today-could-trigger-urban-flood-landslips/articleshow/76777898.cms||Neha Madaan
July 4, 2020||Hubballi||Student attends her father’s funeral after writing SSLC exam||HUBBALLI: A student in Gadag lost her father an hour before her SSLC exam, but the tragedy didn’t deter her from taking the exam. She attended her father’s funeral after taking the exam. Anusha Bhajantri, a SSLC student of Tontadarya school, and resident of Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Ishwar Badavane, Gadag, was getting ready to write her last paper of the SSLC exam, and had gone to wake up her father, only to realise that he had passed away in his sleep. She immediately alerted her mother and other family members of the same, after which she went and wrote the exam. Anusha said that both her parents are teachers in the same school. My father Suresh Bhajantri,58, underwent spinal surgery two months back, and was advised bed rest. He also suffered from liver and kidney diseases after the surgery, but was recuperating. “My father used to tell me that we should not lose courage during difficulties, and that we must face challenges confidently. He encouraged me to do well academically, due to which I decided to take the exam,” she said. “All my teachers, and school staff supported me, due to which I could gather the courage to take the exam. I had to hold back tears while writing the Hindi exam. I immediately rushed home afterwards, to attend my father’s last rites,” she said. S S Keladimath, BEO, Gadag, said that when he heard about the demise of their teacher Suresh Bajantri, he rushed to his home and consoled Anusha. “We appreciate the courage she has shown, after being faced with such a tragedy,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/student-attends-her-fathers-funeral-after-writing-sslc-exam/articleshow/76777601.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
July 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Workers start returning to sites for families’ sake||PUNE: For 23-year-old Chandan Kumar, going home to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh was a pressing need in April and May. When he finally secured a pass in May, reached home and spent a month with his family, the reality quickly dawned. “I realised there was no work in the nearby districts and so I requested my employer to arrange for my return,” Kumar said. He makes about Rs 16,000 a month painting structures and sends Rs 10,000 back home. Adding the finishing touches with his colleague Santosh Kumar Raj, 34, at Windsor County project in Ambegaon, he said, “I realised that my family will be taken care of only when I work.” Raj said it was important for his family that he get back to work. Of the 10 people who left for home from the group, eight have returned. “They are expert painters. People from some parts of Uttar Pradesh have this knack. External painting requires more skills which they are good at. People from West Bengal and Chattisgarh are good at centring jobs,” said Sapna Rathi, chairperson of Windsor Shelters. For Raju Kumavat, a mason working at one of Gera Developments commercial projects in Pimpri, returning seemed like a smart choice to keep his family in Rajasthan on track. Most realtors expect labourers to start returning in batches from mid-July as livelihood gains importance. “About 10% of the labourers have returned to our sites. Our general contractors are hoping to see more return in small numbers from mid-July. They will be anxious. Counselling and support is being provided to allay any fears,” a representative from Gera Developments said. Sachin Kulkarni, managing director of Vastushodh, said people are awaiting transport facilities to come back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/workers-start-returning-to-sites-for-families-sake/articleshow/76777906.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 4, 2020||Pune||Chargesheet: Rs 5cr was demanded from victim||Pune: The Pune police on Friday stated in a chargesheet filed before a special MCOCA court that the seven persons arrested for kidnapping and murdering Laxmi Road shoe shop owner Chandan Shevani in January had demanded Rs5 crore from him. The accused persons shot him dead after he repeatedly expressed his inability to fulfil their demand, the chargesheet filed by assistant commissioner of police Shivaji Pawar and the Bund Garden police senior inspector, Shrikant Shinde, stated. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham on July 1 sanctioned the seven arrested persons’ prosecution under the MCOCA provisions. Subsequently, the chargesheet was filed naming criminal on police records Parvez Hanif Shaikh (42) and Preetam Ramesh Aambre (36) as the prime accused. The five co-accused are Afridi Rauf Khan (23), Sunil Ramdev Gaikwad (49), Ajinkya Hanumant Dhumal (21), Kiran Sunil Kadam (21) and Anil Suresh Sapkal (48). Shaikh served a seven-year jail sentence in a murder case at Sangli before being released in February last year. He organised a gang to scout for moneyed people with the intent of kidnapping and extorting money from them, it added. The chargesheet mentions offences of murder, kidnapping, extortion, dacoity, destruction of evidence, abetment and common intention, besides, provisions of the Arms Act and the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). The gang kidnapped Shevani on the night of January 4, took him to Bopdeo ghat and demanded Rs5-crore ransom. The chargesheet stated, “When Shevani expressed his inability to pay the amount, Shaikh hit him in the head with an iron rod, causing a grievous injury. They then took Shevani to Padegaon in Satara district, where Kadam and Shaikh fired a round each from their firearm to cause the victim’s death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chargesheet-rs-5cr-was-demanded-from-victim/articleshow/76777908.cms||Vishwas Kothari
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||New norms keep pre-primary classes out of RTE Act ambit in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state government guidelines on the Right to Education (RTE) Act 2020-21 has kept pre-primary classes out of the ambit of 25% admissions for weaker sections and economically disadvantaged groups in private schools. The online admission process under the RTE quota will start from July 9. The new guidelines say that admissions under RTE 2020-21 will be given in Class I or entry-level above Class I. The move will disallow beneficiary students of pre-primary education in private schools. Majority of the private schools begin with at least two years of pre-primary classes which lays the academic foundation of the child. Now, the RTE quote students can take admission in Class I, experts fearing that will lead to a mismatch of learning outcomes between former and non-RTE quota students. Last year, out of 2.10 lakh RTE quota students, 1.20 lakh were given admission in pre-primary classes signals that pre-primary classes are popular among the beneficiary lot. Defending the move, state education minister Govind Singh Dotasra said to have made a correction in the RTE rule for the first time since 2012. “State recognize schools only from Class 1 onwards and admission below Class I doesn’t violate the RTE Act. The private schools have been misusing the RTE Act by opening pre-primary classes up to three years which means three years of additional payment for each child under this Act. I agree that pre-primary classes are important is a reason that the state has Aanganwadi Centres for the said purpose,” said Dotasra. For every admission under the RTE quota costs the state around Rs 10,569 which is paid in two instalments. It costs the state exchequer Rs 350 crore in 2019-20 session. The omission of pre-primary classes has angered the experts. Pranjal Singh, of Abhyutthanam Society working for RTE implementation, termed the move ‘dilution of section 12 (1) © of the RTE Act’. “The provision categorically mandates a 25% reservation at the entry-level whichever may be. It also comes in the violation with article 45 of the Indian Constitution which directs the state to provide early childhood care and education until they complete the age of six years,” said Singh. Forecasting the effect of the act, Singh says that the provision will widen the gap between the privileged and the underprivileged children. “The entry of RTE quota in Class 1 with a mismatch in the learning outcome will make the child vulnerable in the class,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-norms-keep-pre-primary-classes-out-of-rte-act-ambit/articleshow/76778483.cms||Shoeb Khan
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC notice to state govt over med officers’ recruitment||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan High Court while issuing a notice to the state government stayed the condition of procuring certificate of registration from the medical council of Rajasthan for applying to the post of medical officer. The court also asked the government to include the petitioners provisionally in the selection process. The single bench of Justice Ashok Kumar Gaur issued the order on a petition by Sachin Mehta. Nitish Bagri, counsel for the petitioner, said, the state government had issued advertisement for the recruitment of 2,000 medical officers in June this year. The petitioners are currently pursuing their internship training programme. The Rajasthan Medical Council had issued them provisional registration certificates and the permanent registration certificate was to be issued only after completion of the aforesaid one-year internship. They were aggrieved by a supplementary condition in the recruitment notification on June 2 this year whereby the candidates could only be termed as qualified on the ground that they procure permanent registration certificate issued by the Rajasthan Medical Council, on or before the examination date July 12, which was challenged in the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-notice-to-govt-over-med-officers-recruitment/articleshow/76778476.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Let blasts accused speak to brother: Gujarat court||Ahmedabad: The special court hearing the 2008 serial blasts case, on Friday ordered Civil Hospital authorities to allow an undertrial, who is being treated for Covid-19, to speak to his family members through the video screen provided for kin of patients outside the Covid ward. Designated judge A R Patel ordered the hospital superintendent to allow video-call conversations between the patient, Mohammed Habib Falahi, and his brother Mohammed Amir, in the manner other patients can speak to their relatives. Falahi developed Covid-19 symptoms in the last week of May and was hospitalized on June 1. When news of his illness reached his famiy in Azamgarh, UP, his brother came to Ahmedabad and requested the court to direct the hospital authorities to provide his health report. Amir was then allowed to talk to his brother through the video screen. After June 15, the authorities restrained the brothers from speaking to each other. This brought Amir to the special court again, and he questioned the restriction of the facility without any reason through his advocate Somnath Vatsa. After the hearing, the special court ordered the hospital superintendent to permit Amir to speak to his brother in accordance with the rules till he is discharged and sent back to jail. In a series of bomb blasts in Ahmedabad on July 26, 2008, fifty six persons were killed and 200 others suffered injuries. Responsibility for the terror strike was claimed by an outfit named Indian Mujahideen. More than 75 persons are currently facing trial in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/let-blasts-accused-speak-to-brother-hc/articleshow/76777910.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Mask units see a ray of hope as ministry acts for export||Ludhiana: A day after The Times of India raised the issue of surgical mask manufacturers facing the problem of huge unsold stock and asking the Centre to allow export of their products, especially the three-ply masks, the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises has swung into action. The ministry has shot off letters to the three-ply and two-ply mask manufacturers, seeking inputs like production and export capacities and surplus stock till July 8. The details will be submitted to the authorities to enable them to lift the export ban. Gurpreet Singh Kahlon, member, MSME board, said, “After receiving representations from the surgical mask manufacturers, information is being gathered from them about the surplus stocks. In addition to this, availability of melt blown fabric is also being checked in India and the manufacturers of the fabric, too, have been conveyed to report any surplus. The information from all the stakeholders should reach the offices of MSME by July 8, so that consolidated details can be submitted to the authorities concerned to enable them to lift the export ban.” Hailing the development, Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club and a three-ply mask manufacturer, said, “This is a welcome initiative and we are thankful to TOI for highlighting the issue. If the exports are allowed, manufacturers can be saved from facing losses of lakhs of rupees. The surplus and fall in demand and rates of three-ply masks have caused a problem for us, especially at a time when local sales have gone to zero. Export is the only option we have now.”Ashwani Garg, another mask manufacturer from the city, said, “This development will benefit hundreds of mask manufacturers, as the market for three-ply surgical masks had taken a hit due to a huge drop in rate and demand due to oversupply. There is no harm if export of surgical masks is allowed in a systematic way by ensuring that adequate quantity is available for the domestic market too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mask-units-see-a-ray-of-hope-as-ministry-acts-for-export/articleshow/76776991.cms||Mohit Behl
July 4, 2020||Goa||‘Marina in Zuari will affect fishing’||Panaji: Traditional fishermen in Zuari bay have expressed apprehensions about the adverse impact a marina in the river would have on their fishing activities and have claimed that hundreds of them stand to lose their livelihoods. In a statement, the fishermen, under the banner of the All Goa Small Scale Responsible Fisheries Union, alleged that the marina in the Zuari would have long-term and irreparable impacts on the ecosystem. Fishermen along the northern banks at Odxel, Nauxim, Cacra and Siridao and at Sancoale and Chicalim in the south have been traditionally carrying out fishing activities since times immemorial. An area of one lakh square metres will be taken up by the marina while a vast area will be reclaimed on the waterfront. This will result in different types of impacts, some of which will be long-term and irreparable, the union stated. Zuari river is a known fish biodiversity hotspot, with many species of shellfish comprising bivalves, crabs and other species. The union demanded the scrapping of the project in the interest of protecting the ecology and people’s livelihoods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/marina-in-zuari-will-affect-fishing/articleshow/76778782.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: West crosses 60% share of cases once again this week||AHMEDABAD: The western part of Ahmedabad reported 123 fresh cases or 61% of the total 202 fresh cases reported on Thursday. This is the second time in a week that the western city has reported more than 60% of new Covid cases in the city. On Monday, 63% of the 222 cases were from western city. Also, five of the seven deaths reported from the city were from the western part. Of these seven deaths, one each were reported from LG Hospital, Civil Hospital in Asarwa and Sola Civil Hospital and four deaths were reported from private hospitals. On Thursday, the West Zone reported 52 cases, the highest reported from any AMC zone on the day. Areas like Sardar Patel Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangura, Ranip, Paldi and Vasna fall in West Zone. The three zones reporting highest number of cases on Thursday were all from western part of the city. The North West Zone comprising Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia, and Gota reported 40 fresh cases which was the second-highest among all seven zones in the city, while 31 cases were reported from the South West Zone, which includes Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Maktampura, and Sarkhej. The South West Zone was the third-highest in terms of fresh cases. The western part of the city has been recording a surge in cases for the past couple of weeks, but the numbers on Thursday left many officials worried. Of the five deaths reported from western city three were from West Zone and two from North West Zone. Even on Wednesday, the western parts of the city had reported 48% of the total 208 cases. The West Zone reported the highest, 71 cases, while North West Zone had 16 cases and South West Zone had 12 cases. Till Friday morning, the city had a total of 3,191 active cases of which 1,635 or 51% are from the western part of the city. Of these 1,635 cases, the West Zone has recorded 669; the North West Zone, 506; and the South West Zone, 460. As for other zones, 217 are from the Central Zone, 432 from the North Zone, 452 from the East Zone, and 455 from the South Zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/west-crosses-60-share-of-cases-once-again-this-week/articleshow/76777905.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Pune||MCOCA against gangster, 3 aides||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Thursday invoked provisions of the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) in a case involving a Chinchwad-based criminal on the police records Ramesh Gangavane (27) and his three aides. The accused allegedly participated in robberies on the Pune-Nashik highway and in Mhalunge area. The police identified the three aides as Abhishek Gosavi (25) of Chinchwad, Shubham Autade (25) and Suraj Kamble (26) both residents of Thergaon. Gangavane has 10 cases of robberies registered against him, the police said. According to the police, the accused gang members would threaten commuters on Pune-Nashik highway and in Mhalunge with sharp weapons before robbing them. Inspector Balaji Sontakke of the Mhalunge chowkey prepared a proposal to impose the MCOCA against the four-member gang and Pimpri Chinchwad’s additional commissioner of police Ramnath Pokale gave a nod to the same on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mcoca-against-gangster-3-aides/articleshow/76777913.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Exorbitant power bills leave consumers flummoxed||tnnLudhiana: Inflated bills from Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL), apparently due to a glitch in the billing system, have left consumers fuming. Many of them complained that the amount in their quarterly bill has gone up by two to three times.Shocked to receive the inflated bills, they are now forced to do the rounds of the regional office of the power corporation in Agar Nagar here for rectification. Sandeep Singh, a resident of BRS Nagar, said earlier he had got a bill of Rs 3,000 for April and May through online system, which he paid through the digital mode. “But, a few days back, we again received a bill of over Rs 7,000, which includes the previous billed amount that we have already cleared,” he said.Ajay Goswami of Dhaka colony said at the PSPCL regional office, “I paid online a bill of Rs 2,000 only a few days back and within a fortnight, I have again received a bill of Rs 4,000. So, I am visiting the regional office for correction.”Several other consumers also complained that after issuing online electricity bills to the consumers, the corporation has again sent new bills to them, wherein the previously paid amounts are shown as outstanding.“After the lockdown, I lost by job and facing difficulties in even managing household expenses. This inflated bill has further added to the stress. PSPCL has done wrong billings, causing avoidable harassment to the consumers,” said another consumer outside the PSPCL office. When contacted, chief engineer of central zone, Virinder Pal Singh Saini said, “We will take up this issue with the authorities of the commercial department, who deal with billing, so that consumers do not face any difficulties. We have given directions to the officials of the regional centre for addressing the grievances of consumers at the earliest.”How to lodge grievancesConsumers can contact PSPCL by visiting their Facebook page — Fb.com/pspclpb — and writing their complaints, along with their residential details. They can also register complaints via Twitter using the PSPCL handle — Twitter.com/pspclpb. The corporation can also be contacted at Instagram.com/pspcl. Besides, toll-free helpline 18001801512 can be dialled to lodge complaints as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/exorbitant-power-bills-leave-consumers-flummoxed/articleshow/76777026.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Pharmacist, lab owner among 4 arrested with banned tablets||Times News Network Ludhiana: In two separate cases, the police arrested four persons after 39,000 tablets of Tramadol were recovered from them in Ludhiana on Thursday. In the first case, Daresi police arrested Kuldeep Kumar Sharma, 30, and Satwant Singh, 40, of Hargobindpura. Kuldeep is the owner of a medical laboratory and Satwant is a pharmacist. On a tip-off, their two-wheeler was intercepted near Basti Jodhewal Chowk. During checking, 25,000 tablets of Tramadol were recovered from them. ASI Rajinder Singh said, “These tablets cannot be sold without a doctor’s prescription. Besides, chemists have to keep a record of sale and purchase of the drug, but the accused failed to produce any. It is being investigated how and from where the accused got the tablets in such a huge quantity.” In another case, Shimlapuri police arrested an electrician, Rajinder Singh, and a taxi driver, Jagdish Sharma, 32, after 14,000 Tramadol tablets were found on them near Barota Road.Shimlapuri police station SHO inspector Amandeep Singh Brar said, “During questioning, Rajinder of Preet Nagar, Shimlapuri, and Jagdish of New Shimlapuri told that they procured the tablets from a Ludhianvi. The two are being questioned to break the supply chain.” An FIR has been registered in both the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pharmacist-lab-owner-among-4-arrested-with-banned-tablets/articleshow/76777038.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Pune||ZP survey to tackle water scarcity in 82 villages soon||Pune: The Pune Zilla Parishad would carry out groundwater survey in 82 villages across 12 tehsils facing drinking water shortage with assistance from the agriculture and irrigation departments and Groundwater Surveys Development Agency (GSDA).It would also carry out water conservation work in the villages aimed at increasing the water table and resolving water scarcity by 2021. ZP chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “We will draw up a village-wise action plan and initiate water conservation work. These villages receive supply of drinking water through water tankers. Our aim is to end this completely by 2021.”Of the 82 villages, Purandar accounts for maximum 19, followed by 17 in Bhor. These villages were identified on the basis of their water tanker requirement in the last five years and the groundwater level.Gaurav Borkar, ZP district water conservation officer, told TOI, “We have identified about 25 structures,some of which are in bad shape. We will repair broken walls, fill leakages and desilt them to increase storage capacity. Our draft plan in this regard is already ready."Other departments would prepare tehsil-wise plan and submit to the ZP within the stipulated deadline. "Each action plan submitted by the concerned department will be tabled before the water management and sanitation department of the ZP for discussion. The final proposal will be submitted to the state government for financial aid," said Surendrakumar Kadam, executive engineer, ZP rural water supply department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-survey-to-tackle-water-scarcity-in-82-villages-soon/articleshow/76777914.cms||Sandip Dighe
July 4, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu custodial deaths: S Revathy gives statement to Tuticorin CJM||TUTICORIN: Head constable S Revathy, one of the key witnesses in the custodial torture of P Jeyaraj, 58, and J Beniks, 31, at the Sathankulam police station in Tuticorin district on June 19 night appeared before Tuticorin chief judicial magistrate S Hema for recording her statement under Section 164 of the CrPC on Friday. Revathy, who is on one-month leave out of fear for her life from her former colleagues, was taken to the CJM’s court by CB-CID team investigating the case. Her testimony before a judicial magistrate will strengthen the case against former inspector, two SIs and two constables of the police station who have been charged with the two murders. Revathy was later questioned at the CB-CID office in Tuticorin. Meanwhile, constable Muthuraj who has been on the run was nabbed by the Tuticorin district police in a village near Vilathikulam late on Friday. The former head constable of the Sathankulam station was traced based on the bike he was using. A police team led by Vilathikulam DSP Beermohideen traced the vehicle to Poosanur village near Vilathikulam around 9.45 pm. He was found hiding in a house and was secured around 10pm. He was handed over to the CB-CID at their office in Tuticorin. The investigating agency is also probing the role of Friends of Police volunteers in the alleged custodial torture. Some of them were at the police station when the incident happened. Meanwhile, in Tiruchendur, judicial magistrate M S Bharathidasan continued his inquest. Nurses at Sathankulam government hospital who were present when the deceased were treated there on June 20 appeared for the inquest on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/revathy-gives-statement-to-tuticorin-cjm/articleshow/76777921.cms||M K Ananth
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Contact-less: Pay through an app for your bus ticket soon||NEW DELHI: Very soon, you would be able to pay the fare for travelling in a Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) or Cluster Scheme through a mobile application and receive an ‘e-ticket’. The same application will also tell you when the next bus on any route will reach a bus stop and if its occupancy is high or low. State transport minister Kailash Gahlot has constituted a task force for timely coordination and implementation of exploring the options of contactless mobile ticketing inside DTC and Cluster Scheme buses, keeping in mind the safety of both passengers and conductors from Covid-19 infection. The mobile application is another part of ensuring safer public transport and is being developed by the Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology, Delhi (IIIT-Delhi). A trial run to test the technology was carried out on Thursday and according to Pravesh Biyani, associate professor, IIIT-Delhi, similar trials will be held in the combined fleet of nearly 6,500 buses in Delhi. “Apart from the application being developed by Rajan Girsa, Atul Jain and Kshitij Shrivastava of IIIT-Delhi, we are also building a public information system that will be displayed at bus stops. It will not only show that the ETA of a bus is five minutes but where exactly it is and what its occupancy is,” he said. The app will be integrated with the ‘One Delhi’ application developed by the Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Ltd for Cluster buses. “The conversation on this started last month and we realised that personal hygiene would be important in public transport. We discussed how to eliminate ‘touch points’ and contactless and paperless ticketing will achieve that,” said Amit Bhatt, director of integrated urban transport at World Resources Institute, India and a member of the task force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/contact-less-pay-through-an-app-for-your-bus-ticket-soon/articleshow/76778504.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Parents seek repatriation of students||Ahmedabad: Parents of MBBS students in Russia have approached the state government and the Russian Embassy to have their children brought back under the ‘Vande Bharat’ mission. Dr Jayesh Solanki, a professor at the veterinary college of Navsari Agricultural University, told TOI that his son Shlok is a third year MBBS student at Penza State University, a Russian government-run university offering a five-year MBBS course. “He and 350-odd students from various parts of Gujarat are at the hostel building. They are under strict lockdown for the past three months. They have completed their exams and the academic year is over. The university has decided that the entire next semester — from September 2020 to February 2021 — will be conducted online,” he said. Dr Solanki said that he, on behalf of the parents, wants to request the government authorities to arrange for a flight to bring the students back. “The recent flights from Russia were not enough for such a large number of students,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parents-seek-repatriation-of-students/articleshow/76777919.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Pune||Ticket counters to get UV note steriliser units||Pune: Ultra violet (UV) currency note steriliser machines would be available at all reservation counters in the Pune rail division. Senior officials said old printers with railways would be converted into UV machines. “Printers that have been converted into UV currency sanitising machines are at the reservation counters in Mumbai division,” a Central Railways' official said. A total of 13 reservation counters are operational across nine stations under Pune division. The official said the currency notes would have to be put into the machine, which after scanning, will come out from the other end. "The process takes less than 5 to 6 seconds,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ticket-counters-to-get-uv-note-steriliser-units/articleshow/76777922.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Sans stage, theatre shows court viewers through the digital route||PUNE: With curtains unlikely to go up on theatres soon, artistes and directors associated with the medium in the city have taken to the digital platform to showcase their creativity. From premiering shows online to live streaming interactive talk shows as well as producing web series and content for Marathi television serials, they are doing everything to keep the creative juices flowing. “We are enjoying the digital medium, creating material for YouTube and experimenting with the camera and scripts,” said Suraj Parasnis of Theatron Entertainment. Wide Wings Media, an art and theatre production company, showcased some plays on Facebook Live. “We invited artistes to perform parts of their play live. This was followed by an interaction with the audience,” said Kushal Khot, who heads the production house.” Some of the shows we live-streamed during the lockdown were Aamhi Duniyeche Raje, Mahfil, Kavi Jato Tenvha and Maunraag,” he said. Apart from showcasing plays, many production houses are also involved in interactive shows. “Under the banner of our company Indian Magic Eye, we have been conducting the show Alpaviram,” said Hrishikesh Deshpande, executive director. Some theatre groups have also started producing web series. “One of our web series on air is Newsroom,” said Parasnis. Others, such as the Indian Magic Eye are producing Marathi content for television serials. Theatre groups said that they are currently enjoying the digital medium. “But the drawback of online activities is that they do not fetch you money,” said Khot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sans-stage-theatre-shows-court-viewers-through-the-digital-route/articleshow/76777917.cms||Avijit Chatterjee
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||HC stay allows mayor Joshi to attend NSSCDCL board meet||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday imposed a stay on disqualification of Director Identification Number (DIN) of mayor Sandip Joshi, and also allowed him to attend the meeting of board of directors (BoD) of Smart City company — Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) on July 10.NSSCDCL is in news since Joshi and ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav, in the capacity of nominee directors, lodged a complaint with Sadar police station alleging municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe was not appointed as chief executive officer (CEO) by BoD so all his decisions were violation of rules.TOI had reported on June 26 that Joshi and Jadhav too were not valid directors, as former’s DIN was disqualified by Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) and the latter had no DIN at all. The Registrar of Companies (RoC) had disqualified Joshi’s DIN from November 1, 2016, to October 31, 2021.Joshi, through senior advocate Subodh Dharmadhikari and Deven Chauhan, filed a petition in the HC. Justices RK Deshpande and Amit Borkar ruled on Friday, “The points urged by Dharmadhikari for the petitioner require consideration. We find that prima facie case is made out and the petitioner cannot be deprived from participating in the meetings of NSSCDCL.”The justices gave ad interim relief to Joshi by staying the effect and operation of the RoC order disqualifying him over the affairs of the erstwhile Nagpur Mahanagar Parivahan Limited (NMPL), and the deactivation of his DIN 03054580, during the pendency of this petition. The justices also allowed Joshi to function on the board of other companies during the pendency of the present case.The judges issued notices to MCA and RoC and granted time of two weeks to reply.Joshi told TOI, “I had to file a petition as chairman of NSSCDCL Praveen Pardeshi has convened BoD meeting on July 10. The allegations levelled by me against Mundhe have been borne out by the agenda for BoD, which seeks to appoint Mundhe as director in NSSCDCL and appoint him CEO. I will demand Mundhe should not be CEO, and instead a full-time appointment should be made,” he said.Mundhe has always claimed he was ex officio director immediately after assuming charge as municipal commissioner. He had also taken charge as CEO on the directives of the chairman and in line with state government norms.The BoD is also slated to confirm minutes of the meeting held on December 31, 2019, where Joshi and Jadhav were inducted as nominee directors.Another proposal is to accept the resignation of Ramnath Sonawane as CEO. He had submitted resignation to chairman on February 11, which was accepted by the latter on February 12.On Jadhav’s case, Joshi said, “Jadhav’s DIN has been created now so there will be no issues in his case too.”With the HC order, Joshi can also continue as chairman of Nagpur Environment Services Limited (NESL) till the stay continues, or the case is finally decided.In his capacity of ruling party leader, Joshi was also a nominee director of NSSCDCL for three years despite his DIN being disqualified. Even Jadhav was a director in NESL for one year in the capacity of standing committee chairman without having a DIN.THE CASEPetitionRoC deactivated DIN of Sandip Joshi from Nov 1, 2016 to Oct 31, 2021, as Nagpur Mahanagar Parivahan Limited, in which he was director, did not file statements or returns for three years, rendering him ineligible to be on the board of NSSCDCLJoshi’s counsel Subodh Dharmadhikari argued rule to disqualify directors came into force on April 1, 2014, while Joshi had resigned as director in NMPL in March 2012Also, Joshi was not served a show cause notice nor given an opportunity to be heard before he was disqualified, or his DIN cancelled or deactivatedHC ObservationsNo dispute over fact that petitioner stepped down as director of NMPL in March 2012Prima facie case is made out by petitioner that he should not be deprived from participating in meetings of NSSCDCLInterim relief granted to stay deactivation of Joshi’s DIN, allowing him to participate in board meetings||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-stay-allows-mayor-joshi-to-attend-nsscdcl-board-meet/articleshow/76777940.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 4, 2020||Pune||Stalking slur on 55-year-old Pimpri man||Pune: A 55-year-old man was booked on Thursday on the charge of stalking his neighbour for the past three months. A 40-year-old woman has lodged a complaint with the Pimpri police. The woman stated in her complaint that the suspect threatened her with rape on Wednesday. He has been booked under sections 354-A (sexual harassment) and 354-D (stalking) of the Indian Penal Code. Sub-inspector Vaibhav Sonawane of the Pimpri police told TOI that the complainant and the suspect shared an old dispute over parking and some other issues. Citing the complaint, he said the suspect had been stalking her since March. “The woman also said the suspect tried to touch her inappropriately. On Wednesday, she was terrified when the man threatened to rape her,” Sonawane said, adding that the police were yet to make an arrest in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stalking-slur-on-55-year-old-pimpri-man/articleshow/76777924.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Rajkot||Man held for eloping with minor girl||Rajkot: A minor girl, who had eloped with her boyfriend in April, 2016, was traced along with her paramour at Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh on Friday. Police said the accused, Niraj Bisat (24), had made the girl (then aged 16) elope with him on April 20, 2016 from her residence in Thorala locality of Rajkot. The girl’s parents had filed a habeas corpus petition, four years ago. However, the police were unable to track down the girl. Teams of police had gone eight times to Uttarakhand, Bisat’s native, three times each to Maharashtra and Delhi andtwice to Haryana, but to no avail.  “Then we formed a technical team which started tracing Bisat on the basis of his cellphone number. We had traced Bisat’s cellphone number through his family annd traced him and the girl to Kanavani village of Ghaziabad,” said H L Rathod, assistant commissioner of police, east zone, Rajkot. Bisat worked as a factory labourer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-held-for-eloping-with-minor-girl/articleshow/76777727.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad district’s cases down by 17.5% in a week||AHMEDABAD: The last seven days recorded 17.5% dip in cases and 33.3% drop in deaths in Ahmedabad district compared to corresponding week. From June 27 to July 3, Ahmedabad recorded 1,485 Covid-19 positive cases at the average of 212 cases daily. Compared to that, June 20 to 26 had recorded 1,800 cases at the average of 257 cases daily. Likewise, the district recorded deaths of 68 Covid-19 positive patients in past seven days, a 33.3% dip compared to 102 from June 20 to 26. “The pattern for various areas is also changing – now the Central Zone doesn’t feature in top three zones when it comes to new cases. The recovery rate has also gone up in several of the pockets,” said a health department official. Meanwhile, the Union health & family welfare ministry chalked out new rules for home isolation and quarantine on Friday. According to the new rules, those with co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung/liver/kidney diseases and cerebro-vascular diseases will be given permission for home isolation only after doctor’s assessment. Similarly, those above 60 years of age will also require expert opinion for home isolation. The patient will remain in touch with a hospital and will require one person round the clock to monitor his/her condition, mentioned the guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/districts-cases-down-by-17-5-in-a-week/articleshow/76777941.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||City hospital, only from Maha, picked for Covid vaccine trial||Nagpur: Nagpur’s Gillurkar Multispecialty Hospital and Research Institute in Reshimbag is the only one in Maharashtra selected for clinical trial of the country’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. ICMR has selected 12 institutes across India to conduct trials.Dr Chandraskhekar Gillurkar, director of this hospital who has been successfully worked on about 22 trials on different vaccines till date, will conduct trials in Nagpur. “We are proud to be associated with the first ever human trials of Covid-19 vaccine. Outcomes of pre-clinical trials were promising. We are quite optimistic about human trials,” said Dr Gillurkar. The human trials will be held in two phases. Target sample size is 1125. Of these, three groups of 125 members each will be examined in first phase. Healthy volunteers between 18 to 55 years of age will be enrolled for the first phase (total 375). In Nagpur, 40 to 50 volunteers will be shortlisted. “We welcome volunteers willing to join this mission which is a great duty for nation and humanity,” Dr Gillurkar stated. Interested volunteers may contact his clinic at 20, Reshimbagh, Umred road.Established in 1989, Dr Gillurkar’s research institute has been closely associated with the Bharat Biotech International Ltd (BBIL) since decades. As they were willing to be a part of Covid-19 vaccine process, BBIL, ICMR and other government authorities selected them looking at their past record in such trials. “The study is designed to evaluate safety, reactogenicity, tolerability, and immunogenicity of three groups of healthy volunteers who receive two intramuscular doses of BBV152 vaccine formulations,” said Dr Gillukar. “The ultimate goal is the selection of a safe, well-tolerated, and immunogenic intramuscular vaccine, which will be further evaluated in the Phase 2 study,” he said. If desirable results come in first phase, 750 healthy volunteers from 12 to 65 years of age will be enrolled in Phase II. They will be vaccinated on Day 0 and Day 14 with best two formulations based on the endpoints of Phase I study. Study will progress further as per the first phase. In view of the public health emergency due to Covid-19 pandemic and urgency to launch the vaccine, the institutes are strictly advised to fast track all approvals related to the initiation of the clinical trial and ensure that the subject enrolment is initiated during the first week of July.“We are all set to start enrollment of volunteers and their physical tests from July 5 itself,” said Dr Gillurkar. What will happenPhase I and II of human trials: - Three groups (1, 2, 3) will be administered three formulations of BBV152 vaccine (a, b, c) - The two doses will be administered 14 days apart (28 days) - After completion of seven days post 2nd dose vaccination and Day 28, immunogenicity and safety in Groups 1, 2, 3 will be reviewed by Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) - An interim report based on the safety and immunogenicity will be notified to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) - CDSCO will look into further progressing the clinical development of the vaccine- Phase II human trials will follow on the same lines provided all approvals are in placeWho can join trials: - must provide written informed consent- age between ≥18 to ≤55 years- Good general health as complete health check-up will be done - No comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension etc or Covid-19 - Must have interest and availability to fulfill the study requirements||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-hospital-only-from-maha-picked-for-covid-vaccine-trial/articleshow/76777945.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 4, 2020||Vadodara||Two murder convicts jump parole, booked||Vadodara: Two murder convicts, who were sentenced to life imprisonment and were lodged in Vadodara central jail, have disappeared after they were released on parole in March this year. The jail authorities registered an offence at Raopura police station against the duo on Friday. According to the police, one of the convicts Ramsinh Rathwa, a resident of Chhota Udepur, was released on parole for 14 days on March 13. He didn’t return to the jail after his parole lapsed. Another murder convict, Dilip Rawat, a resident of Mahisagar district, was released on parole on March 9. He too didn’t return to the jail after the stipulated period of 14 days. “We have registered an offence and transferred the complaints to their respective districts,” said J H Chaudhari, Raopura police inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-murder-convicts-jump-parole-booked/articleshow/76776938.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Rajkot||Closure looms over Rajkot paan shops due to crowding||Rajkot: Paan shops and tea stalls violating social distancing rules have been warned of closure by the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) in a bid to rein in the crowd near their kiosks.The warning follows the registering of 195 Covid positive cases in the city, of which 100 surfaced in the last one month alone. Ten persons have succumbed to the virus so far, while there are 47 active cases in the city's various hospitals. The warning also comes close on the heels of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) decision to shut paan shops in cluster quarantined areas. Municipal commissioner Udit Agarwal said, “It’s advisable that people prefer to take away their stuff from the paan shops rather than crowding or lingering around. Shop owners should encourage customers for take away.” The closure of paan shops during the lockdown had ended in many tobacco addicts resorting to crime to satiate their addiction. In fact, paan shop owners had to seek police protection in Rajkot on the first day of relaxation in lockdown. While a man in Wankaner town of Morbi district was killed for not sharing his pouch of tobacco, a teenager in Rajkot attempted suicide by consuming acid. There was a firing incident registered in Surendranagar too over a packet of bidi. A video of a mob swarming a tobacco trader’s shop in Surendranagar had also created a flutter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/closure-looms-over-rajkot-paan-shops-due-to-crowding/articleshow/76777717.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||Vid passes 5,000 mark, 3 Covid deaths in a day||Nagpur: With three deaths and 150 new cases in a day, Vidarbha Covid-19 cases passed the 5,000-figure on Friday. In first three days of July, the region reported 456 cases and nine deaths, for a total of 5,100, including 3,767 recoveries, 166 deaths, and 1,167 active cases in 11 districts. Remarkably, 10 of the 11 districts, barring Bhandara, recorded new cases on Friday.Three deaths on July 3 came from Yavatmal, Buldhana and Akola — all three in Amravati division. In Akola, a 65-year-old man from Shankar Nagar, admitted in GMCH since June 23, died during treatment. This was the 84 death in Akola.In Yavatmal, a woman from Kelapur tehsil died during treatment. In Buldhana, an 88-year-old man from Sati File village in Khamgaon tehsil was brought in a critical condition to Buldhana District Hospital. His samples were taken on July 2, and he died the same night. His samples tested positive on July 3. This was the 13th Covid death in Buldhana.On July 3, highest 70 cases came from Nagpur, including 42 from Central Jail. Amravati had 33 new cases, one of them the first in tribal dominated Dharni tehsil in Melghat. Gondia and Buldhana reported 11 cases each, followed by Akola (10), Yavatmal (5), Chandrapur (4), Washim (3), Wardha (2), and Gadchiroli (1).Total 95 patients recovered including Nagpur (31), Akola (22), Amravati (13), Buldhana (8), Wardha (9), Yavatmal (6), Washim (4), and Bhandara (2). As recoveries were less than new cases, recovery rate came down slightly to under 74%, which is better than Maharashtra’s 59.52% and India’s 60%.Akola: The district recorded 10 new cases while 22 patients recovered. The district now has 311 active patients. Recovery rate in Akola is 76%.Amravati: After staying Covid-free for a hundred days, tribal Melghat region got its first case on Friday. A total of 33 cases took the district’s count to 650. Chikhaldara in Melghat tribal belt is yet to report a case while Dharni got its first via a Hyderabad-returnee 30-year-old man.Two more cases came from rural belt to take the rural count to 77. These cases came from Nandgaonpeth and Nandgaon Khandeshwar. In city, Ashok Nagar got five cases to take its count to 20 while Habib Nagar too saw a case to take its count to 20. Today, 13 patients were discharged.Hotspot Badnera took its count to 84 with two cases from Malipura in Old City. New cases emerged for the first time from Saraswati Nagar, Aadarsh Nehru Nagar, Jail Road QT Center, Asiad Colony, Chandani Chowk, Bhim Nagar and Gajanan Nagar while Nawathe Nagar (1), Dastur Nagar (2), and Mahajanpura (1) added new cases.Chandrapur: Chandrapur crossed 100 patients with 4 positives late on Thursday night and 8 more on Friday for a total of 110. Chandrapur took 62 days to reach 100 patients, with the last 50 added in 16 days. Health officials claimed there is no community infection so far, and nearly all patients are those who had travelled from other cities to Chandrapur, or their contacts.There is no Covid death so far, and 56 patients have been discharged, with 56 active patients left. Collector Dr Kunal Khemnar has made institutional quarantine mandatory for all persons coming from outside the district.The 4 positives of Thursday night include a case each from Warora, Urja Nagar, Chandrapur city and Gadchandur. One of the four from Warora is a contact of positive patients, while others have travelled from red zone cities. Eight positive patients were detected in Bramhapuri, Gangalwadi, Nilaj and Wandre villages in Brahmapuri tehsil. While two have travel history, others are contacts of patients.Wardha: A 36-year-old and a 57-year-old woman from Arvi and Wardha tested positive on Friday. The reports of 32 close contacts of these two are awaited, and they are in isolation wards. Other 52 low-contact individuals have been quarantined at Covid Care Centres.The woman from Arvi had gone to Thergaon in Pune on June 11 to attend a marriage, returned on June 25 and was in home quarantine. She was admitted due to fever and cough. After testing positive on Friday, she was admitted to Kasturba Hospital, Sewagram. The mother of a youth who was tested positive on Thursday also tested positive and was admitted at Kasturba Hospital.YAVATMAL: Yavatmal recorded the death of a woman from Kelapur taking the death toll to 12. Five new cases tested positive taking the total active patients to 69. Out of these one woman died and six were discharged, taking the actual figure to 62. In the last 24 hours, GMC received 155 test reports of which 148 are negative, and 76 reports are awaited.BULDHANA: Continuing surge in cases, Buldhana reported 11 cases, including an 88-year-old man who died on Thursday. Most cases in Buldhana are from rural areas. Some 300 test reports are still awaited.WASHIM: After reconciliation of deaths and cases, one person from Nashik who died in Wardha has been included in the deceased list of Washim. Apart from this, 3 new cases were reported while 4 patients were discharged. Washim now has 32 active patients.GONDIA: Eleven more positive cases were reported in Gondia district. Eight are natives of Gondia, 1 is from Tirora and 2 from Sadak Arjuni tehsils. Reports of 193 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-passes-5000-mark-3-covid-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/76777962.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Demand slowdown hits MSMEs||AHMEDABAD: Slowing demand in automobile, textile and other sectors, coupled with a global slowdown during the pre-Covid period had left Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) grappling with liquidity crisis. As a result, with the Covid outbreak, the bad loan burden for MSMEs in the state has gone up. According to the latest report by State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) the gross non-performing assets (NPAs) for MSMEs has grown by 27%. The NPA burden grew by Rs 2,259 crore in Gujarat, up from Rs 8,222 crore in financial year 2018-19 to Rs 10,481 crore in 2019-20. Industry players indicate that in Gujarat, several MSMEs felt the heat of slowdown in the automobile and textile sectors, among others which are facing a demand downside over the past two years. “MSMEs are among the worst hit due to slump in demand in both domestic and international markets in various sectors including automobile and textiles. Since these enterprises comprise an integral part of the manufacturing value chain, decline in sales will directly impact their order books,” said Chintan Thaker, co-chair, Assocham – Gujarat state council. “Moreover, the fall of Non-Banking Finance Companies (NBFCs) on which, small enterprises are dependent for working capital loans further impacted credit inflow for MSMEs. With stretched payment cycles, no ease on liquidity and fixed overheads, bad loan burden kept on mounting,” Thaker went on to say. Interestingly, while NPAs mounted, the credit outflow for MSMEs remained almost stagnant during the year. The SLBC report states that the loan advances for the MSME sector, went up only marginally by 1.5% from Rs 1.27 lakh crore in the year that ended on March 31, 2019 to Rs 1.29 lakh crore as on March 31, 2020. Bankers claim that MSMEs have been under stress since at least two years, due to a demand slowdown. “If the payment cycles are stretched and demand is hit, NPAs are bound to mount,” said a well-placed source. “There have been ample efforts on part of banks to ease liquidity for MSMEs. While the RBI has come out with a one-time window for restructuring of accounts which were classified under NPA, even banks have extended credit by reassessing working capital limits and providing loans under Covid emergency credit line and other schemes. This will certainly help ease liquidity for medium and small enterprises,” said Vikramadiya Singh Khichi, convener, SLBC – Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/demand-slowdown-hits-msmes/articleshow/76777959.cms||Niyati Parikh
July 4, 2020||India||Nearly 2/3rds of Indians are of working age, between 15 and 59||NEW DELHI: India’s much-discussed “demographic dividend” continues to swell, with the share of working-age population in the country’s total population increasing, data from the recently released Sample Registration System’s 2018 report shows. This is true not just nationally but across all major states. The SRS report, an annual publication from the office of the census commissioner and registrar general, estimates that in 2018, nearly two-thirds of the population, or 66%, was between 15 and 59. This proportion has inched up each year, an analysis of reports from 2013 onwards shows. Those of working age constituted over two-thirds of the population in 12 of the 22 major states in 2018 while five years earlier, this was true in only four of the current states. Two states — Andhra Pradesh and Telangana — had over 70% of their populations in the working-age bracket and Bihar was the lone state in which they were less than 60% of the total. In general, states widely considered less developed had a lower proportion of their population in the working-age groups. This is because most of these states have also had relatively high fertility rates and hence a relatively larger base of the really young. Among the states with high development indicators, Kerala stands out as an exception with its working-age population being of a similar proportion as in states like Assam and Odisha. The difference however is that in Kerala’s case, this is due to a relatively larger proportion of the elderly thanks to decades of low fertility and high life expectancy. Another broad trend that emerges from the data is that states that already have higher proportions of working-age populations have seen that share grow faster than the others. Thus, those that started off with a better "demographic dividend" five years ago now have even more of it. Experts have pointed out that this dividend, which comes from the number of dependants on each working person being low, will not last for ever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nearly-2/3rds-of-indians-are-of-working-age-between-15-and-59/articleshow/76778933.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt to hand over Vejalpur lake to AMC||Gandhinagar: The state government has decided to hand over the Vejalpur lake in Ahmedabad to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, free of cost, for development. The lake is spread over an area of 32,072 sq metres. The AMC will develop this lake as city-beautification project and entertainment spot for local residents.  Earlier the chief minister had handed over five lakes to the AMC for beautification. Of them, four lakes were handed over in March and one in June this year. These lakes are Vandarvat Lake (Vatva), Government Lake (Chharodi), Gota Village Lake, Government Lake (Shilaj) and Sola Village Lake (Sola). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-to-hand-over-vejalpur-lake-to-amc/articleshow/76777980.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||Lonar water colour back from pink to normal||Nagpur: The 56,000-year-old Lonar crater sanctuary lake in Buldhana district, which turned red/pink on June 8, has attained its original form.In the last two-three days, the crater water has turned blue-greenish again. Last month, the lake water had become red/pink causing a flutter among forest officials, scientists and nature lovers.The Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court, which is already hearing a PIL against degradation of the lake, also took a serious note of the issue and sought reports on the Lonar water turning pink.Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) field director MS Reddy roped in NEERI, Nagpur, and Agarkar Research Institute, Pune, to check the lake water samples. Forest department sources said NEERI is ready with the report which will be submitted on July 7, when the matter is slated for hearing.“According to the scientists, the water turned pink due to a type of ‘Halobacteria’ which are specialized bacteria that thrive in extremely salty conditions. These bacteria are called halophiles (salt-loving) and produce pink-red pigments (bacterioruberins), and when found in abundance, the pigments from these bacteria can turn super-salty water pink or red,” said forest officials, who did not want to be quoted. The officials, who were in touch with the scientists, added, “The presence of the red-pigmented halophiles shows that lake water has become extraordinarily saline. A similar phenomenon took place in Umria lake in Iran in 2016. Scientists have concluded that during dry seasons, the water level goes down, thus increasing the salinity of water.” Nature lover Arun Mapari from Lonar, said, “After a good spell of recent rains, the lake water has turned into its original form. The presence of halophilic bacteria in the salt crusts must be the cause of the lake water turning red/pink.”ABOUT LONAR CRATER * Water of lake is both saline and alkaline in nature, which makes it one-of-its-kind not only in India but also in the world* Blue lagoon created due to a meteorite and craters that are created by meteoric impact are among appealing geological structures on the planet* Lake located in world’s only high velocity impact formed in basaltic rock.* Scientists say crater formed after comet or asteroid hit area at 90,000 kmph* Lonar crater is best preserved and youngest carter formed in basalt rock * Diameter of crater on which the lake sits is 1.8km||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lonar-water-colour-back-from-pink-to-normal/articleshow/76777975.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 4, 2020||Dehradun||HC says state’s RT-PCR testing numbers ‘extremely low’, asks govt to make efforts on ‘war footing’||Nainital: Uttarakhand high court (HC) has expressed its concern at the “extremely low” number of RT-PCR tests being done in the state and asked the state government to make efforts on war footing. The observations from the bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Ravindra Maithani came while hearing a bunch of petitions highlighting the low number of tests as well as threat of spread of infection posed by migrants returning to the state without adequate testing. The bench was informed that around 1,100-1,200 reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests are being done per day. To this, the bench said that there still are some anxieties regarding the testing and the figure is ‘extremely low’. “There are some anxieties as yet regarding the RT-PCR testing being done in this Covid-19 pandemic. The average testing for RT-PCR is 1,100-1,200 per day. This figure is extremely low, considering all other relevant factors,” read the court order. The court was also told that there are only four facilities where testing is being done at present. The state government, however, added that another facility at Mukteshwar in Nainital district will soon become functional. The court said, in its orders, that these testing facilities must be improved and efforts for the same should be made on “war footing”. “One of the major reasons for this (low testing numbers) is that presently there are only four government and semi-government facilities where this testing is being done. These are Dr Susheela Tiwari Government Medical College in Haldwani, Government Doon Medical College and Hospital in Dehradun, All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Rishikesh, Veer Chandra Singh Garhwali Government Institute of Medical Science and Research in Srinagar, and Indian Institute of Petroleum in Dehradun. These testing facilities must be improved and efforts must be made by the state government for establishing additional testing centres,” the court said. The bench has listed the case for further hearing on July 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-says-states-rt-pcr-testing-numbers-extremely-low-asks-govt-to-make-efforts-on-war-footing/articleshow/76775994.cms||Prashant Jha
July 4, 2020||Nashik||10 private hospitals in Nashik to get notices||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has taken serious cognizance of 10 private hospitals for failing to show bills of Covid-19 patients to its squads. The civic body is now in the process of serving notices to these private hospitals for not showing bills to the squads deployed to inspect if the hospitals are overcharging from patients. The NMC’s move comes after the administration received several complaints about hospitals overcharging from patients. The municipal corporation has initiated various measures to ensure that patients approaching private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment As part of this, the NMC has decided to check at least 10 bills from each of the hospitals providing coronavirus treatment. The bills will be checked by auditors appointed by the municipal corporation. Accordingly, NMC’s teams have started collecting bills randomly from private Covid-19 hospitals. While some hospitals are providing the required bills to the civic body’s teams, some hospitals are refusing to do so. “We have taken serious cognizance of complaints related to hospitals overcharging from patients. For the same, we checked bills randomly and found that 10 private hospitals have refused to provide bills to NMC teams,” said NMC officials. In addition, the municipal corporation has also made rate cards for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals. The civic body has also taken the responsibility of displaying these rate cards in private hospitals. The rate cards include Rs 4,000 per day charges for routine ward plus isolation, Rs 7,500 per day for ICU and isolation without ventilator and Rs 9,000 per day for ICU with ventilator plus isolation. These charges will include monitoring and investigations with X-rays, drug consultation, beds and nursing charges, meals and other procedural parts. Hosp asked to return excess amount billed to patient The NMC on Friday directed a city-based private hospital to return the excess billed amount of Rs 1.25 lakh to a patient who was admitted for Covid-19 treatment.Earlier, the hospital had charged Rs 3.50 lakh from the patient. He had registered a complaint with the municipal corporation in this regard. Accordingly, the NMC had served notice to the hospital and sought explanation about overcharging from the said patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/10-pvt-hosps-in-nashik-to-get-notices/articleshow/76776002.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 4, 2020||Pune||Pune University declares its method for non-final years||PUNE: The results of students in their even number semesters, except those in the final year of their course, will be calculated by adding 50% weightage of the previous semester/year marks and 50% of the internal marks obtained in the current year or semester. Odd semesters results (1st, 3rd, 5th) will not be calculated and subjects of these semesters will be carried forward. The examination for such subjects will be conducted as and when the situation is favourable, a notification issued by Savitribai Phule Pune University on Friday said. The notification added that no examination will be conducted for the final year or semester students and formula for calculating their result will be communicated soon. “Students already have marks of the odd semesters, barring those who failed in these subjects or did not appear for them. Only even semester marks are remaining. But due to the pandemic, we have decided to forego the examination of even semesters and give them marks only for that semester. Till the government resolution comes stating that backlog examinations will not be held, we are going by the previous decision by the government which said backlog examination will be held 120 days after the beginning of the next academic year or as and when conditions are favourable,” Mahesh Kakade, director Board of Examination and Evaluation, said. All other rules such as ATKT of the university will apply whenever students are seeking admission in the next academic year. However, students are advised to visit the university website and check the official notification as there are exceptions in some courses. Students in the one-year annual pattern courses will not appear for any examination and formulae for the result calculator will be declared soon by the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/varsity-declares-even-sem-non-final-yr-result-method/articleshow/76777971.cms||Ardhra Nair
July 4, 2020||Goa||Goa records season’s second wettest 24-hour spell||PANAJI: In another torrential spell, seven of the 13 rain gauge stations recorded rainfall above the 100-mm mark, as a combo effect of two systems produced the second wettest 24-hour spell of the season. On Friday morning, the state average recored was 117.1 mm. However, June 17, which recorded 137.3mm state average rainfall, still remains the wettest 24-hour spell of this season. During the second wettest spell, Sakhali was under a deluge for most of the time, as the centre recorded very heavy rainfall of 196.4mm. In a 24-hour spell, rainfall of 205mm is considered extremely heavy. In comparison, a rainfall of 189.7mm had been recorded at Old Goa in mid-June. “The 24-hour rainfall (in Sakhali) is the highest reported by a rain gauge station in this season. The state average rainfall recorded is also the second highest in this season so far, making it the second wettest day of the season,” Rahul M, scientist at India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, said. While figures of Valpoi and Ponda were not available, a few centres recorded very heavy rainfall - Margao recorded 151.2mm, Dabolim 140.8mm, Pernem 130.8mm and Quepem 120.8mm. Other centres recorded heavy rainfall, including Canacona 112.8mm, Mapusa 100.4mm, Sanguem 93.5mm, Old Goa 91.8mm and Panaji 88.5mm. Only Quepem recorded moderate rainfall of 59.8mm. The rainfall has been steady so far despite a brief lull in third week of June, as the seasonal total touched 1246.8mm. At this stage, a total of 1016.3mm is considered normal, which means the surplus is 23%. The torrential spell has been triggered by a shear zone over south Maharashtra and the intensification of monsoon current. A cyclonic circulation has also formed over coastal Andhra Pradesh. IMD, Panaji, has forecast extremely heavy rainfall in isolated places till Saturday morning. Further, heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely at a few places on Saturday and Sunday while the intensity will decrease subsequently. Heavy rainfall is very likely at a few places with very heavy rainfall at isolated places on Monday and Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-records-seasons-second-wettest-24-hr-spell/articleshow/76778785.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||9 new Covid cases from Ahmedabad district, tally rises to 854||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad district barring the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation areas reported nine fresh cases on Friday of which one case each was reported from Gayatri Park and RIddhi Siddhi Bungalows in Sanand. The district also reported one death on Thursday taking the total death toll to 55. With the nine fresh cases, the district’s current tally went up to 854 cases. Of the nine cases, five were reported from Sanand taluka, three from VIramgam and one from Mandal taluka. Taluka-wise, of the 854 cases in the district, 250 are from Dholka, 179 from Daskroi, and 175 from Sanand. As for other talukas, 91 are from Viramgam, 82 from Bavla, 26 from Dhandhuka, 24 from Mandal, 18 from Detroj, and nine from Dholera. The district had 82 active case under treatment in hospitals, while two patients were being treated at the Covid care center in the district. As on Friday, 1,125 people are under home quarantine in Ahmedabad district. On Tuesday, this number was 1,080. A total of 8,084 people have completed their 14-day quarantine period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/9-new-cases-from-ahmedabad-district/articleshow/76777991.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Pune||ICMR nod for Covid-19 testing lab at YCM Hospital||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital has received a nod from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to start a Covid-19 testing lab. Dean Rajendra Wable said that from Friday the hospital started testing trial samples and full-fledged functioning will begin in the next 2-3 days. The lab will be able to handle at least 150-200 samples every day. At present, apart from government-run labs, samples are being tested at private labs as well. Wable added that currently swabs are tested at the National Institute of Virology (NIV), National AIDS Control and Research Institute (NARI), BJ Medical College, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) and other private labs. Pimpri Chinchwad additional municipal commissioner Santosh Patil said, “With the availability of the lab, the swab testing capacity in Pimpri Chinchwad will increase. Eventually, it will give the administration extra time for better execution of containment zones, contact tracing and other measures that have to followed once a positive patient is identified.” He added that rapid antigen testing will soon start across hotspot areas in the civic body limits. This will prove helpful in early detection of cases. When asked about the discrepancy in the number of positive cases in the reports of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation and the district health officer, Patil said that a dedicated team has been constituted in the war room to verify positive patients against the health officer’s list so that duplication or pending test reports can be spotted at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icmr-nod-for-covid-19-testing-lab-at-ycm-hospital/articleshow/76777994.cms||Piyush Bhusari
July 4, 2020||Goa||Several areas in Canacona flooded||Poinguinim: Incessant rain over the past two days caused water-logging in a number of areas in Canacona on Friday. The worst hit was the Patnem underpass, which is in the jurisdiction of the Canacona Municipal Council. Two-wheeler riders and pedestrians passing through the area had a tough time as water from three service roads accumulated at the underpass. When contacted, PWD’s assistant engineer Subhash Pagi told TOI that the issue of flooding had been discussed with Canacona disaster management authority, as water gushes from either side of the service roads sides and accumulates in the underpass. Several areas in Gotcamolem, Colsor and Talpona also witnessed water-logging on account of choked drains. Rivulets overflowed due to the swollen Talpona river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/several-areas-in-canacona-flooded/articleshow/76778788.cms||Albert Fernandes
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Five held, including one absconding for 12 years||Ahmedabad: Crime branch on Friday rounded up five persons in three different cases. The cops arrested Vishnuji Thakor, 42, at present living at Kheralu and hailing from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh in a murder case. Thakor was on the run for 12 years. Four others were held for mobile and chain snatching. ACP B V Gohil said that Thakor had a quarrel with one Shailendrasinh Harpalsinh over royalty of sand mining. “The accused and his two accomplices had gathered for a compromise where Lallu Desai of the opposite party was hacked to death by Thakor and his men — Bharat Pratapji and Balvant Pratapji — in 2008. “Kheralu police had arrested two accused while Thakor was on the run. The accused have been sentenced to life imprisonment by the court. We have handed over the accused to Kheralu police,” Gohil said. In another case, a team led by inspector R S Suvera arrested Ayyubkhan Pathan, 28, of Gomtipur and Hasan Sandhi, also from Gomtipur, for snatching mobile phones from pedestrians. “Khan was detained in 2017 and sent to Surat jail under PASA while the second accused was arrested for vehicle theft in Gomtipur police station,” said Suvera. In the third case, inspector J N Chavda rounded up two accused — Vishal Dantani, 20, of Krishnanagar, and Mayur Yadav, 20, also from Krishnanagar, for snatching gold chains from women in different areas. “The accused are involved in three incidents. Yadav has been earlier arrested by Naroda police,” said Chavda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/five-held-including-one-absconding-for-12-years/articleshow/76777992.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Patients’ attendants true Covid warriors’||MARGAO: After the state government last month tweaked its rules and allowed attendants to stay with Covid patients in hospital, the ESI hospital in Margao has witnessed an encouraging trend of patients, especially elderly ones, willingly being looked after by their loved ones. While the presence of an attendant does to an extent take the load off healthcare workers, the new arrangement also offers a sense of reassurance to both patients and attendants. Doctors, too, are delighted. Dr Edwin Gomes, professor of medicine at Goa Medical College (GMC) and head of the Covid hospital, called the attendants “true Covid warriors” and “true Indians”. “All safety and preventive measures are being taken by the hospital to ensure that attendants aren’t exposed to the contagion,” he said. In the early weeks of the Covid pandemic, attendants weren’t allowed to enter the Covid wards. But now, with both the Supreme Court and state government encouraging attendants to look after their loved ones, doctors say that many are only too willing to stay by the patient’s bedside. “If there are Covid-negative family members willing to serve as attendants, they are most welcome to do so,” Gomes said. “As stipulated by the court, we have provided accommodation to them (attendants) close to the hospital. We also provide them PPE and other safety gear while they attend to the patient.” According to the new rules, a person has to submit a written undertaking expressing their willingness to be an attendant to a Covid patient. The person could either be a family member or friend. The recent SC order also mandates all Covid-designated hospitals to set up a help desk to physically or telephonically address enquiries about patients admitted in the facility. The facility, it is learnt, has already been made functional at the Covid hospital in Margao. Also following the SC order, the state government constituted a five-member expert committee tasked with inspecting, supervising and providing guidance to the Covid hospital, as well as to issue necessary directions for the improvement of the treatment facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/patients-attendants-true-covid-warriors-say-docs/articleshow/76778546.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
July 4, 2020||Pune||Micro containment zones rise up to 423 in PCMC limits||Pimpri Chinchwad: The number of micro-containment zones in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits has almost doubled from 227 on June 27 to 423 now, following a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases in certain pockets. Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said despite the increase in the number of micro containment zones, they covered only 3-4sqkm or 2% area of the total 180sqkm municipal limits. Till June 27, the micro containment zones covered 2sqkm area. Hardikar said the civic body was revising the number of containment zones every day, depending on the emergence of fresh cases. “Though the number of micro containment zones has gone up, the area under containment has not increased much as we have reduced the overall size. In fact, earlier we used to contain and seal the whole area, while now we have adopted a flexible approach of the grid system, wherein only the lanes with fresh cases are under containment zone,” the municipal commissioner said. Additional municipal commissioner Santosh Patil said the number of containment zones were increased after considering the spike in the positive cases in the past five days. “If a new case is identified in a building, the civic body is currently sealing the whole building. The civic body is considering the option of sealing only the patient’s flat or floor,” he said. A report from the PCMC stated that out of the total eight zones, ‘C’ that covers areas like Chikhali gaothan, Jadhavwadi has the most number of containment zones at 68. Zone B, which covers areas like Kalewadi has 65 micro containment areas, while zone E has 63 containment areas. Zone H has 34 containment areas, which is the lowest among the eight zones of the PCMC. The report stated as many as 207 containment zones were removed from the list till July 2 due to less or no cases from the earlier micro containment zones. As for the total number of cases, over 3,000 patients have been reported from the municipal limits so far, of whom 2,154 were discharged till Thursday after being declared cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/micro-containment-zones-rise-up-to-423-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/76777982.cms||Piyush Bhusari
July 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: ED attaches land worth Rs 3 crore at Socorro||PANAJI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached a plot of land measuring 7,975sqm in Socorro with a value of Rs 3.19 crore in a matter of alleged illegal acquisition of land owned by the Serula comunidade by Sandeep Vazarkar, sarpanch of Socorro and others. An official from the directorate said that the ED has issued a provisional attachment order for the property which is currently in the name of Sandeep and other members of the Vazarkar family, under the provisions of section 5 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA). Following a complaint by members of the managing committee of the Serula comunidade, ED has also initiated an investigation under the Laundering Act on the basis of a first information report (FIR) registered by Goa Police. The FIR was registered against Vazarkar and members of the family as well as Agnelo Lobo, former attorney of the Serula comunidade. During the investigation, it was revealed that Vazarkar and his brother Shivdas Arjun Vazarkar, conspired to fraudulently acquire the property belonging to the comunidade by filing a false mutation application at the office of Mapusa mamlatdar in the name of their deceased father Arjun Mahadev Vazarkar, and subsequently transferring the tittle of the property in their name as well as other members of the Vazarkar family. Investigation by ED also revealed that the application for mutation was submitted in the name of a deceased person, the documents submitted along with the application were forged, the no objection certificate (NOC) issued by the former attorney of Serula comunidade was in violation of the rules prescribed under the ‘code of comunidades’ and no permission from the state government was taken either as mandated, for transferring property belonging to comunidades. Further investigation is under progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ed-attaches-land-worth-rs-3cr-at-socorro/articleshow/76778560.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Vijayawada||R’seema records six deaths, caseload rises||Tirupati: Death toll in the four Rayalaseema districts continues to rise, with Kurnool reporting four deaths and Chittoor, two deaths, in the last 24 hours. In Kurnool district, the tally of positive cases reached 2,236 after 116 persons tested positive. With 1,089 patients discharged so far, the district now has 1,074 active patients. Anantapur district registered its highest single-day spike in cases after 149 persons tested positive. The district is just 28 cases short of the 2,000-mark. Forty-seven persons tested positive in Chittoor district, which now was has a caseload of 1,183. While 411 patients have been discharged so far, another 764 are undergoing treatment. In Kadapa district, 19 patients tested positive, taking the number of cases in the district to 1,120. Officials of the district administrations in Chittoor, Kadapa, Kurnool and Anantapur are working to restore normalcy. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rseema-records-six-deaths-caseload-rises/articleshow/76777172.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand forms committee for technical inputs on Covid-19 containment||Dehradun: Additional secretary, health, Dr Pankaj Kumar Pandey on Friday formed a five-member committee to analyse the Covid-19 situation in the state. The committee, which will be headed by a doctor from the Government Doon Medical College (GDMC), would shortlist the best practices followed in other states and suggest the measures that can be replicated in the Himalayan state. “In the present scenario, it’s important for the state to develop data-driven policies and evidence-based actions for the containment of both Covid-19 and dengue. Hence, it is pertinent to form this technical committee which will give its inputs to the government for informed decision making,” said the order released by the health department. Moreover, the order has also made it mandatory for the officials of Covid-19 control room to provide the data to the committee every Friday. The committee will then present a weekly report to the health department every Monday. Dr Devrat Roy, HOD of community medicine at GDMC, will head the team. Other members of the committee include Dr Sadhna Awasthi from Haldwani Medical College, Dr Amit Singh from Almora Medical College, Dr Arijit Kumar from Srinagar Medical College and Dr Vikas Sharma, Uttarakhand state representative for World Health Organisation (WHO). “The team will prepare a detailed report on the risk factors associated with Covid-19 in Uttarakhand, causal analysis of novel coronavirus deaths, data analysis of socio-economic and demographic profiles of cases, testing patterns, risk factors, severity, symptomatology etc. The team will also analyse lab surveillance in the containment zones, examine health impact assessment and study the ways for infection prevention and control in healthcare workers,” read the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-forms-committee-for-technical-inputs-on-covid-19-containment/articleshow/76776022.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 4, 2020||Nashik||NMC finds ways for pupils to take lessons from home||Nashik: With the Covid-19 cases growing day by day and educational institutions remaining shut to prevent the spread of the viral infection, the civic administration has started ‘learn from home’ for its 26,000 students in 90 municipal schools. Of the 26,000 students, parents of around 16,000 students have smartphones and laptops. These students are getting access to the lectures online. The education department of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has designed a system in which some students can learn by sending a missed call and getting access to the lectures in audio format. Some 4,500 students who have basic phones are availing this facility. The remaining students are learning through televised programmes.The NMC’s education department is also in the process of joining hands with an NGO to provide tabs to the remaining students. An official from the NMC’s education department said, “We recently conducted an online session with the principals of all the civic schools to discuss the ways in which we can impart lessons to our students amid the current situation.” “We have formed two teams of teachers. While one team will provide the syllabus online, another team will record the lectures in audio format and also for televised programs,” said the official. “Moreover, we have also completed the online admission of 700 students in Class I ,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-finds-ways-for-pupils-to-take-lessons-from-home/articleshow/76776025.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 4, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra to provide Rs 13 crore for forest garden project||PUNE: The state government will provide Rs 13 crore for the forest garden and eco park planned at Taljai hills. Guardian minister Ajit Pawar gave an in-principal approval for the fund allocation at a meeting on Friday. “Important projects for the city should be approved and executed. No unnecessary obstacles will be created in the path of such initiatives. The tourism project report of the forest garden at Taljai hills was drafted. The Maharashtra Ecotourism Development Board has also cleared it. The state government will provide funds for the forest garden,” said Pawar. As per the proposal put forward by the Pune Municipal Corporation, a major stretch of the project land is to be used to develop an Oxygen Park. Other components of the project include a small amphitheatres, cultural and sports facilities, such as a cricket stadium, skateboarding ramp and rock-climbing facility. A bamboo park is also planned as part of the project. The standing committee had, on August 6, 2002, approved a proposal to acquire 43.94 acre land at Taljai Hills to develop the garden. The plan was sent to the district collector to initiate the acquisition process under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. A legal dispute over compensation had arisen as some land owners has approached the high court and Supreme Court to raise their objections. The Supreme Court’s ruling in favour of the civic body in March paved the way to start the project on ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-to-provide-rs-13-crore-for-forest-garden-project/articleshow/76778003.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Goa||Two more die of Covid-19, Goa sees 90+ cases second day in row||MARGAO/VASCO: Goa witnessed one of its worst Covid-19 days since the pandemic began after two persons succumbed to the infection on Friday. In addition, the state saw over 90 positive new cases for the second day in a row. The two deaths — those of a 75-year-old woman from Salcete and a 45-year-old man from Vasco — raised the state’s death toll to six. The Salcete woman was undergoing treatment at the Covid hospital for the past two weeks. Deputy director of health services Dr Ira Almeida told TOI that she had co-morbidities and had been admitted in the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU). “She had an underlying lung condition,” Almeida said. “The Covid infection made it worse.” In the case of the Vasco fisherman, his Covid-positive status was only confirmed after his death. Sources said that he had visited the Chicalim sub-district hospital on Thursday complaining of mild fever. His swab sample was drawn for testing and he was sent home. “After he died on Friday, the police called us for his test report. It was positive,” Almeida said late on Friday night. Significantly, the Salcete septuagenarian’s grandson’s wife, who was in late stages of pregnancy, had also contracted Covid-19, but was cured and discharged from the Covid hospital. Days later, she got admitted to Hospicio, Margao, and delivered a healthy baby. Meanwhile, Goa’s active Covid-19 tally touched the 800-mark after 94 new infections were detected. The day also saw the emergence of a new hotspot, Balli, which reported 21 new cases in a single day. The cases in Balli came to light after a few villagers attended a wedding in nearby Ambelim, which has 24 active cases as on Friday. A health official confirmed that many of those who tested positive either attended or came in contact with those who attended the wedding, in which the bride herself tested positive. Meanwhile in Mapusa, six individuals from Ganganagar tested positive on Friday. MLA Joshua D’Souza said that the six new cases are all neighbours of the first person from the area who tested positive. “They (the six) had earlier tested negative, but in repeat tests, they’ve tested positive,” he said. Several other hotspots also witnessed a rise in cases, with Baina adding 12 cases to its tally, bringing the total to 66. Sakhali also saw 11 new cases, bringing its total up to 43. The town now has the highest Covid count in the state outside of Mormugao taluka. A health official said that swab samples were collected from more than 200 persons. “Cases started rising after two-three family members tested positive,” he said. Porvorim too has seen a couple of cases over the past few days. One of these is a nurse attached to the ESI hospital in Margao, and the other a senior citizen who is undergoing treatment for cancer. “The cancer patient has been transferred to the Covid hospital from a private hospital,” a health official said. It is suspected the cancer patient contracted the infection from her caretaker, who was with her in the private hospital. The caretaker has been quarantined and will be tested, the official said. Meanwhile, D’Souza said that Ganganagar, which was barricaded after the first case was detected there a week ago, continues to be blocked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-more-die-of-covid-state-sees-90-cases-2nd-day-in-row/articleshow/76778549.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: BJP MP Locket Chatterjee tests Covid-19 positive, admitted to Kasba hospital||KOLKATA/HOOGHLY: Bharatiya Janata Party MP Locket Chatterjee has tested Covid-19 positive on Friday. She had tested negative in the first test done a few days ago. Chatterjee, who has been active even a week ago, was admitted to a nursing home near Kasba. The BJP headquarters on Murlidhar Sen Lane, however, remains open as the preparations are afoot for the July 6 virtual rally of party president J P Nadda. Party office staff, who stay at the headquarters, will continue to remain there, sources said. “We have not closed the office, but the movement is restricted and nobody is going there unless it is urgent,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said. According to a state BJP leader, at least six more senior functionaries of the party have contracted the infection and are now in hospital or quarantine. BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu had also gone into isolation on June 24 after some of the party workers he had come in touch with were found infected with novel coronavirus. After attending party programmes on June 24, Chatterjee complained of mild fever. She went for a test for Covid-19 and the results were negative. But Chatterjee, her colleagues said, continued to complain of fever and went for self-isolation for a week. On Friday morning, her test results came positive. “I have been tested positive for Covid-19 this morning, having mild fever and was in self isolation for the past one week,” she tweeted. “It is difficult to figure out who is asymptomatic Covid-19 patient. I had attended a few programmes on June 23 and at least five of the attendees were later found Covid-19 positive. I went into isolation after that,” Basu said. In the past 10 days, Chatterjee attended protest rallies at Haroa, Basirhat and a virtual rally of Union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan on June 26. “She is still asymptomatic and will recover soon,” said her brother Sushanta. Earlier in the day, Ghosh said that the BJP had put rallies on hold for some days keeping the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in mind. Door-to-door campaigns will, however, continue. “Physical distance has become the norm now if we have to stay safe. We have to continue to maintain the distance till the disease is controlled,” Ghosh said at a public rally in Dum Dum. Party workers at Hooghly, who attended Chatterjee’s Syama Prasad Mookerjee memorial programme on June 23, have gone on self isolation for 14 days on Friday. Meanwhile, preparations for the July 6 virtual rally continued at the BJP office on Friday. Party workers will also attend a video conference at the Murlidhar Sen Lane office with PM Narendra Modi on Saturday. They will give a presentation on “Seva hi Sangathan” (service is organisation) to the PM through video conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-mp-locket-tests-ve-admitted-to-kasba-hosp/articleshow/76778004.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 4, 2020||Goa||Will ask chemists to stop selling single-use masks: CCP||PANAJI: The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has decided to request pharmacies within its jurisdiction to stop selling single-use masks as they are difficult to dispose and pose a risk to people, mayor Uday Madkaikar said on Friday. “These one-time use masks have turned into a big problem for us,” he said. “People use them and discard them anywhere. If the person wearing them was infected, they pose a risk to the person handling waste. We have decided to write to the government to ban them. Our inspectors will also request pharmacies to stop selling them.” Meanwhile, even as Camrabhat is sealed after some positive cases in the area, the city’s door-to-door garbage collection system has been carrying on unimpeded even though most CCP garbage-collectors live in the area. Madkaikar said that other workers otherwise engaged in tasks like sweeping the streets, cleaning gutters, etc, have been diverted collect garbage. Following directions from the high court of Bombay at Goa, the CCP has also cleared the Campal parade ground of all garbage, tree waste, construction debris and mud, Madkaikar said. However, the abandoned vehicles lying there will be auctioned once a valuation report is received from the PWD. The CCP recently received cabinet sanction to build 310 individual toilets under the 14th Finance Scheme, after which the capital city is expected to be open defacation-free (ODF). “It was a long pending issue,” Madkaikar said. “There were delays because the initial estimate did not include floor and wall tiles. We requested a fresh estimate, including tiles. PWD too revised its rates, and there were delays. The new estimate of Rs 1.6 crore has been approved.” He also said that the toilets will be built by Sulabh International, and thus there will be no need for a tender. “They assured us that if they start in August, they can complete the work by the first week of December,” he said. “Then, Panaji will be ODF.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-ask-chemists-to-stop-selling-single-use-masks-ccp/articleshow/76778556.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 4, 2020||Bhopal||Jyotiraditya Scindia evokes Emergency, says Congress should support PM on China||BHOPAL: Newly elected BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia kept up his attack on his old party, Congress, criticizing it on Friday for imposing Emergency “simply to retain power”, and accusing it of politicizing the ongoing tussle with China. “They will say you are talking about Emergency now because you have switched to another party. There are many eagles sitting side-by-side to rip me apart. But only one who is good gets ripped. I had said yesterday and I reiterate today: Tiger abhi zinda hai,” Scindia said at a BJP virtual rally in Bhopal. Praising PM Narendra Modi for enforcing a lockdown to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, Scindia said he used to speak up against Emergency even when he was in Congress. “Even in Congress meetings, I used to oppose imposition of Emergency. I remained with the truth. One has to live with self and when you see your image, find yourself wrong, you won’t be able to sleep peacefully,” he said. Scindia, who was with Congress for 19 years, hit out at the party for opposing PM Modi on Covid-19 and China impasse. “There should be no politics on national issues like Covid-19 and China. During the Bangladesh war, BJP leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee had praised the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, rising above politics. Here, the opposition is involved in vicious politics over Covid-19 and China. Instead, they should support PM Modi on such crucial matters,” said Scindia. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also attacked the previous Kamal Nath government, alleging: “The 15-month-long Congress rule was a ‘4-D government’ involved in corruption and large-scale irregularities -- dalal, dambh, durbhavna and Digvijaya (brokers, arrogance, malice and Digvijaya Singh). The government was managed by brokers and corruption was rampant in the secretariat.” “Congress leaders remained busy in transfers, illegal sand mining and liquor mafia. The government worked with ill-will, took revenge on BJP workers, ruined their houses, locked them in jails and damaged them financially. When Scindia ji warned them, they asked to take to the streets. But, it was Congress government that came down on the road finally,” Chouhan said. The Congress administration failed to combat Coronavirus, he alleged. “When the Corona outbreak was reported, the then CM Kamal Nath was busy in IIFA event. There were no PPE kits, no Covid-dedicated hospital. Instead, officials were assigned to collect funds for IIFA events,” alleged Chouhan. Congress reacted sharply to Scindia’s remarks on Emergency, with media state coordinator Narendra Saluja saying: “Scindia’s ‘realisation’ took a long time. His remark that ‘eagles’ are trying to rip him apart is in fact the beginning of his adversities. He will soon realise his fate in BJP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/scindia-evokes-emergency-says-cong-should-support-pm-on-china/articleshow/76777988.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Goa||Restarted tourism after pressure from stakeholders: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that there was a lot of pressure from tourism stakeholders to start the tourism industry and the government acceded to their demand as it is an economic activity. Speaking to reporters, Sawant said that as other economic activities had started in Goa, the stakeholders wanted that tourism should also follow suit. “Foreign tourists will not arrive in Goa as international flights are yet to resume,” he said. He also said that interstate movement has been allowed across the country. “At present, Goans require employment and there was immense pressure from tourism stakeholders to restart the sector. After considering all the aspects and putting standard operating procedures in place, we have started the tourism industry,” Sawant said. The chief minister was the first to tell TOI that the government will start tourism activities in the state in the month of July. Science and technology minister Michael Lobo had opposed resumption of tourism activities in July in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state. With the state government allowing hotels to restart operations and accept bookings for tourists, BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Friday said that the government must have taken this decision based on the Centre’s Unlock 2 guidelines. Replying to a question if Sawant had consulted the party before taking the decision to open tourism, Tanavade said, “It is a government decision, and it must have taken based on the economic activities that have commenced across the country after Unlock 2 guidelines were announced. And that must have been the reason to start tourism in Goa. The government must have given it a serious thought, and accordingly a decision must have been taken.” He also said that although flights have started, there are hardly any passengers. “There were demands that flights should begin, but today 50% of the flights are being cancelled. Everybody has become health conscious and people are worried about their well-being,” Tanavade said. He also said that restaurants are open in Goa, but there are very few customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restarted-tourism-after-pressure-from-stakeholders-cm/articleshow/76778568.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Nashik||NMC to increase perimeter of containment zones||Nashik: With the number of Covid-19 cases increasing rapidly across the city, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to increase the perimeter of the containment areas where residents are tested positive for the contagion. Earlier, the civic body used to seal the entire building of an apartment or society if a resident was tested positive. But now the NMC has decided to seal the entire area falling under the 50 metre radius of the building with the infected patient. “The number of Covid patients have increased 10 times in the month of June. This has become a matter of concern for the civic body and now we have started taking measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. Increasing the area of the containment zone is part of the measures,” a civic official said. Of the total 198 active containment zones in the city, 170 containment areas are apartments, societies buildings or row houses. “The government has asked the local authorities or administrations concerned to take decisions about the containment areas at their level. We have found positive cases around the apartments or societies where a resident was tested positive. Hence, we have decided to increase the containment areas instead of sealing only the buildings, said NMC officials. “We will start implementing this rule in a day or two as our objective is to curb the spread of Covid-19 cases. We are also tracing 24 high risk contacts and will send their throat swab samples for testing. We have also increased the number of tests conducted every day. We are also conducting door-to-door survey in containment zones,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-increase-perimeter-of-containment-zones/articleshow/76776040.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 4, 2020||Pune||Housing societies rue lack of clear information in implementing rules||Pune: Representatives of housing societies are of the view that too many circulars from different authorities over the past 3.5 months have left them confused and that the Centre’s orders to the district administration never officially reached them.They expressed their views during a common web discussion hosted by the Pune cooperative housing societies federation on Tuesday. The housing society representatives said most of the information have been received from the media or different social media channels. This, they say, “has created confusion among the housing society members working day and night to prevent the spread of the virus”. “Housing societies have played a very important role in preventing the spread of the virus. The action like the one in an Aundh society discourages society members. Overtime many orders were issued and they confused the society members,” said Suhas Patwardhan, chairman, Pune cooperative housing society federation. He, however, said the order issued by the cooperation department on Monday was clear and, if followed, should not cause any confusion. Cooperation department officials said fighting the virus did not entitle societies to make their own rules. An official said, “It is improper to say that societies were not aware (of the administrative guidelines). Then on what basis did many housing societies make their guidelines? They even referred to some government orders while making their rules and adding some on their own. The collector has been warning against housing societies making own rules, even if they assume it is for the benefit of the residents.”The government action against the secretary of Rohan Nilay society in Aundh has been seen as “overtly harsh” by the managing committee members of other societies. Many of them have decided to make representations to the government to quash the first information report filed against the secretary of the society on the charge of keeping a new tenant family waiting outside over a medical certificate. Residents far and across the city have, however, cited instances of harsh measures by various housing societies in the time of Covid-19. In one such case, an 82-year-old woman was not allowed to use elevators by the secretary of a society on suspicion that she might be a carrier of the virus. The woman turned out to be negative.“The societies following the government rules, extending a humanitarian assistance to those in need and communicating professionally with the residents have nothing to fear. We are not going with a warrant after all societies,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/housing-societies-rue-lack-of-clear-information-in-implementing-rules/articleshow/76778033.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 4, 2020||Goa||Low-lying areas in Bicholim submerged||Bicholim: Low-lying areas near Bicholim town and Sakhali on Friday were submerged following the rise in the Bicholim and Valvanti rivers, causing a loss of around Rs 45,000. The level of the Bicholim river rose to about 4.5m, while the Valvanti river at Sakhali rose to 2.5m. “High powered pumps were put to use at Bicholim and Sakhali to pump water entering into the towns back into the river,” said WRD’s assistant engineer K P Naik. He also said the water level at the Amthane and Anjunem dams was 48.30m and 77m, respectively. Bicholim taluka mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit told TOI that the situation in the Sal village was under control. It may recalled that last year, after excess water from the Tillari dam was released in to River Chapora, the entire Sal village was flooded and villagers had to be evacuated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/low-lying-areas-in-bicholim-submerged/articleshow/76778789.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||Rs 527 crore funds boost for Kolkata’s longest Metro corridor||KOLKATA: The longest Metro corridor — New Garia-Airport — of the city saw light at the end of the tunnel with Railway Board approving Rs 527 crore for modified alignment of its last 3.6km stretch from City Centre II to Airport. The elevated Metro corridor will now run along the periphery of Airport land parallel to VIP Road before it goes underground to reach the station where it will have an interface with Noapara-Airport Metro. The tender will be opened on July 30. This stretch of the New Garia-Airport corridor got jinxed after the state PWD proposed a flyover on VIP Road. But, Airport Authority of India (AAI), after being urged by the state, came to the rescue of the project by offering the parcel of land from its periphery. But there was massive cost escalation. Railway Board, after consultation with the ministry of finance, finally gave a go-ahead to the project, said a railway official. Now, from City Centre II to Airport, there is no major hurdle. This is why we have floated the tender as the last contract expired its life. A new contractor will now carry out the construction at a faster pace. The Rs 526.6-crore project includes construction of viaduct, ramp and underground RCC box and pushing the box (in cut and cover method), railway yard at the airport and two stations — Rabi Tirtha and VIP Road. Also, there are a host of architectural, mechanical, electrical, ventilation and PHE jobs. In another tender floated by the executing agency, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), a Rs 246.9-crore work is being awarded to the contractor for the construction of seven stations from New Town (Sub CBD) to Titumir (City Centre II) and a host of civil, mechanical and electrical works. “The despondence over the project is replaced by new hope and we now feel that it will be completed soon,” said a RVNL officer. Earlier, to facilitate the construction of the flyover, the state had asked RVNL to take the Metro underground from City Centre II. The original plan was to take the viaduct 500 metres along an elevated corridor on VIP Road and then take it underground for the final stretch in airport area. The state reasoned that it was not possible to part with two of the six lanes of VIP Road, one of the busiest corridors in the city. The proposed flyover will connect VIP Road with Jessore Road through an elevated corridor from Gate 1 on VIP Road with Gate 3 on Jessore Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rs-527cr-funds-boost-for-citys-longest-metro-corridor/articleshow/76778034.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 4, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra transport department mulls odd-even plan for autorickshaws||PUNE: The state transport department is contemplating allowing autorickshaws to ply on an odd-even basis in order to control their movement and ensure that they don’t crowd the streets. According to the plan, autorickshaws which have even number as its last digit and those with odd number would ply on alternate days. State transport minister Anil Parab told TOI that the task force appointed to suggest ways to restart public transport would consider the option when it meets next week. “The idea is to start public transport in an organised manner and look into the issues faced by transporters,” he said. “Public bus services are not fully functional and only autorickshaws have been permitted to ply. All the public transport modes need to start slowly with regulations and the odd-even idea can be among them,” a department source said. Criticising the plan, Nitin Pawar of the Rickshaw Panchayat said, “The state government should first shut the open permit system. Not many people are on the road, so only 40% to 50% autorickshaws are operational. If odd and even system is adopted, it will turn into a major issue for the drivers. Instead, the state government should use the scheme to regulate the movement of private vehicles as a crowd control measure,” he said. More than 10 lakh autorickshaws, including 3 lakh in Pune and Mumbai, are registered in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transport-department-mulls-odd-even-plan-for-autorickshaws/articleshow/76778012.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 4, 2020||Dehradun||Indian traders write to Nepalese ambassador, request help in crossing border to collect dues||Pithoragarh: The traders’ association of Banbasa, which lies along the India-Nepal border in Champawat district, has written to Nepal’s ambassador to India Nilambar Acharya, requesting that the border between the two countries be opened, so they can collect dues to the tune of several lakh rupees from Nepalese shopkeepers who owe them money. “The traders’ association has a total of 596 registered traders, of whom over 100 engage in wholesale business with Nepal’s shopkeepers. Over 200 traders also do retail business with their Nepalese counterparts,” said Sanjay Joshi, a trader based in Banbasa. Sanjay Agarwal, vice-president of Udyog Vyapar Mandal, Champawat, who wrote the letter to Acharya, seeking his help, said that since the last three months, the traders have not been able to collect their dues from Nepalese shopkeepers. “Banbasa supplies a lot of goods to Nepal’s Mahendranagar. Almost all traders here have business dealings in Nepal. After the border closed on March 21, all the trade came to a halt. All we want is for the Nepal government to allow us to enter the country and collect our dues. Our suppliers in Bareilly, Delhi and other cities are asking us to pay up, but we can’t pay them till we get the payments from Nepal,” he said. The traders had also approached the Champawat district administration with their request. The district officials granted them permission to go up to the border but told them to also seek permission of Nepalese authorities in order to cross the border. “Even if we are allowed to go to Nepal once a week, we can collect the amount the traders there owe us. We hope the Nepalese ambassador will be able to help us,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/indian-traders-write-to-nepalese-ambassador-request-help-in-crossing-border-to-collect-dues/articleshow/76776035.cms||Prem Punetha
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Evening rain, strong winds freshen up city||Ahmedabad: The city’s mood lifted on Friday evening with an overcast sky, strong winds and light to moderate rainfall. Waterlogging was reported from Naroda, Sajipur Bogha and Gota, but was cleared as soon as the rain stopped. The IMD said that for the city of Ahmedabad, normal rainfall till July 3 was 113.5 mm against which the city has already received 139.9mm of rainfall. Even though the average rainfall for the day in city was a meagre 6.86mm, the eastern part received heavy rain. Reports of heavy rain came from Gota though the AMC control room could not record such activity. The city on Friday received two complaints of tree uprooting, one each from Central and South Zone, and one cave-in was reported from the western part of the city. In order to maintain the level in Sabarmati river 7,905 cusecs of water was released in the Fatehwadi Canal, as the river received 937 cusecs from Narmada Canal. The weathermen have forecast that moderate rain or thundershowers are very likely on Saturday in city. The temperature on Friday was 39.6C which was 4.1 degrees above normal, while the night temperature was 29.4C which was 2.9 degrees above normal. The weathermen said that light to moderate rain or thundershowers are likely at many places in all districts of Gujarat region and in Daman, Dadara & Nagar Haveli; at a few places in all districts of Saurashtra and in Diu; at isolated places in Kutch district. The India Meteorological Department said that on Friday morning the state should have received 129.8mm of rain against which the state has received 124.9mm, which was a deficit of 4mm. Officials of Gujarat State Disaster Management said the state has so far received 132.30mm of rainfall which was 15.92% of the total seasonal rainfall of 831 mm. All 251 talukas have reported some rainfall activity. However 29 talukas have received less than 50mm of rainfall till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/evening-rain-strong-winds-freshen-up-city/articleshow/76778107.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||30 more Central Jail inmates test +ve, 102 results awaited||Nagpur: Thirty more Central Jail inmates tested Covid-19 positive on Friday raising concerns for the administration as 96 from the prison have been found infected so far. Soon after the news of more prisoners testing positive spread, panic gripped the inmates and they went on a hunger strike demanding they also be tested for Covid. The matter was sorted out by senior jail officials, who addressed the inmates through videoconferencing, promising to ensure their check-up and more medical assistance soon. Twelve inmates had tested Covid positive on Thursday. With Friday’s new cases, 54 jail staffers, four of their relatives and 42 inmates have tested positive so far. The fresh jolt came in the morning with reports of 30 out of the 42 samples collected a day ago came positive. Another 102 samples were collected on Friday and the results are awaited. The situation has aggravated for the already short staffed prison administration with 1,860 inmates to be monitored by 250 staffers. Around 48 family members of the jail personnel have already been sent to institutional quarantine centre at Symbiosis by NMC team. Another 12 would be quarantined soon. City police too played role in diffusing the tension in prison by extending medical help. Dr Sandeep Shinde, chief medical officer, distributed 2,000 homeopathic medicine kits. Sources said the turmoil for the jail administration had started on Thursday itself when many of the senior officials, who had tested positive, protested against the administration of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) where they were admitted. The situation had become volatile in the GMCH after the jail personnel, pointing out dirty water under their beds, questioned the unhygienic conditions there and demanded better facilities. The personnel were convinced to continue with the available facilities. Some of them were shifted elsewhere. District collector Ravindra Thakare said not adhering to the Covid protocol has led to the precarious situation (96 cases) inside the jail. “The jail administration should have tested their personnel once again before allowing them to stay for 15-day period. It was a protocol failure which has resulted in this accident (positive cases),” he said. Sources from Central Jail said that inmates who were engaged in distributing food had tested positive in the initial lot. “The food distributing team (of inmates) testing positive is a matter of grave concern,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/30-more-central-jail-inmates-test-ve-102-results-awaited/articleshow/76778058.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 4, 2020||Delhi||RTI activist beaten to death by opponents in outer Delhi village||NEW DELHI: An RTI activist was beaten to death allegedly by some men whom he had been battling in Delhi high court over grabbing of agricultural land. The victim, Ramesh Maan, was sitting outside his house in Hamidpur village in outer Delhi’s Alipur when a group of men in an SUV stopped outside his house and started hurling abuses at him. When he confronted them, they allegedly attacked him with sticks and iron rods. Maan’s neighbours and supporters chased after the men, but they managed to escape. Police said the accused have been identified and efforts are being made to arrest them. A case of murder has been registered against them. A probe revealed that Maan had rivalry with another landowner from the same village. The two had approached court and appealed against the illegal grabbing of agricultural land in the area. Both Maan and the accused had several criminal cases registered against them, including extortion and robbery. They were declared history-sheeters of the area. Maan had gained supporters in his village by filing RTIs regarding the ownership of land in Alipur and Narela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rti-activist-beaten-to-death-by-opponents-in-outer-delhi-village/articleshow/76778137.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Pune||nCoV treatment to be covered under PMC’s health scheme for urban poor||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to include nCoV treatment in its health scheme for the urban poor. Citizens from economically weaker sections of the society would receive treatment in private hospitals if they get infected. The civic body would bear the cost of the bill. "If nCoV is added to the health scheme for the urban poor, many people from low income group would benefit from it. The civic body would make adequate provision for paying the bills," said PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad. He said that due process would be completed in the coming days to include Covid-19 treatment in the health scheme for the urban poor. Instructions would be given to the eligible people and the hospitals concerned. According to PMC officials, around 16,000 to 18,000 patients receive the benefit of the health scheme every year. The civic body is hoping to provide medical assistance to around 50,000 people every year. The elected members are contemplating a number of options to increase the beneficiaries of the health scheme, including introduction of generic medicines and providing additional funds. The civic body spends around Rs25 crore every year on the health scheme. Funds are diverted from various projects to meet the increasing demand. The funds from the budgetary provisions of other schemes can be diverted for nCoV treatment, officials said. The civic administration has also increased the income ceiling for eligibility so that more and more urban poor could avail the health scheme. The scheme was earlier for citizens with an annual income of up to Rs1 lakh, which was increased to Rs2 lakh in 2019. The scheme is meant for families living below the poverty line (BPL) and was started on January 26, 2010.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ncov-treatment-to-be-covered-under-pmcs-health-scheme-for-urban-poor/articleshow/76778036.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: Assembly session cut to one day||PANAJI: The monsoon session of the state legislative assembly has been shorted from two weeks to one day — on July 27 — thanks to the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaker Rajesh Patnekar on Friday held an all-party meeting at the assembly complex, in which the opposition said that it would allow the government to take a vote on account for four months as it’s a Constitutional requirement, but not let the government pass the budget in a one-day session. Friday’s meeting was attended by deputy speaker Isidore Fernandes, chief minister Pramod Sawant, legislative affairs minister Mauvin Godinho, leader of opposition Digambar Kamat, Goa Forward Party MLA Vijai Sardesai, MGP MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar, and NCP MLA Churchill Alemao. “Everyone arrived at a consensus to have a one-day monsoon assembly session instead of two weeks,” Patnekar said. “The full-fledged session will be held in December.” Meanwhile, Sardesai said that the legislature secretary advised against holding meetings. “I had scheduled a budget committee meeting to find out whether the budget is alive or dead,” Sardesai said. “At the moment, according to me, it’s dead. We allowed the government to take a vote on account in the past four months. But with the CM announcing austerity measures, there’s a need to reset the budget. We can’t allow it to be passed in its current form.” The speaker said that the agenda for the one-day session would be decided by the business advisory committee (BAC) 12 days before the session. “The BAC will decide whether the vote on account on budget or full budget will be passed now or in December,” he said. Patnekar also held a meeting with assembly staff, and learnt that a typical session involves at least 1,000 persons in attendance daily. These include MLAs, ministers’ staff, MLAs’ staff, assembly employees, police and fire personnel, reporters, etc. “Even if we don’t permit the general public, we can’t manage 1,000 persons a day.” Sardesai said that the decision to have a one-day session was taken because the government has failed to protect the people of the state, and that now the time has come for the people to protect themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/assembly-session-cut-to-one-day/articleshow/76778580.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Seven held in four cybercrime cases||Ahmedabad: In a crackdown on cyber criminals, sleuths of the city’s cybercrime police station on Friday cracked four cases and rounded up seven accused, all of whom were sent for pre-arrest Covid tests. Infatuated man’s Facebook harassment Cops held a 39-year-old resident of Sarkhej, Mukesh Beldar, for hacking the Facebook accounts of a 34-year-old woman from Chandkheda, her husband and her daughter, to harass them. Inspector V B Barad of crime branch said that based on technical analysis, they got the IP address of the device used to hack the accounts. “The IP address led to Beldar’s house and we nabbed him there,” Barad said. During his interrogation, Beldar claimed to know ‘tantrik vidya’ and said he had met the complainant eight years ago at a friend’s wedding. They spoke to each other about tantrik vidya and Beldar got infatuated with the woman. “As she refused any kind of relationship with him, he hacked the her Facebook account and those of her husband and daughter, and began harassing them. Beldar dropped out of school in Class X,” added a cybercrime police station source. Gaming the system Cybercrime investigators detained two youths from Bhavnagar, Riyaz Mahida, 21, and Rahul Gohil, 20, for allegedly siphoning off Rs 5,085 from the bank account of Nilesh Vaghela, a resident of Ranip. They were identified based on technical analysis and confessed to the crime. They would gather phone numbers of people who regularly play the game PUBG, and make a WhatsApp group with the numbers. “They would then advertise PUBG in-game purchases at half the regular price. When prospective buyers came to them with their mobiles, they would use their mobiles to siphon off money from various bank accounts. They got debit card and bank account data from the dark web. They would also sell the used data to other cyber criminals at lower prices,” a police source said. Sewing up a ruse Police detained a 35-year-old man from Matar in Kheda district, Shailesh Prajapati, for cheating several women by promising to get them free sewing machines under a fictious government scheme, ‘Silai Machine Pradhanmantri Yojana’. According to inspector M M Solanki of the cybercrime police station, the accused would stake out several women and get their details. “He would then call them up and tell them that they could get a free sewing machine under a government scheme. He would then get details of their Aadhaar cards, passbooks and cheques. He would persuade them to share one-time passwords from their banks with him and would siphon off money from their accounts. He stole Rs 20,500 from one victim’s account,” Solanki said, adding that an offence was also been lodged against an accomplice of Prajapati’s at Sola police station. Adding insult to injury Cybercrime sleuths detained three persons — Mohammed Riyazuddin Shaikh, 26, of Shahpur; Mohammed Yousuf Qureshi, 23, of Danilimda; and Ahankhan Pathan, 25, of Patwa Sheri — for allegedly cheating a man of Rs 1,10,000 using the lure of emigration to Canada. They also allegedly shot an embarrassing video of him and threatened to circulate it if he went to the police. Inspector S R Muchal said, “The accused befriended the victim using WhatsApp. They then promised to help him emigrate to Canada and lured him into their office. They got him to give them his debit card and PIN. They siphoned off Rs 80,000 using an online payment site and withdrew Rs 30,000 from his account from an ATM.” “They then overpowered him, disrobed him, and shot a video. They threatened to post the video on social media if he approached police,” Muchal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seven-held-in-four-cybercrime-cases/articleshow/76778062.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||False case against Bains brothers: Gill panel for inquiry, action against cops & mining officials||Chandigarh: Justice Mehtab Singh Gill-headed commission looking into the allegedly politically-motivated cases registered during the 10 years of SAD-BJP rule in Punjab has recommended departmental inquiry and disciplinary action against cops and mining officials for booking Lok Insaaf Party MLAs Simarjit Singh Bains and Balwinder Singh Bains in false cases. The commission submitted its 21st interim report to the Punjab chief minister’s office on Friday. “...the false FIR was registered due to political vendetta against them (Bains brothers) and it was a case of highhandedness of the police at the instance of then ruling party,” the commission observed in the report. Disposing of the complaint filed by Atam Nagar MLA Simarjit, the commission recommended, “Departmental inquiry be conducted against mining officer Manjit Singh and general manager Mahesh Khanna by higher authority, and against the police officers (sub-inspector Rajwant Singh and ASI Gurmit Singh) by the DGP, Punjab or by a senior police officer to be nominated by him, and if they are found at fault, strict disciplinary action should be initiated against them.” Simarjit had approached the commission claiming that he and his brother and Ludhiana South MLA Balwinder were falsely implicated in a case registered at Meharban police station in Ludhiana district on April 17, 2015, for assault, theft, criminal conspiracy, wrongful restraint, etc and under various sections of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act. He had stated that in order to ensure that the protestors do not get bail, the police also added charges of attempt to murder and robbery. Simarjit and Balwinder had contested the Punjab assembly elections in the year 2012 as independent candidates and were elected. The commission observed, “The complainant (Simarjit), his brother and his companions raised their voice against sand mafia, drug mafia and transport mafia. They repeatedly told the ruling party that the sand mafia at their behest is selling sand from the river beds and that the ruling party should control the activities of these mafias, as they were looting the property of the state.” It further said the complainant Simarjit and his companions had no self-interest rather they raised the public grievances and started agitations since the state government did not act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/false-case-against-bains-brothers-gill-panel-for-inquiry-action-against-cops-mining-officials/articleshow/76778042.cms||Sanjeev Verma
July 4, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon sees spike in Covid cases||Nashik: Malegaon has witnessed a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in the last one week, resulting in more than 15 patients being reported from the textile town on an average. Malegaon city, which has been a Covid-19 hotspot, now reports five cases per day on an average. However, the figures in rural areas have swelled beyond 10 cases on an average per day. “The analysis of the rising figures points out that that number of cases from Malegaon municipal corporation limits are under control, but, the number from the rural areas is on the rise,” additional district collector Dhananjay Nikam, who is also the chief of the emergency operation centre for Malegaon, said. At present, the situation in the city is under control, though resurgence cannot be ruled out given that the economic activities in the town have been given a go ahead to restart operations. “Strict surveillance measures are being carried out by the the Malegaon municipal corporation officials. This is the reason that the number of patients are quite low. However, the rising number of cases in the rural areas of Malegaon is a cause of concern. It reports at least double digit numbers on a daily basis,” a senior officer of the municipal corporation said. To curb the spread of Covid-19 in Malegaon, health officials are using all tools prescribed by the ICMR to identify and treat patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-sees-spike-in-covid-cases/articleshow/76776058.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 4, 2020||Pune||PCMC to set up Covid care centre at Mhalunge||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) would set up a 300-bed Covid care centre at Mhalunge Ingale near Chakan industrial area. Four towers with 47 flats each in existing Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) housing society are available for setting up a covid care centre, said Santosh Patil, additional municipal commissioner. Patil said that the flats are ready and since possession has not been given, it can be an ideal care centre. The admission of the patients started from Friday. The capacity at Mhalunge Ingale would be increased step-by-step to 1,000-bed facility. He said there are six covid care centres and more are being planned considering the rise in the number of cases in the past few weeks. Till Friday evening, the number of Covid-19 patients in PCMC rose to 3,773, including 1,427 active. Patil said that the centres can treat high-risk patients, such as senior citizens and asymptomatic Covid patients. Covid-19 positive patients with mild symptoms are transferred to the Covid health centres, while severe cases are transferred to the dedicated Covid hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-to-set-up-covid-care-centre-at-mhalunge/articleshow/76778063.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Noapara-Dakshineswar Metro link likely by September||KOLKATA: Work for the the Noapara-Dakshineswar Metro link, which was hampered in its last leg because of the lockdown, is now on in full swing. At the state government’s request, Metro Railway is trying to commission the extended service of the current Noapara-Kavi Subhas Metro to Dakshineswar by September this year. A senior state official said, “We are requesting the Metro authorities to begin the extended service of the north-south line by September, so that commuters can use it in the absence of the Tallah Bridge.” Sources, however, said it could take a bit longer and efforts were on to complete the 4km extended section by the Puja this year. The corridor would have been thrown open to commuters this month had the work not been hit by the lockdown. Work is now on to complete the 4.2km track-laying and supplying the electrical connection to the ballast-less tracks simultaneously because most of the labourers from Malda, Birbhum, the two Midnapores and the rural areas of Bihar have joined work. They started joining from the beginning of June and are now working on a war-footing to complete the pending 10% of the corridor. “After the construction is over, the electrical cables are installed and the finishing touches given, we should be ready to throw open the section to the public by September,” a senior official in the railways said. The 57-year-old Tallah Bridge, a key link between Kolkata and northern suburbs, has been pulled down because it was declared unfit to take all the traffic load. It should take at least three years for the new one to come up. Therefore, the 4km-Metro link between Noapara and Dakshineswar, especially Barangar station on the route, will be the commuting link for people travelling from Dunlop, Bonhooghly, Belghoria and beyond. The corridor has already missed its March 2020 deadline and now the revised July completion date also. “The Baranagar station of the Noapara-Dakshineswar stretch would help commuters since the Tallah Bridge has been dismantled,” the state official said. He said the state was in touch with Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL), under the railway ministry, which is implementing the project. “RVNL officials said they were hopeful that the Dakshineswar link would be opened by September,” the state official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/noapara-dakshineswar-link-likely-by-sept/articleshow/76778064.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 4, 2020||Dehradun||Father of year-old toddler claims son died of medical negligence, approaches Human Rights Commission||Dehrdaun: On March 22, the Khurana family was in Haridwar with their year-old toddler Virat for the ‘barsi’ (the ritual marking a person’s death anniversary) of his grandmother. The same day, the country went into lockdown and the Khuranas ended up stranded in Haridwar. Two days later on March 24, their toddler started having a fever of 104 degrees Farenheit. The family admitted Virat to a hospital in Haridwar on March 26, just a day after his birthday. The next day, he was referred to Himalayan Hospital in Jolly Grant. March 27 was the last day Virat’s parents saw him. He died on March 28. In June, three months after the incident, justice Akhilesh Chandra Sharma, a member of the Uttarakhand Human Rights Commission (UHRC) wrote to the chief medical officer (CMO) of Dehradun, ordering an inquiry and asking for a detailed report to be presented to the commission as to why 1-year-old Virat Khurana died a day after he was admitted at the private hospital. Talking to TOI, Lokesh Kumar Khurana, the boy’s father, said that when their son’s temperature had reached 106 degrees, they begged the junior doctors attending to him to call a senior doctor but their pleas were ignored. He added that after hours of agonising wait, they were handed over their toddler’s body in a plastic bag on March 28, only after they paid the bill. Khurana said they were not allowed to touch the body, even though Virat had not been tested for Covid-19. “I fainted when I was told that he is no more. I had brought my son to this hospital hoping he would be fine. They didn’t share the reason behind his death. They didn’t even tell us who had treated him. All I got was a bill of Rs 48,000 after hours of wait to receive the body,” Khurana said. Confirming the orders issued by the UHRC, Himanshu Kumar, an official from justice Sharma’s office, said that the CMO has been asked to share the detailed report by September 9, 2020. Chief medical superintendent of Himalayan Hospital, Dr SL Jethani when queried about the matter, told TOI, “I am not aware of the incident. We will reply to any inquiry set up by the chief medical officer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/father-of-year-old-toddler-claims-son-died-of-medical-negligence-approaches-human-rights-commission/articleshow/76776077.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||With online education impossible, Gadchiroli ZP teachers land at students’ homes||Nagpur: Online classes is an alien concept for children living in the 120-odd villages of a remote taluka in Naxalite-infested Gadchiroli district. Some villages in Bhamragarh taluka don’t even have electricity while many are outside the range of mobile networks. Yet, students of all 77 Zilla Parishad (ZP) schools here have started their studies at home, courtesy an army of dedicated teachers who fanned out across the inhospitable terrain to teach kids. Teachers drove, walked and even hiked to reach some of the most remote areas where their students were residing. Once there, they divided students into ‘study groups’ that range from a couple of students to over a dozen, depending on the village’s student population. Ashwini Sonawane, block education officer (Bhamragarh), said the eldest student heads the group. “This student ensures that the assignments given by teachers are done properly. Having a mixed age group ensures that the younger ones are guided in the right manner,” said Sonawane, who recently completed three years in the taluka. She’s the first education official in Maharashtra who requested for a posting in Bhamragarh, which otherwise is considered a ‘punishment posting’. Vinit Padmawar, headmaster of Koyanguda ZP School, is one of the fortunate ones as his village is near the main road and boasts of decent facilities. “I run the study group in two shifts, each comprising two hours. In the morning session, we start with story telling followed by poems and multiplication tables. Evening is for revision,” said Padmawar. He added that students look forward to this activity as ‘they have nothing else to do’. Teachers haven’t stopped at just academics. Sonawane suggested that life skills must also be taught and her team pitched in with ideas. In the coming week, activity based on life skill will focus on ‘cooperation’. “We asked all the students to assemble and paint pictures by using natural colours. They will make colour by using leaves, flowers and even mud,” said Sonawane. By Friday afternoon, students at Padmawar’s school had finished drawing a ‘school’ on the wall of a friend’s house with natural colours. When asked why ZP teachers are going beyond the call of duty, Sonawane said, “Just because schools are closed does not mean education must stop too.” She also felt that her team had to ensure that efforts of the state’s textbook publishing arm were honoured. “Balbharti published these books during the lockdown by overcoming multiple hurdles. These books then reached us much before the session started. If we had not gone forward with book distribution and studies, all their efforts would have gone down the drain,” said Sonawane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-online-education-impossible-gadchiroli-zp-teachers-land-at-students-homes/articleshow/76778083.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Now, Haryana books Pannun for sedition||Chandigarh: A day after Punjab booked US national Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, who is legal adviser of the banned pro-Khalistan outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), and his aide for anti-national activities, Haryana Police on Friday registered an FIR against him on the charges of sedition and secessionism at Bhondsi police station of Gurgaon. A police official said Pannun has been seen running a secessionist campaign through automated phone calls from the US against India and indulging in unlawful activities aimed at threatening the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of India. The FIR, under sections 124-A and 153-A of the IPC and sections 10(a) and 13 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, has been registered on the complaint of an inspector of Special Task Force (STF), Gurugram, alleging Pannun was seen accusing the Haryana government and its people for being inimical to the interests of Sikhs and Punjabis. Being a member of SFJ, which has been pushing for ‘Sikh Referendum 2020’ as part of its secessionist agenda, Pannun poses a major threat to the communal harmony and unity of the country, the official said. Pannun has also been exhorting the Sikhs in Haryana to take part in voting registration for the illegal referendum to be held online on July 4, 2020, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-haryana-books-pannun-for-sedition/articleshow/76778071.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Take necessary steps against SFJ activities: HC to Punjab, Haryana & Centre||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday asked the states of Punjab, Haryana and the Union government to take necessary action against banned organisation Sikh for Justice (SFJ)’s bid to provoke public sentiment. The division bench of chief justice Ravi Shanker Jha and justice Arun Palli passed the order while disposing of a petition filed in public interest seeking directions for taking steps against SFJ. During the hearing, the counsel for Punjab government informed that SFJ was banned by the state in July 2019 only and its legal adviser Gurpatwant Singh Pannun was also declared a designated terrorist by the government of India on July 1. The court was also informed that 116 WhatsApp groups relating to the organisation have been blocked and further steps in this regard are being taken. Further, the counsel said, as many as 16 FIRs have been registered against the organisation and further details regarding the steps being taken by the government cannot be shared for security reasons. He assured the court that all necessary measures are being taken by the state of Punjab to prevent any kind of anti-national activity by the organisation, including blocking the proposed referendum bid by SFJ. Appearing for the central government, additional solicitor general S P Jain submitted, “The Union of India in coordination with all the state governments, including Punjab and Haryana, is taking all necessary steps to ensure the safety and integrity of the country.” The petitioner in the case, Bikram Singh Majithia, had told the court that SFJ has suddenly become very active, furthering the cause of separate state for Sikhs — Khalistan. The petitioner submitted that this organisation is going ahead with all kinds of anti-national activities and also provoking the residents of Punjab, especially the Sikh youths, to declare a war against the present Punjab government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/take-necessary-steps-against-sfj-activities-hc-to-pb-hry-centre/articleshow/76778066.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Pune||Elderly man in Ghorpadi hangs self from ceiling fan||Pune: A 67-year-old man was found hanging from a ceiling fan hook at his residence in Bhimnagar slums, a containment zone, in Ghorpadi on Thursday night.Police identified the deceased as Baliram Tukaram Jadhav and said the death appeared to be a case of suicide. Jadhav used a sari for allegedly hanging himself to death on the first-floor room of his residence. He did not leave any suicide note behind, police said. A post mortem report by the Sassoon hospital stated “asphixia due to hanging” as the cause of his death.Senior inspector Sampat Bhosale from the Mundhwa police said, ”This is a suicide case. We are in the process of recording his family members’ statements.”The victim was living with his wife while his two sons were living separately in Wakad and Kothrud. Jadhav’s son, Satish, told TOI over phone, “My mother offered tea to my father and stepped out of the house for disposing of garbage. Around this time, my father ended his life. We don’t know what drove him to take the extreme step.”Satish said he and his brother shifted to Wakad and Kothrud recently because some people residing in their vicinity in Bhimnagar had tested positive for Covid-19. “My younger brother as a preventive measure got himself tested, but his report came negative on July 1. The rest of us in the family were planning to get ourselves medically examined.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elderly-man-in-ghorpadi-hangs-self-from-ceiling-fan/articleshow/76778068.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Nashik||Regional heads tasked to fight Covid-19||Nashik: District collector of Nashik Suraj Mandhare has tasked the regional heads of the public works department (PWD), the Pollution Control Board (PCB), revenue and health officials various responsibilities for the effective management of Covid-19 in the district, except for the municipal limits of Nashik and Malegaon, under the Disaster Management Act. Civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale and district health officer (DHO) Kapil Aher have been made responsible for the death analysis of the Covid-19 patients. This will enable to improvise the treatment given to patients and even focus on other aspects that will help bring down the mortality rate. Utkarsh Dudhediya has been given the responsibility of ensuring the pathology laboratory runs smoothly given that there is a surge in the number of Covid-19 patients in the district. The DHO, along with others, will have to see beneficiaries are getting treatment under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY) and other schemes. Additional ZP CEO Ravindra Suryawanshi will be monitoring the contact tracing of positive patients. Deputy collector (administration) Arvind Anturlikar will be conducting surveys and monitoring surveillance activities and quarantine facilities. The pollution control board authorities will have to manage the bio-medical waste disposal with the help of block development officers. Deputy collector Vitthal Sonawane, along with others, will be monitoring hospitals, their requirements and the treatment facilities in the rural areas of the district. Five officers transferred to NMC Five officers have been transferred from the district collectorate to the Nashik Municipal Coporation (NMC) for effective implementation of various measures to combat the spread of Covid-19. Distict collector Mandhare said that besides the five officers, the NMC has also been given Rs 1 crore from the disaster management funds for effective management against Covid-19..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/regional-heads-tasked-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/76776073.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 4, 2020||Goa||2,945 students in Goa set to answer GCET from Saturday||PANAJI: The two-day Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET) will be answered by 2,945 students from Saturday, July 4, at 10am. A separate exam centre has been prepared for eight students from the containment zone areas in Vasco region after they contacted the directorate of technical education’s (DTE) helpline. For the students from the containment zone, the Institute of Ship Building will serve as the exam centre, officials said. No students from other containment zone areas have approached the DTE seeking special arrangements for them to answer the exam, a source said. The exam will take place across 17 centres this year, two more than usual, including the centre demarcated for students from the Vasco containment zone. Officials said to maintain social distancing, only 16 students will be seated per exam hall, as against the earlier 24. “Apart from this, three policemen will be posted per exam centre to ensure that social distancing is maintained and two professors from government colleges and one presiding officer per centre will ensure that all SOPs are observed,” officials said. Parents will be instructed to drop off students for the exam at some distance from the centre gates, though the exact distance has not been demarcated. “It will be mandatory for students to wear masks to be able to enter the exam centres. There will be thermal screening carried out and each students will be asked to sanitise their hands before entering the centre. Students will be allowed to take a bottle of sanitiser and a transparent bottle of water with them inside the exam centre. But no gadgets as usual will be allowed inside,” an official said. Some exam centres have already been changed by the DTE to move them away from the areas with increase in Covid-19 cases and students have been notified about it accordingly. GCET is held for admission to engineering and pharmacy college degree seats in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2945-students-in-goa-set-to-answer-gcet-from-today/articleshow/76778586.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir questions AAP, farmers silence on APMC Act changes||Jalalabad: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and Ferozepur MP asked the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and farmer bodies to tell Punjabis why they did not question chief minister Amarinder Singh for amending the state Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act three years ago to include all the provisions of the current ordinances passed by the Union government. Talking to media persons here on Friday, Sukhbir said Punjab AAP convener Bhagwant Mann had acted as a ‘yes man’ of the CM during the all-party meeting held to discuss the ordinances passed by the Centre. “It seems AAP is set to merge with the Congress soon,” he said. Sukhbir said even the farmer organizations of Punjab also seemed to be teaming up with the CM for ulterior motives. He said the farmer bodies should tell why they did not ask the CM about the state APMC Act amendment to allow for creation of private yards, direct marketing and e-trade, which was also contained in central ordinances. He said both AAP and the farmer outfits should tell Punjabis why they kept quiet on the issue for three years. “If the food grains are going to be procured at the minimum support price (MSP) in entirety, then both AAP and the kisan unions should explain what they are protesting about,” Sukhbir s aid.  The SAD chief also made it clear that as long as their party existed, MSP and assured marketing of food grain crops would stay. He said the SAD had always stood up for the farmers and no sacrifice was too great to protect their rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhbir-questions-aap-farmers-silence-on-apmc-act-changes/articleshow/76778088.cms||Dinesh K Sharma
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||95% of NCAP target achieved in 74 days||Nagpur: In some good news for New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Bengaluru, the lockdown has resulted in these four cities achieving 95% of their 2024 National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) target in just 74 days.This observation came to the fore in an analysis done by researchers from Respirer Living Sciences and Carbon Copy who analysed the average air quality during the four phases of the lockdown in the country as well as concentrations during the individual phases for PM2.5, PM10, nitrogen dioxide (NO2), carbon monoxide (CO), ozone (O3) and Benzene for the four cities.The data was sourced from air quality monitors set-up by the state pollution controlBoards which is also being used by the NCAP. Released in January 2019 by the union environment ministry, the programme has categorized 102 cities as non attainment. Under NCAP, the government has set a target of reducing 30% air pollution by 2024, by keeping 2017 as a base year.Data from the four lockdown phases was compared with 2024 NCAP targets for each of the four cities along with the reduction already achieved during the four lockdown phases and individually in each phase. “The lockdown period helped us understand the effects from anthropogenic emissions to our environment. All four cities analysed managed to better their 2024 NCAP target by around 30%, with Kolkata bettering their target by over 50% during this lockdown. This period is a marker for policymakers on how they can achieve what has been planned for in the coming four years, in a relatively shorter period,” said Ronak Sutaria, CEO, Respirer Living Sciences.According to the experts, the lockdown gave them the opportunity to understand the background pollution levels across India. At a webinar recently hosted by Delhi-based communications initiative, Climate Trends, Dr Sagnik Dey from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, explained that out of the eight primary polluting sources in India, four were completely closed during the lockdown period — construction and industrial activity, brick kilns and vehicles.The tracker also analysed PM2.5 and PM10 levels in the four cities across 2017, 2018 and 2019 to demonstrate the effectiveness of NCAP in bringing down pollution, taking levels in 2017 as the base year. While Kolkata witnessed an approximate 24% improvement in PM levels in 2019 in comparison to 2018, Mumbai averaged (16%), Bengaluru (19.8%) and Delhi (6.4%) but the improvement fell short of the NCAP targets. Experts feel that the drastic drop in pollution levels during the lockdown teaches lessons in India’s air pollution management which need to be incorporated in achieving the country’s clean air targets. Aarti Khosla, director at Climate Trends, said, “Bringing all economic activity to a halt brought about gains in air quality which have otherwise been envisaged as part of the next five years, to be achieved through NCAP. The drastic reduction in pollutants across cities strengthens the fundamental need for managing air quality as a regional issue, across the same air shed, such that gains of clearer skies can happen along with growth and economic activity. Lessons from the lockdown make it clear that city action plans need to be much more comprehensive in their strategy and approach to air pollution management.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/95-of-ncap-target-achieved-in-74-days/articleshow/76778089.cms||Manka Behl
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Arrest Moose Wala when he joins probe’||Barnala: Three social activists on Friday wrote to the Punjab Police DGP, Patiala Range IG and the SSPs of Sangrur and Barnala districts seeking the arrest of noted Punjabi singer Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu aka Sidhu Moose Wala when he joins investigations by Dhuri police in Sangrur as per the court directive. The activists — advocate Hakam Singh, Kuldeep Singh Khaira and Parvinder Singh Kittna — have in separate letters urged the Sangrur SSP, who is the supervising officer in the two cases registered against Moose Wala in the two districts, to inform the Barnala police when he appears to join investigations, and also asked Barnala SSP to ensure that the singer is arrested. They have also asked Patiala Range IG to make sure that everything is done as per rules. A Sangrur court, while allowing interim bail on June 30 to Sidhu Moose Wala in the case registered at Dhuri police station, had directed him to join investigations by July 7. Parvinder Kittna said, “As Moose Wala has not got bail so far in Barnala case registered against him and eight others on May 4, the police should arrest him when he joins probe in Dhuri case.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/arrest-moose-wala-when-he-joins-probe/articleshow/76778086.cms||Neel Kamal
July 4, 2020||Nashik||Nodal officer booked for negligence of duty||Nashik: Sakhri police have booked a nodal officer from Sakri taluka of Dhule district under various sections of the Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Prevention Act and the IPC for failing to carry out the responsibilities alloted to him in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. The action was taken after a complaint in this regard was filed by incident commander officer Pravin Chavhanke. The concerned officer was appointed as the nodal officer for Covid care centres in Sakri taluka. He was expected to make visits to the centres in his jurisdiction and oversee their work and submit a report of the same to the taluka medical officer. In addition, he was tasked with the responsibility of inspecting if there were any shortcomings in the treatment procedures given to patients at the Covid centres. Chavhanke stated that there have been 22 Covid-19 cases in Sakri between April 10 and June 15. It was the nodal officer’s duty to prepare a containment plan, chalk out the plan of action and also work on contact tracing of positive patients. However, the nodal officer failed to perform any of the said tasks. He also failed to submit any report or attend any of the meetings called at the taluka or district level. Dhule district collector Sanjay Yadav confirmedthe action against the noda lofficer.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nodal-officer-booked-for-negligence-of-duty/articleshow/76776088.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Badals using Covid crisis for political gains: Punjab CM||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday accused Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal and Union minister Harsimrat Badal of “misleading the people of the state to promote their petty political agenda in the midst of the Covid crisis”. Amarinder said the concerted manner in which they are running a campaign has exposed their double standards. “The people of Punjab will not be taken in by the political antics and crocodile tears of the Akali leaders, who had looted Punjab shamelessly for a decade without sparing any thought for the problems of masses,” he said in a press statement. Criticising Sukhbir for his allegations of ration embezzlement by the Congressmen in Punjab, the chief minister asserted that the MLAs are supporting his government’s efforts to ensure that nobody sleeps hungry. “The MLAs are close to the people and well placed to help out those in immediate or urgent need, which is what they have been doing,” he said. Every Congressman in every part of the country is currently out helping people as part of the party’s concerted efforts to reach out to the needy in this hour of crisis, Amarinder said, adding that the Akalis could not relate to this as they have never seen beyond their personal interests. Amarinder said the fact is that the quantity of food grain received by the state government till June was more than the figures given by Sukhbir, with over 90% of it distributed. Under the OM Garib Kalyan Ann Yojna (PMGKAY), the wheat allocated to the state was 212,164 MT, of which 199,091 MT had been distributed, while of the 10,800 MT Dal allocated, 10,305 MT had been distributed. Taking on Harsimrat on the issue of fuel value added tax (VAT), he said if she is so concerned about the impact of escalating fuel prices on the common man, she should have pressured the Union government, in which she is a cabinet minister, to put a stop on the uncontrolled hike in the prices of diesel and petrol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/badals-using-covid-crisis-for-political-gains-amarinder/articleshow/76778077.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ludhiana||ED in Jalandhar yet to get details on diversion of 5 crore buprenorphine tablets||PATIALA: Investigations launched in February this year by the Jalandhar-based regional office of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) into the alleged diversion of around five crore buprenorphine tablets, a scheduled drug, by private de-addiction centres in Punjab seems to have hit the bureaucratic stonewall. The tablets worth around Rs 200 crore meant for addicts undergoing rehabilitation had allegedly been diverted by private centres in the state, prompting ED to initiate a probe, believing that the money generated could have been laundered. ED sources in Jalandhar said it had come to their notice that between January 1, 2019 and November 11, 2019, around five crore tablets had reportedly gone missing from private de-addiction centres. Following the revelation, the ED started a probe and wrote to the authorities concerned in the state’s health department seeking records of the said tablets. In the last week of January, the state government had even issued a show-cause notice to around 90 de-addiction centres under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act to explain the “disappearance” of tablets. The diversion of buprenorphine tablets had first been detected in December last year, when the state health department found that unauthorised persons were in possession of these tablets, which were meant only for drug de-addiction centres to rehabilitate addicts. As per the initial reports, each of these centres was believed to have earned around Rs 1.5 crore by selling buprenorphine tablets to unauthorised persons. When the discrepancies in the supply of buprenorphine tablets was detected by the health department, health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had said the department was compiling the details, which were to be shared with the Enforcement Directorate. A senior official of the Enforcement Directorate on condition of anonymity said, “In February, we had written to the health department seeking information about the supply of buprenorphine tablets to the de-addiction centres, but we have not yet received any reply from the authorities.” Health minister Sidhu could not be contacted for his comments on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ed-yet-to-get-details-on-diversion-of-5cr-buprenorphine-tabs/articleshow/76778118.cms||Manish Sirhindi
July 4, 2020||Hubballi||With 38 new Covid cases, Dharwad’s tally jumps to 465||DHARWAD: The trend of a steep hike in Covid-19 positive cases in the district continued on Friday with 38 persons including three children getting infected in the last 24 hours (from Thursday evening to Friday evening). Among those infected are 33 men and five women. The list includes an eight- month-old male baby along with two boys aged one and two. While 19 persons among them have SARI and ILI symptoms, eight had contacts with infected persons. One person has travelled into the district from Davanagere the contacts of other 19 are being traced. Meanwhile, 20 persons who had tested positive were cured and discharged on Friday. The total number of positive cases in the district stands at 465 while 200 people have been discharged. Eight persons have died and the number of active cases stands at 257. There has been an increase in the number people getting infected after being primary or secondary contacts of infected persons which is an indication that isolation of those earlier has not been proper or social distancing has not been maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dharwads-tally-jumps-by-38/articleshow/76776130.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
July 4, 2020||Nashik||Nashik police top passport verification process in June||Nashik: City police have outperformed other police units across the state in carrying out the verification process of passport applications in the month of June. While the police is expected to conduct the verification within 21 days, the average time taken by the city police for verification was five days. A senior officer said that in June they had received 677 passport applications for verification.“There were no applications from March 20 to June 8. However, after that applications started coming in and we started completing the verification process at the earliest,” he added.The state police welfare department gets Rs 150 for verification of every application if the process is completed within 21 days.Police inspector Bharatsingh Paradke from the passport police verification department said it is mandatory to complete the verification within 21 days and ACP (crime) Sameer Shaikh also takes regular follow up to ensure that the verification process is fast and on time. The online police verification process began in the city from 2017. After making an application, the applicant gets an interview date and a file is generated following which the passport verification staff contacts the applicant.“All the necessary documents are checked and scanned. The in-charge of the concerned police station does the online verification of the documents and sends his recommendation to the police commissionerate, where the file is verified again and sent to Regional Passport Office. The applicant also gets to know every stage of the movement of his file through SMS alerts,” the officer said.Every year, city police verifies around 29,000 applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-police-top-passport-verification-process-in-june/articleshow/76776135.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||AMC in containment zone after 2 workers test positive||AMRAVATI: Amravati Municipal Corporation on Friday became the first in the state to be put in the containment zone as two of its employees, a community officer and a peon at mayor’s office, tested positive on Thursday night, forcing first citizen Chetan Gawande and 25 other employees to quarantine themselves at the mayor’s official bungalow on Mardi road. There were many tense faces on the AMC premises after the 40-year-old community officer, a resident of Chakradhar Nagar and the 51-year-old peon at the Mayor’s office, a resident of Chavre Nagar, tested positive on Thursday night. “The peon was on leave since eight days as his health was not good. But as a precautionary measure, I decided to give my throat swab along with ten of my office staffers and quarantine myself,” said mayor Gawande after he gave his swab at the Dussera Maidan Covid Centre where doctors did not find any symptoms. Besides Gawande and 10 of his staffers, 14 other employees, too, gave their swabs and quarantined themselves at the mayor's bungalow. The entire AMC premises at the busy Rajkamal Square has been sealed and is being sanitized. A ‘Containment Zone’ board has been put up on the main gate of the municipal corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amc-in-containment-zone-after-2-workers-test-positive/articleshow/76778113.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mysuru||Hospitality sector continues to reel under losses; hoteliers forced to ask employees to leave||MYSURU: Stakeholders in the hospitality industry are growing more and more worried with each passing day as signs of business returning to normalcy are growing slim. The financial duress that the hospitality industry was put under following the imposition of the lockdown, stakeholders had hoped to recoup once the restrictions were eased. The mounting losses, even after relaxation of the norms, has compelled several hoteliers to let their employees go. Starting from modestly priced hotels to five-star establishments, hoteliers are either letting their employees go or asking them to return once business picks up. Southern Star in Mysuru has asked citing the Covid-19 crisis, while another hotel Ramya Mahendra, a restaurant that was once frequented by former chief minister S Bangarappa and Siddaramaiah, has announced its closure, a four-decade old establishment put out of business by the pandemic. President of the Mysuru Hotel Owners’ Association C Narayanagowda said that most of the establishments in the hospitality sector, including restaurants, got a reality check of the losses that they had incurred around 100 days after the Covid-19 crisis erupted in the country. “Some of us, including myself, have been forced to close the restaurants since we are struggling to pay rent. Most of the hotels are operated out of rented buildings. Many popular hotels are yet to reopen and doubt hangs over the possibility of resumption of operations,” Narayanagowda said. The high-end star hotels have not been spared the short end of the Covid-19 stick. A manager of a star hotel with two decades of experience in the sector, said that the prevailing condition was truly an unprecedented one. “Our employees have returned to their native villages and towns, and have been forced to take on menial jobs to sustain their families. The future looks bleak since we have not received our salary for three months,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hospitality-sector-continues-to-reel-under-losses-hoteliers-forced-to-ask-employees-to-leave/articleshow/76777957.cms||Lawrence Milton
July 4, 2020||Amritsar||Kotkapura firing case: After judicial custody, ex-SHO on police remand again||BATHINDA: A week after he was sent to judicial custody, a Faridkot court on Friday again sent former Kotkapura station house officer (SHO) Gurdeep Singh Pandher — an accused in the Kotkapura firing case — to two-day police remand. Following prolonged arguments between the prosecution and defence sides, the court of duty magistrate Ekta Uppal granted the SIT two-day remand of Pandher. The prosecution had in its application moved on Thursday stated that the SIT could not investigate him properly and therefore, needs his custody. Pandher was the SHO of Kotkapura City police station when on October 14, 2015, the police had allegedly opened fire on the people protesting against an act of sacrilege. He is accused of fabricating evidence by misappropriating 10 cartridges and tampering with the police station records pertaining to the case. Faridkot district attorney Rajnish Goyal told TOI, “The SIT wants to know from the former SHO as to who was responsible for the fabrication of evidence and where are the used cartridges. This is crucial to take the investigations to the next level.” After Pandher’s arrest on June 24, the next day the court had sent him to police remand for a day, though the SIT wanted him for a few more days. Pandher, along with two other arrested persons Suhail Singh Brar and Pankaj Bansal, had moved applications for bail on June 29. Arguments were heard on their applications on July 2 and the same will continue on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/after-judicial-custody-kotkapura-ex-sho-on-police-remand-again/articleshow/76778123.cms||Neel Kamal
July 4, 2020||Kochi||Time-bound action plan soon to attract investors||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The special investment promotion taskforce set up by the state government has decided to work out a timebound action plan to position the state as a major investment destination and attract foreign investors who wish to relocate manufacturing bases to the state, in the post Covid-19 outbreak period. The taskforce held its first meeting here on Friday under the chairmanship of chief secretary Vishwas Mehta and principal secretary (industries) K Ellangovan to formulate a conducive action plan to create a promising and enduring investment climate in the state. The meeting was attended by all the 23 members of the taskforce. The government had recently constituted the taskforce amid the pandemic to showcase the state as a preferred destination for investments in the country with unique offerings in focus sectors of life sciences and healthcare, agro and food processing, urban infrastructure, pharmaceuticals, manufacturing, etc. The primary objective of the taskforce is to showcase the state’s unique advantages to the global audience and build an investor-friendly ecosystem that would follow a collaborative and investor first approach to make investing in the state simpler, faster and friendlier. Also, the taskforce aims to develop a strategy to attract foreign investors who wish to relocate manufacturing bases post Covid-19 outbreak. The discussions centred on sectors that the state must focus on to build a unique brand for investments globally. The members emphasized the need to change the current perception about the state, simplifying land acquisition process, building a comprehensive industry-academia collaboration, job creation, gaining self-sufficiency by transforming the state from a consumer economy to a manufacturing economy, improving health and social infrastructure by promoting ‘Make in Kerala’ initiative. The participants also suggested improving the state’s online single-window clearance mechanism, encouraging wage subsidy incentives and promoting sectors like healthcare, life science, defence, MSMEs, manufacturing, etc through industrial parks and townships.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/time-bound-action-plan-soon-to-attract-investors/articleshow/76776143.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Nashik||Three booked for spreading fake messages||NASHIK: A talathi has registered a complaint against three unidentified persons at Sarkarwada police station for spreading fake messages claiming that the district collector of Nashik has issued fresh warnings, including a ban on meat, to fight against the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district. According to the complaint, the unidentified persons had sent the messages about the stricter implementation of the lockdown and also included certain preventive as well as remedial measures announced by the Ayush ministry. The message claimed that since the number of Covid-19 cases were on the rise, the district collector of Nashik had banned the movement of people, including maid servants. It further stated that orders have been issued to put a ban on the sale of meat, on food delivery app-based services, newspaper distribution, sale of bakery products, etc. All the aforementioned activities, however, are allowed with proper social distancing, cleanliness, personal hygiene and related advisories. This is the second complaint registered by the district administration against miscreants using social media to create panic and affect the normal routine of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-booked-for-spreading-fake-messages/articleshow/76776146.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Home is biggest, most important school’||Ahmedabad: Parents should behave properly because for a child, his home is the biggest and the most important educational institute, the Gujarat high court said while reuniting a bickering couple for the sake of their kids. The case pertained to Banaskantha district. The couple was quarrelling over custody of their two children – aged one and three years. The wife had left her matrimonial home last year and slapped a case for cruelty and demand of dowry against her husband and in-laws in Agath police station. The children were in the custody of their father and the mother started a legal battle to get their custody back. She approached a magisterial court in Tharad town for the children’s custody. But 15 days ago, she filed a habeas corpus petition in the high court for her two kids. Upon HC’s instructions, the husband remained present before the court through video conferencing along with his kids. The HC on June 29 asked the judicial magistrate in Tharad, Mohit Sharma, to mediate between the couple and try to find a solution to their acrimonious relationship. On Wednesday, the HC was informed that the wife agreed to go and live with her husband and two kids at her matrimonial home. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria appreciated the judicial officer for reuniting the couple. The HC observed that they are not only spouses alone but parents as well. “They will have to act with more maturity and steadily, for their manner of cohabitation and cooperation shall have deep impact on the lives of both the children. It is by their own conduct at home they shall shape the future of children as home is the biggest and the most important educational institution in every child’s life,” the HC said. The couple assured the high court that they would maintain each other’s dignity. The HC also asked the judicial magistrate to continue his monitoring and guidance for the couple for six months by calling the couple to court at regular intervals. “This will help them in ironing out the creases and also further strengthen their bonds as spouses,” the HC said and made it clear that in case the dispute over children’s custody arose, the mother will have their custody looking at the the ages of the children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/home-is-biggest-most-important-school/articleshow/76778135.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Goa||Won’t allow reopening of hotels: Cabbies||Calangute: The North Goa Tourist Taxi Owners’ Association (NGTTOA) has opposed reopening of the tourism industry by the state government due to the sharp rise in Covid cases. NGTTOA vice-president Ravindra Vengurlekar said the state government should have at least waited till the number of cases starts reducing. “Goa was a green zone when the borders were closed. Cases began increasing only after people from outside were allowed to enter the state. We will not allow hotels to restart,” he said. “If hotels start operations, they will need taxis to transport the tourists. We are the first to meet tourists when they arrive at the airport or railway stations. The standard operating procedures (SOP) are not foolproof. The virus can stay undetected for 15 days. Why should we take the risk?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wont-allow-reopening-of-hotels-cabbies/articleshow/76778596.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Vadodara||Senior Cong leader tests Covid positive||Vadodara: Senior Congress leader Maulin Vaishnav has tested positive for Covid-19 again on Friday. Vaishnav was admitted to Bhailal Amin Hospital on Wednesday after he complained of fever. He underwent a Covid-19 test, results of which came on Friday. “Vaishnav had developed symptoms of Covid-19 over the past 10 days, following which he was admitted to a private hospital. He was tested positive for the virus,” said Prashant Patel, Congress city unit president. “After undergoing treatment at the hospital for five days his fever reduced and was discharged. He was asked to stay at home. But on Wednesday he again complained of high fever,” Patel told TOI. He added that the hospital in which he was admitted earlier shouldn’t have discharged him so early.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/senior-cong-leader-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/76777173.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Rajkot||Doctor duped of Rs 74.57 lakh in online fraud||Rajkot: A doctor who owns a maternity hospital in Bhanwad of Devbhoomi Dwarka district has lost Rs 74.57 lakh in an online fraud. In his complaint, Dr Nishit Modi claimed he is an active member of a WhatsApp group named ‘Gujarat WhatsApp Group’. He said he received a web address of a surgical equipment manufacturing firm based in Florida on the group and made inquiries with the firm to buy 25,000 thermometers and 10,05,000 3M masks. The ‘officials’ of the firm promised to supply him the equipment and asked him to place an order. “Dr Modi then made an online payment of Rs 74.57 lakh for the stuff. After the payment was made, the website vanished from the internet, while the officials became incommunicado,” said an official from Bhanwad police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/doctor-duped-of-rs-74-57-lakh-in-online-fraud/articleshow/76777750.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mysuru||13 people with ILI symptoms test +ve in Mysuru||Mysuru: Mysuru has recorded the highest number of people who have tested positive for the novel coronavirus, who have influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms. About 13 people with ILI symptoms tested positive for the novel coronavirus, and five patients with SARI too were found to be infected. A total 35 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Mysuru on Friday. The rest of the patients have a travel history from Bengaluru and Chamarajanagar, and a few are contacts of those who were infected. A six-year-old girl who got infected, had come in contact with an infected person. Among the SARI cases who tested positive, two are aged 69 and 70. About 20 individuals were cured and discharged from the Covid hospital, here on Friday. There are 150 active cases in Mysuru at present. 24 test +ve in C’nagar  Chamarajanagar district reported 24 Covid-19 positive cases on Friday, taking the tally to 78. This is the highest single day rise in the district. Eight cases were reported from Chamarajanagar, 10 from Gundlupet, five from Kollegal and one from Yelandur. Two mechanics and as many cattle traders have tested positive in Gundlupet. Containment zones in the district have increased to 29. District Health authorities have kept a close vigil on 187 primary and secondary contracts and are awaiting 1,097 lab reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/13-people-with-ili-symptoms-test-ve-in-mysuru/articleshow/76776171.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu crosses 1 lakh Covid-19 cases||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 cases have crossed the one lakh mark and are escalating just as the state plans to relax the lockdown to boost economic activity. On Friday, the number of cases in a state with 8.7 crore people reached 1,02,721 including 1,385 deaths. The second worst-hit state after Maharashtra has seen a 51% growth in cases in the last 10 days. The government and the medical expert committee, without predicting the epidemic curve’s trajectory, say the incidence is increasing in districts even as Chennai is slowing daily. Some say signs of the disease peaking are already visible. Senior virologist Dr T Jacob John of Christian Medical College said TN is swiftly climbing towards the peak – which could come at least 7-10 days ahead of the country. “We will be at the peak by month-end, and the rest of the country in the first or second week of August,” he said. Dr John said the peak will be when the same number of cases is seen for at least a week. “Then there will be a fall. But the path downward will be much slower than the climb. This means there will be more people under the declining curve compared to those under the incline. Yet, our health system will not be under pressure as the number of people affected at any point in time will be less.” T Sundararaman, former executive director of National Health Systems Resource Centre, fears the pandemic may be only starting. “The positivity rates, daily cases, deaths are all still going up. We may be somewhere at 1/3rd of the pandemic curve. The lockdown has certainly delayed the peak. The cases we are seeing now were probably infected a week ago...” Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University epidemiologists had predicted that by June-end there would be 70,000 cases in Chennai and 1.3 lakh across TN. “That did not happen. This is a sign we have slowed down. While Chennai has slowed, cases in Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Vellore are going up,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. On Monday, the state is likely to ease restrictions. “We will face a big challenge because more cases will emerge. If surveillance is good, cases in Chennai will not go up,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Prabhdeep Kaur. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the state has increased beds, installed large oxygen cylinders, ventilators and purchased lifesaving anti-virals, steroids and immune modulators. “We are increasing tests across the state like in Chennai. Of the 34,000 tested, more than 10,000 are from Chennai.” Infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian said the focus in hospitals now was to stop deaths. “Masks, handwash and social distancing may help prevent the virus, but people with symptoms – fever, cough, sore throat, cold, breathlessness, diarrhoea, loss of smell or taste or any other abnormal sign – should call a doctor to avoid complications.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-cross-1-lakh-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76778151.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Goa||Ready for one-day session, won't allow passing of full budget: Oppn||Panaji: The opposition agreed to the ruling side’s demand for a one-day assembly session, but said that it would not allow the BJP-led government to pass the entire budget for 2020-21. The opposition, speaking to reporters after an informal all-party meeting with speaker Rajesh Patnekar, also called for a white paper on the Covid-19 scenario in Goa and the state’s finances. The opposition said the one-day session should be held to pass a vote on account for four months instead of passing the financial statement placed in the house on February 6. “Our opinion is that if it is a one-day session, then it has to be a vote on account. The budget has to be reset because there is no meaning in the present budget,” said opposition leader Digambar Kamat. A final decision regarding the business to be taken up in the House will be decided by the business advisory committee. The opposition has also requested Patnekar to allow house committee meetings and budget committee meetings to be held. The legislature secretariat has restricted all meetings ahead of the session that will commence on July 27. “We had called for a budget committee meeting because we wanted to find out if the budget is alive or dead... at the moment it seems dead,” said Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai. The opposition made it clear that it would not permit the government to pass the budget in the manner it was introduced in the House by Sawant. “The government wants us to come, shake our heads and pass the entire budget,” said Sardesai. MGP MLA Ramakrishna Dhavalikar agreed with Sardesai’s suggestion but said that such a move is unlikely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ready-for-one-day-session-wont-allow-passing-of-full-budget-oppn/articleshow/76778601.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Delhi||70% patients have recovered in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 2,505 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the tally in the city to over 97,000, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,004. The health department said that in the past 24 hours, 2,632 people had recovered from the disease. The total number of recovered patients has reached 68,256 — 70% of all Covid-19 cases reported in the national capital so far. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal expressed satisfaction over the increased recovery rate and added that more work was needed to defeat the novel coronavirus. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia tweeted that Delhi’s recovery rate had crossed 70% for the first time. “Positivity rate, number of cases reported among the total samples tested, has come down to 10.58% which had once reached 36.94%,” Sisodia tweeted. At present, there are 25, 940 active cases of Covid-19 in Delhi. Of this, only 5,522 (21%) are requiring hospitalisation. The rest are recuperating from illness at dedicated Covid care centres, Covid health centres or at home. “A total of 16,004 coronavirus patients are under home isolation as on Saturday,” a government official said. Delhi government on Saturday issued an order regarding revised guidelines for home isolation of very mild or pre-symptomatic or asymptomatic Covid-19 cases. Also, the cabinet secretary took a meeting on public health response to Covid-19. “The situation is improving. The daily cases have come down significantly. But we cannot be complacent. This is the time when physical distancing, wearing masks and regularly washing hands have to be followed more stringently to ensure that the chain of transmission can be broken to reduce any further spread of the disease,” said a senior doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/70-patients-have-recovered-in-delhi/articleshow/76791589.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Goa||DGP to ensure cops protected from Covid||Panaji: After assuming charge of Goa police on Friday, DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena said the entry of public at police stations may be restricted to prevent spread of coronavirus among police personnel. Meena said he will introduce some other means to entertain people’s complaints. “We will improve on complaints filing system. We may keep complaint boxes or receive those online,” he said, adding that all complaints cannot be made online. “We will try to have minimum face-to-face interaction with complainants,” Meena said while speaking to media persons. He said that tents may be erected outside the police stations for the public to file their complaints. With the state government deciding to start tourism activities in the state, Meena said the Goa police will ensure safety and security of tourists. Meena said that pending cases would be investigated thoroughly and police will work to detect unsolved cases. The new DGP said that his focus will be on traffic management. “Our priority will be to regulate traffic in such a manner that accidents will be reduced to a minimum,” he said, adding that priority would be given to control crimes against women, children, visitors and foreigners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dgp-to-ensure-cops-protected-from-covid/articleshow/76778606.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Artistes want ECA quota back this year||NEW DELHI: Several prominent artistes and teachers, including Padma Bhushan and Rajya Sabha member Sonal Mansingh, have written to the President and vice-president requesting that Delhi University should reinstate extracurricular activities (ECA) quota admissions this year. The 15 artistes in the letter claimed that by deciding to scrap ECA admissions, DU had harmed those students who had been practising to get admission through ECA quota and “pained the community of artistes”. “The university reserves 5% seats in its undergraduate colleges for students who excel in ECA. Last year, the number of disciplines under ECA quota was expanded to 12, apart from NCC and NSS. Regrettably, this year, when the constituency of arts is already reeling under unprecedented stress, its valence has been further eroded with the decision of not opening the ECA quota,” the letter added. Requesting intervention in the matter, the signatories asked that the decision be rolled back. Speaking to TOI, Mansingh said students who wanted to pursue academics with art would now be discouraged by DU’s decision. Nibeta Mahapatra, a dance teacher at DPS Rohini, who was also a signatory, told TOI, “The decision by DU shocked many students who were planning to get admission through ECA quota.” However, a DU official said, “It is not easy to conduct trials in the current scenario and the artistes should understand the risks involved.” DU admission branch dean Shobha Bagai said, “I’m yet to see the letter and will only comment when I get it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/artistes-want-eca-quota-back-this-yr/articleshow/76778160.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Nashik||NHAI deploys additional staff to complete road repair||NASHIK: The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has deployed additional manpower to complete the repair work of the road that caved in at Kasara ghat on the Mumbai-Agra highway during last monsoon. A senior NHAI official said that they have deployed 32 additional workers to complete the repair work at the earliest. “We are trying to complete the work within a week. Currently, there are 50 workers at the site for completing the work,” he added. Last year, the road had caved in at two places affecting the vehicular traffic. The vehicles were then diverted to the road parallel to the Nashik-Mumbai stretch. It took around four months months to open the damaged road again. A senior officer from the highway police said they are taking regular follow-ups with the NHAI regarding the completion of the work. Kasara receives heavy rainfall every year Therefore, every year ahead of monsoon, the police ask the NHAI officials to complete all the repair works in order to avoid inconvenience to the motorists and accidents. “The highway section had caved in at two separate areas over a distance of 200 meters. While the work of one patch is over, the work of the other patch is still pending,” the officer informed. Meanwhile, the NHAI official said they lost three months to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, after seeking necessary permissions, they have employed the workers to ensure that the work is completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nhai-deploys-additional-staff-to-complete-road-repair/articleshow/76776179.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur man accused of moving tiger carcass into MP gets bail after five months||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh high court granted bail to Dham Singh Khandate, a plantation watcher of Maharashtra, who was arrested by the MP forest officials for allegedly shifting the carcass of a tigress across the border. Khandate was in custody for over five months. This first-of-its-kind case strained relations between the two states as investigators of MP believe the carcass was moved to shift the onus of the death on MP. Maharashtra has denied this claim. Tigress Sharmilee was found dead on December 11, 2019, near Khandasa village, a few hundred yards from the Maharashtra border. MP forest officials say there were bullock cart wheel tracks, indicating the tigress was carried from the Maharashtra side of the border. On January 31, Khandate was arrested on the basis of intelligence inputs for allegedly moving the carcass from Deolapar range (Maharashtra) to Khawasa range in MP’s Seoni. He had been in jail since then. During a hearing on his bail plea on Thursday, Khandate’s counsel argued that the challan has already been filed and he does not have any criminal antecedent. “He has been falsely implicated. There is not an iota of evidence to connect him with the incident,” he said, arguing that the owner of the bullock cart, Laxman Tekam, has denied Khandate ever took the cart from him. “The date of the incident doesn’t match with the time when Tekam allegedly gave the cart to somebody. There is no material at all on the strength of which the applicant was made accused,” the counsel said. MP forest officials opposed the bail, claiming that a deputy ranger wanted in the case is absconding. “Since certain accused persons are absconding, it is difficult to bring any prima facie convincing material before this court against the applicant at this stage. The call details of the applicant will also be collected, for which time may be granted,” the state counsel argued. After hearing both sides, the court granted bail to Khandate, citing that since the challan has already been filed and the applicant has been in prison since January 2020, his custodial interrogation doesn’t appear necessary. “In this Covid-19 era, the conclusion of trial will take time. If the co-accused is absconding, then that cannot be a reason to keep the applicant in custody. The applicant does not have any criminal record. Thus, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, I deem it proper to grant him bail,” the court ruled. Khandate was arrested in connection with Forest Crime No. PRO No. 37337/09 for offences punishable under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. MP officials refused to comment on the case, saying it was sub judice. On the other hand, the MP forest department has decided to reopen investigation into whether some tigers found dead close to the Maharashtra border, especially in Pench Tiger Reserve in Seoni, were dragged over from the other side, like Sharmilee’s carcass allegedly was. Sharmilee was counted as the 22nd tiger death of Madhya Pradesh. But since it had died in Maharashtra, MP’s toll will change. After Khandate’s arrest, the Seoni forest department had issued a statement on how its investigations reached across the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/deolapar-man-accused-of-moving-tiger-carcass-into-mp-gets-bail-after-5-months/articleshow/76778156.cms||P Naveen
July 4, 2020||Hyderabad||This AI device can alert you on person around with Covid||Hyderabad: Three students and faculty of Hyderabad-origin currently with universities in the United States and Delhi have created a device based on Artificial Intelligence technology that can give an alert when a person with Covid-19 symptoms such as high body temperature approaches. Researchers said that the advantage of the novel device is that it helps not only in maintaining social distancing but also give an alert when a person having Covid symptoms like fever comes close in the range. Rahul Reddy Nadikattu of IT department, University of Cumberlands, Sikender Mohsienuddin Mohammad, Department of Information Technology, Wilmington University and Dr Pawan Whig Dean Research, Vivekananda Institute of Professional Studies, Delhi, took part in the research. The research study, titled Novel Economical Social Distancing Smart Device for Covid-19 has been published in the June edition of International Journal of Electrical Engineering and Technology. Rahul Reddy told TOI, “Using artificial intelligence, the novel smart device for maintaining social distancing as well as detecting Covid-19 symptoms has been devised. The device will give alert to the person if someone is in the critical range of six feet around him. The wearable device consists of a Passive Infrared (PIR) sensor, micro-controller, and mobile for display and gives alert to the user. The sensor will detect the distance between the wearer and others around them. The micro-controller measures desired length, triggers the alarm and sends a mobile alert to the user.” The PIR sensor receives infrared radiation from the human body to produce an alert to the mobile. “The temperature of the normal human body is 36 degree celsius to 27 degree celsius and most of its radiant energy is concentrated in the wavelength range of 8-12 µm. If the human infrared radiation is directly irradiated on the radar, it will cause a temperature change to output a signal. Still, in doing so, the detection distance will not be far. Thermal conductivity temperature of the body can be calculated. Using a machine learning algorithm, it detects whether the person has Covid-19 symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/this-ai-device-can-alert-you-on-person-around-with-covid/articleshow/76778615.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 4, 2020||Goa||Hotels flouting booking guidelines to face action||Panaji: The tourism department has issued a public notice stating that only accommodation units permitted by the department shall accept bookings, while only tourists with pre-bookings will be permitted to enter the state. The department has granted 150-odd permissions to hotels that have applied for reopening to accept bookings. Permissions have been granted on the basis of self-declarations by the applicant hotels that they will comply with standard operating procedures (SOPs). Tourism director Menino D’Souza in the public notice stated that the list of permitted hotels has been posted on the website of the department and Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC). With the possibility of non-registered hotels also starting operations, the director has warned that any hotel found flouting directives shall be strictly dealt with under legal provision, which will include licence cancellation of the erring hotel. “All online travel agencies, tour and travel operators are registered with the tourism department and permitted by relevant authorities. If anyone is found facilitating booking for non-registered hotels, they will face action,” he said. Some trade members felt that hotels without valid permission may start operation once business picks up. “In the past, the department was unable to initiate action against illegal operators, I wonder how it will be enforced now,” said a stakeholder, even as he accepted that it won’t be easy for illegal operators to resume operations soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hotels-flouting-booking-guidelines-to-face-action/articleshow/76778612.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai police loses second officer, an ex-armyman, to Covid-19||MUMBAI: An assistant police inspector, who had tested Covid-19 positive, died of a heart attack at a suburban hospital on Friday. Bhaginath Adhav (52), also a former army man, is the second officer from the Mumbai Police to succumb to the virus infection. In May, an assistant police inspector, aged 33, attached to Shahu Nagar police station, had died of Covid-19. Meanwhile, the constable with the anti-narcotics cell, Mangesh Kamble, who had died within minutes of hospitalisation on June 29, tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. With these two deaths, the city police toll reached 42 and state police’s 65. Adhav, who lived in Kandivli with his wife and two children, had suffered two heart attacks in the past and was fitted with a pacemaker. Attached to Samta Nagar police station, he was on frontline duty. On June 20, he took ill and six days later, he was admitted to a private hospital and tested positive for Covid-19. On Friday, around 4.30pm, he died. “Adhav had served for 16 years in the army before joining the police force and served for over a decade,” said a colleague. Adhav’s brother is a senior inspector of a crime branch unit in Kandivli. In the other case, Kamble’s family claimed his body after his Covid test report came in on Friday. On June 29, Kamble, 47, was preparing to go to work when he collapsed at home at Worli’s BDD chawl. Neighbours rushed him to KEM Hospital where he died within minutes of admission. The hospital told his family that he had had a cardiac arrest. Kamble’s widow, Nita, requested for a Covid-19 test, but the hospital cited ICMR guidelines and refused. Nita, meanwhile, tested positive and was sent to Marol Covid care centre. For the past four days, Kamble’s body had been lying at the hospital’s mortuary as the family refused to claim it till an autopsy and Covid test were done. With Kamble testing positive, his family will now be entitled to Rs 50 lakh compensation from the state and another Rs 10-15 lakh from the police welfare fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-police-loses-2nd-officer-an-ex-armyman-to-covid-19/articleshow/76778173.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Goa||46 Mangor Hill kids get vaccinated||Vasco: The Vasco urban health centre (UHC) took the initiative of bringing 46 children from the Mangor Hill containment zone to their office at the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) premises and administering them doses of polio and others vaccinations. For over a month these children could not be given their vaccines, a UHC official said. Dr Rashmi Khandeparkar, health officer of the UHC, said, “The mamlatdar’s office arranged for two buses, and 46 children in the 0-5 age group, along with their parents, were brought to Vasco and their doses were admistered.” Meanwhile, for the first time the MMC distributed ration packets to the residents of the Mangor Hill containment zone, using funds received from the directorate of municipal administration. MMC chairperson Reema Sonurlekar said, “In all, 1,710 packets were distributed on Friday at Mangor Hill.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/46-mangor-hill-kids-get-vaccinated/articleshow/76778619.cms||Ruvina Khan
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra minister Nitin Raut promises free power if Centre gives Rs 10,000 crore||NAGPUR: State energy minister Nitin Raut has promised free electricity to residential consumers if central government agrees to his demand of Rs10,000 crore grant for Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL). Raut put forward this demand to Union power minister RK Singh during a national conference on Friday, but did not get any assurance. The state energy minister also demanded low interest loans for MSEDCL as it was facing liquidity crunch due to reduced collections because of the lockdown. Raut also demanded one lakh subsidized solar agricultural pump sets for the state under Centre’s Kisan Urja Suraksha evam Uhaan Mahabhiyan (KUSUM). Singh immediately agreed to this demand. Raut also informed Singh about the state deciding to go 100% solar in coming years. The Union minister praised the state for this endeavour and asked others to emulate Maharashtra. The minister told Singh that central government should not amend the Indian Electricity Act, 2003, without the consent of states. According to Raut, Centre is trying to encroach on state powers even though electricity is in the Concurrent List of the Indian Constitution. He charged Prime Minister Narendra Modi with backdoor privatization of public sector undertakings and urged Singh not to allow the same to happen in power sector. On flue gas desulphurisers (FGDs), Raut said that other aspects of the pollution control units should also be taken into account before making their use compulsory. “FGD uses gypsum, disposal of which will become a headache for power plants. Therefore, cement factories should be set up near power plants with FGDs so that the gypsum could be used,” he told Singh. The state minister rued that coal companies did not supply contracted grade of coal to Mahagenco. “The coal Mahagenco gets is of lower grade than that was promised by the companies. Mahagenco should, therefore, be allowed to pay as per supplied grade of coal. This will lead to a lot of savings for the generation companies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/raut-promises-free-power-if-centre-gives-rs10k-cr/articleshow/76778170.cms||Ashish Roy
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Youth thrashed by cop in Ajmer, people protest||Ajmer: An 18-year-old youth was allegedly thrashed by a police constable in Topdara region of Ajmer on Friday. He was admitted to a hospital for treatment. Later, residents of Banjara Colony, where the youth lived, blocked traffic and demanded action against the accused police constable. SHO of Clock Tower police station Suryabhan Singh said that he did not receive any complaint in the matter. “If a complaint reaches us, we will investigate and take action,” Singh said. According to sources, 18-year-old Rahul Banjara was roaming in Banjara Colony of Topdara on Friday morning when a police constable asked him to come to Topdara police chowki. Rahul alleged that he was beaten brutally by the constable at the chowki. When he returned home, his body was swollen and he was unable to walk. His family members informed other residents in the area who jammed the road and shouted slogans against police. People also gathered at Topdara chowki and staged protest. They demanded action against the police constable. Babli Banjara, father of the victim, alleged that his son had gone out for defecation in the morning where constable Sunil thrashed him and later took him to police chowki. Looking to public rage, Clock Tower police station SHO Suryabhan Singh reached the spot. He convinced the people and after half-an-hour, the jam was cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-thrashed-by-cop-in-ajmer-people-protest/articleshow/76778174.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||BSF’s Bikaner DIG is his 4th generation in uniform||JAISALMER: Pushpendra Singh Rathore, who has been appointed as DIG at the international border adjoining Bikaner, will take charge in the first week of July. Rathore has been transferred from New Delhi headquarters to Bikaner as DIG, whereas DIG Yashwant Singh has been transferred to Abohar sector in Punjab. According to sources, four generations of Rathore have served the nation in uniform over a span of a century. He is from Begsu village in Bikaner and joined BSF in 1987 as assistant commandant. When deployed in Gujarat’s Sir Creek area, he had formed the crocodile team and guarded the sea border. His great grandfather Shardul Singh Rathore was commissioned in the Ganga Risala of Bikaner princely state and retired in 1925 as colonel from the state army. His grandfather Jaswant Singh Rathore joined the Imperial Police Service in 1937. He even served as SP in Jaisalmer and retired as IG intelligence from Rajasthan police in 1976.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsfs-bikaner-dig-is-his-4th-generation-in-uniform/articleshow/76778166.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Chellanam harbour shut as fisherman’s wife tests +ve||KOCHI: Chellanam fishing harbour and ward number 15 of Chellanam grama panchayat were declared as containment zones after a 64-year-old woman, wife of a fisherman, tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Both her son and husband used to work at the harbour. Minister V S Sunil Kumar said here in a press meet on Friday that the woman had sought medical assistance at Cortina Hospital at Chellanam on June 19. “She was later admitted to Ernakulam General Hospital with cough and other ailments on June 29. From there, her swab was sent for testing and she was tested positive on Friday morning,” said the minister. “The harbour, located in ward number 16 of the panchayat, and the roads around it would be containment zones. Also, ward number 15 in which the woman’s house is located would be a hotspot,” said the minister. “The woman used to work under the employment guarantee scheme. As many as 29 people who used to go to work with her have been asked to stay in quarantine,” said the minister. Incidentally, the Chellanam fishing harbour was shut on Friday morning as a precautionary measure in the wake of a pregnant woman hailing from Alappuzha, wife of a fisherman who had gone in a fishing boat which left the Chellanam harbour on June 29, testing positive on Thursday. According to Chellanam panchayat authorities, 11 people who reside in Chellanam had gone on the same boat and all of them and their families have been quarantined after the woman was tested positive. Chellanam panchayat president Mercy Josy said that the harbour was shut as chances are high that the fisherman’s wife had contracted the disease from her husband itself. The minister said that swabs of Alappuzha native woman’s husband and the 64-year-old woman’s husband and son and their contacts have been sent for testing. He added that since the woman was under treatment at the general hospital, 72 staffers, including the doctors, have been quarantined. After proper sanitisation, the functioning of the hospital has been restarted with second-layer staffers. Cortina Hospital where the woman initially went has also been shut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chellanam-harbour-shut-as-fishermans-wife-tests-ve/articleshow/76776204.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu officials dispute Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman claim of Rs 6,000 crore Covid relief||CHENNAI: More than a week after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the Centre had given Tamil Nadu Rs 6,600 crore to fight Covid-19, officials in the state government said funds received from the Centre for Covid do not add up to more than Rs 1,500 crore. “The Centre has given Rs 6,600 crore to Tamil Nadu specifically for buying medical equipment like ventilators and masks to fight Covid. This has been given in the first three months of this financial year (after lockdown was imposed),” Sitharaman told a virtual rally of TN BJP cadres on June 25. “When did they give us this Rs 6,600 crore? It has never come,” said an official. “Even if one puts a very high value for the RT-PCR kits the Centre initially supplied, the total funds received for Covid from the Centre does not add up to even Rs 1,500 crore,” said the official. A mail sent to T V Somanathan, expenditure secretary, Union finance ministry seeking details on funds disbursed to Tamil Nadu specifically for Covid remained unanswered. “Under National Health Mission (NHM) Rs 655 crore was given to us. In addition, there was Rs 510 crore under SDRF. While we have undertaken around 13 lakh tests so far, the Centre had supplied just about 5-6% of those kits. Even if one values them at a high of Rs 3,000 per kit, the numbers do not add up much,” an official said. Health department officials said they received Rs 312cr for prevention and management of Covid-19. In addition, the Centre has permitted the state to use up to Rs 82cr allotted under NHM for the pandemic. The Centre had allotted 5.3 lakh PPEs and 5 lakh N95 masks for all central and state institutions in TN. “The state has received 2 lakh PPEs and 4.2 lakh N95 masks so far,” said Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation managing director P Umanath. In addition, the state has received more than 20 lakh hydroxychloroquine pills and 98,000 RTPCR kits. (With inputs from Pushpa Narayan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-officials-dispute-nirmala-claim-of-rs-6k-cr-covid-relief/articleshow/76778171.cms||D Govardan
July 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Probe on into early release of results||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The education department has launched an inquiry into the alleged leak of SSLC results almost half an hour before the formal announcement of the same by education minister C Raveendranath. Many websites manned by the state public relations department and ‘Saphalam App’ managed by Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) had published the results before the minister addressed the press and officially announced the results at 2pm on June 30. “There no question about violation of rules and all. No rules say that the results should be unveiled by the minister and the public should be given access to it only after the formal announcement. But such an act of releasing the same beforehand while a minister responsible for the department is supposed to make a customary public announcement is certainly not in sync with the decorum and it reeks of impropriety. The director of general education has been asked to submit a report explaining what went wrong with the arrangements,” said a source close to the minister. Insiders claim that those who had managed the websites had got the data only less than three hours before the time fixed for the official announcement. “Due to this, many were not able to properly manage the data with adeptness such works usually demand,” they said. The SSLC examination was conducted in two schedules following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant restrictions. The results of higher secondary examination are expected to be ready by next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/probe-on-into-early-release-of-results/articleshow/76776236.cms||B S Anilkumar
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Centres to rent out agri implements to farmers||Jaipur: The cooperative department will set up 100 custom hiring centres through village credit cooperative societies and village cooperative societies to provide farming equipment on rent to farmers in the state. The agriculture department has transferred Rs 8 crore to the cooperative department for the purpose. Agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria informed that under the National Mission for Agricultural Extension and Technology (NMAET) sub-mission on Agriculture Mechanization (SMAM), custom hiring centres will be established in the villages identified through village cooperative societies. A subsidy of maximum Rs 8 lakh or 80% of the cost of purchasing agricultural machinery will be given at these centres. The scheme will be implemented through the cooperative department. The department has selected 100 KVSS-GSS from the proposals received from 30 districts. Kataria said that due to limited income, agricultural equipment will be provided to the needy farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centres-to-rent-out-agri-implements-to-farmers/articleshow/76778192.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Assistant professors’ selection under Punjab and Haryana high court scanner||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has issued notice to the Haryana government on a plea seeking directions to quash the appointment of assistant professors (economics) selected under the scheduled caste (SC) category. The main allegations are that neither the cut-off marks of selected candidates nor marks of unsuccessful candidates were shown by the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC). It has also been alleged that even the commission failed to release the waiting list of the candidates, which clearly hints at the nepotism, favouritism and biased selection process. The HC has also issued notice to the recruiting agency, HPSC, and some of the selected candidates. The matter has reached before the HC in the wake of a petition filed by Pooja, a resident of Hazariwas village, district Rewari. She has sought directions to probe the selections made by HPSC on the post of assistant professor in economics subject from CBI or any other independent agency to investigate the manipulation in the selection process by giving higher marks in viva voce and ineligible candidates have been selected by giving undue benefit. The petitioner has sought directions to quash the selections on the post of assistant professor (economics) on the recommendations of HPSC under the SC category in the higher education department, Haryana. The petitioner, who had applied under the SC category, has also claimed that she has been given three marks less in the academics by the HPSC only to restrain her from the selection. The HPSC had advertised a total of 524 posts of assistant professors (college cadre) in higher education department in different subjects vide advertisement issued in March 2019. A total of 39 posts were for the selection of assistant professor in economics subjects in which nine were to be selected from SC category. The petitioner has claimed that as per the information received by her under RTI from the commission, she has been given 23 marks in academic qualification instead of 26 marks as per criteria laid down by HPSC. The petitioner has also alleged that the appointment letters of the selected candidates were signed on January 11, 2020, while the final result was declared on January 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/asst-profs-selection-under-hc-scanner/articleshow/76778185.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Goa||Positive cases at Ponda PS increase to 19||Ponda: With one more police constable and a home guard attached to Ponda police station testing positive for Covid-19 on Friday, the tally of infected persons from police station has shot up to 19. These include 16 policemen, two home guards and an EMRI health provider who was posted at the police station. However, no person posted at the DySP’s office has been infected despite coming in contact with almost all the infected police personnel. Ponda DySP Nelson Albuquerque said although the rising number of infected policemen would alternatively raise the workload on the other staff members, they would have to manage with the existing staff strength. Swab samples of 27 personnel from the police station, including home guards, were collected on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/positive-cases-at-ponda-ps-increase-to-19/articleshow/76778629.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government takes LEAD in assisting students with online learning||NEW DELHI: With over 10,000 instructional materials for students of classes I to XII, Delhi government launched its e-learning portal LEAD, Learning through E-resources made Accessible for Delhi, on Friday. It will be Delhi government’s platform on the Union human resource development ministry’s Diksha portal and will be managed by State Council for Educational Research and Training. Launching the portal, education minister Manish Sisodia said, “Students will now have access to textbooks and study materials as per the syllabi of CBSE, NCERT and Delhi government’s curriculum through the online platform, LEAD. This will include digital QR-coded textbooks, learning outcome, explanatory videos, practice questions and evaluation.” The deputy chief minister also asked teachers to strive constantly to improve and update the content as per students’ needs. He also highlighted that this particular platform would help a large number of students and their parents who had shown great interest in online learning during the Covid-19 pandemic. “It is a way for us to connect and share our programmes and experiences with the entire country. The online portal will also enable us to learn from teaching-learning experiments and experiences of other states,” said Sisodia. “It is going to be a mutual sharing and enlightening experience for us all.” The platform will also offer professional development courses. On Friday, it launched the first teachers’ training programme. E-books are also being made available and a 40-member team has been working to produce quality content. Amarendra Prasad Behera, joint director of CIET-NCERT, said this platform was essential during Covid-19. “We will provide all support to Delhi for developing digital books and content.” Project director Sapna Yadav said the content for happiness, entrepreneurship and mindset curricula would also be available on the platform and could be downloaded. “Already more than 1,500 hours’ content is being played every day,” said Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-takes-lead-in-assisting-students-with-online-learning/articleshow/76778195.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Delhi||60-yr-old has lucky escape after car hit||New Delhi: An elderly woman had a lucky escape despite being run over by a speeding car at Chilla Village near Mayur Vihar. The accused driver first hit her and then ran over her while trying to escape. The incident was captured on a CCTV camera.The accused, a trader in the area, was caught by the locals while he was trying to flee. Police were probing whether he was in an inebriated state at the time of the incident.The incident happened around 7.15pm when the 60-year-old woman had stepped out of her house to head to a nearby grocery store. Bhanu Pratap, the accused who was allegedly driving an Alto 800 car in a rash manner, hit the woman. She landed on the car bonnet and fell on the road.In the CCTV video, the passersby were seen rushing to her rescue when Bhanu Pratap again accelerated the vehicle and drove over Ajeeran. Eyewitnesses told the cops that the car’s wheels ran over Ajeeran’s foot due to which she was saved. The passersby forced Bhanu Pratap to stop. He was dragged out and beaten up by the locals before the cops arrived and took him in their custody.Ajeeran was admitted to the LBS hospital from where she was discharged after treatment. Her family members alleged that the man was drunk at the time of the incident. However, it was yet to be confirmed.Bhanu Pratap was booked for drunk and negligent driving and causing grievous hurt due to negligence. He claimed to have not noticed the woman at the turn. Cops have impounded the car and are verifying its documents.In another incident, that happened a few minutes after this, another woman was hit by a car near Ghazipur Dairy. The vehicle was being driven by a sub-inspector. Police said that SI Yogender allegedly lost control of the car and hit the woman, Noor Jahan (60), who was sitting outside her house. He dragged her for a few metres and was stopped by the woman's relatives. He was later handed over to the cops. Sources said that the elderly woman was battling for her life at a hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/60-yr-old-has-lucky-escape-after-car-hit/articleshow/76791647.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Man beats uncle to death in Bundi district||KOTA: In order to take revenge of a past rivalry, a man attacked his uncle with stick causing him fatal head injuries in Ralayta village under Basoli police station of Bundi district on Thursday. The injured, after primary treatment in Bundi district hospital, was rushed to MBS Hospital in Kota where he succumbed on Friday morning. The accused nephew fled from the spot after the crime and is yet to be arrested. The decease, Kajod Meena, 42, a resident of Ralayta village was taking is afternoon nap in the front room of his house on Thursday when the accused Kalulal Meena reached there with stick and lashed multiple attacks on his head and fled from the spot, Basoli police station SHO Bhanwar Singh said. The other two members of the family resting in a room inside the house rushed to the spot and took him to hospital, where after the primary treatment he was referred to MBS hospital in Kota on Thursday evening, he said. The injured succumbed to death during treatment on Friday morning, he added. Police handed over the body to family members after postmortem on Friday and lodged a case of murder under Section 302 against the accused who is yet to be nabbed, the SHO said. Primary investigation revealed both of them had engaged in a spat over cattle around a year ago and the accused was looking for a chance to take revenge, he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-beats-uncle-to-death-in-bundi-dist/articleshow/76778184.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC sets aside AAI panel rule to cap height of buildings within 2km of airport radars||MUMBAI: In a relief to developers, the Bombay high court on Friday quashed a 2019 decision by a panel of Airports Authority of India to cap the height of the buildings based on ‘draft rules’ pertaining to plot distance from radars at the airport to safeguard flight operations. An appellate committee at AAI allowed maximum permissible height clearance for construction only if the plot was at least 2km away from each functional Airport Surveillance Radar (ASR). Existing rules from 2015 provided for a minimum 2km distance for the plot from any one ASR, even if two or more such radars service the airport. Terming it ‘illegal’ and ‘arbitrary’, a bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and B P Colabawalla held that the committee had no power to adopt draft rules, which are yet to become final and binding. Two developers and a society had moved HC against the committee’s decision based on draft rules. Mumbai Airport has two such functional radars, the petitioners had said. The HC, however, directed AAI to consider the developers’ requests afresh within four weeks for NOCs for proposed commercial and residential constructions. By then, if the draft rules become law, they will govern the height bar, said the bench. Last April, the panel had decided to adopt draft rules proposed by the Union civil aviation ministry in 2018 as standard to determine permissible height of a building while issuing NOC for its construction. It said that the site must be at least 2km away from each of the radar systems at Delhi and Mumbai airports. They sought to amend the ministry’s 2015 rules on ‘height restrictions for safeguarding aircraft operation’. On September 30, 2015, the ministry had laid down parameters for construction within vicinity of airports throughout India. Kalpataru Ltd, Klassik Homes and United Industrial House Premises Cooperative Society had moved HC to challenge the panel’s decision and the subsequent NOCs based on it. Senior counsel Virag Tulzapurkar and advocate Saket Mone, appearing for Kalpataru and the society, and Sharan Jagtiani, counsel for Klassik Homes, argued that an AAI panel, which is meant to hear appeals in disputes over NOC for construction, had no legal authority to rely on draft rules which were still receiving ‘objections and suggestions’. Kalpataru said it was developing three plots in village Kole Kalyan in Santacruz (E) and was entitled, based on existing rules, to construct 190ft in height, which is roughly 19 floors, but the NOC was for 147ft, or less than 15 floors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-sets-aside-aai-panel-rule-to-cap-height-of-buildings-within-2km-of-airport-radars/articleshow/76778189.cms||Swati Deshpande
July 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Aurangabad reports 200 Covid cases||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad district recorded 200 fresh Covid-19 patients on Friday, including 125 males and 75 females, taking the total number of Covid cases to 6,243, said the officials. As many as 2,969 patients have recovered from Covid-19. A total of 2,995 patients are undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, the covid treatment centres set up in different talukas, the civic hospital and the private hospitals. Of the total number of cases reported on Friday, 142 Covid-19 patients belongs from the Aurangabad municipal limit while 58 patients are from the rural parts. The district has recorded 279 deaths due to Covid-19 so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/aurangabad-reports-200-covid-cases/articleshow/76776238.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Lack of adequate facilities hampers fight against Covid-19 in DK||Mangaluru: The lack of sufficient number of ambulances, adequate personnel in the swab collection teams, et al has hamstrung the Dakshina Kannada district administration’s efforts in tackling the Covid-19 crisis. Consequently, the number of people testing positive for the novel coronavirus in the coastal district has been witnessing a steady spike. On Friday, Dakshina Kannada registered its largest single-day spike in number of cases with 97 more people being confirmed infected, pushing the district’s overall Covid-19 tally beyond the 1,000-mark. However, the number of active cases in the district is less than half of the total number of infected cases recorded: 498. But there was more bad news for Dakshina Kannada on Friday with a 47-year-old Covid patient succumbing to the infection at the District Wenlock Hospital. On the bright side, 26 patients were discharged from the hospital. An incident that illustrates the difficulties that the staff deployed on the Covid-19 frontlines are facing is that of a 28-year-old Covid patient from Harekala village in Mangaluru taluk, who had to endure a 12-hour-long wait after he was confirmed infected for the ambulance. While he was informed that he had tested positive for the novel coronavirus around 10am on Thursday, the ambulance arrived at his doorstep only at 10pm that day. In fact, as many as five people have tested positive in Harekala, following which the members of the gram panchayat have voluntarily declared a lockdown in the village. This decision has also been intimated to the Dakshina Kannada district administration. The local elected representatives have barred movement of boats and vehicles inside the village, and residents can leave Harekala only in cases of an emergency. Meanwhile, shops are being allowed to function only between 7am and 12pm, while all restaurants have been asked to close. Furthermore, the members of the GP have decided to sanitise each house in the village. In Ullal, another area in Mangaluru taluk where there has been a high incidence of Covid cases, the lockdown imposed voluntarily by the locals continued. Mangaluru MLA UT Khader lashed out at the government for failing to provide basic facilities for testing swabs and a large fleet of ambulances. “In Ullal, nearly 30 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the course of random sampling. There are only two teams in the district to collect swabs. There are also not enough personnel for transportation of dead bodies,” Khader added. Of the 97 fresh cases reported on Friday, 28 were found to have had a history of influenza-like-illness (ILI), while seven tested positive through pre-surgery sampling. The authorities are still tracing the source of the infection that has been confirmed in six others, while 25 contracted it from previously infected patients while three individuals who tested positive had returned to the district from abroad, Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said. Meanwhile, an employee of the Kukke Sri Subhramanya temple who is a native of Dharwad district, was quarantined after his two-and-a-half-year-old son tested positive for the disease. Neighbouring Udupi district, meanwhile, registered 16 fresh Covid cases on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/lack-of-adequate-facilities-hampers-fight-against-covid-19-in-dk/articleshow/76776222.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||HSPCB goes after 103 illegal bleaching houses in Panipat||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has initiated action against 103 bleaching houses in Panipat for running without permission. It has already sealed 37 bleaching units and cut electricity supply of around 20 others. In an operation beginning June 22, Panipat regional officer Shailender Arora has been leading inspection teams comprising officials of the from revenue department, UHBVN, HSVP and the district administration. “During the inspections conducted so far, 57 units were dismantled, 37 have been sealed and we have snapped electricity connections of around 20 such units while revenue details for others have been sought. This action will go on till we close all the illegal bleaching houses,” said Arora. An HSPCB query in March under RTI revealed that the board has not given any permission to bleaching houses, which even operate from agriculture fields. “We have a provision for issuing NOC for such units. But, they need to install certain setups to ensure reuse of water and the proper discharge of used water,’’ Arora added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hspcb-goes-after-103-illegal-bleaching-houses-in-panipat/articleshow/76778190.cms||Manvir Saini
July 4, 2020||Shimla||Mob attacks cop in HP's Kangra village||SHIMLA: Agitated over the death of a youth, residents of Dada Siba village of Kangra district on Friday thrashed a police officer and tore his uniform. The officer, who had gone to pacify the people marching towards the police station carrying his body, had to run for his life as the angry mob attacked him. After the death of a person, Surjeet Kumar (35), of Luciad-Tippri village under Dehra police station under mysterious circumstances on Thursday, police officials from Dada Siba police post had visited the spot and lodged a case under Section 174 (suicide) of the CrPC. After autopsy, the dead body was handed over to the family members in the evening. On Friday morning, the deceased’s family and the villagers started a protest march, along with the dead body, to Dada Siba police post to demand the arrest of the deceased’s wife. They alleged that the police were trying to hush up the case. On getting information, police post incharge ASI Chiranajee Lal, along with two other police personnel, rushed to pacify them. According to police officials, when the ASI stopped the villagers and tried to pacify them, some persons in the crowd instigated the females with them, who attacked him and tore his uniform and also took away his official mobile phone. After escaping from their clutches, he informed senior officers, who rushed to the spot and sent the body for cremation. Now, a case has under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC been registered over the death of Surjeet Kumar. A case has also been registered against the villagers on the complaint of ASI Chiranji Lal over the attack on the police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/mob-attacks-cop-in-kangra-village/articleshow/76778203.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Exclusion of some from IAS under Punjab and Haryana HC lens||CHANDIGARH: Exclusion of the employees working in the board, corporation and other autonomous bodies including universities from the appointment on IAS post under the nomination of employees from non-state civil services category of Haryana has come under the scanner of Punjab and Haryana high court. The matter has reached before the HC in the wake of Dr Anil Balhara, who is working as assistant professor in the department of laws, BPS Women University Sonipat since 2007. The petitioner has submitted that an advertisement to fill five posts of IAS were advertised by the Haryana Public Service Commission on June 20 for the select list of 2018. In this advertisement, the employees/candidates of all boards, corporations and other autonomous bodies have been debarred from applying the same and have been excluded. The last date for submission of the application form online was June 28. In this regard, the government of Haryana had issued a letter on June 23 asking the administrative secretaries of all the departments to appoint nodal officers and to complete the forms and send the same to the HPSC in a time bound manner. That the petitioner being fully eligible for the consideration for recruitment of IAS under the advertisement, applied for the said posts and submitted the application form online to HPSC. However, he has been excluded from applying for the post because of the illegal and arbitrary decision of the government not to include the employees of university for this post. The petitioner has submitted that the object of such selection directly on IAS post from the state employees was to choose the best candidate for the post of IAS through non-state civil service from all organization instrumentalities of the state by giving the chance to everyone. Petitioner added that surprisingly the assistant professors or teachers working in the state run government colleges are eligible to apply for this post, while the state run university teachers having same qualification and same pay scale are excluded. “The chances to get the best candidate are more when the eligibility domain of candidates is wider. Exclusion of the university professors/teachers of state universities and allowing government college teachers is unfounded and biased consideration. As both are governed by the UGC and their files are routed through the director higher education department of the state,” the petitioner has submitted. The petitioner has sought directions to set-aside the order dated June 9 through which the university employees were excluded from selection on IAS post and also to set-aside the advertisement issued by the HPSC on June 20. The matter would now come up for hearing before the HC on July 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/exclusion-of-board-corporation-autonomous-bodies-employees-from-selection-to-ias-under-hc-lens/articleshow/76778197.cms||Ajay Sura
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Doctor in ACB net for taking Rs 5,000 bribe in Kota||KOTA: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Jhalawar, arrested a doctor holding additional charge of medical jurist at the community health centre (CHC) at Ramganjmandi town in Kota district for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000 on Friday. The doctor has been accused of demanding a bribe of Rs 8,000 for issuing a favourable medico legal case (MLC) report to the complainant and had already received Rs 3,000 in two instalments. The doctor was identified as Rajesh Kumar. “Kumar was arrested from his government residence where he accepted a bribe of Rs 5,000, which was recovered from his trouser pocket,” said Bhawanishankar Meena, additional superintendent of police, ACB, Jhalawar said. The accused doctor demanded a bribe of Rs 10,000 from the complainant, identified as Kishore Kumar, a resident of Teliyakhedi village of the area, for issuing him a favourable MLC report of his father who was thrashed and attacked by two accused and an FIR in this connection was lodged in Ramganjmandi police station, he added. The accused had accepted Rs 1,500 from the complainant immediately after the demand for Rs10,000. The complainant approached ACB office at Jhalawar on Wednesday and lodged a complaint against the medical jurist, the ASP said. At the time of verification of the complaint on Thursday, the accused doctor accepted second instalment of Rs 1,500, however the bribe amount, following the negotiation between the two was settled at Rs 8,000, he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/doc-in-acb-net-for-taking-rs-5000-bribe-in-kota/articleshow/76778200.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||ED files case against firm under money laundering Act||JAIPUR: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a prosecution complaint under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, before the special court judge for the contravention of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. The prosecution complaint has been filed against M/s Agribiotech Industries Ltd., Ajitgarh, Sikar, and its managing directors, namely, Girdhar Gopal Bajoria and Ashutosh Bajoria. ED took up the investigation under PMLA on the basis of two criminal complaints on August 5, 2010, filed by the Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board before the court of Judicial Magistrate, Srimadhopur, Sikar, against the accused for the contravention of sections 43 and 44 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, and sections 24, 25 and 26 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. During investigation, it was revealed that M/s Agribiotech Industries Ltd., SP-156, RIICO Industrial Area, Ajitgarh, Sikar, had set up a 45 KL per day grain (rice, bajra, sorghum, wheat & corn, etc.) based distillery unit with certain specific conditions enforceable under the provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, the Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, etc. Investigation under PMLA revealed that the unit had permission for production of extra natural alcohol (ENA) and rectified spirit (RS) of 45,000 litres per day, however, during the period—December 1, 2007, to July 22, 2012, it was producing 65,000 litres per day or more. By resorting to excess production of 1,38,08,304 litres, the company earned illegitimate profit of Rs 8,30,15,164. It was also revealed that the company was not maintaining effluent treatment plant as envisaged under the Board guidelines, thereby resulting in an illegitimate gain of Rs 8,20,285.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ed-files-case-against-firm-under-money-laundering-act/articleshow/76778208.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Give farm loans quickly or face action’||KOLHAPUR: Solapur district collector Milind Shambharkar has warned banks and their employees that a police complaint would be registered against them under the disaster management act if they fail to comply with rules pertaining to crop loans. The warning follows state home minister Anil Deshmukh’s instructions last week to take legal action against banks delaying disbursal of loans to farmers. Official sources on Thursday said Solapur district was given a target of disbursing Rs 1,438.52 for kharif season but it did not even achieve half of it after the beginning of the season. Kundan Bhole, the deputy registrar of cooperative department, said that nationalised and cooperative banks had disbursed Rs 648.88 till June 30. “The banks had disbursed only 45% of the loan as against the target, which is a serious concern.” Officials said 535 branches of nationalised, cooperative and private banks have been given a target for kharif crop loans but only the district central cooperative bank has met 88% of its target. Nationalised and private banks have not even achieved one-fourth of their target in the disbursement of kharif loans, said officials. Officials said that nationalised banks are lagging behind in loan disbursement due to lack of instructions from the Reserve Bank of India. The state government has issued an order, promising banks that it would pay the farmers’ loans, whose accounts have become non-performing asset, and they should be given fresh loans. But RBI rules do not allow to sanction fresh loan to the person, whose account is NPA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/give-farm-loans-quickly-or-face-action/articleshow/76756642.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: 656 zilla parishad teachers asked to deliver groceries in Beed||AURANGABAD: Beed district collector Rahul Rekhawar’s move to assign zilla parishad teachers to deliver groceries to Beed city, where an 8-day curfew has been imposed, has caused disgruntlement. In an order issued on Thursday, 656 teachers from different talukas, as far as over 50 km from the city, were assigned to deliver groceries between 9 am and noon. Some teachers, who live in 50-km radius of the city, struggled to reach their new place of postings -- the grocery stories. A few of them complained that they had some health issues and making deliveries was proving difficult for them. The shopkeepers too are unhappy with the decision, saying that these teachers do not know the city to make the deliveries. School teachers Eknath Bade (49), who has undergone angioplasty, and Manoj Kumar Gavali (42), who has undergone gallbladder surgery, had to come all the way from Wadwani, about 31 km from Beed, to deliver goods. They were assigned to work at Kirana store owned by Nandkishor Ratnaparkhe. “We have no option, but to follow the orders,” Bade told TOI adding that his name appeared in the list late on Thursday night. “The block education officer knows well that I have health issues. The education office had cleared my medical bills of Rs 2.5 lakh after my angioplasty,” he said. He added that since the order came suddenly, he had reported to work but was planning to approach the authorities concerned. Ratnaparkhe said, “These people are of no use to me for deliveries. Instead, the administration should have lifted the curfew for some time and appointed the teacher to discipline the customers, ensuring that they maintain social distance, wear masks, use sanitizers, etc.” SMSes and phone calls to district collector Rekhawar remained unanswered. The district collector has advised residents to use online payment methods or pay in cash to the teachers. He has also advised residents to use Need App to chat with the grocers and see the price list. Ganesh Kagale, a grocer in the old vegetable market, said his customers are poor and buy material on daily basis. “They don’t have smart phones to place their order online or make payments,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/656-zp-teachers-asked-to-deliver-groceries-in-beed/articleshow/76776254.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||Cops chase kidnappers and rescue man about to be killed in Nagpur||NAGPUR: City police chief BK Upadhyay, relieved after a kidnapped man about to be killed was rescued, announced Rs 30,000 rewards to two constables who on Thursday chased the killers on bike and thwarted their design. Their action resulted in arrest of the perpetrators. Two beat marshals from Tehsil police station, Gagan Yadav and Ajit Thakur were patrolling at Sarafa market Itwari when screams of a man being whisked away on a scooter sandwiched between driver and the pillion caught their attention. Shaikh Irfan, who was kidnapped by Vijay Chavan, Shaikh Arif, Shobu Shaikh and Ayan Shaikh, shouted out to the two cops. Chavan and Arif were fleeing with Irfan seated in between them. It is learnt Irfan was abducted at knifepoint from Seva Sadan chowk on Friday by his friends-turned-foes Chavan and others. Chavan, a former murder accused released from jail a few months ago, was miffed with Irfan for introducing his former girlfriend to another man with whom she is now staying. Yadav and Thakur raced after the scooter as they heard Irfan calling out to them. Sensing trouble, Chavan and Arif too speeded up their scooter but decided to dump Irfan near Jain Samaj bhavan when they saw cops closing in. Constable Yadav said one of the goons (Arif) jumped off the scooter when cops were almost upon him. “One fled towards a dingy lane on foot while the other pushed down the victim (Irfan) and escaped towards the main road. We followed him for some distance but decided to return to the victim who was alone,” said Yadav. “We later took him (Irfan) to Tehsil police station and presented him before senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar and inspector Dileep Sagar,” he said. “When we reached the police station with Irfan, the message about his kidnappng was being broadcast on police,” said Yadav. This was following Irfan’s mother rushing to Shanti Nagar police station to seek help. In the meantime, Ganeshpeth police station had registered offences against Chavan and others as Irfan was abducted from within their limits. The four were later picked up by Ganeshpeth police under senior PI Shivram Kumre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-chase-kidnappers-and-rescue-man-about-to-be-killed/articleshow/76778196.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Three train services in Kerala to be privatised||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Three train services in Kerala are among the 109 notified for privatisation by the Railways. The trains are Kochuveli-Guwahati (thrice in a week), Chennai-Mangalore (weekly) and Ernakulam-Kanyakumari (daily). Each train shall have a minimum of 16 coaches. The Chennai-Mangalore train will start from Chennai at 7.10pm on Tuesdays and reach Mangalore Junction at 11am on Wednesdays. The return journey will start from Mangalore Junction at 5.05pm on Wednesdays and reach Chennai at 8.30am on Thursdays. The daily train service from Kanyakumari will leave at 6am and reach Ernakulam at 12 noon. The train from Ernakulam will start at 2pm and reach Kanyakumari at 8.30pm. The Kochuveli-Guwahati service will start at 2.30pm on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays and reach Guwahati at 4am on Mondays, Tuesdays and Sundays. The train from Guwahati will leave at 11.50pm on Sundays, Mondays and Tuesdays and reach Kochuveli at 3.10pm on Thursdays, Fridays and Wednesdays. The operation of trains, except the loco pilot and guard, will be handled by a private entity for a concession period of 35 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/3-train-services-in-kerala-to-be-privatised/articleshow/76776249.cms||Anasooya.S
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Hry khadi board ex-employee booked for filing ‘false’ plaint||New Delhi: A former disgruntled employee of Khadi Board, Haryana, has landed in the Delhi Police net for allegedly filing a ‘false’ criminal complaint with a “mala fide” intention to defame Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) by accusing it of dealing with prohibited items - ivory and whale bone. Accused Naresh Kadyan, masquerading as an RTI activist and a social worker to file frivolous complaints and harass government officials, has been booked for giving false information in a criminal complaint lodged by him at the IP Estate police station in Delhi. In its report filed in a court here, cops said Kadyan has been accused of “deliberately and intentionally” concealing the fact that KVIC was not dealing in any such contraband item, which was already in his knowledge. It said KVIC had clarified its position in response to Kadyan’s RTI queries in January 2020, but this fact was concealed by him in the police complaint in an apparent bid to mislead the investigation. After investigation, the police told the court that “KVIC was not trading nor was in possession of contraband items like ivory or whale bone as alleged by the complainant”. Police asserted that criminal proceedings be initiated against Kadyan under section 182 of the IPC which deals with giving false information in the complaint with intent to cause a public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person. Section 182 of IPC prescribes for punishment with six months imprisonment or fine or with both. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-khadi-board-ex-employee-booked-for-filing-false-plaint/articleshow/76778206.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Over 300 samples collected from Puri in 3 days of sero test||BHUBANESWAR: The Regional Medical Research Centre(RMRC) has collected more than 300 samples on the third day of the serological survey in Puri. The survey, which was started in Puri on June 27, resumed on Friday after the Rath Yatra festival got over. Around 110 samples had been collected from the district on the first day of the survey to find out about the extent of Covid-19 spread. The RMRC and health department team collect blood samples from professionals involved in healthcare, municipal and transport employees besides police and some people chosen from the community. In the first phase, the state government will conduct the sero survey in urban areas of Puri, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC), Cuttack and Ganjam district. It was initially planned for four districts. But the state government is planning to conduct this survey in five other districts. This survey will cover 10,000 people in nine districts, said the government sources. RMRC director Sanghamitra Pati said they are planning to draw samples for sero survey from Bhubaneswar from Saturday or Monday. “We have resumed our survey in Puri from Friday. We had stopped it for Bahuda Yatra and Suna Besha of the holy trinity,” she added. Pati said the survey will be conducted in particular areas where Covid-19 case rate is high. “We will use cluster sampling method for this survey. Clusters will be selected from each district and survey will be done according to the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” she added. The survey team draws samples randomly from different clusters of select districts. They want to see whether any antibody has been developed in the bodies of the people or not, RMRC sources said. “Antibodies develop when an antigen (coronavirus has also antigen) enters the human body. Our antibody tests will reveal it,” he added..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/over-300-samples-collected-from-puri-in-3-days-of-sero-test/articleshow/76777386.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
July 4, 2020||Madurai||HC directs to relieve officials||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday directed to relieve revenue officials posted at the Sathankulam police station after the state government told the court that they may not be needed as the CB-CID had collected the clue materials in connection with the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son, J Beniks. The suo motu proceedings which were initiated following the custodial deaths, was taken up for hearing on Friday. Additional advocate general (AAG) K Chellapandian submitted that in the order dated June 29, the court had directed the Tuticorin collector to depute revenue officials to the Sathankulam police station for the purpose of preserving the clue materials. Since the CB-CID officials had taken over the investigation and had collected them, the continuance of revenue officials may not be necessary. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi gave the direction. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-directs-to-relieve-officials/articleshow/76778637.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Madurai||HC imposts Rs 1L costs for stalling ring road project||Madurai: Dismissing two petitions which challenged the process of land acquisition for Madurai outer ring road phase I project connecting Vadipatti and Chittampatti, Madras high court imposed a cost of Rs 50,000 each on the petitioners for stalling the project by obtaining interim orders on frivolous grounds, saying it would have a cascading effect on the project cost.The court was hearing the petitions filed by K Swaminathan, president of Pennyquik Irupoga Paasanam Vivasayigal Neer Aatharangal Paathukapu Sangam, and A M M Ambbigapathy challenging the central government’s notification in 2018 for land acquisition for the project under Bharatmala Pariyojana Scheme.Refusing to accept the contention that there will be famine if the said agricultural land parcels are acquired, a division bench of Justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi observed that it is clear from records that out of 2,884.55 hectares of wet land available, NHAI is acquiring only a minuscule 81.73 hectares, which was only 2.83% of the total wetlands. Of the 1,307 people whose land were acquired, only six filed four writ petitions challenging their individual acquisitions which were dismissed by the single judge. Referring to an apex court verdict, the judges said NHAI is a professionally managed statutory body having expertise in the field of development and maintenance of national highways.When NHAI is of the view that a ring road of this nature is very much required for catering to the road traffic requirements of southern districts in the next two decades, the court cannot sit in judgment over its decision. Dismissing the petitions, the judges directed the petitioners to pay Rs 50,000 each to CM’s Public Relief Fund, since the state exchequer is cash-strapped to combat the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-imposts-rs-1l-costs-for-stalling-ring-road-project/articleshow/76778644.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Parbhani SP suspends 3 crime branch cops||Aurangabad: Parbhani superintendent of police Krishnakant Upadhyay on Friday suspended three police constables serving with the local crime branch after an internal probe revealed that the trio was closely associated with criminals on police record and could not justify the reason for being constantly in touch with them. The orders were issued after the inquiry against the trio was carried out by a probationary IPS officer currently heading the charge of Jintur. Those suspended have been identified as Sharad Mulgir, Vishal Waghmare and Uddhav Satpute. The constables have been charged with dereliction of duty, indiscipline and questions have also been raised over their integrity. The development has stunned the LCB as the department is already facing heat from Upadhyay, who last month ordered transfer of LCB inspector Pravin More. However, the transfer order was stayed by Nanded range special inspector general of police Manojkumar Lohiya. Upadhyay could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/parbhani-sp-suspends-3-crime-branch-cops/articleshow/76776276.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Cuttack||Over 300 samples collected from Puri in 3 days of sero test||BHUBANESWAR: The Regional Medical Research Centre(RMRC) has collected more than 300 samples on the third day of the serological survey in Puri. The survey, which was started in Puri on June 27, resumed on Friday after the Rath Yatra festival got over. Around 110 samples had been collected from the district on the first day of the survey to find out about the extent of Covid-19 spread. The RMRC and health department team collect blood samples from professionals involved in healthcare, municipal and transport employees besides police and some people chosen from the community. In the first phase, the state government will conduct the sero survey in urban areas of Puri, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC), Cuttack and Ganjam district. It was initially planned for four districts. But the state government is planning to conduct this survey in five other districts. This survey will cover 10,000 people in nine districts, said the government sources. RMRC director Sanghamitra Pati said they are planning to draw samples for sero survey from Bhubaneswar from Saturday or Monday. “We have resumed our survey in Puri from Friday. We had stopped it for Bahuda Yatra and Suna Besha of the holy trinity,” she added. Pati said the survey will be conducted in particular areas where Covid-19 case rate is high. “We will use cluster sampling method for this survey. Clusters will be selected from each district and survey will be done according to the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” she added. The survey team draws samples randomly from different clusters of select districts. They want to see whether any antibody has been developed in the bodies of the people or not, RMRC sources said. “Antibodies develop when an antigen (coronavirus has also antigen) enters the human body. Our antibody tests will reveal it,” he added..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/over-300-samples-collected-from-puri-in-3-days-of-sero-test/articleshow/76784147.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
July 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BMC bars labourers from outside Odisha after 34 test +ve||BHUBANESWAR: The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided not to engage labourers from outside the state in large construction and industrial work after 34 such migrant workers tested positive for Covid-19 in the past three days. All industrial houses have been directed to test the labourers already brought to the state. They were also asked to keep such workers in quarantine for 14 days from the date of arrival. “The industrial or construction units using workers who have come from outside the state should let the civic know about the results. A decision on whether to engage them will be taken after that,” a BMC official said. The BMC order said it recently found that a city-based industrial unit had brought workers from outside the state and placed all of them in quarantine. Of the total workers, 34 tested positive. Sources said even though the workers were in quarantine, the possibility of the spread of virus due to negligence could not be ruled out. In view of the public safety and to contain the spread of the virus, it is ordered that no organisation (either government or private) can bring workers in Bhubaneswar from outside the state till July 31. The civic body said the organizations should also avoid labourers engaging from the five hotspots — Ganjam, Gajapati, Balasore, Jajpur and Cuttack districts. Any deviation in this regard will be viewed seriously. The BMC had in the phase two of the lockdown allowed the resumption of construction projects by engaging labourers from the BMC areas, while it gave permission to some industrial and manufacturing activities in the third phase. The civic body’s order covered the export-oriented, industrial, essential manufacturing, production, and IT hardware units. “We have only said the units can’t bring in labourers from outside the state,” the official added. The capital city on Friday reported 24 fresh cases, taking the total number of infected persons in Bhubaneswar to 369. Among the newly-infected patients, four are locals and 20 from the quarantine centres. In past three days, including Friday, the capital city has added 49 cases. With 216 recoveries and four fatalities, the city now has 149 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bmc-bars-labourers-from-outside-state-after-34-test-ve/articleshow/76777379.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Madurai||Administrative Judge thanks Bar members||Madurai: The Administrative Judge of Madurai bench of Madras high court Justice, P N Prakash, has thanked the Madurai bench Bar members for their unstinted cooperation and support during the tumultuous spell of Covid-19 pandemic. The judge wrote a parting message on the final day of his stint since he is moving back to the principal seat and a new set of judges would preside over the proceedings at Madurai bench from July 6. Justice Prakash said the office-bearers of all Bar associations stood by him when physical hearing was tried successfully, though only for a brief period in the first week of June. He also lauded members who voluntarily came forward to work with the district administration officials for distribution of essential commodities to the public, unmindful of the peril they were into. “I do not know what is in store for us in the future. However, I am confident that with the courage, fortitude and faith in the almighty, we would be able to come out of these trying times like the mythical phoenix,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/administrative-judge-thanks-bar-members/articleshow/76778642.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||Online tracking helps West Bengal rationalize bus services||KOLKATA: Real-time online tracking of both state and private buses on a digital platform has helped the West Bengal Transport Corporation rationalize their vehicles on different routes in such a way that optimal use of both the fleets could be availed of. After a hiatus of almost a week, private operators reintroduced around 4,000 of their buses on the roads on Friday, taking supply more than demand. With the number of private buses increasing steadily on the roads after meetings between transport department officials and bus operators, the state transport undertakings are now making calculations so that their buses can serve in areas, where private vehicles are fewer. “This has helped us explore new localities, while private players served the regular routes,” an official said. STUs, such as WBTC, SBSTC and NBSTC, collectively run 1,800 buses in the city. Given the high diesel price, private operators insisted that the government expedited the process of fare revision. West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners’ Association secretary Pradip Narayan Basu said, “We have kept our words. Despite incurring a huge loss, we have started running buses. Now it is the turn of the government to reciprocate our gesture.” “The government can for the time being announce Covid-19 special fare to facilitate bus operators to overcome the current crisis. Bus operators have been borrowing money to run buses. But after a point of time, the borrowed money will be exhausted,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, general secretary of Joint Council of Bus Syndicate (JCBS). The diesel price in Kolkata seems to have stabilised at Rs75.62 a litre. Transport department officials said the government process had begun but since fare revision usually assumed a huge political issue, the government moved cautiously at the highest level. The department has chalked out multiple offers, including road tax relief and permit relief to introduce medium luxury buses for passengers transportation, where fare will be higher so that private operators can cross-subsidize their normal fleet operations. The next week, multiple meetings of the transport department, cops and bus operators have been lined up to seek solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/online-tracking-helps-state-rationalize-bus-services/articleshow/76778207.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 4, 2020||Mumbai||State minister supports ban on China power equipment||Mumbai: While supporting the Centre’s decision to ban procurement of power equipment from China and Pakistan, Maharashtra energy minister suggested that state distribution companies should get the equipment from other countries at cheaper, reasonable rates. Raut was speaking during a video-conference held by Union power minister R K Singh. The Union ministry of power on Friday held a video-conference with chief ministers and energy ministers to discuss proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. He said the proposed bill clearly violated constitutional mandate and undermined its federal structure. “Before making amendments, the Centre should take states into confidence,” he said. Opposing the proposed amendments, Raut asked the Centre to discuss with states as it “violated the federal structure and seriously affected states”. He feared that the central government may “privatise the power sector” by giving backdoor entry to private sector by making amendments in Electricity Act, 2003. Raut pointed out that due to Covid-19, MSEDCL had suffered huge financial losses and requested a grant of Rs10,000 crore to bail it out. He requested low interest rates for loans too. He demanded release of grants for PMO Kusum Solar Agriculture Pumps Yojana under which the state government would provide a lakh pumps per year to farmers. The state government will provide five lakh pumps in five years. At the conference Singh appreciated Maharashtra government for 100% implementation of Kusum Yojna and urged other states to do the same. Raut said power sector workers deserved appreciation for providing supply during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-minister-supports-ban-on-china-power-equipment/articleshow/76777875.cms||Somit Sen
July 4, 2020||Jodhpur||Three of a family found dead in their house in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Three members of a family were found dead in their house in Shankar Nagar area of Jodhpur on Friday morning. While the father-son duo was found to have committed suicide by hanging themselves, the mother was apparently strangulated. The incident surfaced when friends called up the man’s son in the morning. On not receiving any response, they reached his house. Seeing the boy lying on the bed with a rope around his neck they broke open the door and found the three family members dead. Police have found a suicide note indicating that the family was under financial stress and debt. The deceased have been identified as Rajendra Suthar (52), his wife Indra (47) and son Nitin (23). Nitin’s body was found lying on the bed in a room, while the parents were found in the next room, where the mother was lying on the bed while the father was hanging from the ceiling. According to ACP Neeraj Sharma, the neighbours had seen all the family members taking a walk late night before retiring into the house. The ACP added that the spot observation suggested that the son first hanged himself, seeing whom the father cut the rope and laid him down. “On finding him dead, he might have first strangulated his wife under depression and then hanged himself from the roof in the next room,” Sharma said. The mother’s body was found covered with a bedsheet on the bed. According to the police, the father and son were working as contractors in a handicraft unit in Boranada industrial area and had been living in a rented house. Sharma said that the exact timing of deaths could be known after the receipt of the postmortem reports, which would help in ascertaining the order of the deaths. Sharma said that some names have been mentioned in a roughly scribbled suicide note as moneylenders, which was found under the bed of the parents’ room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/3-of-a-family-found-dead-in-their-house-in-jodhpur/articleshow/76779902.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Madurai||AIIMS: Govt issues gazette notification||Madurai: The central government on Friday issued gazette notification for establishing the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Madurai. AIIMS will be set up on 222.24 acres of land at Thoppur in Madurai at a cost of Rs 1,264 crore. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for AIIMS in January 2019. While the site has been cleared, a proper construction activity is yet to begin there. As of now, just a wooden door between two poles is all that can be seen at the site. The central government’s gazette notification has been welcomed by all sections of the society. “This official notification by the central government is encouraging. This is a very special day for Madurai and the southern districts. I thank the Union ministry of health and family welfare for this gesture which is a boon to the region,” Madurai MP Su Venkatesan said in a statement on Friday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiims-govt-issues-gazette-notification/articleshow/76778648.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mumbai||BJP drops Kirit Somaiya, Shaina NC from Maharashtra executive panel; Pankaja Munde now special invitee||MUMBAI: In an indication of the central leadership’s unhappiness with Kirit Somaiya, he has been dropped as BJP state vice-president. The party also made clear its displeasure over Pankaja Munde’s style of functioning, who is now a special invitee. Along with Somaiya, the party state treasurer Shaina NC too has been dropped. Mulund MLA Mihir Kotecha will now be the party’s Gujarati face and treasurer. With Mumbai unit president Mangal Prabhat Lodha, the trading community continues to have a influential presence in the party, said observers. BJP state president Chandrakant Patil announced his first executive committee on Friday, after taking charge in February. The appointees clearly show a tilt towards former CM Devendra Fadnavis as three of the five general secretaries are close to him, said observers, adding: “Fadnavis’s former officer on special duty Shrikant Bharatiya, MLA Devyani Farande, and minister Ravindra Chavan have been appointed as general secretaries. While Sujit Singh Thakur has been retained, MLA Atul Bhatkalkar has been dropped.” Among vice-presidents, Jayprakash Rawal, Prasad Lad and Jayprakash Thakur are known Fadnavis supporters, they said. Vijay Puranik has been appointed to the all-important post of organisational general secretary. “The party has made its displeasure clear over Pankaja’s style of functioning. But it has conveyed it is not inimical to the Mundes by appointing her sister Pritam Munde, an MP from Beed, as vice-president. BJP leader Eknath Khadse’s daughter-in-law Raksha Khadse is secretary,” said observers. Addressing a press conference Patil said Pankaja Munde would soon be given a national role and she would be inducted in the state core committee. Madhav Bhandari, the party’s chief spokesperson who has been repeatedly overlooked for the MLC post, too has been made vice-president as also former energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule. Keshav Upadhyay will now be the party chief spokesperson. Sanjay Upadhyay who was the party’s north Indian face has been dropped as secretary as he is likely to be given a bigger role in the Mumbai unit. Sanjay Pandey has been appointed as president of the BJP’s north-Indian cell. Former Mumbai unit presidents Prakash Mehta, Vinod Tawde, Ashish Shelar and Raj Purohit have been appointed as special invitees, along with other MLAs and MPs. Union minister Nitin Gadkari and Fadnavis are also on this list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-drops-kirit-shaina-from-state-exec-panel-pankaja-now-spl-invitee/articleshow/76778252.cms||Clara Lewis
July 4, 2020||Madurai||Tuticorin airport handles its first night flight||Tuticorin: A week after obtaining the 3C IFR licence to operate flights under all weather conditions and at night, the 28-year-old Tuticorin airport had its first night operation on Friday. An IndiGo plane from Chennai with 42 passengers on board landed here at 6.23pm. It took off from Tuticorin at 7pm with 31 passengers. Interestingly, it was an unscheduled event as the flight was to land at Tuticorin around 3pm. The plane could not land here due to dust storm. The plane was diverted to Trichy, where it landed at 3.30pm. It took off from Trichy at 5.37pm after the weather was conducive. When the flight landed at the Tuticorin airport, passengers were received by airport director N Subramanian, airport manager Jayaraman and airport fire officer B Ganesh. Before obtaining the 3C IFR licence, flights could be operated only from 6am to 6pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tuticorin-airport-handles-its-first-night-flight/articleshow/76778652.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Ex-MLA’s protest bid at Waluj foiled||Aurangabad: Former Kannad MLA Harshvardhan Jadhav reached Aurangabad and sat at the entrance gate of Bajaj Auto Ltd at Waluj here while demanding closure of the unit to “prevent the spread of coronivurs in the industrial area” on Friday morning. Police, however, immediately detained the legislator and prevented any gathering in the area that would have led to a traffic jam on the Aurangabad-Waluj highway. Jadhav’s action took many by surprise and also raised questions because only last month, he had announced retirement from active politics. “Former MLA Harshvardhan Jadhav was accompanied by his driver. We took him in preventive detention as per section 58 of Maharashtra police act and released him accordingly,” MIDC Waluj senior inspector Madhukar Sawant said. Sources said that soon after the MLA, with black cloth tied on the forehead, sat in front of the company’s entrance gate, the security guards immediately police. “He was shouting slogans and said that he was doing it to prevent further spread of the coronavirus in the industrial area,” said the sources. A police team, led by senior PI Sawant rushed, to the spot and took charge of the situation. The officer clarified that there was neither any commotion nor unlawful assembly at the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ex-mlas-protest-bid-at-waluj-foiled/articleshow/76776413.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Three of a family found dead in their house in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Three members of a family were found dead in their house in Shankar Nagar area of Jodhpur on Friday morning. While the father-son duo was found to have committed suicide by hanging themselves, the mother was apparently strangulated. The incident surfaced when friends called up the man’s son in the morning. On not receiving any response, they reached his house. Seeing the boy lying on the bed with a rope around his neck they broke open the door and found the three family members dead. Police have found a suicide note indicating that the family was under financial stress and debt. The deceased have been identified as Rajendra Suthar (52), his wife Indra (47) and son Nitin (23). Nitin’s body was found lying on the bed in a room, while the parents were found in the next room, where the mother was lying on the bed while the father was hanging from the ceiling. According to ACP Neeraj Sharma, the neighbours had seen all the family members taking a walk late night before retiring into the house. The ACP added that the spot observation suggested that the son first hanged himself, seeing whom the father cut the rope and laid him down. “On finding him dead, he might have first strangulated his wife under depression and then hanged himself from the roof in the next room,” Sharma said. The mother’s body was found covered with a bedsheet on the bed. According to the police, the father and son were working as contractors in a handicraft unit in Boranada industrial area and had been living in a rented house. Sharma said that the exact timing of deaths could be known after the receipt of the postmortem reports, which would help in ascertaining the order of the deaths. Sharma said that some names have been mentioned in a roughly scribbled suicide note as moneylenders, which was found under the bed of the parents’ room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-of-a-family-found-dead-in-their-house-in-jodhpur/articleshow/76778215.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Mission Begin again hits lockdown hurdle in Khed||PUNE: The Khed taluka administration has announced a “complete lockdown” from Sunday to July 12 following the rise in Covid-19 cases, much to the worries of manufacturing units in the Chakan industrial belt and neighbouring areas. Representatives of the industries said the “sudden lockdown” would hamper operations that had recently started picking pace. The panchayat samiti decided in favour of a complete lockdown following a three-fold rise in the patient load within a week (see graphic). District collector Naval Kishore Ram said the administration “cannot simply surrender to the numbers”. He said, “We need to control the numbers. We are trying to ensure that the industrial activities do not stop. We will review the situation and take the final decision.” Federation of Chakan Industry secretary Dilip Batwal said, “It will not be prudent to close industries, as many of them faced financial losses in the past three months. Maximum industries are adhering to the social distancing norms and government guideline.” Khed sabhapati Ankush Rakshe said, “About 34 cases are from nearly 8-10 major companies in the industrial belt. The short-term lockdown aims at breaking the virus chain.” The HR head of a company supplying spares to auto industries at Vasuli said, “We have started operations with a lot of difficulties and restrictions. The authorities need to understand the issue before taking any decision on lockdown.” Another HR head of a tyre manufacturing company in Chakan said, “Many companies are working at less capacity now. The market is unstable. What we need at present is support from the government. A sudden closure will have an adverse impact on companies.” Khed tehsil medical officer Balasaheb Gadve said, “About 70% of the tehsil are in the green zone. Our aim is to collect maximum swab samples of people coming in contact with the patients. Currently, we collect at least 50 samples a day..” Chakan Municipal Council chief officer Nilam Patil said, “Shopkeepers and traders are unwilling to open their outlets. We have appraised the administration of the situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mission-begin-again-hits-lockdown-hurdle-in-khed/articleshow/76778214.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
July 4, 2020||India||Telangana HC tears into govt for plan on online classes||HYDERABAD: Questioning whether lawmakers in Delhi were losing sight of ground realities prevailing in rural India, devoid of internet facilities for online classes, the Telangana high court on Friday asked the Centre, CBSE and other central institutions to respond by July 13. Reacting to pleas that the Centre was providing laptops at subsidised rates to provide online classes to children, the bench asked how many parents know about the existence of such a scheme. “Leave alone two laptops for a tribal family, let it (the Centre) first think of providing two square meals a day to the impoverished families,” the bench said, making it clear that it wants to first hear from the Centre and its academic wings on why their guidelines don’t address the ground realities. The bench, while hearing a PIL filed by Hyderabad School Parents Association (HSPA), sought action against the schools for collecting term fees, admission fees, developmental charges, library fees, extracurricular activity fees, and transportation fees, instead of collecting only monthly fees to access online classes. The state’s special counsel A Sanjeev Kumar informed the court about how the TRS government has formed a sub-committee to study the issue after the Centre prohibited reopening of schools and colleges till the end of July 2020 and permitted online classes. As school education falls under Entry 25 in List 3 of the Constitution, where the Centre’s word prevails over all the states, the state said they were in two minds. “Take a firm stand, like Maharashtra which has banned online classes. Adjust Centre’s guidelines to local conditions. Unless there is an express prohibition dictated by law, you cannot control it. You say you are not permitting online classes. But you are not stopping coercive methods of private school managements either,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/telangana-hc-tears-into-govt-for-plan-on-online-classes/articleshow/76778962.cms||Sagarkumar Mutha
July 4, 2020||Pune||Strict closure in Vadgaon Budruk goathan till July 11||Pune: Big shops and commercial establishments will remain closed in the Vadgaon Budruk goathan area on Sinhagad Road from Saturday till July 11 after the locality reported 30 Covid-19 cases since the last week. The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) Sinhagad Road ward office has issued an order for implementing containment measures in a 2 sqkm area having a population of over 5,000. Essential services, including milk supply, ration and small grocery shops and hospitals and pharmacies, will function till 1pm every day. The authorities have urged citizens to remain indoors. The deputy zonal officer and head of the Sinhagad road ward office, Sambhaji Khot, said the aim was to restrict all types of gatherings of people. Sale of vegetables, fruits or other items along the roads, which leads to crowding, will not be allowed till July 11.“The Unlock 2.0 measures are in place and we will not go for outright sealing of an entire area. Only areas with positive cases will be under containment. We have told big commercial establishments that get huge footfall to remain shut for a week. Smaller shops will be allowed to function, but with strict social distancing norms,” he said.Another official said the detection of the Covid-19 cases has been sporadic. “The decision to implement stricter measures has been taken in view of the population density following a site visit on Wednesday,” he said.As per the order, the residents are told not to venture out unnecessarily and not to use vehicles inside the containment areas. As part of the containment measures, the administration has planned to intensify checking of people with comorbidities and also the high-risk contacts of the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strict-closure-in-vadgaon-budruk-goathan-till-july-11/articleshow/76778219.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BJP hits out at govt for unrealistic pre-conditions for BPUT online exam||BHUBANESWAR: The BJP youth wing leaders on Friday criticized the state government and the Biju Patnaik University of Technology (BPUT) for issuing unrealistic requirements for its undergraduate and postgraduate students who are about to appear for the end-semester examination online from July 9. Talking to reporters, Irasis Acharya, president of the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), said it is difficult for a person using mobile internet to get 1Mbps bandwidth speed in rural and semi-urban areas. “Forget about rural areas, some areas in the state capital too have net issues. The three hour of uninterrupted power supply during the monsoon is a myth. Power cuts are reported from near the energy minister’s residence too,” he added. Acharya said the students staying outside the state will face more problems because BPUT has not made any arrangement for their online examination. The students living in containment zones cannot appear for the test. “Many students do not have laptops/desktops and other specifications to appear for the test. If they want to appear for it, they will have to travel to cities or towns amid restrictions. The company, which is helping BPUT hold this test, has a bad reputation. Keeping the rising Covid cases in mind, it is the duty of the state to keep it’s students safe instead of creating chaos in computer centres,” he added. The youth wing demanded an alternative method of evaluation for the end-semester examination. “If the government wants to continue with the test, it should allow some relaxations in the several pre-conditions for students to appear for the exam,” they added. Pradipta Kumar Naik, leader of the opposition, wrote a letter to skill development and technical education minister Premananda Nayak to postpone the BPUT online examination amid the pandemic. “Several institutes across the country have decided to declare the final year/semester results on the basis of the performance of the previous semesters/years. BPUT can also do that instead of holding examinations,” he added. Students on Friday staged a demonstration in front of the BPUT office in Rourkela demanding an alternative method of evaluation to publish results like the state higher education department. They have been opposing the idea of online examination. Minister Premananda Nayak said they have two alternatives for the students. Either they can appear for the online test or sit for the offline test after the opening of educational institutions in the state. “If any student fails to appear for the online test, s/he can take the offline examination,” he added. He said they have decided to hold the online examination keeping the Covid-19 situation in mind. “Online examinations and studies are the future for us. We have started it from this year. I think students will not face any problems,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bjp-hits-out-at-govt-for-unrealistic-pre-conditions-for-bput-online-exam/articleshow/76777434.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||SUV mishap: After bride, groom too succumbs||JAISALMER: The groom who was injured in a road accident on Thursday evening succumbed to injuries in a Jodhpur hospital on Friday. His bride, who too was injured in the accident, had died on Thursday. The accident occurred when the tyre of the car in which the newly married couple were travelling burst while the marriage procession was returning from the bride’s native village Chundhi to Boha in Jaisalmer district. The accident took place just 8km before the groom’s village. Three persons, who too were in the same car, died on the spot, while one is still critical and is being treated in Jodhpur. Mohangarh SHO Manak Ram Vishnoi said the groom Om Prakash and the bride Sushila were returning to Boha village after marriage when the tyre of their vehicle burst. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/suv-mishap-after-bride-groom-too-succumbs/articleshow/76778223.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Congress, NCP object to tough action against citizens, but CM Uddhav Thackeray stays firm||MUMBAI/PUNE: Though a section of senior cabinet members of the Congress and NCP have expressed serious reservations about coercive action taken by law-enforcing agencies against citizens, CM Uddhav Thackeray is in no mood to relax restrictions, sources said. Thackeray on Friday met NCP chief Sharad Pawar amid discontent in the NCP and Congress over the harsh implementation of the lockdown. The CM and Sharad Pawar discussed the hardships caused to people by rules such as the 2km travel limit imposed by Mumbai police earlier this week. A senior NCP minister told TOI that the CM’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ project had failed to take off after the police brought in the 2km rule. Another minister said bureaucrats were taking decisions and the government was facing criticism from people.Skill development minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik felt the Mumbai police decision has had an adverse impact on the business of small traders. “People appear to be exhausted and tired,” Malik said. Housing minister Jeetendra Awhad of the NCP said the government will have to take decisions which will help revive the economy. “We will have to strike a balance between economy and lockdown,” Awhad said. Mumbai guardian minister Aslam Shaikh of the Congress said there was confusion over lockdown in Mumbai and its neighbouring areas. “Certain decisions taken by the Mumbai police and BMC have caused inconvenience to the people. I will meet the police commissioner and BMC chief on Monday to resolve the issue. In my opinion, both should come out with a clear standard operating procedure so that there is no confusion and inconvenience,” Shaikh said. The senior NCP minister said, “If people go to the shop of their choice, even if it is 2km away, it is wrong to seize their vehicles and impose a fine of Rs 1,200. It should be examined if the person was moving around for a genuine cause or was loitering.” Another minister said, “We are not taking any decisions on the lockdown, bureaucrats are imposing decisions on us and we are at the receiving end. We will have to reverse this trend.” Reports said Pawar and the CM have now decided to meet on a weekly basis to review issues, resolve disputes and give directions to the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government. However, a senior official, defending the restrictions, said, “We have seen what happened in the entire MMR region when lockdown was relaxed. Owing to indiscipline, the region has witnessed a spurt in cases, and deaths. The CM listens to all but takes his own decisions.” Meanwhile, the move by local administrators in many parts of the state to announce a lockdown in areas under their jurisdiction has come as a jolt for industry associations. Some industry hubs affected are the Khed-Chakan belt in Pune, the Waluj MIDC in Aurangabad, the seed and steel production hub of Jalna and the textile town of Ichalkaranji, besides towns like Beed, Parbhani and parts of Pune city including the Dehu Cantonment Board and Wadgaon budruk gaothan area on Sinhagad Eoad. Dilip Batwal, secretary of Federation of Chakan Industry, said, “It won’t be prudent to close industries as many of them have already faced financial losses in the last three months. They have recently started their operations. Most industries are adhering to social distancing norms and government guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cong-ncp-object-to-tough-action-against-citizens-but-cm-stays-firm/articleshow/76778662.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Madurai||Good response to telemedicine facility for home isolation||Madurai: The home isolation and telemedicine facility launched in Madurai district for dealing with mild and moderate Covid-19 patients below the age of 60 years and free of any underlying comorbid conditions, has received good response with many of those in home quarantine, opting for this. As many as 306 people are now under home isolation for Covid-19 treatment in Madurai district.Doctors who have been brought into this dedicated system, say that patients are happy to be in home isolation now, as they can contact the them any time of the day through the telemedicine facility, something that many are finding it difficult to get in hospital care.Thangaraj, a relative of a person in home care said that social media messages on lack of care in hospitals, beds and good food for patients in hospitals, was causing lot of concern. “But, now my relative with mild conditions is under our direct care at home and we are happy. We can see his condition is stable and ensure that he gets hot beverages every 30 minutes and make him inhale steam every two hours,’ he said.Madurai Corporation commissioner S Visakan said that as soon as they got the samples of positive patients, the medical team assessed their condition and if they have mild or moderate conditions, the sanitary inspector in-charge of the area assess the houses to see if they have facilities for isolation, like a separate room and bathroom. If the facilities are there, patients are given a medical kit comprising allopathy, siddha and ayurveda medicines, and asked to self-isolate. A sticker pasted on the door would indicate outsiders about a person in isolation.Medical officers in-charge of the system said that patients are relieved at being told that they can self-isolate at home, compared to hospital care where there is total isolation. “We are ready to talk to them any time of the day and there are 10 dedicated desks for this in the facility with 10 doctors and 30 nurses, including a siddha practitioner on call,” said a medical officer. Regular calls will monitor the vitals including pulse rate, oxygen levels and temperature. If they feel that a patient needs hospital care, even after days in home isolation, it would be done immediately. Patients also have the facility for video calling the doctors in this system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/good-response-to-telemedicine-facility-for-home-isolation/articleshow/76778661.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal’s first plasma donor leads e-campaign to bust Covid-19 myths||KOLKATA: She was one of the city’s earliest Covid patients who got herself admitted to a hospital straight from the airport after she returned from Scotland and had become the state’s first donor for the plasma trials. Monami Biswas now leads a group of citizens who spread awareness about the infection on their social media profiles and urge people to not to spread hatred and panic about patients and their families. “Being a Covid survivor, and then being the first person in the state to donate plasma to help find a cure, I try to make people aware through my social media profile that there is no reason to panic on being infected. Most people get cured before they realize they had contracted the virus. I am just doing my part to create awareness,” said Biswas, a resident of Habra in North 24 Parganas. Biswas said that over the past few weeks, she has received a number of messages on Facebook messenger, and even calls, from people who also want to know if donating plasma is safe and how to do it. “I try to make them understand the process of plasma donation. It is as simple as donating blood. I am planning to make a series of videos on the process of plasma donation and give out the contact details of those that people can contact to donate,” she said. Like Biswas, there are a number of other citizens who regularly update their social media accounts with survival stories and criticize the panic-stricken reactions from neighbourhoods. One such social media user, Tanvir Reza, a chest physician attached with a private hospital in Salt Lake, regularly puts up Facebook posts criticizing people’s behavior and actions pertaining to Covid patients. “There are lots of misinformation and miscommunication about the disease among the public, as well as some doctors. A few days ago, I received a panicked call from a doctor who said that while he himself was wearing an N95 mask, a surgical mask and a face shield, a relative of a patient had taken off his own mask and had started shouting. The doctor wondered if he was at risk. Then there are also asymptomatic, fit and young patients who wonder if they would survive as they had acquired the disease. Even after so many days, people have so little knowledge about the pandemic and end up creating panic. I just want to clear this air of misconception,” said Reza. Then there is Puja Sengupta, who put up fights in the comments section whenever someone puts up derogatory or panic-spreading posts about patients in their neighbourhoods. “I hate the way people say a corona patient has been caught in our area. They are not thieves or robbers. They need to be treated with compassion and not hatred,” said Sengupta, who also regularly shares Covid survivor stories and genuine government data on the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/states-first-plasma-donor-leads-e-campaign-to-bust-covid-myths/articleshow/76777431.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 4, 2020||Pune||Tope: Cured patients to be counselled to participate in plasma therapy trials||Pune: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday directed the officials in the districts to reach out to the cured Covid-19 patients to participate in the ongoing plasma therapy trials in Maharashtra.Tope told TOI, “Depending on the criteria, the cured patients can participate in the trials by donating plasma. The plasma therapy trials are being conducted on moderate and severe Covid-19 patients.” Launching the project platina, the Maharashtra government had decided to set up plasma centres in all the 36 districts. Over one lakh Covid-19 patients have recovered so far in the state.The minister said, “While on one side the cases are rising, the recovery rate, too, has improved. The recovered patients can help serious patients with their plasma.”Sanjay Mukherjee, the secretary of the state medical education department, said, plasma donors could register themselves on the platform plasmayoddha.in under the Plasma Yoddha project.The government resolution issued by the medical education department states plasma therapy could be considered for patients whose oxygen requirement progressively increases despite the use of steroids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tope-cured-patients-to-be-counselled-to-participate-in-plasma-therapy-trials/articleshow/76778228.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 4, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Congress, NCP object to tough action against citizens, but CM Uddhav Thackeray stays firm||MUMBAI/PUNE: Though a section of senior cabinet members of the Congress and NCP have expressed serious reservations about coercive action taken by law-enforcing agencies against citizens, CM Uddhav Thackeray is in no mood to relax restrictions, sources said. Thackeray on Friday met NCP chief Sharad Pawar amid discontent in the NCP and Congress over the harsh implementation of the lockdown. The CM and Sharad Pawar discussed the hardships caused to people by rules such as the 2km travel limit imposed by Mumbai police earlier this week. A senior NCP minister told TOI that the CM’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ project had failed to take off after the police brought in the 2km rule. Another minister said bureaucrats were taking decisions and the government was facing criticism from people.Skill development minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik felt the Mumbai police decision has had an adverse impact on the business of small traders. “People appear to be exhausted and tired,” Malik said. Housing minister Jeetendra Awhad of the NCP said the government will have to take decisions which will help revive the economy. “We will have to strike a balance between economy and lockdown,” Awhad said. Mumbai guardian minister Aslam Shaikh of the Congress said there was confusion over lockdown in Mumbai and its neighbouring areas. “Certain decisions taken by the Mumbai police and BMC have caused inconvenience to the people. I will meet the police commissioner and BMC chief on Monday to resolve the issue. In my opinion, both should come out with a clear standard operating procedure so that there is no confusion and inconvenience,” Shaikh said. The senior NCP minister said, “If people go to the shop of their choice, even if it is 2km away, it is wrong to seize their vehicles and impose a fine of Rs 1,200. It should be examined if the person was moving around for a genuine cause or was loitering.” Another minister said, “We are not taking any decisions on the lockdown, bureaucrats are imposing decisions on us and we are at the receiving end. We will have to reverse this trend.” Reports said Pawar and the CM have now decided to meet on a weekly basis to review issues, resolve disputes and give directions to the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government. However, a senior official, defending the restrictions, said, “We have seen what happened in the entire MMR region when lockdown was relaxed. Owing to indiscipline, the region has witnessed a spurt in cases, and deaths. The CM listens to all but takes his own decisions.” Meanwhile, the move by local administrators in many parts of the state to announce a lockdown in areas under their jurisdiction has come as a jolt for industry associations. Some industry hubs affected are the Khed-Chakan belt in Pune, the Waluj MIDC in Aurangabad, the seed and steel production hub of Jalna and the textile town of Ichalkaranji, besides towns like Beed, Parbhani and parts of Pune city including the Dehu Cantonment Board and Wadgaon budruk gaothan area on Sinhagad Eoad. Dilip Batwal, secretary of Federation of Chakan Industry, said, “It won’t be prudent to close industries as many of them have already faced financial losses in the last three months. They have recently started their operations. Most industries are adhering to social distancing norms and government guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cong-ncp-object-to-tough-action-against-citizens-but-cm-stays-firm/articleshow/76779165.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Madurai||CM announces Rs 10L each to relatives of 4 asphyxiated||Tuticorin: Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday announced a solatium of Rs 10 lakh each to the kin of four men who died of asphyxiation while cleaning a septic tank at a house in Chekkarakudi village in Tuticorin district on Thursday.In a statement, the CM said he had instructed the district administration on this.On Thursday, Pandi, 28, Isakiraja, 20, and Balakrishnan, 24, from Veeravanallur in Tirunelveli district and Dinesh, 20, from Tenkasi district died while cleaning the septic tank at the house of Somasundaram, 65. While one of them first fainted after he got into the tank in the third round of cleaning, the others went to his rescue. All died of asphyxiation.Convenor of Safai Karmachari Andolan (SKA), P Sathya demanded that the government give a government job for the kin of the deceased and take care of the education expenses of their childrenPandi and his wife, Kalyani, 24, have four children aged 8, 7, 6, and 5 years. His father, Arumugam, is blind and seeks alms for a living. Balakrishnan’s wife, Tamilselvi, 20, is in her sixth month of pregnancy. Isakuiraja and Dinesh are unmarried. Sathya sought government jobs for Kalyani, Tamilselvi, and a parent of the two other men.Meanwhile, the Thattaparai police booked Somasundaram and Ilayaraja, 32, employer of the victims, under sections 288 (the act of negligence/ insufficient protection to guard against any probable danger to human life) and 304 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 8 (the penalty for insanitary latrines and employment and engagement of manual scavenger) and 9 (the penalty for engaging or employing for hazardous cleaning of sewers and septic tanks) of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013.Somasundaram was also booked under Section 3(i)(j) of the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. However, their employer was not booked under this section as he also belongs to the same community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-announces-rs-10l-each-to-relatives-of-4-asphyxiated/articleshow/76778655.cms||M K Ananth
July 4, 2020||Madurai||Violations galore at mins’ functions||Madurai: At a time when authorities are going allout to enforce social distancing and wearing of masks at public places, largescale flouting of these norms is happening at functions attended by local ministers in the districts, much to the discomfiture of others including officials who attend them. On Thursday, minister for milk and dairy development K T Rajendra Bhalaji participated in a function to lay the foundation stone for a new ration shop in Sithurajapuram panchayat in Sivakasi. A priest conducted a puja, where he lit the homam. However, many people stood at close quarters around it leaving not even a few inches of space between each other. The photograph sent by the minister’s office shows only three out of the 20-odd in the crowd wearing masks. Six of them including a child did not have a mask on their faces. As for the rest, including the minister and the priest, they wore their masks below their chin. Even panchayat president Leelavathy Suppuraj, who warns people in public places, was not wearing her mask properly at the function. A government official who wanted to remain anonymous said these frequent meetings of ministers were a matter of concern as they could not stand apart when all others are gathered around the ministers. “These incidents are classic examples where we do not practise what we preach,’’ said the official. Sivaganga is another district which continues to see such dangerous gatherings frequently at functions of minister for khadi and village industries G Baskaran. Recently, he opened a tank and central mandapam at Thirupuvanam, a function in which district collector J Jayakanthan also participated. Here too, there was no such social distancing. Though the government is not allowing priests in temples to offer prasadam to devotees, the priests at such functions offer viboodhi, kumkum and flowers. They even garland the officials and ministers, which makes it more dangerous. ``Even today, we had a government official who attends functions regularly testing positive in Sivaganga. We are helpless in this situation, putting our lives as well as of colleagues and families at risk, just because we are forced to do our duty flouting norms,’’ said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/violations-galore-at-mins-functions/articleshow/76778674.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mumbai||Another big mandal calls off public Ganeshotsav festivity in Mumbai||MUMBAI: After Lalbaugcha Raja, another leading Ganpati mandal here, the 101-year-old Chinchpokli cha Chintamani of Parel, has decided to cancel public Ganeshotsav celebrations this year due to Covid-19. The organisers will forgo the customary 22ft plaster of paris idol, and worship a small silver figurine of the lord kept in their office. They had earlier called off ‘aagman’ and ‘paat pujan’ ceremonies that draw large crowds. Chintamani is the second mandal after Lalbaugcha Raja in the erstwhile mill workers’ belt of Girangaon to truncate festivities. Both venues called off celebrations as scriptures do not permit reducing the height of puja (utsav) moorti, as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray requested, and because they routinely draw thousands of spectators. Chintamani’s vice-president Praneel Panchal said, “It took five-six meetings of our core committee to arrive at this hard decision. We are an old, responsible mandal and wish to set an example for others. Lakhs of worshippers arrive for darshan. Since it will become impossible to maintain social distancing, we will curtail public rituals and confine pujas to small gatherings.” He said, “We decided to organise health drives and Covid-19 test camps throughout the year. We will also donate medical instruments to civic hospitals, organise blood donation drives and felicitate 101 corona warriors.” Idol-maker Reshma Khatu, whose workshop manufactures the idol, said, “As per scriptures, we cannot reduce the height of the puja moorti. The Chintamani idol is itself the puja moorti.” In 1920, Chinchpokli cha Chintamani was the first Ganpati mandal to be instituted in the Girangaon or mill workers’ belt of Parel, even before Ganesh Gully, which is 93 years old and Lalbaugcha Raja, which is in its 87th year. It is renowned for exquisite pandal settings that resemble grand palaces or temple settings. Its stately idol sits on a throne and measures 22ft from base to crown. Its peacock throne and grand ‘aagman’ and visarjan processions that accompanied its centenary celebration in 2019, are etched in public memory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/another-big-mandal-calls-off-public-ganeshotsav-festivity/articleshow/76777876.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
July 4, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Prime accused of robbery at owner of Abhimanyu Cricket Academy arrested||DEHRADUN: Dehradun police on Friday claimed to have arrested the prime accused of the robbery at the house of RP Easwaran, owner of city-based Abhimanyu Cricket Academy (ACA) and father of India A cricket team player Abhimanyu Easwaran. The accused, identified as Faeem, was arrested from Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh, following a tip-off on his current hideout. Police have recovered Rs 5,400 in cash, gold jewelry and an expensive watch from his possession. There are several criminal cases registered against Faeem in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, according to police. Police have already made several arrests in connection with the robbery, which took place on September 22. Armed robbers had entered the home of RP Easwaran late night through the main entrance and held him, his wife and two domestic helps hostage at gunpoint for around two hours, before decamping with cash and jewelry worth lakhs. The arrested persons include mastermind Virendra Singh alias ‘Thakur Sahab’, who had been terminated from the BSF on charges of corruption, Mohammad Adnaan, Mujibar Rehman and Furkaan. Faeem told police that he is childhood friend of Adnan, who planned and convinced him to join the robbery. Faeem said he badly needed money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/prime-accused-of-robbery-at-owner-of-abhimanyu-cricket-academy-arrested/articleshow/76776310.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Sergeant inspires force to go beyond call of duty||KOLKATA: A Kolkata Police sergeant who was infected with Covid-19 has not only rejoined duty after being cured but on Friday donated plasma for clinical trial on other infected patients. Ekhlaque Ahmed, a sergeant with Bowbazar police station, had tested positive for the disease on May 8, two days after the officer-in-charge of the same police station had got admitted with the infection. Ahmed was released from hospital on May 16 and after completion of his 14-day quarantine period, he was back on duty on May 30. “The next day, I transported migrant labourers sitting in a bus with them. I have also been regularly handling law and order duties. Three weeks back, I got a call from a doctor who asked me if I was willing to donate my plasma and I readily agreed. On Friday, I donated 450ml of plasma. I plead to all Covid survivors to come forward and donate their plasma to help fight this pandemic,” said Ahmed standing outside his police station on Friday. Bowbazar police has decided to ask other officers to join the plasma donation movement after sergeant Ahmed set an example for them. “Doctor Prasun Bhattacharya had contacted me through my seniors who had played such a caring role all through our fight against the disease. Ahmed had a few doubts initially but he was clear about the procedure once he spoke to the doctors,” said OC Siddharta Chakraborty of Bowbazar police station who has himself battled and conquered Covid-19. “Now a few other officers are willing to donate plasma. Ahmed has himself given the call. A few officers from Jorabagan, Jorasanko and south division have already contacted us,” said a top officer at Lalbazar. Joint CP (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha Roy, too, hailed the officer stating these were examples of cops going beyond their routine call of duty. The total number of infected Kolkata cops had crossed 400 on Wednesday. The police said that in all, about 408 have been infected. More than 350 personnel have recovered. “All cops are stable,” said an officer. So far, two cops have died of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sergeant-inspires-force-to-go-beyond-call-of-duty/articleshow/76777450.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 4, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar tells administration to appoint testing in-charge||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday directed the district and the city administration to appoint an IAS officer as the testing in-charge to monitor the tests being conducted in Pune, stressing on strict implementation of norms in containment zones and stringent action against people not wearing masks. Reviewing the situation in the district in a meeting in the city, he said there was a need to ramp up tests. He told the administration to appoint an official for exclusively monitoring the tests being conducted. Taking serious note of complaints about some doctors not visiting the Covid wards, Ajit Pawar said the administration should not hesitate to initiate action against such doctors. He said the movement of people between urban and rural areas increased in the process of relaxation of lockdown, triggering a spike in Covid-19 cases. He said the factory owners in industrial belts should provide accommodation to workers to prevent continuous movement. Besides all the district administration officials, chief minister’s principal advisor Ajoy Mehta was present in the meeting convened by the deputy chief minister. Mehta stressed on having a testing in-charge and seeking help of community leaders in rural areas to prevent movement to contain the spread of virus. Principal secretary health Pradeep Vyas gave an overview of Pune cases, and antigen and antibody tests being conducted. He also spoke on demand for ventilators. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar briefed Ajit Pawar about the detailed plan in the division, while district collector Naval Kishore Ram gave an overview about the plans being executed in rural areas. Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioners gave an overview of containment zones in their respective jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/deputy-cm-tells-admin-to-appoint-testing-in-charge/articleshow/76778246.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Udaipur||Two arrested for beating tribal man in Chittorgarh||UDAIPUR: Gangrar police in Chittorgarh district on Friday arrested two men for allegedly beating up a tribal man. The incident occurred in the last week of June and its video was being circulated on the social media. The video clip showed the man being thrashed, made to wear a petticoat and dance with shoes hung around his neck in Gangrar block of Chittorgarh district. The man was subjected to humiliation allegedly because he had gone to get back his cable which he had given to one of his acquaintances. The assaulters were a group of 10 to 12 people, including women, mostly from the Banjara community who not only tortured the man but also videographed the incident and shared it on the social media without any fear of law, said a police official. “The accused are absconding since the incident. Of the three men named in the report, we arrested two on Friday while a few others, including some women, are said to be involved in the crime. Circle officer of Gangrar is investigating the case and the remaining culprits will be caught soon after they are identified,” said Shivraj, SHO, Gangrar police station. Bhona Bheel, a resident of Kojanda ka Jhompda in Gangrar block of Chittorgarh had given a written complaint on June 26. He told the police that he had lent a 150-feet long cable to one Ratanlal Banjara for some work and on June 25 he went to get back his cable. When he asked for his cable, Ratan Lal, Suresh, Dalla Banjara and some other men and women abused and thrashed him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/two-arrested-for-beating-tribal-man-in-chittorgarh/articleshow/76783978.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Ranthambore employees suspended over eve-teasing reinstated||Jaipur: Two forest department employees, who were suspended on June 30 over allegations of eve-teasing in Ranthambore National Park, were reinstated on Friday evening after a high-voltage drama. The Rajasthan Forest Employees Association at Sawai Madhopur wrote to senior authorities as well as chief minister Ashok Gehlot demanding to reinstate the two forest staff members who were suspended on the complaint of a member of the state wildlife board. The association alleged that the staff members were suspended without fair investigation on the complaint of Jaisal Singh, a hotelier. After a high-voltage drama unfolded, the two staff members were reinstated by Friday evening and the forest department claimed that the matter had been settled ‘cordially’ between the two parties. Ajay Tyagi and Roop Singh Meena were suspended following the complaint. According to the memorandum, which was given by the association before the reinstatement, the forest staff were returning from a farewell of an employee who was retiring around 7.20pm on June 30 when the incident happened. “We had taken prior permission and after farewell we were crossing through the park when there was a tiger sighting. We stopped and Jaisal Singh along with his family was also there after the park was closed. As we were about to leave, Singh claimed that four of the staff members who were in one vehicle misbehaved. Two employees were suspended soon after without an investigation,” said Mukesh Gujjar, president of the association. Meanwhile, Singh alleged that the forest staff had eve-teased his wife following which he complained about them and said, “The matter is about the fact that the forest staff eve-teased my wife and I wrote to the concerned authorities regarding the same. The action taken is up to the concerned department.” While the forest department claimed that they have initiated an investigation as the allegations were serious in nature and the next course of action will be decided only after that, the two suspended staff members were reinstated by Friday evening. Rajasthan chief wildlife warden Arindam Tomar told TOI, “The matter has been settled between the two parties cordially and stands closed now. The orders for the reinstatement will be issued shortly.” One of the staff members Ajay Tyagi, who was suspended following the allegations, told TOI that it was ‘just a misunderstanding which now stands cleared’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rbore-employees-suspended-over-eve-teasing-reinstated/articleshow/76778235.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Madurai||No political meddling in probe into custody deaths : CB-CID||Tuticorin: Inspector general of police (IG) of CB-CID K Shankar has denied allegations of interference from the ruling party and a minister in the probe into the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj of Sathankulam and J Beniks.Interacting with reporters at the CB-CID office here on Friday, the IG, in response to a question in this regard, said, “It is not true. We are carrying out a fair and unbiased probe.”The IG added that the action they had taken so far was testimony to that. Shankar said the FIR had been registered under sections 302 (punishment for murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender) and 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code.The team arrested four, including an inspector, two sub-inspectors and a constable, among the five cops booked.Search was on for constable Muthuraj who was on the run, he added. He denied that Muthuraj was being questioned in an undisclosed locality. “What is the need of it? It is just one day since the probe began. We have arrested so many people. Can’t we arrest him? We are searching and will arrest him soon,” he said.On the possibility of more people to be booked in the case, the IG said the FIR was just the first information report and not the end of the investigation. He added that there had been times when no accused was named in the FIR and that then they were added as the investigation progressed.Stating that the 12 CB-CID teams are probing the case various angles, he said that they would also probe the role of the Friends of Police (FoP) personnel in the attack on Jeyaraj and Beniks at the Sathankulam police station. He said that there were claims on their role and the authenticity would be checked before initiating further course of action. The teams had collected CCTV footages from various places and would start analysing them, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-political-meddling-in-probe-into-custody-deaths-cb-cid/articleshow/76778680.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||11th century tombs found in ruins of Old Town||BHUBANESWAR: Historian and heritage experts have reported the existence of as many as 16 tombs of the Siva Tritha Mutt in the Old Town area, which is claimed to have had its existence since the 11th century and was related to the legendary Lingaraj Temple. Sources said heritage expert, Anil Dhir reported about the existence of the century old samadhis in Old Town area to the authorities of the Archaeological Survey of India following which a guided excavation work has been started recently to restore and preserve the samadhi structures. Dhir said the samadhis are partially buried under rubble and vegetation and had been forgotten resulting in its encroachment from all sides. Sources said there are six buildings in front of the samadhi, which will be demolished after the “no objection certificates” from their owners are collected. Dhir said these groups of samadhis are of the earlier mahants of the Siva Tirtha Mutt. The Mutt, which has lost a lot of its relevance, was once an important centre and had many responsibilities in the day-to-day affairs of the temple, Dhir added. According to Dhir, the 16 samadhis, set in a straight line, are a chronological record of the history of the mutt and the Lingaraj Temple. “Even if renovations and alterations were carried out on the premises, the samadhis remained untouched so far,” he said. Another expert Biswajit Mohanty asked for a proper impact assessment report by experts on the samadhis before undertaking any renovation projects in ancient religious and heritage sites. Destruction of culturally significant structures was tantamount to criminal trespass and vandalism, he added. Experts said a proper team consisting of local stakeholders, religious heads, historians, archaeologists and heritage experts should be constituted and the entire development plans be cleared after proper study by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/11th-century-tombs-found-in-ruins-of-old-town/articleshow/76777449.cms||Sandip Mishra
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Two arrested for beating tribal man in Chittorgarh||UDAIPUR: Gangrar police in Chittorgarh district on Friday arrested two men for allegedly beating up a tribal man. The incident occurred in the last week of June and its video was being circulated on the social media. The video clip showed the man being thrashed, made to wear a petticoat and dance with shoes hung around his neck in Gangrar block of Chittorgarh district. The man was subjected to humiliation allegedly because he had gone to get back his cable which he had given to one of his acquaintances. The assaulters were a group of 10 to 12 people, including women, mostly from the Banjara community who not only tortured the man but also videographed the incident and shared it on the social media without any fear of law, said a police official. “The accused are absconding since the incident. Of the three men named in the report, we arrested two on Friday while a few others, including some women, are said to be involved in the crime. Circle officer of Gangrar is investigating the case and the remaining culprits will be caught soon after they are identified,” said Shivraj, SHO, Gangrar police station. Bhona Bheel, a resident of Kojanda ka Jhompda in Gangrar block of Chittorgarh had given a written complaint on June 26. He told the police that he had lent a 150-feet long cable to one Ratanlal Banjara for some work and on June 25 he went to get back his cable. When he asked for his cable, Ratan Lal, Suresh, Dalla Banjara and some other men and women abused and thrashed him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-arrested-for-beating-tribal-man-in-chittorgarh/articleshow/76778238.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Doctor helps with clinical trial for cure||KOLKATA: A first-year post-graduate trainee at Medical College Hospital donated plasma on Friday, making him the 12th donor for the ongoing clinical trial in plasma therapy in Kolkata. Subho Roy was posted as a house staff in the hospital’s cardiothoracic department when he tested positive towards April-end. “I am happy that I could do my bit by donating plasma,” said the young doctor who has now bagged a seat in the post-graduate trainee course in paediatrics in the same college. Out of the 12 plasma donations so far, nine have been by healthcare workers who had been infected in the line of duty. “We will be screening four policemen next week to check if they are eligible for the donation. This is apart from the cop from Bowbazar police station who donated plasma on Friday. It is encouraging to see a steady stream of potential donors coming in. We are hopeful of more cured patients coming and being volunteer plasma donors,” said the head of immunohaematology and blood transfusion department of MCH where the plasma is being collected. The clinical trial on passive immunization with convalescent plasma is being carried out at ID Hospital. In a joint initiative of the Bengal government and Council of Scientific & Industrial Research — Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, 40 recipients are likely to get the therapy during trial. Unlike trials in other states, where the recipients are mildly infected, the trial in Kolkata is on patients who are severely infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/doctor-helps-with-clinical-trial-for-cure/articleshow/76777445.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||31 AIIMS staff in quarantine||Bhubaneswar: A day after 11 patients of the pulmonary medicine ward in AIIMS Bhubaneswar tested positive for Covid-19, the hospital has quarantined 31 medical staff, which includes mostly nurses. The hospital has shifted the infected persons to the isolation ward for treatment. It has also started massive sanitization exercise in the pulmonary medicine ward and the respiratory ICU. Gitanjali Batmanabane, director of AIIMS Bhubaneswar, said the respective ward and ICU are being sanitized by the staff. “We have a standard hospital infection control practice and we are doing that. Our community medicine department has started the work of tracing the contacts. Those who came in contact with the infected patients will be put in quarantine,” she added. Sources said a TB patient, who was admitted to the pulmonary ward on June 29, died two days ago because of health complications. After his death, the hospital conducted a Covid test on him. When the deceased tested positive, the hospital conducted tests on other patients and detected 11 new cases. The TB patient was discharged from the hospital on June 22. He was brought to the hospital on June 29 when doctors shifted him to the respiratory ICU after treating in ward. Doctors believe that the deceased might have been the carrier of the virus. The pulmonary ward and respiratory ICU have been sealed. Sanitization work is under way. After three days, the ward and the ICU will be opened for use. Sachidananda Mohanty, medical superintendent of AIIMS Bhubaneswar, said they have traced 31 medical staff who are in the high-risk category. They will be in quarantine. “We have not found any doctor in the high- risk category yet. All 31 persons are mostly nursing staff,” he added. Seven doctors of the premier healthcare institution had tested positive for Covid-19 last month. They were senior and junior residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/31-aiims-staff-in-quarantine/articleshow/76777460.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
July 4, 2020||Jaipur||Minister opposes proposed amendment to electricity Act||Jaipur: Energy minister B D Kalla has termed the Electricity Act, 2003 (proposed amendment), Bill 2020, by the Central government totally contradictory to the decentralization of power for states and against the basic spirit of the Constitution. He said that according to the Constitution, the power sector is included in the concurrent list. This proposed bill from the Central government is inclined towards centralization of orders, control and regulation related to the power sector, it will infringe on the rights of the states and will adversely affect the financial and operational powers of the states, pointed out the minister. Kalla was addressing a virtual conference of state power and new and renewable energy ministers on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minister-opposes-proposed-amendment-to-electricity-act/articleshow/76778231.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC seeks state reply to advocate’s charge of police assault||Mumbai: Even as the state denied one of two lockdown deaths here was due to police excesses, Bombay high court on Friday directed it to file a detailed reply on an advocate’s complaint that he and his family were allegedly assaulted by police. “If an advocate is going to suffer this way, what about poor citizens? What you think must have happened all over the state?” advocate Fridause Irani asked a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Nijamoodin Jamadar. Irani filed a PIL stating that his wife and two lawyer sons were assaulted by police in civies on April 16 outside their Goregaon (W) home. On June 3, HC also sought the state’s reply on two Mumbai deaths noted in a report by Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative. The first case was of Raju Devendra, whose family alleged was assaulted by 7-8 police from Juhu police station on March 30. The latter claimed Raju was lynched when he went to commit a robbery and an FIR was lodged against eight unknown persons. The reply by ACP ( Bandra division) said investigations were transferred to him on April 13, but as the incident was in Nehru Nagar slums, a red zone, he could not call witnesses. The second was of Sagir Khan, who on April 18 was stopped at Dongri while pushing a handcart to deliver a refrigerator in Null Bazaar. JJ Marg police station said CCTV footage shows he was not stopped by them. He collapsed at home and was declared dead before admission to JJ Hospital. There were no injury marks on his body. Irani said his PIL was to draw court attention to “gravity of the situation in the state the people have faced in the past three months”. “State has to explain why such incidents have happened... Why such indignity?” he asked, adding that videos of such incidents are circulated worldwide. He said he got “more than 100 calls for help” regarding complaints of police harassment. After government pleader Poornima Kantharia sought time to reply, the judges directed a detailed reply before the next hearing in a fortnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-seeks-state-reply-to-advocates-charge-of-police-assault/articleshow/76777879.cms||Rosy Sequeira
July 4, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Covid scare affects care for general patients at hospitals||MADURAI: As more Covid-19 patients are being admitted to both government and private hospitals in the district, medical care for general patients has slowed down in the district as many are being turned away. Doctors are calling for guidelines to regulate general outpatient care and relaxing Covid-19 testing rules for those being admitted to hospitals to reduce risk of Covid-19 spread. In Madurai, in the last three days, at least 40 patients at government and private hospitals set to undergo surgeries tested positive for Covid-19. “Hospital visits have become a hassle for non-Covid-19 patients. Such patients are also at risk of contracting or spreading Covid-19 in hospitals. Since we are not authorised to test or treat Covid-19 patients, we refer anyone with symptoms of fever, cough etc to other Covid-19 care hospitals. The problem is such symptoms can be due to other illnesses too but we can’t be sure, so we don’t attend them,” said a doctor at a private hospital in Anna Nagar. At one of the private multi-speciality hospital which used to see a footfall of around 1,000 patients per day, all emergency and non-emergency medical services have been temporarily shut down after a number of patients and hospital staff tested Covid-19 positive. Now, the hospital is only providing treatment to Covid-19 patients. “Mid-segment private hospitals are the most affected now due to Covid-19 fear and many voluntarily shut down during lockdown. Non-Covid-19 patients are hence forced to either go to GRH or corporate hospitals. The only solution to this is relaxing Covid-19 testing policy. If patients can get themselves tested, it keeps them and hospital staff attending them safe,” said Dr Alagavenkatesan, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Madurai. He also called for increasing the number of Covid-19 testing centres and lowering the price of Covid-19 tests so that it is easier for patients to avail it. Doctors at Government Rajaji Hospital said that there is a huge increase in footfall even for non-emergency and non-Covid-19 cases. There is also risk of Covid-19 spread among inpatients as attenders continue to make their way in and out of the wards. “Attenders must be restricted strictly. We are also trying to reach out to the government for norms to be made for treating non-emergency patients, especially by restricting the number of patients a doctor can attend in a day. This will help ensure better and safe service. Decentralising provision of drugs for patients can also be done to reduce footfall,” said Dr K Senthil, State President, Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-scare-affects-care-for-general-patients-at-hosps/articleshow/76778690.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Home-alone days to end a week early||NEW DELHI: A Covid-positive man in home isolation in southwest Delhi was in for a surprise on Friday. The surveillance team remotely monitoring his health for the past 11 days informed him in the morning that he had successfully completed his home isolation. “I was confused because they had put me in home isolation for at least 17 days. I haven’t had fever for the last five days,” he told TOI. The man’s stay in home isolation was truncated after the Union health ministry changed the requirements from 17 days in domestic quarantine and no fever for 10 days after that to just 10 days in isolation and no fever for three days. With Delhi government ordering the changed guidelines on Friday, the number of those deemed to have recovered from Covid-19 in home isolation is likely to increase in the city. So far over 48,000 Covid-positive Delhiites have recovered after treatment at home. There currently are over 16,000 in home isolation, representing more than 60% of the active Covid cases in the city. Just around 2% of the infected have had to shifted to hospitals from home isolation. Many people in home isolation were informed by their surveillance teams on Friday that they had qualified now to end their domestic quarantine. All of them were asked to self-monitor their health for the next seven days. The health ministry guidelines say there is no need to conduct Covid tests after completion of the home isolation period, though patients are advised to avoid going out for seven days. There are some, however, who want the test to reassure themselves. “Three members of my family were under home isolation, which ended recently after 17 days,” said Rahul Tyagi of Shahdara. “We are all feeling hale and hearty, but we wanted to undergo the Covid test to ascertain we were finally negative for the coronavirus and feel comfortable that we will not spread it among the rest of the family.” A district surveillance officer said the new timeline will boost recovery numbers. “Only asymptomatic or persons with mild symptoms are advised home isolation. Most of them start recovering within a couple of days. The 10-day period is enough for complete recovery and there is no fear of further infection,” the officer explained. Delhi government has been pushing home isolation as an effective recovery mechanism. It locked horns with lieutenant governor Anil Baijal when he made it mandatory for all corona-positive people to undertake five days of institutional quarantine. It not had the order rolled back, but also provided pulse oximeters to all domestic patients. Those who recover at home are advised to undertake health checks every morning and night or anytime they feel the body temperature is rising. They have to check the pulse rate twice a day and ensure meticulous hand hygiene. “If the body temperature exceeds 100 degrees Fahrenheit or the pulse rate is over 100 beats per minute, they should immediately contact the surveillance team, while remaining alert for breathing difficulty, persistent pain or pressure in the chest and bluish discoloration on the lips or face,” said a doctor. Watch Delhi: Home-alone days to end a week early||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-norms-home-alone-days-to-end-a-week-early/articleshow/76778370.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 4, 2020||Pune||Dehu Road Cantt goes for four-day restrictions||Pune: The Dehu Road Cantonment Board (DCB) on Friday announced a lockdown in areas under its jurisdiction from Sunday to July 8 to curb the Covid-19 spread. The DCB limits reported 13 positive cases in the past four days. Another 18 people, who tested negative, have been kept in home quarantine as a precautionary measure. “Only medical stores will be permitted to operate from 6am to 10am during the four days. Petrol pumps, government offices and gas agencies will function as per the present schedules,” the FCB order stated. The DCB has registered 25 cases in its limits since the outbreak of the pandemic. Among them, 12 patients have been discharged after recovery and the remaining 13 are active cases. Seven positive cases are from Shelarwadi village. R Harital, the DCB’s chief executive officer, told TOI, “The situation was under control till last week. Our inquiry has revealed that the increase in cases over the last four days resulted from people attending a midnight party in the Pimpri Chinchwad area.” “People need to refrain from indulging in such activities as it increases the chances of spread,” Harital added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dehu-road-cantt-goes-for-four-day-restrictions/articleshow/76778259.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Amritsar||Amritsar train tragedy: Probe holds five civic officials guilty||AMRITSAR: Retired sessions judge Amarjit Singh Katari, who was appointed in January this year by the Punjab local bodies department to investigate the role of Amritsar MC officials in the Dussehra tragedy of October 19, 2018 in which 61 people were mowed down by a train and 143 injured at Amritsar’s Jaura Phatak has held five employees of the city’s municipal corporation guilty and summoned them on August 26 to clarify their positions. According to a report submitted by Katari to the Punjab government, persons named for alleged dereliction in their duties include estate officer Sushant Bhatia, superintendent Pushpinder Singh, who are still working, and inspector Kewal Singh, superintendent Girish Kumar and fire officer Kashmir Singh, all three of whom are retired. The five of them have been asked to appear before the retired judge along with additional chief secretary, local government, to submit their clarifications. There have already been two investigations into the Dussehra tragedy before this report. The then Jalandhar divisional commissioner B Purushartha, who was made special executive magistrate for the inquiry, conducted probe and described the incident as a ‘tragedy of errors’ in a 96-page report, which was submitted to the government in November 2018, but was made public in December last year by Punjab Human Rights Organisation. The report had exonerated both Navjot Kaur Sidhu, who was the chief guest at the function, and her husband Navjot Singh Sidhu but had indicted over 20 persons, including organisers, police, railway employees and MC officials. The other investigation, led by chief commissioner, railway safety, S K Pathak, gave a clean chit to the railways and blamed people for negligence and trespassing on the tracks and this report was handed over in 2018 itself. Punjab Human Rights Organization principal investigator Sarabjit Singh Verka said his organization was wondering why the organizers of the event and politicians directly involved had not been touched and nor, he said, was any FIR registered against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/dussehra-tragedy-investigation-holds-five-amritsar-mc-officials-guilty/articleshow/76778676.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Groom’s cousin, mom die in attack by bride’s kin||TUTICORIN: The mother and cousin of a newly wedded man were murdered when they tried to save him during a clash between the families of the couple at Sivagalai near Eral in Tuticorin late on Thursday night. The groom Vignesh Raja, 22, and his father Lakshmanan, 52, who suffered cut injuries, have been admitted to Thoothukudi MCH and are out of danger. Eral police identified the deceased as Muthupechi, 42, and Arun Mahesh, 26 and arrested the bride’s brother Muthuramalinga Raja, cousin Muthuchudar and friend Arunachalam on Friday. Police said the couple who belonged to the same village and same community were in love and had got married about two weeks ago. There was some opposition from the groom’s family to the marriage. Tuticorin district SP S Jayakumar told TOI that the girl’s family accused Vignesh of harassing his wife by demanding 40 sovereigns of gold as dowry. On Thursday night, her brother A Muthuramalinga Raja, 23, cousin Muthuchudar, 19, and friend A Arunachalam, 25, called Vignesh for talks near Sivagalai bus stop – about 500 metres from the village. “An argument broke out between them and the girl’s family attacked Vignesh with machetes,” the SP said. Sustaining cut injuries on his hand, Vignesh ran towards the village. Meanwhile Vignesh’s mother, father and friend ran towards him and confronted the attackers, when they were also attacked by the trio. His mother Muthupechi and cousin Arun died on the spot. The bodies of were taken to the Thoothukudi MCH for post-mortem. Police presence was stepped up in the village to avert further escalation of the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/grooms-cousin-mom-die-in-attack-by-brides-kin/articleshow/76778685.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||Weekend likely to remain dry in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Three weeks after the onset of monsoon, Kolkata recorded its highest temperature of the year so far on Thursday with the mercury touching 37.8°C. Even though it slid 3°C on Friday to settle at 34.8°C, it will continue to remain warm and humid till the rains return to Gangetic Bengal. But weathermen predicted the possibility of consistent showers were low over the next 48 hours though the monsoon trough — that has been stuck over north Bengal — has started sliding southward. “With little rain over the last 3-4 days, heat was generated across south Bengal and Kolkata. This pushed the maximum temperature up. But with the monsoon trough sliding down, there was scattered rain in and around Kolkata on Friday. It helped to keep the mercury down though we still expect it to hover around 35°C-36°C now,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director GK Das. He added that heavy showers will not lash Kolkata and Gangetic Bengal till a potent system forms over Bay of Bengal. “Monsoon rain and currents in this region are driven by low-pressure troughs over the sea. There have been none so far since the onset of monsoon. The more dry days we have, the higher the temperature is likely to be,” added Das. Kolkata has received 190.2mm rain between the arrival of monsoon on June 12 and June 26. This is nearly double of what the city received in June 2019, which was the driest in a decade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/weekend-likely-to-remain-dry/articleshow/76778230.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Hubballi||Covid patient escapes from Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences||HUBBALLI: A man who was arrested on charges of theft by Hubballi-Dharwad suburban police last Tuesday subsequently tested positive for the novel coronavirus. He was admitted to the designated Covid hospital, Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences. However, he has now escaped from KIMS triggering panic among the residents of Hubballi. KIMS medical superintendent Dr Arun Kumar C confirmed to TOU that the patient had left the isolated ward around 5am. “Footage from the closed circuit television cameras shows that he was wandering outside the isolated ward around 5am on Friday. We have filed a police complaint,” he added. Cops attached to the Vidyanagar police station have launched a hunt for the patient in question. There were reportedly two constables stationed at the isolated ward. Sources said that the patient managed to give them the slip and escaped. In fact, one of the constables who had come in contact with the patient had tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-patient-escapes-from-kims/articleshow/76776325.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Pune||Pune Metropolitan Region’s tally tops 26,000-mark, 16 deaths push toll to 822||PUNE: The addition of over 1,000 Covid-19 cases on the third consecutive day pushed up the total tally in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) above 26,000 on Friday. With this, PMR has become second after Mumbai in the state to cross 25,000 cases so far. As many as 1,199 people tested positive for the contagion in PMR on Friday, which shot up the region’s tally to 26,143. Besides, 16 more patients succumbed to Covid-19 in PMR in the last 24 hours, taking the total casualty count to 822. Among fresh positive cases, 761 were reported in Pune municipal limits, 322 in Pimpri Chinchwad and 116 in rural and Cantonment areas. The PMR crossed the 26,000-mark in a span of 125 days from March 9 when the first two cases were recorded in the PMC limits. The total cases in the PMC areas stand at 19,772, whereas the total tally in PCMC limits has now reached 4,172. A PMC report stated that 389 patients were critical in the municipal limits, of whom 59 were on ventilator support. About 619 patients were discharged in PMC limit on Friday after they were declared cured. For the last four consecutive days, over 500 patients have been discharged in the PMC limits. Besides, 6,874 active patients were undergoing treatment at hospitals and Covid centres in the PMC limits. Among the patients who succumbed to the contagion in PMR, two deaths were recorded at the Sassoon General Hospital. These included a 70-year-old man from the Hadapsar area, a 62-year-old woman from the Dandekar bridge area. A 65-year-old woman from Bopodi died at the district hospital in Aundh. Those who died at private hospital included a 74-year-old man from Kothrud, a 67-year-old man from Warje Malwadi, a 66-year-old man from Dhayari, a 70-year-old woman from Lohiyanagar, an 85-year-old man from the Vadgaon Budruk area, a 73-year-old man from Tingrenagar and a 21-year-old woman from Pimpri. The PMC collected over 4,250 swab samples on Friday and sent for testing. As per the district health office, over 16,000 patients have been discharged in PMR after being declared cured. “As many as 9,165 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals and Covid centres in PMR,” an official from the district health office said. The civic as well as district health authorities have urged people to exercise caution with venturing out and always wear facemask when going out in public. Besides, people have been urged to practice frequent washing of hands to keep the infection at bay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-tally-tops-26k-mark-16-deaths-push-toll-to-822/articleshow/76778264.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 4, 2020||Madurai||South TN districts cross 10,000 coronavirus cases, 100 deaths||Madurai/Trichy: With as many as 747 new cases and 13 deaths reported in the ten southern districts of Tamil Nadu on Friday, the regional Covid-19 cases have risen to 10,022 cases and deaths to 105. Of these, Madurai reported 287 cases and eight deaths, taking its overall cases so far to 3,423, including 2405 active ones, and deaths to 51. Madurai is the fourth district in the state after Chennai, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur to cross 50 deaths. A 52-year-old man without any co-morbid conditions died at a private hospital while four others aged between 55 and 87, all with co-morbid conditions, also died at private hospitals, on July 2. At Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), a 43-year-old man and two other patients with co-morbid conditions also died of Covid-19 on July 2. The 287 cases on Friday meanwhile comprised 131 influenza-like illness cases, 85 contacts of patients, 45 frontline workers, 19 others set to undergo surgeries and eight pregnant women. Ramanathapuram reported 73 cases and three deaths taking the district tally to 1,143, including 808 active cases and 17 deaths. A 57-year-old man with comorbidities died at Ramanathapuram GH while two men aged 77 and 60 died at GRH. Theni had 126 cases on Friday taking the district tally to 927 cases, including 688 active ones and five deaths. One death was reported in the district after a 56-year-old man with comorbidities died on July 1 at Theni MCH. The only other death in south TN was at Dindigul, a 54-year-old woman. The district also saw 17 new cases while Virudhunagar (65), Kanyakumari (54), Sivaganga (53), Tirunelveli (41), Tuticorin (27) and Tenkasi (4) also reported cases. Covid-19 cases crossed 3,000 in the central districts on Friday when they registered 116 new positive cases taking the total to 3,099 with the total deaths remaining at 13. Trichy district once again remained on top with 47 cases with a total of 803 cases. Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam districts also had significant numbers with Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam recording 17 cases each and Thanjavur 13. In fact, Thanjavur has recorded 478 cases, Tiruvaur 513 and Nagappattinam 273 so far. The steady flow of the cases pushed the tally of Tiruvarur to cross 500. A total of 18 cases were reported in Pudukottai and four in Karur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-districts-cross-10000-coronavirus-cases-100-deaths/articleshow/76778692.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Amritsar||Locusts spotted in Bathinda villages||BATHINDA: Some locusts, seemingly separated from swarms in Rajasthan, have been spotted in three villages of Bathinda district over the last two days. Since their numbers are quite small, no loss to crop has been reported so far. “Around 30-40 locusts each were spotted in Laleana village in Talwandi Sabo, Kuttiwal in Maur and Ramniwas in Rampura block. They were either killed by the farmers or devoured by birds,” said Bathinda chief agriculture officer Bahadur Singh. “There was no loss as these were very small in numbers and not in a position to cause damage to crops. They apparently lost their way after breaking away from the swarm. No small or bigger swarm was spotted at any place across the state,” he added. He said the department was geared up to deal with the situation and will remain on alert despite the small numbers of locusts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/locusts-spotted-in-bathinda-villages/articleshow/76778689.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No exemption for school teachers, says south corporation||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation made it clear on Friday that its teachers will have to come to schools for the admission process, distribution of books and stationery and lesson planning while maintaining social distancing protocol. The direction was issued a day after some teachers’ unions expressed objection over calling all teachers to schools during the pandemic, in addition to assigning Covid-19 duties. Deepak Pant, secretary of Akhil Delhi Prathmik Sikshak Sangh and a teacher at a school in Ambedkar Nagar, said that the civic agency is adamant on calling the teachers to schools without making any plans. “We met the mayor and the commissioner to express our disapproval, but got no reply so far.” “How can we start distribution of books and stationery when the material will come around July 9. Also with most of the parents going to offices now, it is really difficult to communicate with them. We have now decided to call parents of one class on a particular day and share homework with them. Ideally, it was the administration’s job to plan this,” said Pant. An SDMC official, meanwhile, said, “When other departments are working to full capacity, there is no question of exempting the teachers.” On June 30, an order was issued by the education department that all teaching and non-teaching staff of SDMC and aided schools will have to come from July 1 to impart e-learning to children, distribute books and communicate with students via voice call, phone call, sms etc. The east corporation has also issued orders but asked its teachers to report to their schools as desired by the head of school. “There is no point in calling the teachers every day. Some of them are already on Covid-19 duties such as door-to-door survey, while others are helping at antigen centres. So the remaining teachers will come to schools for giving weekly worksheets to parents, apart from books or stationery or as desired by the school principal,” said a senior official of the east civic body. He added, “They have also been asked to contact each student and find out if he or she is still in Delhi or have migrated. This will help us to take a decision on appointment of contractual teachers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-exemption-for-school-teachers-says-south-corpn/articleshow/76778270.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Kin of Sikh man held under UAPA seek inquiry||PATIALA: Family of Sukhchain Singh (26), a Dalit Sikh, who was recently arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) by the Punjab Police, has demanded an independent probe into the case alleging he was implicated in a false case and kept in illegal custody. The family claimed that police had picked up Sukhchain from his house on June 26 in the presence of sarpanch village but shown his arrest from a bus stop at Kauli village of Rajpura in Patiala. They alleged that police had even wrongly shown recovery of a weapon and cartridges from Sukhchain and kept him in illegal custody for two days before registering a case. His elder brother Budh Raj said, “Sukhchain never went out of the country and had only visited Golden Temple this year. He even got his passport for the first time two months ago, to find some work in Dubai as I worked there for six months. Police have fabricated the story of his arrest. Illegal weapons have been planted on him. Sukhchain has no links with any group in Pakistan or the UK, as claimed by police. We are four brothers and work as labourers to earn our livelihood. An independent probe should be ordered into the matter.” “Police even took his cell phone, saying they needed it for inquiry. On June 28, they registered a case under serious charges against him. We suspect that police might implicate us too in some case. They can do anything, even torture us. Sukhchain was unmarried but we have small kids,” he added. Sehra village sarpanch Hakam Singh said he was there when police took away Sukhchain. “He is a good man and has never had a dispute with anyone, let alone a case being registered against him,” he said. SP investigation H S Hundal refuted allegations, saying Sukhchain was arrested from Kauli bus stop and a .32 bore pistol and seven cartridges were seized from his custody. In a press release issued on Sunday, Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta had claimed to have busted Pakistan backed terror modules and arrested three members of Khalistan Liberation Front who were to target social-religious leaders and disturb communal harmony of the state. Police claimed to have arrested Sukhchain along with two others, while one of his associates from Kaithal was arrested by Dehi Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/kin-of-sikh-man-arrested-under-uapa-demand-cbi-inquiry/articleshow/76778682.cms||Bharat Khanna
July 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Man kills wife by pushing her down 80-foot quarry||Mangaluru: A man murdered his wife by pushing her down a 80-foot stone quarry pond, near Karambaru, Bajpe. According to police, the couple were married for 15 years, and were reported to have marital discord, and a few days ago, a missing complaint was registered at Kavoor police station, regarding the victim. Police said the victim is Shanta Maniyani, 30, a resident of Kavoor. She had married Ganesh, 40, a truck driver-cum-owner. The couple have two children studying in class III and VI. According to police, after a fight with her husband, Shanta had left for her parental home in Kasaragod district, a few months ago, along with their children. A few days ago, Ganesh went to her house to convince her to return. She later decided to return to her husband’s rented house in Kavoor. However, from Wednesday, Shanta had gone missing, and a complaint was lodged by her family at the jurisdictional police station. Police who suspected Ganesh’s role in the disappearance, kept an eye on his movements, and arrested him near Hassan. After he was interrogated, he confessed to the crime. Police added that the murder took place on Wednesday evening and came to light late on Thursday night. The body was recovered by the police on Thursday night. A case under Indian Penal Code Section 302 (punishment for murder) was registered at Kavoor police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-kills-wife-by-pushing-her-down-80-foot-quarry/articleshow/76776406.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mumbai||Customs ex-officer fined Rs 9 lakh in graft case||Mumbai: A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Friday convicted and sentenced a 54-year-old former Customs appraising officer, accused in a corruption case, to 16 months’ imprisonment and fined him Rs 9 lakh. Special CBI judge S U Wadgaonkar sentenced him to the period he had already spent in jail since March last year. CBI special public prosecutor Jitendra K Sharma had said Abhinav Singh alias Dr Rajiv Gupta had absconded since the offence was registered in 1999 and was arrested after 20 years last year. Abhinav was arrested from Mathura, where he was an associate professor at a medical college, hospital and research centre. He had allegedly secured the job on the basis of forged documents. CBI said he continued to have a PAN card in his original name. Abhinav was accused of colluding with another person and cheating government of Rs 4 crore in 1999. He confirmed fake duty entitlement pass book (DEPB) scrips against non-existing exports by abusing his official position. DEFB is an export incentive scheme. He got a car as a bribe. On September 21, 1999, the case was registered against Abhinav, Samdarshi Jaiswal and five companies. Jaiswal later died. It was alleged that 18 scrips were obtained from the office of the joint director general of foreign trade (DGFT) in Mumbai and New Delhi in the names of four fictitious firms. CBI alleged it was done by submitting forged shipping bills and bank realisation certificates. The investigating agency alleged that Jaiswal sold 18 scrips to various parties. It said of these, 17 were fraudulently used by the parties to import goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/customs-ex-officer-fined-rs-9-lakh-in-graft-case/articleshow/76777880.cms||Rebecca Samervel
July 4, 2020||Amritsar||20 of Pakistani Sikh family returning from Nankana Sahib die in train-van crash||AMRITSAR/ ISLAMABAD: Twenty members of a Sikh family from Pakistan were killed and seven injured when a high-speed train hit their van at an unmanned railway crossing in Farooqabad, in Pakistan Punjab’s Sheikhupura district, on Friday. Six women and many children were among those killed in the accident which occurred about 78 km from Lahore. The Lahore-bound train, travelling from Karachi, crashed into the vehicle between Farooqabad and Bahalekay, Pakistan Railways said in a statement. Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) president Satwant Singh told TOI over the phone from Lahore that the group of Sikhs had gone from Peshawar to Nankana Sahib to attend the “antim ardas” of a relative, Raghubir Singh, who had recently died due to the novel coronavirus. The “antim ardas” could not be held earlier due to the lockdown. “They were going back to Peshawar in a van via Farooqabad where they were to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Sacha Sauda, but unfortunately their van collided with the speeding Shah Hussain Express, which was on its way to Lahore from Karachi, at a railway crossing near Sheikhupura,” he added. He said 20 members of the family were killed on the spot and seven others were hospitalised. Amreek Singh, a senior member of the Sikh community, told TOI that the group of Sikhs living in Mohallah Jogan Shah, a Sikh locality inside Peshawar’s walled city. All the injured were shifted to district headquarters hospital in Sheikhupura and the dead were taken to Mayo Hospital in Lahore. Singh described the condition of one of the injured girls as critical. Pakistan railway minister Sheikh Rashid directed authorities to take immediate action against those responsible for the accident and the divisional engineer was suspended by the railways management. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan tweeted: “My condolences and prayers go to the families of the deceased. Have directed relevant authorities to ensure facilitation and care for all the families. Our entire railway’s operational safety SOPs will be reviewed immediately.” Pakistan Punjab province’s parliamentary secretary Mohinderpal Singh said the government was making arrangements to send the bodies to Peshawar. He said preliminary investigations had revealed that the driver of the van had tried to cross the railway crossing by traversing an unpaved stretch to save time, resulting in the accident. Expressing grief over the deaths, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal demanded exemplary punishment for the persons responsible for letting the railway crossing remain unattended. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted that he was pained by the tragic demise of Sikh pilgrims in a road accident in Pakistan. Pakistan has a long history of train accidents caused mainly due to poor infrastructure and lack of safety standards. In February, at least 20 people were killed when a train collided with a bus near Rohri, in Sindh. In October 2019, 74 passengers were killed (90% were burnt alive) and over 40 injured when three coaches of a Rawalpindi-bound train caught fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/20-of-sikh-family-die-in-train-van-crash-in-pak/articleshow/76778694.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Cereals, sugar cane, pulses register below normal sowing||Aurangabad: Despite satisfactory rainfall, sowing of cereals, pulses and sugarcane for the ongoing Kharif season across the eight districts of Marathwada region has so far remained below normal. Around 50 lakh hectare normally remains under cultivation during kharif season in the drought-prone region. However, this year, sowing of crops has been completed on around 37 lakh hectare. Deepak Joshi of Jai Jawan Jai Kisan Sanghatna said, “Due to good rainfall, cotton sowing may exceed normal sowing this year. Due to the ongoing pandemic, farmers are likely to opt for cash crops instead of routine Kharif sowing. However, soybean, which is a key cash crop, failing to germinate is likely to wreak havoc for farmers.” As per figures obtained from revenue divisional commissionorate, sowing of cereals stands at 53.8%, pulses at 59.9% while total food grains stand at 57.4% of the normal sowing in the region. The figures also show that sugarcane plantation, which normally is carried out on 1,95,675 hectare in the region, has witnessed sowing only on 16,881 hectare — around 9% of the normal acreage. There has been nearly no sugarcane plantation in Latur, Nanded, Parbhani and Hingoli districts. An official from the agriculture department’s quality control branch said that this year, with large number of farmers being forced to go for re-sowing soybean, it will take time for the entire picture to get clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cereals-sugar-cane-pulses-register-below-normal-sowing/articleshow/76776432.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Senior inspector posted at airport tests +ve||NAGPUR: A 49-year-old woman inspector, attached to passport wing of the special branch of city police, tested Covid positive on Friday. She is the first officer of city police to be infected by the coronavirus. Earlier, three constables had tested positive. The officer, hailing from Mumbai, was transferred to city last year. It’s learnt the officer, posted at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar international airport, developed symptoms on Wednesday. She reported uneasiness to Dr Sandeep Shinde, chief medical officer of the city police hospital, following which she was sent to VNIT for testing. Around 14 personnel have been home quarantined after her test result came positive. DCP special branch Shweta Khedkar said her office has been sanitized and disinfected. “We have sent home all personnel who were in contact with the officer,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sr-inspector-posted-at-airport-tests-ve/articleshow/76778269.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ministry allows running of pvt trains on 4 routes in state||Bhubaneswar: The ministry of railways has decided to allow private companies to operate passenger train services over 109 routes across the country. As many as 151 modern trains (rakes) will be run in 12 clusters. Out of these 109 routes, four routes will have starting and terminating stations in Odisha. Three routes will have Puri as originating/terminating station, while one route will connect Bhubaneswar with a South India station. In Howrah cluster, one route will connect Puri with Howrah area. In Patna cluster, one route will connect Puri with Asansol in West Bengal. In Prayagraj cluster, one train route will connect Puri with Prayagaraj area. Similarly, in Bengaluru cluster, one route will connect Bhubaneswar with Mysuru. Each train will have a minimum of 16 coaches, sources said. Besides, some private trains will pass through major stations like Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Berhampur. Railway sources said the private player will be responsible for financing, procuring, operation and maintenance of the trains. These trains may run with a maximum speed of 160 km/hour. The journey time will be reduced. Drivers and guards of Indian Railways will operate these trains. The private trains will stress on maintaining punctuality, reliability and upkeep of trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ministry-allows-running-of-pvt-trains-on-4-routes-in-state/articleshow/76777546.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||Covid scare: Locals say ‘no’ to tourism in Karhandla||NAGPUR: With opposition from villagers, guides and drivers, monsoon tourism plan in Umred-Karhandla-Paoni Wildlife Sanctuary and Madnapur gate near Kolara in Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) buffer has been shelved. While tourism in Tadoba buffer from 13 gates started on July 1, monsoon tourism from Karhandla gate was to start from July 4. Six vehicles (both shifts) were permitted on Karhandla-Ranbodi-Pandhragota (24km) route. However, Navegaon (Sadhu) gram panchayat under which Karhandla falls opposed the tourism. “Besides, 75% guides and villagers are against it as tourists coming to the park will mostly be from Nagpur where there is spurt in Covid-19 cases,” said Chandu Gedam of guides association. “There are more losses than benefits of tourism now. Karhandla is a small place. If Covid-19 spreads, it will be difficult to control with no facilities here,” said Gedam. Pench field director Ravikiran Govekar said, “Considering the opposition from locals, we have put tourism on hold.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-scare-locals-say-no-to-tourism-in-karhandla/articleshow/76778272.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Man shoots his mother for delay in dinner||NEW DELHI: A 60-year-old woman was shot dead by her son allegedly after she delayed serving him dinner in a colony in Bawana Industrial Area on Friday. Police said that the accused, Suraj (26), was heavily drunk at the time of the incident and has been arrested along with the illegal weapon. Early on Friday, Suraj returned home drunk and asked his mother Bala Devi to serve him dinner. Bala Devi allegedly refused to do so and asked him to get sober first, which led to an argument between them. Some time later she served him food, but Suraj again started arguing with her and shot her in a fit of rage. Hearing the gunshots, neighbours rushed to their house and caught Suraj. They thrashed him before handing him over to police. Cops said Suraj worked in a factory and had got the pistol from someone known to him. Bala Devi’s body was sent for an autopsy and Suraj will be allowed to cremate her before being sent to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-shoots-his-mother-for-delay-in-dinner/articleshow/76778276.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Aurangabad||After Beed, more towns in M’wada being locked down||Aurangabad: Apart from Waluj industrial area of Aurangabad, complete lockdown has been imposed in Jalna and Parbhani cities to contain the Covid-19 spread.Authorities said that restrictions on the lines of curfews will be imposed and movement will be allowed only in exceptional situations such as medical emergencies.In the neighbouring town of Jalna, the seed and steel production hub, lockdown will come in to force from Sunday midnight. Jalna district collector Ravindra Binwade said, “Except for medical and emergency services, nothing else will be allowed during these lockdown, which will range from seven to 10 days.”The decision was taken on Friday during a marathon meeting held between administration, people’s representatives and guardian minister in Jalna. It has also been decided to use this lockdown period to carry out door to door screening of comorbidity patients and corporators have been tasked to liaison the health staffers.In Parbhani, complete lockdown came to be imposed in the wee hours of Thursday and will continue till Saturday midnight. It has been imposed in the five km radius of Parbhani municipal corporation and three kms from the other municipal councils in the district. District collector DM Mugalikar said that instructions have been given to register offences against those stepping out of home, for hiding symptoms as well as those with travel history failing to quarantine themselves for the stipulated period. Beed has opted for eight days long lockdown. In other parts of the region, authorities clarified that current relaxations for carrying out businesses during the given time, would continue till further orders.Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad on Friday issued complete lockdown orders in of Waluj Mahanagar, Bajajnagar, Cidco Mahanagar, Sajapur, Teesgaon, Ranjangaon Shenpunji, Pandharpur, Waluj, Jogeshwari, Wadgaon Kolhati and South City areas that are broadly defined as MIDC Waluj area that houses about 3000 industrial units. This would remain in force from Friday midnight to July 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/after-beed-more-towns-in-mwada-being-locked-down/articleshow/76776438.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Trade unions stage protests against labour law changes||Coimbatore: The joint action committee of all trade unions staged protests against the central government’s labour polices at several places in the district on Friday.Members of INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, LPF, MLF, AICCTU and SDTU participated in the protests, pressing for a 17-point charter of demands. “As part of the labour reforms, the central government has been planning to consolidate 44 labour laws into four codes on wages, industrial relations, social security and safety. Once the reforms are in place, workers will lose their rights,” said P Thangavel, general secretary of AITUC. “They will also lose job security and will not be eligible for ESI and PF.”The government should withdraw the move to increase the working hours to 12 hours, Thangavel said. “As it will take months for normalcy to return after the lockdown is lifted, the government should provide ration products to the workers, who have lost jobs, for at least six months and provide Rs 7,500 for three months from March.”“The Covid-19 frontline workers, including health workers, sanitary workers and transport workers, should be insured. Necessary steps should be taken to control the increasing fuel prices. Online classes for school students should be stopped as they are suffering from excessive stress due to the pandemic situation,” the union leader added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/trade-unions-stage-protests-against-labour-law-changes/articleshow/76778278.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mysuru||Compost plants to be set up at Kesare and Rayanakere||MYSURU: After a decade-long battle, the state government has received the nod to set up waste treatment plants at Kesare and Rayanakere on the city’s outskirts. Speaking to TOI, Mysuru City Corporation commissioner Gurudatta Hegde said the government has sanctioned Rs 41 crore to set up compost plants after approving the projects. The MCC has initiated the process to establish a plant at Rayanakere with a capacity of 150 tonnes and another at Kesare with a capacity of 250 tonnes. The civic body had sent a proposal to the government to establish waste to energy plants at the combined cost of Rs 150 crore. The project was not only expected to help make manure from waste but also generate revenue from the sale of electricity as well as compost. However, the government dropped its proposal and the MCC received approvals to set up only waste to compost plants due to financial constraints. It sanctioned the projects after verifying all the records of land availability and other necessary infrastructure, said the MCC commissioner. “Of the 550 tonnes of waste generated in the city every day, some 200 tonnes is treated at a solid waste management plant at Sewage Farm located in Vidyaranyapuram while some 5% is treated at seven zero waste management centers in different parts of the city. Setting up of two more plants will provide a scientific solution to garbage piling up at the Vidyaranyapuram plant,” he stated. Speaking to TOI, MCC health officer Dr Nagaraj said the civic body has obtained all necessary environmental clearance from statutory government agencies to launch these plants. The city can treat over 700 tons of waste on a daily basis if two more plants commissioned and it will also help MCC generate revenue from the sale of compost, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/compost-plants-to-be-set-up-at-kesare-and-rayanakere/articleshow/76777772.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid care centre for cops||Aurangabad: The city police have started setting up a dedicated Covid-19 care centre for police personnel. A facility with 35 beds is being set up before gradually increasing it to 100 beds. Medicos associated with the Indian Medical Association will provide providing adequate number of health staffers at its dedicated Covid-19 care centre Commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad said, “We have decided to set up our own dedicated centre as we do not wish to burden the existing health infrastructure. Moreover, having an exclusive centre will help in monitoring the situation and addressing our the concerns of the personnel.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-care-centre-for-cops/articleshow/76776461.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Government bungles with number, doctor gets wake-up call||BENGALURU: At 7.30am on Thursday, Dr Ashwin S answered a call on his cellphone. It was the beginning of a nightmare for the non-invasive cardiologist as his phone kept buzzing, virtually non-stop, through the day. About 50 calls were from relatives of Covid-19 patients, pleading for a bed in the ‘hospital’ in which he ‘works’. The callers believed he worked at Shekhar Hospital on Bull Temple Road, Bengaluru, but Ashwin was helpless since he isn’t an employee there. The barrage of calls was a courtesy of the state government’s bungling. The genesis of Ashwin’s woes lay in a public notice issued by the department of health and family welfare, listing 73 private hospitals in the city where 50% of beds were reserved for Covid patients. Apart from names and addresses of the hospitals, the notice also listed a contact person and his/her phone number for each hospital, besides nodal officials from Bescom and BBMP. The contact for Shekhar Hospital was listed as one Dr Ashwini S, but the number was Ashwin’s. Neither Ashwin nor Shekhar Hospital is aware how the number made it to the government list. “I have been getting calls for the past couple of days,” the doctor said. “When asked where they got my number from, all callers have a common answer: A WhatsApp forward. I haven’t had much sleep because people are calling at odd hours. These are distress calls so you have to answer them patiently. But it is taking a toll on me mentally. We are frontline workers in very trying circumstances so it’s not easy to deal with a situation like this.” It only got worse the health department’s list was published in several dailies on Friday. “I can’t switch off my phone because I have to attend to the needs of my patients. I think it is a prank which is in very bad taste because it is a question of life and death. I have been texting the number of Shekhar Hospital to callers,” said Ashwin. Shekhar Hospital said it was unaware a wrong contact number was published until Ashwin brought it to their notice. “Dr Ashwin worked with us in the past, but we don’t know how his number has been listed as our hospital contact,” said Dr Kaushik Aithal from Shekhar Hospital. “We were not asked for any contact number. We have written to the district health office (DHO), Bengaluru Urban, demanding the number be changed.” The hospital, in the letter to DHO, has listed the contact number as: 9482676525.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/government-bungles-with-number-doctor-gets-wake-up-call/articleshow/76776724.cms||Manuja Veerappa
July 4, 2020||Salem||Two Covid patients die in Salem government hosp||Salem: Two Covid-19 patients, one of them a woman, died in the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital in the span of a few hours, taking the district’s toll to five. One of the deceased was a 52-year-old man from Chinnapudur in the city. Tested positive for the virus, he was admitted to the hospital on June 30. Hospital dean Dr R Balajinathan said, “He died on Thursday night without responding to treatment. The patient had decompensated liver disease and type II diabetes during admission. He died of cardiorespiratory arrest and other health complications, including liver ailments.” Another deceased was a 57-year-old woman from Attur in the district. She was also admitted to the hospital on June 30 after she tested positive for the infection. “She breathed her last in the early hours of Friday. A renal failure patient, she was under dialysis during admission,” the hospital dean said. Health department officials have cremated both the bodies as per the protocols. The district reported 99 new cases on Friday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 1,127. While 93 of them were indigenous cases, six were imported ones. “Presently, there are 812 active cases in the district. We have discharged 23 patients from the hospital today (Friday) after they tested negative for the infection,” Dr R Balajinathan said. The Salem Municipal Corporation (SMC) has initiated a door-to-door survey to screen all the people in its limits for Covid-19. SMC commissioner R Sadheesh said, “Residents should cooperate with health officials when they come for the survey. Criminal cases will be registered against the people providing wrong information or refusing to disclose the details of family members.” The neighbouring Erode, meanwhile, registered 14 new Covid-19 cases. Dr S Soundammal, deputy director of health services, said, “With this, the number of cases has increased to 206 from 192. We have 121 active cases now.” While four people were tested positive for the virus in Namakkal, taking its Covid-19 count to 101, 14 more people were found to be infected in Dharmapuri district, four of which were imported cases. Namakkal collector K Megraj said there were only 10 active cases in the district. According to Dharmapuri collector S Malarvizhi, the district has so far seen 107 coronavirus cases. “We have 66 active cases.” Krishnagiri too reported 14 new cases, including five imported cases, taking its tally to 170. There are 116 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/two-covid-patients-die-in-salem-government-hosp/articleshow/76778285.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Custody death’ victim’s family wants FIR as cops reinstated||MUMBAI: The family of alleged Wadala custody death victim Vijay Singh moved Bombay high court, seeking an immediate FIR against police involved, and transfer of the case to CBI. The family is unhappy as five suspended policemen, including sub-inspectors Sandeep Kadam and Salim Khan, were reinstated in May. Last month, assistant inspector Sachin Vaze, chargesheeted for custody death of terror suspect Khawaja Yunus, was reinstated after 16 years. Officials said the five were among several suspended following allegations, but were reinstated on priority due to a manpower shortage following Covid-19. “On behalf of the family I moved a petition before HC as we have lost faith in crime branch’s investigations. The reinstatement further saddened them. We want the case to be transferred to CBI for free and fair investigations,’’ said advocate Vinay Nair. Vijay’s brother Vibhai, who is physically challenged, said, “I will not sit quietly. He was the sole bread-earner of the family. We will ensure those involved are punished.’’ Nair said eight months on police have not handed them the post-mortem report. “It is ridiculous. Will they have to file an RTI? What happened to the departmental inquiry against the five? How were they reinstated?” asked Nair. Crime branch officials said investigations are delayed due to Covid and due to an inconclusive post-mortem report. While KEM hospital’s report said cause of death was “acute coronary insufficiency precipitated by sudden panic attack (unnatural)”, JJ hospital stated “myocardial infarction”. Crime branch has approached JJ for its opinion on KEM’s report. Vijay, a marketing executive, died at Wadala TT police station on October 27 after being detained in an alleged brawl case. Singh, a resident of Antop Hill, was on his bike with a friend, Ankit Mishra, when he had a tiff with a couple. A patrol van took all four to the police station. Mishra said that on the couple’s complaint Vijay was beaten up in the lockup despite complaining of chest pain and requesting water. He then fell unconscious. He also said police took him in a private cab to Sion hospital, where he was declared brought dead. In December, Mishra went missing, and despite Vibhai going to register a missing complaint, police did not accept it. Few days later, they informed Vibhai that they traced Ankit to his home town in Jaunpur but Ankit called Nair that day and told him that he was very much in Mumbai. Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission had taken suo motu cognizance of the case.Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/custody-death-victims-kin-seek-fir-as-suspended-cops-are-back/articleshow/76777881.cms||Ahmed Ali
July 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Taxi owners yet to be paid for pandemic duty||Mangaluru: It is a double whammy of sorts for taxi owners in Dakshina Kannada. Yet to be fully compensated for renting their vehicles for the last general election, they are now facing a similar delay in payment for vehicles that the district administration has hired for Covid-19 duty. Most of these vehicles that are presently on pandemic duty are idle throughout the day, and drivers find themselves at the mercy of philanthropists and the authorities for food. The district administration, through the Dakshina Kannada Taximen’s and Maxicab Association, has requisitioned around 150 vehicles for use by the police and health departments in the presence of secretary, regional transport authority. “We are yet to receive payment for services rendered thus far,” said Dinesh Kumpala M, president of the association. “Repeated representation to the district administration in this regard have gone unheeded,” he lamented. The taxi and maxicab owners are facing a tough situation due to delay in payments, he said. “We are duty bound to pay the drivers, but how can we do so, if we do not get paid in the first place?” wondered Dinesh. Since these vehicles were requisitioned and are required to be there round the clock, as the authorities need to commute at short notice, the drivers cannot even take smaller trips that can bring them some income, he said. Another worrisome development is repeated insistence on part of financiers seeking repayment of instalments against the vehicles, with the threat of repossessing the vehicle in case of default, he said. The state government must extend the tax and insurance holiday for these vehicles at least for six months, given the present condition across the state, Dinesh said. The spike in price of petrol and diesel in the last fortnight is the proverbial last straw that can break the camel’s back, he said. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that the district administration is faced with a pile of bills, and these are being cleared as a matter of routine. “We are aware of their situation and will strive to clear the bills on priority,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/taxi-owners-yet-to-be-paid-for-pandemic-duty/articleshow/76778015.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara reports 43 new Covid patients||Kolhapur: As many as 43 new patients were detected across Satara district on Friday, taking the tally of active cases to 1,198. According to a health department official, one death was also reported in Satara. “Of the 43 patients, 35 are in the category of high risk while three have travel history. Four patients have symptoms of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). A health worker has also tested positive for Covid-19,” an official statement said. Meanwhile, 114 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Solapur city along with 11 deaths between Thursday and Friday. Currently, there are a total of 2,697 active patients in Solapur of which 755 are admitted to various hospitals. The city has 37 containment zones and movement of people from and to these areas has been strictly banned by the administration in order to curb the spread of the virus. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-reports-43-new-covid-patients/articleshow/76776469.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur University to start process for conferring DLitt on CJI Bobde||NAGPUR: Nagpur University has decided to start process for conferring honorary Doctor of Literature (DLitt) on chief justice of India Sharad Bobde. A decision in this regard was made by NU’s Management Council during its meeting on Friday. After it was tabled by member Vishnu Changde as an emergent item which wasn’t on the agenda, all members unanimously granted their consent while appreciating him. The administration led by vice chancellor (acting) Murlidhar Chandekar then decided to start the process as per rules. “As per the new statutes under Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016, rules have changed for bestowing the honorary degree. Now, all universities need to take the consent from chancellor in this regard. There are various other rules as well, as university is no longer an authority in this regard. Today, we have only started the procedure in this regard after Management Council’s consent,” the VC told TOI. Changde moved a letter by written by Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa’s executive committee member Parijat Pande to former VC SP Kane, before the council members. He said he and Pande had both submitted a letter to then VC on March 9, but no action was taken on it for a long time. Changde submitted a proposal requesting the VC to complete all formalities for awarding the prestigious degree on the CJI, who was alumnus of NU’s Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Law College. “All members while supporting his proposal stated that it would add another feather in the university’s crown and bring prestige to it. Now, NU needs to move the proposal to the chancellor as per new regulations,” he said. In his letter, Pande had requested to then VC to confer the DLitt on prodigal son of the soil for his immense contribution to the legal field. “It would be a moment of great pride for entire university to honour justice Bobde, who rose to the top position of the judiciary and brought laurels to the city, after being graduated from NU. His contribution to the law field is immense and he has always strived for ensuring justice to the common man. By conferring prestigious DLitt on him, it would add to NU’s glory in entire country,” he said. NU approves higher remuneration in students’ schemes The Nagpur University has approved higher remuneration in its various students’ related schemes like earn and learn, Savitribai Phule Bus Pass Concession and education loan. A proposal in this regard was moved by Changde after studying the pattern of other universities as a Senate and Management Council member. His other suggestion to increase wages of NU employees who work on contract was also cleared. The workers are getting Rs462/day which he demanded to increase to Rs550-Rs600/day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-to-start-process-for-conferring-dlitt-on-cji-bobde/articleshow/76778282.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Average marks of best 3 subjects to decide your CISCE result||NEW DELHI: Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Friday finally ended the anxiety of students and parents by releasing the formula for calculating the results of ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams. The formula was arrived at after consulting statisticians of premier institutions in the country and analysing the results of the board examinations from 2015 to 2019, as well as the unfinished 2020 session. The remaining examinations scheduled from July 1 were cancelled by CISCE after parents moved court. The exams couldn’t be conducted owing to the Covid-induced lockdown. Emulating the formula followed by Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), the average marks of the best three subjects for which the students have appeared in the board exams would be taken to compute the final score. While practical project marks would be taken for ISC students, which varies from 20 to 30 marks, for Class X internal assessment marks would be taken. A three-step algorithm would be used to arrive at the final marks, which would include the sum of the subject’s board results and the practical/project marks. The subject’s result would be the sum of the board marks percentage and their weightage (for example, 0.7 whose theory is 70 marks and 0.8 for 80 marks). The final score would include the average of the best three marks, subject marks and project practical marks. “The components used to arrive at the formula to award the marks in the subjects that have project and practical work component is limited to the project and practical work and the performance of the candidates in the board examination of the subjects for which they have already appeared measured through average marks obtained in the best three subjects. While the former measures the subject proficiency of the candidates, the latter is a measure of their general academic ability,” said a CISCE circular. However, for Elective English and Art in Class X, a separate formula has been followed. While the parents and students were a relieved lot, they said internal assessment marks, at least for Class X, might vary according to the schools. “The internal marks are subjective and not really known on how the school computes it. But considering the situation, anything is better than uncertainty and having to send the children to write the exams,” said a parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/avg-marks-of-best-3-subjects-to-decide-your-cisce-result/articleshow/76778296.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Covid patient dies on road waiting for ambulance||BENGALURU: A 65-year-old Covid-19 patient breathed his last by the roadside near his house in Hanumanth Nagar, South Bengaluru on Friday evening. He was on his way to board an ambulance, BBMP officials claimed. He asked the ambulance to stop some distance away from his house as he didn’t want to draw attention to his infection, they said. Video: Covid patient dies on road waiting for ambulance in Bengaluru #Covid19 #CautionYesPanicNo https://t.co/dAw0IA99Je— TOI Bengaluru (@TOIBengaluru) 1593844737000Neighbours, however, claimed that no ambulance came to pick up the man. “His family members were struggling to mobilise an ambulance from the morning and and they stepped out to get at least an autorickshaw. He began walking towards the main road when he collapsed and died. The BBMP ambulance came only around 7pm,” a neighbour told TOI. The family members refused to comment. A heart-wrenching video of his body lying on the road went viral on social media. The hearse van arrived late, spreading panic in the area. The man had been unwell for a week and given his throat swab for a Covid-19 test at a private hospital on Thursday. He learnt he had tested positive on Friday morning. “A BBMP ambulance went to pick him near his house and called him around 5.15pm. He didn’t want the ambulance to go near his house and wanted to walk to the main road. He collapsed, perhaps following a massive heart attack,” BBMP officials claimed. The man had packed clothes in a bag for the hospital stay. “It’s an unfortunate incident. The man was perhaps tense and panicked after the test result came positive. The pandemic has caused so much trauma that he didn’t want the ambulance near his house,” Basavanagudi MLA Ravi Subramanya LA told TOI. He added that the man reportedly had an heart ailment for 10 years. A police sources said the ambulance was about 40ft from his home and the man was attended to by passersby who may now be primary contacts. The BBMP officials informed police and a mahajar was done at the spot. His body was later sent to the Victoria hospital mortuary where a post mortem will be conducted on Saturday morning. BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar said an ambulance should have been sent at the earliest. "This should not have occurred. The patient should have been shifted to hospital immediately. An inquiry will be conducted and action will be initiated," he said. He appointed a senior officer to conduct the inquiry. TOI had recently reported that several patients were boarding ambulances at spots near their houses to avoid the neighbours knowing about their condition. City police commissioner Bhaskar Rao had warned people against taking photographs and videos of ambulance-bound patients of strict action as it was a case of violation of patients’ privacy rights. He had expressed concern over such videos making it to local TV channels and social media. Watch Tragic! Covid patient dies on road waiting for ambulance in Bengaluru||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-patient-waiting-for-ambulance-dies-by-roadside/articleshow/76777584.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 4, 2020||Surat||Paan shops shut in three Surat hotspots||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Friday ordered the closure of all paan shops in the Covid-19 hotspots of Katargam, Varachha and Sarthana for a week with immediate effect. The notification issued by municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani stated that social distancing norms are not being followed at these paan kiosks and people are found spitting in the public places, thereby increasing the chances of spreading the infection faster. The notification also stated that the paan shops in other parts of the city will have to strictly maintain social distancing and not allow more than four people at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/paan-shops-shut-in-three-surat-hotspots/articleshow/76778291.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Containment measures take toll on jobs, careers||Coimbatore: The mandatory 14-day quarantine for contacts of Covid-19 patients and restrictions on movement in containment zones have hit the livelihood of many people, especially those who are employed with micro industries and unorganized labour sectors. Things aren’t any different for the Covid-19 patients’ family members and neighbours, who have to be in quarantine for 28 days. They say their jobs and careers are at risk. Prashanthan (name changed), who takes job work and operates his own lathe machine, is one among the affected. He was last week asked by a big firm that used to give him orders regularly to come back after two weeks. “They told me I was roaming around with James, district president, Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Micro Enterprises, who had tested positive for the virus earlier, and that I might have also been infected.” He said he had taken a Covid-19 test and that the results had shown him negative for the infection. “But officials didn’t provide me a certificate mentioning I had tested negative. If I had that, I might have been able to convince them and enter the firm.” James, who was discharged from the ESI Hospital on Friday, says many families were affected by the mandatory 28-day quarantine for the entire family of patients and their neighbours. “I checked with some people in Chennai and Madurai, where they said patients’ family members were not kept in quarantine for 28 days. It affects so many people’s careers and incomes, especially when business establishments expect their employees to show up for work.” It was when things were looking promising, T Shyna, who works as a sales executive with a furniture store on Avinashi Road, was asked not report for work as her area was sealed after three people from her neighbourhood - VCV Layout in R S Puram - tested positive for the virus. She anyway can’t leave her house, as the roads are sealed. “I am repaying my education loan with my salary. I am going to lose most of this month’s salary, which was already cut by 30% in May. While I have tested negative, my office does not want to take any chances.” A senior health department official says it’s a conscious decision not to issue people Covid-19 negative certificates. “In private labs, they give a certificate. But for government labs, which test hundreds of people and undertake so much other works, it’s a logistical nightmare. Most people use the certificate to either return to work, change jobs and get e-passes to go to other districts without completing the 14-day quarantine, which is dangerous.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/containment-measures-take-toll-on-jobs-careers/articleshow/76778299.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Royal Brunei plane lands with 139 people||Coimbatore: A flight carrying 139 passengers from Brunei landed in the city airport on Friday. The Royal Brunei Airlines’ Airbus A320 that touched down at 12.16pm had 101 men, 31 women and seven children. It took off from the airport after an hour with three men and a woman. It was the second foreign passenger aircraft to land in the airport post lockdown after a Kenya Airways flight that brought 118 passengers on June 22. The airport had received direct flights from Dubai, Muscat, Doha, Singapore and Nairobi after the lockdown. Unlike the Vande Bharat flights operated by Air India, repatriation flights are allowed to bring Indians back to the country. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/royal-brunei-plane-lands-with-139-people/articleshow/76778290.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolhapur||14 cases take Kolhapur dist’s Covid count to 849, Sangli reports 1 death||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district registered 14 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the total number of patients to 894. Of these 894, 150 are currently active while the rest have been discharged from various hospitals after recovery. The district has also reported 12 Covid-19 fatalities so far. In addition, officials of the district administration have said that coronavirus hotspots in the district are increasing with containment and micro-containment zones being placed in four new localities in the district. Besides, swab samples of 630 people have been sent for testing on Friday, the highest in the last few days. Officials claim that as the number of cases are rising, close contacts of Covid patients are being isolated and their swabs are sent for testing. Though more number of samples are sent for testing, the number of tests carried out on a daily basis has not increased. On Friday, 350 swabs were tested, said officials. Laboratories in the district have a total capacity of testing 900 swabs. According to officials, swab testing at the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje civil hospital was halted for a few hours between Thursday midnight and Friday afternoon owing to technical issues. Authorities at the CPR hospital have initiated an inquiry into the matter. Sangli reports 1 Covid death Sangli district on Friday registered one Covid-19 death. The deceased was a native of Nandni in Kolhapur district and was admitted to the Wanless Hospital in Miraj for treatment. Meanwhile, Sangli district reported 41 cases on Friday, of which, 24 are from Billur village of Jat tehsil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/14-cases-take-kolhapur-dists-covid-count-to-849-sangli-reports-1-death/articleshow/76776484.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Business||‘Rebuild clinical trials business’||Hyderabad: In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, where every country is joining the race to develop a vaccine, Biocon Limited executive chairperson Kiran Mazumdar Shaw said it is important to rebuild the country’s clinical trials business on the foundation of ethics and research temper. “Clinical trial is a very important area for innovation as it is about clinical research. And for doing clinical research, we have all the ingredients that are required – we have the human resource for conducting clinical trials, patient population with diverse disease condition, hospital infrastructure and IT capabilities. In the case of Covid-19, over 200 clinical trials are going on globally and everybody is scrambling for the right patient but unfortunately in India, we look at clinical trials as if it is ‘rent-a-patient’,” she said. While participating in Ficci FLO’s webinar ‘Towards a New Health’ here on Friday, the Biocon founder pointed out the focus must be on building credibility of the clinal trials process in the country as it is a huge job creator and spurs innovation. Meanwhile, advocating for better integration of technology into the healthcare sector, Sangita Reddy, president, Ficci, and joint MD of Apollo Hospitals said, “ It deeply impacts the three significant tenets of healthcare -- accessible healthcare for everyone, quality healthcare, and affordable healthcare. If we merge and use technology in the right manner, we can make a significant difference.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rebuild-clinical-trials-business/articleshow/76777591.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Ernakulam to start antigen testing||KOCHI: With the number of Covid-19 positive cases on the rise, Ernakulam is set to start antigen testing among asymptomatic people and primary contacts of positive cases. On Thursday, the district received 15,000 antigen kits. Meanwhile, health officials started antigen testing at Cochin international airport limited on Thursday and two results turned out to be positive. “While a PCR test result takes 48 hours, antigen test results could be known in just 30 minutes. Besides screening asymptomatic people, antigen test would also be conducted on immediate contacts of people who were tested positive. And there is no need for a PCR test after conducting an antigen test. It will also help speed up identification of positive cases one after the other after tracing their contacts. Our success lies in securing results at an early stage. We will do the testing as per the norms put forward by the government as it is meaningless to do it on all. We would get more kits when the existing ones get over,” said a health officer. Meanwhile, there has been delay in installing new RT-PCR lab at the regional public health laboratory. The new facility, which was planned in June, was needed to ramp up testing in the district as the number tests being conducted at present is less than 200 per day. Authorities have also decided to open the second Covid first line treatment centre (CFLTC) at Cail convention centre on Monday. . Meanwhile, tahasildars have also been asked to keep CFLTCs ready at block levels. “CFLTCs should be kept ready in such a way that it starts functioning within two days after getting approval. Three CFLTCs will be functioning in Kochi corporation limit,” said the official. As per the surge plan, 15 CFLTCs will be set up at block level with bed capacity of 40 each when the number of active patients touch 750. Total bed capacity of 15 CFLTCs is 775. Similar centres will also open at panchayat level when the number increases. At the same time officials said the situation in Ernakulam will not turn into super spread as people who came in contact with those who were tested positive have already been placed under quarantine. Officials are waiting for the results of random sampling to know the transmission. Random tests in market Results of 102 samples of primary contacts of 12 people, including traders and their employees who were tested positive for covid-19 in Ernakulam market, were found negative. Results of nine of 26 samples taken by the mobile team randomly two days ago also turned out to be negative, said another health official||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ernakulam-to-start-antigen-testing/articleshow/76777594.cms||T C Sreemol
July 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: For many, open gyms irresistible despite warning||KOLHAPUR: Morning and evening walkers continue to use swings, bars fitted in playgrounds and open gym equipment in the gardens across the city, despite the ban on using them. As per the state government's notification of Mission Begin Again, only individual physical activities are allowed maintaining social distance in the open. Swings, bars, gym equipment are touched by many people which can lead to the spread of the contagion. As gyms continue to remain shut, the youths are flexing their muscles at these open gyms. Those equipment are not disinfected at all. The district administration had issued a separate order to ban the use of swings, bars in the playgrounds and open gym equipment installed in gardens from June 4. Municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti said, “A month ago, the order was issued not to use the open gym equipment. While physical activities are allowed individually, using open gyms continue to remain banned. We will appeal to the citizens again to not use those and ask the local staff to cover the equipment immediately.” The officials said that despite the orders in place for the last one month, no measures were adopted to cover the open gym equipment nor staff was deployed to prevent the citizens from using it. Most of the open gyms are installed through the corporators’ and MLAs’ funds. An official of one of the four divisional ward offices requesting anonymity said that once he tried to cover the open gym with tree branches and boulders, however, they were removed by the locals. Kalshetti said, “People should avoid touching common touch points. It is the basic rule for avoiding the spread of the infection. It is not possible to disinfect the open gym equipment and therefore people should avoid using it."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/for-many-open-gyms-irresistible-despite-warning/articleshow/76776493.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Goa||Navelim MLA seeks increase in underpass height||Margao: Objecting to the reduction in vertical clearance for the western express highway along Navelim-Sinquetim stretch of the project, Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro has urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to ensure a minimum height of 5.5m as stipulated by statute. Faleiro told reporters on Friday that he has already brought to the notice of PWD executive engineer Laxmikant Naik the necessity to maintain the minimum vertical clearance as per the guidelines and specifications. “Also, I have once again brought to the notice of the Chief Engineer, (NH R&B) PWD, Althino, the Superintending Engineer CO-IX (NH), executive engineer PWD Div XIV and the contractors that in spite of objections, the construction is being illegally expedited without the vertical clearance being maintained at 6m as per the sanctioned technical note for all the underpasses to be taken in the projects. The vertical clearance for the road crossing near Tulsi bungalow is currently kept at 3.6m which is a recipe for disaster,” Faleiro said. The Navelim MLA further pointed out that at his recent meeting with the chief minister and the PWD minister, he had demanded that the ongoing work be stopped “until a proper technical solution is finalised so as to avoid draining of the public exchequer.” Faleiro said he has also demanded an inquiry “as to how such a blunder could be made in keeping only 3.6m of vertical clearance over the Navelim-Sinquetim road when the law and the procedures require the mandatory height to a minimum of 5.5m for the same.” He further pointed out that though the chief minister assured him on Thursday that the height would be raised to 5m, he urged the chief minister to ensure a minimum vertical clearance of 5.5m.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/navelim-mla-seeks-increase-in-underpass-height/articleshow/76778727.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Class-VIII students raise Rs 1.3 lakh to feed 150 abandoned horses||KOLKATA: When 13-year-old Parikshit Doshi saw six horses rummaging through a dustbin below his house on Sarat Bose Road, he was taken aback. The horses looked hungry, desperate and were bleeding from their wounds. The boy immediately raised an alarm, called his father and three other classmates, whom he is close to. They wanted to get to the bottom of the story.  More than 150 horses have been abandoned by their owners, who operate horse chaise around Maidan. They are now out of work because no one has been visiting them during the lockdown. So, with no money to feed the horses, they have let them loose. Even as they move around aimlessly, searching for food, they sometimes get hit by speeding vehicles. The most heart-wrenching part is, after dark, they navigate back to their erstwhile homes below Vidyasagar Setu off Hastings, to stay close to their owners. It is from the owners that the group got to know that immediately after the lockdown, animal shelter ‘Ashari’ was feeding these horses with donations that animal lovers were pooling in after they found the horses loitering. This, however, stopped from June 15 after donors gradually pulled out. With his three friends, Meghansh Sahariya, Aarav Rajgarhia and Aryan Malhotra, all Class-VIII students at La Martiniere for Boys, Parikshit wrote an appeal to mothers of all the sections of Class-VIII WhatsApp group. The appeal described the plight of these animals and said that Rs 8,000 is required in a day to feed 150 horses. Each horse needs a diet of 2.5kg of wheat bran or bhusi and some straw. While Rs 7,500 is needed to buy a day’s wheat bran, 100 kilograms of straw can be bought for Rs 500. “My father helped us get in touch with Ashari, from where we got this break up and decided to collect funds accordingly. Mothers have not only donated but also forwarded our request and in two days, we collected Rs 1.3 lakh. This has directly been put in the Ashari fund. The volunteers of Ashari started feeding the hrses from Friday,” said Parikshit. Ajay Daga of Ashari has already collaborated with the Mounted Police, who have agreed to oversee the feeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/class-viii-students-raise-rs-1-3l-to-feed-150-abandoned-horses/articleshow/76778292.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Ambala: No commission, ration depot holders threaten protest||AMBALA: Around 200 ration depot holders from different districts of Haryana gathered at Indira Park in Ambala Cantonment on Thursday and decided that if the government did not pay their commission till August 1, they would launch an agitation. Bahadurgarh district-based state president of Haryana depot holders’ union Rakesh Kumar also attended the meeting and said there are about 9,600 ration depot holders in Haryana who have not received their commission since February. The depot holders said up to March, they were distributing ration and depositing the amount of ration in advance after deducting their commission to the Confed (Haryana State Federation of Consumers). “But from April onwards, due to Covid-19 outbreak, the Government of India announced to distribute free ration to the beneficiaries. We received the free ration from the agencies and distributed the same from April onwards. But we have not received the commission since February,” said the depot holders. Rakesh Kumar said, “We have to bear the rental expense of the depots along with electricity bills, and labour employed to manage and distribute the ration. In the absence of commission, it is not possible to run the depots for long in these times, therefore, the government should support us.” Rakesh told their union has given a memorandum of demand to all the concerned officials and ministers of the Haryana government. Notably, the depot holders distribute ration under the public distribution system (PDS) to the beneficiaries of ration card holders in categories including state/central below poverty line (S/CBPL), other priority households (OPH), and beneficiaries of Antodya Anna Yojana (AAY). As per the commission rates, the depot holders receive Rs 1.5 per kg on fortified flour, Re 1 per liter on mustard oil and six paise per kg on sugar. Officials of the food civil supplies and consumer affairs department did not take calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-commission-ration-depot-holders-threaten-protest/articleshow/76778302.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 4, 2020||Dehradun||‘In 1962, our soldiers held .303s against China’s AK-47s, we must pay heed to history’||He was taken as a prisoner of war, kept in solitary confinement and lost most of his brigade. But what broke the spirit of 1962 war veteran Brigadier John Parashuram Dalvi was the “apathy” shown to him, his son Michael said on the 100th birth anniversary of Brig Dalvi on Friday. Reminiscing about his father, who is the author of the war memoir ‘Himalayan Blunder’, regarded by many as one of the definitive accounts of the India-China war, Michael Dalvi told TOI, “My father would travel to the frontlines on mules, while our soldiers held .303 World War I rifles against the Chinese AK-47s. Indian soldiers did not even have snow boots and were underfed. But they never gave up, fighting till the bitter end because of the discipline, training and spirit of the Army.” The senior Dalvi was born at Basra in Iraq. He was 21 when he joined the Army. He was posted in what was then Burma to fight against Japan in World War II. In 1962, when the India-China War broke out, Dalvi was commanding the 7th Infantry Brigade in what was the North-East Frontier Agency, now Arunachal Pradesh (parts of which China still claims as ‘southern Tibet’). On October 22, Michael said, most of his father’s brigade had been destroyed, his men killed. He was taken as a prisoner of war by the Chinese. “He was in captivity for six month, kept in solitary confinement, enduring horrors.” When he was finally released, he needed an outlet. He had survived, but not without guilt, Michael said. “This guilt eventually destroyed his soul. It gnawed at the very core of his being from living each day with the memory of men of steel who followed blindly, into impossible situations, against unimaginable odds, and in many cases certain death, driven to great heights of valour only for the izzat of their paltans, their army, and the honour and security of their country,” Michael posted on social media on the ocassion of his father’s birth anniversary. Brig Dalvi wrote ‘Himalayan Blunder’, a memoir that went over everything he thought was responsible for India’s defeat. India’s preoccupation with global affairs and the focus on economic development without fully recognising the ravaging effects of war, he wrote, had left the armed forces weak. “Given the background of our Independence movement, the lack of fear of war, the priority allotted to development and the preoccupation with world affairs, it was inevitable that there could be no sense of urgency in keeping the Armed Forces in good shape and ready for war, if thrust upon us.” And who was responsible for this lack of preparedness? “The culprits came from all categories of officialdom,” he wrote, “But I shall refrain from quoting instances that are within my knowledge and which took place in my time at Army HQ, from 1954 to 1959. The stories are unworthy of mature persons.” The government thought the book was unworthy of access at all. It was banned immediately upon publication in 1968. The ban was lifted eventually, and the book became a canonical one for students on Indian military history. Now, 52 years on, as India engages in another face-off with China, Brig Dalvi’s son hopes that those who shape military policy now would pay heed to history. “I hope those who control and conduct the destiny of our great country and our unquestioning uniformed bravehearts learn from the hindsight of history,” Michael Dalvi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-1962-our-soldiers-held-303s-against-chinas-ak-47s-we-must-pay-heed-to-history/articleshow/76776498.cms||Prashant Jha
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Two more held for Sonipat cops’ murder||CHANDIGARH: The Sonipat police on Friday arrested two women friends of gangsters Amit and Sandeep for the murders of two cops were in Butana area of Gohana earlier this week. Both women, identified as Sushila Rani and Asha of Butana, have confessed to their presence at the crime scene. Sonipat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said they have arrested three accused, out of the six involved, in the case. Sandeep, Sushila and Asha are in police custody while Amit was killed in an encounter. “Our teams are now on the lookout for Vikas and Neeraj, who are on the run,” he said. Investigations reveal that all six accused were having drinks in the car which was parked around 300m from Butana police post. They had stabbed SPO Kaptan and constable Ravinder. After the crime, Amit and Sandeep had dropped the women near their house and left for Jind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-more-held-for-sonipat-cops-murder/articleshow/76778304.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Fearing infection, colleagues leaving nurse battling for life||BENGALURU: A private hospital in the heart of Bengaluru city, which rose to the Covid-19 challenge, is now wilting under the onslaught of the virus with several frontline warriors themselves going down. Six healthcare personnel have been infected and one of them is battling for life with none to take care of her, while about a dozen staffers including ICU workers have fled, fearing an infection. With no critical staff around, Santosh Hospital in Fraser Town has now asked the family of the critically ill nurse to go to another hospital for treatment. The nurse is on ventilator support. “The 51-year-old nurse is a cardiac patient and diabetic too,” hospital authorities told TOI. “She needs further care which we cannot provide since we do not have the staff. We have a 20-bed Covid-19 ward which we are somehow managing. Four other nurses with mild symptoms are doing well.” Hospital authorities said they had taken care of the nurse for 10 days, but now are at their wits’ end. The nurse was moved to the ICU two days ago after she developed bronchopneumonia. Dr S Bikkamchand, medical director of the hospital, admitted the situation is frustrating. “She has cardiac issues, diabetes and hypertension,” he said. “She needs to be shifted to another hospital, as we have no dedicated ICU staff to look after her now. The problem is not lack of ventilators. We have four of them, but we have no trained staff left.” A senior specialist from the hospital said, “The entire ICU team has been affected. Three doctors and three nurses tested positive, and all are being treated in our hospital. Now about 12 staffers including Group D employees and nurses have run away, without even informing us. We are going through a rough patch.” The hospital said a ventilator-bed was made available in another private medical college, but the family of the nurse refused to take her there. Family members said the medical college was in Avalahalli, some distance away. “It is not a viable option as there are no specialists in the hospital. She is already on ventilator,” a family member told TOI. The Indian Medical Association, Karnataka branch said the situation would be similar in all hospitals. “At this rate, we won’t be able to treat non-Covid cases too in the near future. Treating both Covid-19 and non-Covid cases in all hospitals is not a practical solution. Ideally, the government should use some private hospitals only to treat Covid-19 patients so the rest can attend to non-Covid cases,” said Dr Madhusuhdhan K, president, IMA-Karnataka branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fearing-infection-colleagues-leaving-nurse-battling-for-life/articleshow/76777604.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Fitness freaks lap up healthy food options||Coimbatore: With the lockdown leading to gyms and crossfit centres being closed for more than three months, fitness enthusiasts are lapping up healthier food options to stay fit. Salad meal subscriptions, locally manufactured cereal and energy bars coupled with healthy recipes in kitchens have become vogue among health freaks. When the 21-day lockdown began, Varun from R S Puram assumed it was a one-time break. “ Even though I kept up my workout at home, I ended up bingeing on a lot of snacks, carb filled foods...I gained nearly 1.5 kg,” he said. Others like Prasad have decided to consciously get back on track by eating a healthy, high protein, vegetable filled diet. The first thing he did was order a one-week lunch meal subscription from city-based Incredibowl. “I began getting many new clients over May and June...who did not just order on-and-off meals, but also took full week subscriptions,” said Yegammai Annamalai, who offers carbohydrate-free high protein meals. Besides meals, people are also consciously choosing healthier snack options. Nithyanandini Manoharan, who runs 45 Degree Fitness which tied up with Protein Bake shop, said they were getting a lot of enquiries for their truffles after the initial lockdown, especially hazelnut and cashew flavours. Ashita Ramakrishnan from Singanallur, who specializes in healthy baking under her brand, Flutter By, said her orders have surged by at least 25% after the second lockdown ended. Monsoon Harvest, another popular pick-up for health freaks in the city, said they recorded a spike in online sale post mid-May. “While our online sales increased post the third lockdown, we also got many people calling us directly asking if they could pick up their favourite option or flavour from our city sales office, so that it would be on stop shop and did not require them to visit department stores” says co-founder and director, Umeshwari Machani. Calorie conscious people are also excited at the prospect of popular healthy food chain “eat.fit” opening up at Race Course, offering high protein meals. “There are at least four to five gyms in the circle, and this place would offer a guilt free meal that we could enjoy with family,” said fitness trainer, Ashish who also tried a branch of the outlet in Bangalore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fitness-freaks-lap-up-healthy-food-options/articleshow/76778303.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Ichalkaranji, nearby villages to face restrictions for 10 days||Kolhapur: Restrictions have been imposed on movement of people and business activities in the textile town of Ichalkaranji and five adjoining villages from Saturday. It will be in effect till July 13. The villages of Shahapur, Kabnur, Tardal, Chandur and Khotwadi will be also face the same restrictions. Ichalkaranji town has reported over 40 cases in the past one week and two deaths. It is the only town in the district to have such a high concentration of cases. As per the order, people will be allowed to move out only for essentials and not more than five people will be allowed to gather in one place. The boundaries of the town and five fringe villages will remain closed. Alka Swami, president of Ichalkaranji Municipal Council, said people were not following social distancing or wearing masks despite requests. “We have been asked to step up process of surveying suspects and initiate testing. The restrictions will also help avoid people coming from other parts,” she said. The commercial establishments, offices and factories will continue to run but with 50% of their staff. The functions such weddings and other, which were allowed earlier with limited guests will not be allowed at all till July 13. “We earlier had appealed self-imposition of lockdown, which has been taken in other towns. We are going to seal every ward of the town and people will not be allowed to move out from such micro-containment zones,” said Swami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ichalkaranji-nearby-villages-to-face-restrictions-for-10-days/articleshow/76776502.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Telemedicine hub launched for red zones in Delhi||NEW DELHI: For effective management of containment zones, contact tracing and providing Covid-19-related help to the residents, Central district on Friday launched a surveillance and telemedicine hub, which was inaugurated by chief secretary Vijay Dev.  The hub, said an official, would be operated by a team of doctors and trained counsellors. While Central district is the first to start such a facility, Delhi government officials said similar centres would be opened in all the other districts where the residents of containment zones would be able to call for counselling and help.  Nidhi Srivastava, district magistrate, Central, said the councillors at the hub would call the patients regularly to know their real time health status, while the infected persons could also call up the desk for any assistance. People can also contact the team for sanitisation in the area, removal of biomedical waste, essential commodities and for any psychological issues, she added.  A separate telemedicine portal was made by the district authorities, which gives an opportunity to the patients to flag their grievances. The portal also provides daily analytics and trends in each containment zone along with the number of patients in subdivision, hospitals and home isolation. "The objective of the hub is to give a sense of comfort to people so that they don't panic or feel depressed," Dev said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/telemedicine-hub-launched-for-red-zones-in-delhi/articleshow/76778983.cms||---
July 4, 2020||India||Covid jab clinical trial deadline sparks fury||NEW DELHI: An Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) letter to institutions chosen as clinical trial sites for an indigenous Covid vaccine asking them to fast track processes as “launch of vaccine for public use” was slated for August 15 has sparked outrage in the medical and scientific research community. They criticised the starting of a clinical trial with an end date instead of an end point and with efficacy seeming to be pre-decided by the premier medical research body. “It is envisaged to launch the vaccine for public health use latest by Aug 15 after completion of all clinical trials,” stated the ICMR letter. The clinical trial registry of India (CTRI) registration of the trial shows that it is a combined phase 1 and 2 trial registered only on July 1 and recruitment for the trial was to start by July 13. The August 15 deadline would mean completing the two phases and launching the vaccine for public in about a month, an unheard of time frame in vaccine development. In fact, the registry details show that the phases are envisaged to be completed in 194 days or over 6 months. Of the 12 clinical trial sites, there are just four reputed government institutions including AIIMS, Delhi involved. “Phase-I trials are the most risky. So it has to be done in the best institutions with experience in conducting clinical trials and with enough infrastructure and experienced intensivists to respond to emergencies,” said Dr Amar Jesani, editor of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics. Dr Anant Bhan former president of the International Association of Bioethics pointed out that the tone of the letter dated June 2 was threatening as it states that everything has to be done by July and recruitment of participants has to start and that “non-compliance will be viewed seriously”. “Viewed seriously by whom? By ICMR? Under what powers?” questioned Bhan. “To my knowledge, such an accelerated development pathway has not been done EVER for any kind of vaccine, even for the ones being tried out in other countries,” tweeted Bhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-jab-clinical-trial-deadline-sparks-fury/articleshow/76778981.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Dehradun||11 Doon villages to get a facelift||Dehradun: The Dehradun district administration will develop 11 villages of the Ranipokhari cluster under Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Rurban Mission. Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava held a meeting with heads of several departments on Friday for the initiation of the works under the project. “All the 11 villages will get a facelift with modern infrastructure facilities like community centres, haat markets, bank ATMs, and designated vending zones. We are working in coordination with various departments to include other schemes for providing maximum benefits to the villagers,” said DM Srivastava. The district administration is also conducting a survey to analyse the situation on the ground, water facilities, infrastructure availability at schools, and midday meal facilities. A list of migrants who have returned to these villages is also being prepared to enlist them under the Chief Minister Swarojgar Yojana. The other schemes which will be made a part of the project will include organic farming, beekeeping, fish farming, and backyard poultry farming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/11-doon-villages-to-get-a-facelift/articleshow/76776516.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolhapur||State to provide 26 boats, life jackets to Kolhapur dist||Kolhapur: State minister for relief and rehabilitation Vijay Wadettiwar on Friday said the government will provide a remote-controlled boat and 25 motor boats for Kolhapur district to carry our rescue operations in the event of floods, similar to what devastated the region last year The minister also assured of Rs 5 crore financial assistance to the district administration for buy ventilators in order to save the lives of Covid-19 patients. During a meeting with district administration officials, Wadettiwar said officials will have to plan and act while facing twin challenges — the pandemic and floods. He said that three NDRF teams will soon arrive in Kolhapur and be stationed at three different places in the district . “Irrigation department officials have been asked to keep a watch on the water levels in dams and ensure discharge at appropriate time. Every affected village will be given 10 life jackets,” he said. “We need to applaud the work done by the district health authorities in the fight against Covid-19. The death rate in the district is 1.6%, recovery rate is highest in the state,” he added. ‘Won’t let Sarthi shut down’ On criticism by the activists from Maratha community over negligence of the state government to fund Pune-based Sarthi, Wadettiwar said the last government gave just Rs 50 crore. “The institute started for training of youths from Maratha community will not shut down. Soon CM Uddhav Thackeray will take a call on funding for the institution. The stipends for the students will be regularly provided to continue coaching,” Wadettiwar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/state-to-provide-26-boats-life-jackets-to-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/76776517.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases cross 3k mark in U’khand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand's Covid-19 tally crossed 3,000-mark after a jump of 64 new infections on Friday. The state has so far reported 3,048 coronavirus cases and its recovery rate was recorded at over 81% on the day with 76 new recovered cases. According to the health department, the maximum of 21 new cases of coronavirus infection were reported from Dehradun. The new cases found in Dehradun include — 13 patients who were contacts of earlier detected positive cases, one healthcare worker from AIIMS Rishikesh, and seven returnees to the state. “One of the cases found in Dehradun is an Afghanistan national,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. On the day, 13 new cases were reported from Nainital, 12 from Udham Singh Nagar, eight from Almora, three from Bageshwar, two each from Chamoli, Champawat and Haridwar, and one from Pithoragarh. Most of the cases were returnees or contacts of earlier positive cases,” added Tripathi. The state was awaiting reports of 5,753 samples till Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-cross-3k-mark-in-ukhand/articleshow/76776520.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 4, 2020||Coimbatore||37 more test +ve for Covid in Coimbatore, take tally to 645||Coimbatore: The state health department declared 37 more people positive for Covid-19 in the district on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 645. With 21 people getting discharged on Friday, 391 of them remain under treatment. District health authorities said at least another 34 people had tested positive for the virus and are likely to be declared in the Saturday bulletin. Worryingly two more doctors tested positive for the virus, both anesthetists. While one of them is a 32-year-old anesthetist who works at a prominent orthopedic hospital on Mettupalayam Road, the other is a 31-year-old anesthetist from Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The 31-year-old doctor is the fourth doctor in the hospital to test positive within a week. A 38-year-old sub-inspector from CB-CID, a resident of Thendral Nagar at Narasimanaickenpalayam, has also tested positive for the virus. “He has no travel history or history of contact with a positive patient,” said a health department official. Meanwhile, the Balan Nagar cluster continued to grow, after three people from a family – a 29-year-old woman, her two-year-old baby and a 60-year-old woman - in Nehru Nagar tested positive. R S Puram continued to see more cases, including a 12-year-old boy and a seven-year-old boy from VVC Layout, a 54-year-old man from T V Samy Road, a 75-year-old woman from Venkataswamy Road, who returned from Dindigul, and a 55-year-old man from Greenpark Apartments testing positive. There were also cases from Chinniyampalayam, Kalapatti, Periyanaickenpalayam, Ukkadam, Sidhapudur, Saibaba Colony, Saravanampatti, Ondipudur, Peelamedu, Somanur, Addis Street and Ramanathapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/37-more-test-ve-for-covid-in-coimbatore-take-tally-to-645/articleshow/76778311.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Man shot at for opposing drug trade||Yamunanagar: A Yamunanagar man was shot at and attacked with wooden sticks and iron rods by a group in Jagadhri on Wednesday. A video of the incident went viral on Friday, in which some men can be seen hitting him and even shooting at him. Sources said Mukesh Yadav (23) of Shanti Colony in Yamunagar, his family members and friends had raised their voice against drug smuggling in their locality and were being harassed by a group for doing so. On June 25 and June 29, both the parties had clashed and cross cases were registered at Yamunanagar Sadar police station. Yamunanagar SP Kamaldeep Goyal said, “CIA-II is investigating the case.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-shot-at-for-opposing-drug-trade/articleshow/76778308.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Fishermen warned against venturing into sea||Mangaluru: In the 24 hours till 8.30am on Friday, Dakshina Kannada received an average of 100.6mm rainfall, with Bantwal and Mangaluru taluks receiving the highest at 131mm and 118mm respectively. The least was in Sullia at 72.5mm. Belthangady and Puttur taluks received 93.6mm and 82.4mm rainfall respectively. According to KSNMDC, the highest rainfall of 255.5mm was recorded at Badaga Yedapadavu, Mangaluru taluk in the last 24 hours. Moderate to heavy rains is likely over coastal Karnataka. The Met department sounded warning for fishermen not to venture into the sea observing that strong winds with speed reaching 50-60 kmph are likely to prevail over Southwest and West Central Arabian Sea till July 5. KSNMDC forecast high waves in the range of 1.5-3.4 meters on Saturday along the coast of Karnataka from Mangaluru to Karwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/fishermen-warned-against-venturing-into-sea/articleshow/76777985.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Goa||‘Give more time for power bill verification’||Panaji: AAP on Friday demanded that the electricity department provide consumers additional time to verify and complain about discrepancies in metering and billing and deferment of payment without any penalties during the current economic crisis. In a letter to the chief electrical engineer, the party stated that a waiver of charges for consumption above 400 units be provided to consumers as they were compelled to stay at home over the past few months. “Due to the lockdown, the consumption may have been higher in April/May, but this was due to genuine reasons and out of compulsion, and not due to any additional voluntary consumption or wastage,” the party’s spokesperson Valmiki Naik said. “On an immediate basis, the department should allow deferment of payment without any penalties for arrears. Due to the critical economic situation, people are facing numerous issues with respect to income and ability to meet monthly expenses. In such a situation, the department needs to play its role to allow late payments, as has been done by banks, financial institutions,” he said, adding that the department must consider direct rebates and hourly compensation to consumers in case of unscheduled power cuts exceeding one hour. The party threatened to agitate along with people if it doesn’t receive a reply within one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/give-more-time-for-power-bill-verification/articleshow/76778751.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mysuru||Foresters recover more than 120 acres of land encroached from Bandipur||MYSURU: In what is a triumph for the project of conservation of natural resources, the officials of the Bandipur Tiger Reserve have succeeded in recovering more than 120 acres of encroached land from various individuals including the brother-in-law of a former minister. The forest department is building elephant proof trenches (EPTs) on the borders of the encroached land to reaffirm the government’s claim on the property. Owing to its contiguity with the Mudumalai range in Tamil Nadu, Bandipur is often the target of encroachers given its proximity to Ooty. Moreover, the Mysuru-Ooty road passes right through the heart of the reserve, making the land on its fringes a target for those looking to take possession of the land through illegal means. Foresters believe that more than 5,000 acres rightfully belonging to the forest department have been encroached upon, with many VIPs being among those involved in illegally claiming forest land. The land that was encroached was largely in Channamalipura, Hongahalli, Navilugundhi and other villages in the Maddur range of Bandipur. The foresters said that a few of the people who encroached the land had leased it to individuals from neighbouring Kerala. Large parcels of land that were encroached upon had previously been with the Karnataka Forest Development Corporation (KFDC), which meant that they were not under the purview of the forest department. That more than 120 acres of forest land had been encroached upon was discovered in 2008, and acting under the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, the foresters initiated proceedings against those who had claimed possession of the land. They were issued eviction orders in 2017. Bandipur Tiger Reserve director T Balachandra told TOI that they had constructed the elephant proof trench along 2.46km at Hongahalli in Baragi section in order to prevent jumbos from straying into human habitats. “Those who want to contest our reclaiming the land can move the court. We have all the necessary documents and will submit them to the court in such a situation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/foresters-recover-more-than-120-acres-of-land-encroached-from-bandipur/articleshow/76777864.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Rapid antigen tests start in areas outside Delhi’s containment zones||NEW DELHI: Scaling up its testing capacity, Delhi government on Friday started conducting rapid antigen detection tests outside the containment zones in all 11 districts in the capital. According to an official, special teams formed by the district authorities took samples of a cross-section of people on Friday. Some districts started the process on Thursday itself. Since there is no centralised compiling of the test results yet, the percentage of people testing positive is not known. There is an enhanced focus on testing now as the positivity rate in Delhi has been going down for the past one week, which, many believe, is a sign that Covid-19 is finally under check. According to the health bulletin released by the health and family welfare department on Friday, out of the 24,155 tests conducted on Thursday, 13,588 were rapid antigen tests. An official said the number of samples taken on Friday would be much more. “Each district has been given a target of testing 2,000 people every day. Though they did not meet the target, all districts conducted 1,200-1,600 tests,” said the official. The rapid antigen detection tests have been started to scale up the ongoing process of identifying symptomatic patients and isolating them immediately. A source said the district magistrates had been asked to set up additional testing centres and double up their daily testing capacity. Some district administrations such as Central, West and South have also deployed mobile teams in special buses to move around and collect samples. While initially the rapid antigen detection tests were being conducted only on high-risk contacts and those living in the containment zones, Indian Council of Medical Research recently issued fresh guidelines to take all people under its ambit. All symptomatic people with influenza-like illness (ILI) in the containment zones or hotspots and asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of confirmed cases with other ailments are being tested with rapid antigen detection kits. These kits are used for all ILI patients in hospitals apart from asymptomatic patients who are either hospitalised or seeking hospitalisation for chemotherapy and transplants and those above the age of 65 years with comorbidities. According to an official, Delhi government recently procured about six lakh antigen detection kits and another order of five lakh kits have been placed. Different districts have shortlisted their own target groups for conducting the tests. While in some areas, the frontline Covid workers are being tested with antigen kits, essential service providers are being given priority in some others. In a few districts, health teams have been taking samples of random people on first-come-first-served basis, a source said. Anyone testing positive is immediately referred to district health teams, which decide between hospitalisation and home isolation depending on the severity of symptoms, age and comorbidities. Watch Rapid antigen tests start in areas outside Delhi’s containment zones||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rapid-antigen-tests-start-in-areas-outside-citys-containment-zones/articleshow/76778375.cms||Atul Mathur
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||VIL pulls out, Veolia to operate Nagpur’s drinking water supply||NAGPUR: Vishvaraj Infrastructures Limited (VIL) has reportedly pulled out of Orange City Water Private Limited (OCW), its joint venture with Veolia Water India Private Limited to operate the city’s drinking water supply worth Rs200 crore per annum and execute Rs440 crore 24X7 Water Supply Project. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had eight years ago allotted these works to OCW for 25 years. Sources said Veolia will now look after day-to-day operations of OCW, a 50-50% venture between Veolia and VIL subsidiary Vishvaraj Environment Private Ltd (VEPL). Under the original agreement, VEPL looked after day-to-day operations and Veolia gave its expertise. Mayor Sandip Joshi told TOI, “I got intimation about the changes. There is no issue if everything is as per contract. Our motive will be to get the project completed by OCW and ensure proper drinking water supply.” CMD of VIL Arun Lakhani said, “It is a restructuring of promoters, and keeps on happening in corporates. VIL is committed to the project and will ensure there are no lacunas. VIL’s involvement will continue.” OCW director (HR) KMP Singh said, “Such decisions are taken at management level. We are on the field and responsible to deliver best services. We do not have any information of this as of now.” Officials who look after water works for NMC and Nagpur Environmental Services Limited (NESL), the special purpose vehicle, are not aware of the development. NMC sources told TOI representatives of OCW met municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe to inform him of the changes. Mundhe did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages. As per the agreement, OCW has to intimate NMC about changes in shareholding pattern. Though the water supply contract is for 25 years, NMC had in 2011 set a moratorium of five years for the companies to dilute their shares among themselves. Joshi and Lakhani refused to reveal the change in shareholding. Experts in infrastructure projects, VIL got the contract due to Veolia’s expertise in drinking water supply as norms said any foreign company in the tender should have joint venture with a local company. Against deadline of March 1, 2017, the project is still incomplete, with numerous allegations over drinking water supply problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vil-pulls-out-veolia-to-operate-citys-drinking-water-supply/articleshow/76778317.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||Chandrashekhar Bawankule is general secretary of BJP Maharashtra unit||NAGPUR: Former minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule has been finally rehabilitated with the BJP top bosses appointing him as one of the six general secretaries of the state unit. Former mayor Archana Dehankar and corporator Dharmapal Meshram have been appointed as secretaries. MLA Sanjay Kute from Buldhana district has been appointed as a vice-president. Bawankule was the third most powerful BJP leader in the district in the last government. He received a jolt when he was denied the ticket for the 2019 assembly elections. Some topmost BJP leaders were reportedly annoyed with him. The reason for this displeasure is yet to be made public. The ex-minister’s name was proposed by the state BJP unit for a member of legislative council (MLC) ticket along with that of Eknath Khadse, Vinod Tawde and Pankaja Munde. However, the top party leadership rejected all names and Pravin Datke got the ticket from Vidarbha quota. Bawankule is the only one among the four sidelined leaders to make it to the state executive. Pankaja’s sister Preetam Munde (an MP) and Eknath’s daughter-in-law Raksha Khadse (also an MP) have been given posts. Vinod Tawde has been left high and dry again. Sanjay Puram (Gondia) and Rajendra Bakane (Wardha) are the other office-bearers from Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bawankule-is-gen-secy-of-bjp-state-unit/articleshow/76778329.cms||Ashish Roy
July 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur top cop promises people-friendly policing||Coimbatore: Inspector general of police G Karthikeyan IPS, who took charge as the commissioner of police of Tirupur city on Friday, said he would ensure people-friendly policing. Karthikeyan, who received the President’s Police Medal in 2017, was earlier serving as deputy inspector general (DIG) of police in Coimbatore range and was promoted as IGP recently. After assuming office, Karthikeyan said he would focus on prevention of crime and would take steps to maintain communal harmony. “We will identify the accident hotspots and would take action to reduce the fatal accidents in Tirupur city. More number of CCTV cameras will be installed. It would help police solve many cases,” said Karthikeyan. Karthikeyan was born in 1970. He did MA in public administration and pursued a post graduate diploma in management. He also did a degree in law. Karthikeyan joined in Tamil Nadu police service in 1995 and worked as deputy superintendent of police at Polur and Vandavasi in Tiruvannamalai district and Avinashi in Tirupur district and Madurantakam in Chengalpet district. He was promoted as ADSP and posted in Tiruvallur district.He was promoted as DIG in 2016 and posted at Dindigul range.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-top-cop-promises-people-friendly-policing/articleshow/76778315.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Dehradun||DMC launches campaign to recognise ‘Safai Saathis’ in city||Dehradun: The Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) has launched a campaign to recognize 560 waste pickers in the city. They will be called ‘Safai Saathis’ and would be provided ID cards, gloves, and an overall coat with the words "Safai Sathi" written on it to recognize their work. The DMC had surveyed twelve locations in Dehradun, including Chunabhatta, Kargi Chowk and Sapera Basti, Bindal Nadi. Mayor Shri Sunil Uniyal Gama, municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey launched the campaign by handing over the kits to the sanitation workers. This initiative is being supported by ONGC, Tel Bhawan, Dehradun and Waste Warriors Society, who will be the implementing partner to ensure that the governments schemes are made available to and accessible by all ‘Safai Sathis’ in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-launches-campaign-to-recognise-safai-saathis-in-city/articleshow/76776526.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Three Bengaluru cluster zones turn the tide, are now Covid-19 free||BENGALURU: Barely a couple of months ago, three localities in Bengaluru — Padarayanapura, Shivajinagar and Hongasandra — seemed on the verge of becoming examples of community transmission of Covid-19, but now, thanks to unstinting work on the ground by frontline warriors, all three have zero positive cases. Shivajinagar reported its last positive case on May 5, Hongasandra on May 15 and Padarayanapura on May 22. However, the localities still remain containment zones as a preventive measure. A senior BBMP official said stringent monitoring and residents’ responsible behaviour successfully helped contain the spread of the virus. Health workers take stock in Hongasandra and a road blocked off in Padarayanapura ward.Padarayanapura was the first locality to see a spike in cases after five Tablighi Jamaat attendees tested positive. The five had stayed in a single building and with cases multiplying, Padarayanapura was sealed off. People were not allowed to step out of their homes and essentials were supplied at their doorstep. “Initially the number of cases was very few in Padarayanpura, but as days passed they multiplied, spreading fear among residents,” said West Zone joint commissioner Chidanand N, under whose jurisdiction Padarayanapura falls. “With Padarayanapura being a predominantly Muslim locality, we spoke to religious leaders and asked them to help us spread awareness on the importance of social distancing,” Chidanand said, adding: “The fear psychosis too helped us in a way. There were very few violations.” Random sample tests were conducted on at least 1,200 people, with the focus on pregnant women and senior citizens. “We ensured everyone who might be a possible Covid patient was tested and only 81 tested positive,” an official added. Vishvesvaraya Layout in Hongasandra followed in the footsteps of Padarayanapura. The cluster outbreak began with a 54-year-old migrant labourer from Bihar testing positive for an infection. He had interacted with 153 people, passing on the virus to 50 of them. “The spread was largely among the contacts of just one person,” Bommanahalli joint commissioner M Ramakrishna said. “Contact tracing was easy. The man lived in a tiny, cramped house and community members were prompt in cooperating with us,” He went on to say, “We sealed an entire street where all these people lived. Fortunately, they hadn’t moved out much as they were getting ration kits during the lockdown. Else, we would have seen over 200 cases in Hongasandra alone.” Hongasandra’s first Covid-19 patient was cured and has returned to his village in Bihar. Barely had the scare in Hongasandra come off the boil when an outbreak erupted in Shivajinagar. A housekeeper worker in a quarantine centre turned positive. Seventy others who lived in the same building as his in Chandini Chowk also tested positive within days. “People were worried about their health and did not venture out, unlike other areas. Social distancing was adhered to in the area,” a health official said. Chief health officer B Vijayendra said, “The three localities contributed 184 cases in the city, but we have been able to stop the virus in its tracks. None of these localities have reported a single case even after the lockdown was lifted. Fear of the virus has made people very cautious.” Watch Bengaluru: Three cluster zones are now Covid-19 free||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/three-bengaluru-cluster-zones-turn-the-tide-are-now-covid-19-free/articleshow/76777626.cms||Nithya Mandyam
July 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Ailing elephant dies without responding to treatment||Coimbatore: An ailing male elephant died without responding to treatment inside the reserve forest at Pethikuttai in Sirumugai forest range early on Friday. Officials said the elephant, aged about ten years, was unwell for quite some time and was found lying on the ground inside the reserve forest at Pethikuttai beat on the evening of June 28. Forest veterinary doctor Sugumar and his team were called in to administer fluids to the elephant, following which it managed to walk back into the woods. On June 29, the elephant was again found indisposed in the same area, surrounded by a herd of elephants in the reserve forest. Forest officials somehow managed to treat it with intravenous fluids between June 30 and July 2, but they did not see any signs of a recovery in the elephant. On Friday around 8am, the frontline staff from Sirumugai forest range went to monitor the elephant, but could not reach it as a jumbo herd was present in the area. Around 11.45am, the frontline staff and Dr Sugumar again approached the elephant with emergency medicines, but found that it had died. The exact cause of the death will be known after a postmortem, they said. Since January 2020, 15 elephants have died due to various reasons in Coimbatore forest division and of the 15 elephants, eight have died in Sirumugai forest range.To highlight the elephant’s death, former school education minister and DMK leader Thangam Thennarasu took to social media on Friday to point out that 12 elephants had died in the last ten days in Coimbatore forest division, and questioned the silence of forest minister Dindigul Srinivasan and top forest department officials on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ailing-elephant-dies-without-responding-to-treatment/articleshow/76778321.cms||A Subburaj
July 4, 2020||Dehradun||5 arrested for liquor smuggling in Rishikesh||Haridwar: Five persons, including three women, have been arrested on Friday in connection with a liquor smuggling case. Police have recovered country-made and foreign liquor and also seized two bikes. The accused have been identified as Gajendra Sharma (40), Nitin Sharma (20), Aarti (32), Soni (18) and Sarita (40) all residents of Shyampur Rishikesh. SHO Rishikesh police station Ritesh Shah told TOI, "We got information about the liquor smuggling racket in the city and we conducted raids in Mayakund junction. We recovered 168 bottles of liquor and seized two bikes. A case has been registered against them and further investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/5-arrested-for-liquor-smuggling-in-rishikesh/articleshow/76776525.cms||MS Nawaz
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||7 arhtiyas served notice for selling grocery items in main veggie mkt||Ludhiana: After getting reports of few arhtiyas selling grocery items in their vegetable stalls inside the main vegetable market of the city, members of district market committee have issued notices to several arhtiyas and warned them of legal action in the next few days if they continue for selling grocery items in vegetable market. A member of the district market committee said, “Although, most arhityas are working as per directions of the marketing committee, there are some who have not followed their directions and started selling things other than vegetables to earn some extra rupees. This is against the norms. Notices have been issued to seven arhtiyas for violating such norms in the last few days. Meanwhile, the district vegetable marketing committee has given permission to small vegetable vendors to start selling grocery items in their stalls to consolidate their earnings. So far only 50 small vendors have opened their vegetable stalls, as not many people are coming to the market. The market committee is also promising the vendosrs some more relaxation, so that they can some money, in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/7-arhtiyas-served-notice-for-selling-grocery-items-in-main-veggie-mkt/articleshow/76778729.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Buses in coastal district ignore social distancing||Mangaluru: Days after the bus services were resumed in Dakshina Kannada by taking all precautionary measures issued by the government, it appears the service providers have thrown caution to the wind when the district is witnessing a spike in the number of positive cases. Packed buses, both KSRTC and private ones, on long and interior routes are common in the district now. Private bus owners and KSRTC officials say people ignore safety norms as fewer buses are operating on all routes. KSRTC Puttur divisional controller Nagendra told TOI they have reduced the number of buses considerably. “We were operating 560 buses from the division prior to the pandemic and lockdown. After the lockdown, we operated 230 buses for the convenience of students appearing for the SSLC examination till Friday. However, the number of buses will be reduced to 190 from Monday,” he said. On lack of social distancing in buses, he said, “In some areas, unexpected rush makes it difficult for conductors to manage the situation. If there is a good response in any route, we can introduce more buses. However, we are helpless when sudden rush of passengers is reported in any route. In such situations, passengers pay no heed to the words of conductors and ignore social distancing.” Dakshina Kannada Bus Owners Association president Dilraj Alva told TOI that only 30% to 40% private buses are operating in the district after the lockdown. “Most bus owners have reduced the number of buses due to the dip in their income. We had sought 50% hike in bus fare to facilitate social distancing. However, the government has sanctioned hike of 15% only which we have been demanding from 2013. Since then, the price of diesel has increased by Rs 13 per litre. Bus owners find it very difficult to operate due to increased maintenance cost and reduced income,” Alva said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/buses-in-coastal-district-ignore-social-distancing/articleshow/76776524.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Attacked doctor alleges bias in nabbing accused cop||Ludhiana: Forty-two-year-old Dr Rajiv Sharma, of Kailash Nagar road, who was attacked by a group of miscreants at his clinic on June 20, has alleged that the police are deliberately not taking action against the main accused of the attack, who allegedly is a policeman. He also alleged that he is being pressurised to compromise and is also feeling threatened, as suspicious men roam around his clinic. Dr Sharma was attacked with sharp-edged weapons at his clinic in broad day light. They had also vandalised his clinic. The accused tried to hit on his head with a sharp-edged weapon, however he saved his head using his arms. When the doctor raised an alarm, the accused escaped from there. The man has sustained injuries and deep cuts on his arms and hands. The Jodhewal police have arrested five accused, while four are still absconding. Dr Sharma said in his compliant to Prime Minister’s Ofiice, Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta, humanrights commission, IG Crime and Ludhiana commissioner of police that the police are trying to save the main accused. Dr Sharma said, “After the arrest of the five accused, the police, during interrogation, identified that the main conspirator of the attack is a policeman Gaurav Sharma, who is my family friend. However, the police are not booking him in the case, as he is a cop. Besides, I am being pressurised by some politicians to compromise. Also, for the last two days, suspicious-looking men are roaming around my clinic. I am afraid that I would be again be attacked by them. Therefore, I have written to higher officials to intervene in this case.” Sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal, station house officer Jodhewal police station, said, “The police have already arrested five accused Jatinder Kumar, his son Kunal, Nitesh, Vinay and Deepak — all from Haibowal area. Other four accused have also been identified and they are being traced. During interrogation of the arrested accused, the name of constable Gaurav Sharma, deputed at Punjab Police Academy, Phillaur came to light.” “Kunal told police that Gaurav is his father’s cousin. Gaurav once came home and told that he has seen some texts exchanged between his wife and Dr Rajiv and he suspects them of having an affair. According to Kunal, he along with his friends attacked doctor, as Gaurav asked them to do so. However, when police questioned constable Gaurav, he stated that he just shared this matter with them, but did not ask them to attack Dr Sharma. The police as of now have no evidence against the policeman to take action on him,” she added. The Jodhewal police had registered a case under Section of 307 (attempt to murder).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/attacked-doctor-alleges-bias-in-nabbing-accused-cop/articleshow/76778730.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||211 more test +ve on Friday, Kerala to tighten restrictions||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state reported its highest-ever single-day tally of 211 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, including 34 contact cases. As many as 201 patients recovered from the infection on the day. The number of cases reported in the state so far is 4,964, of which 2,098 are undergoing treatment. Highlighting the “serious” situation in the state, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the restrictions would be further strengthened as the case load was on the rise in all districts. “The situation in the city areas of Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam is of much concern. In Ponnani also, the situation is very bad. Strict restrictions will be implemented in these places,” he said. A lottery vendor, a policeman and a fisherman have tested positive in the capital city and their source of infection has not been traced so far. The restrictions at the government secretariat will also be tightened, he said. Condemning incidents of attack on Covid patients and those in quarantine, Vijayan said the people of the state should stand united in providing all support to them. “No one should forget that these people are undergoing quarantine to prevent the local spread,” he said. Of the new cases, 138 persons came from abroad and 39 from other states. Malappuram (35) had the most number of cases, followed by Kollam (23), Alappuzha and Thrissur (21 each), Kannur (18), Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam (17 each), Kottayam, Palakkad and Kozhikode (14 each), Pathanamthitta and Kasaragod (7 each), Idukki (2) and Wayanad (2). Besides the policeman in Thiruvananthapuram, the contact cases included 11 members of a family in Alappuzha, six CISF personnel and an aircrew member. The policeman attached to Nandavanam camp had been on duty in several places in the city in the recent days, including the cantonment police station near the government secretariat. As many as 7,306 samples were collected for testing in the past 24 hours. Till date, 1,91,773 samples (including repeat, augmented and private lab samples) have been sent for tests, of which results of 4,834 are pending. Besides, 51,840 of the total 53,922 samples taken from priority groups as part of sentinel surveillance have tested negative. A total of 1,77,011 persons are under observation in the state, of whom 1,74,117 are under home/institutional quarantine and 2,894 admitted to designated isolation facilities. Malappuram (248) leads the tally of active cases, followed by Kannur (226), Kollam (204), Palakkad (191), Alappuzha (196), Palakkad (191), Ernakulam (186), Pathanamthitta (181) and Thrissur (180).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/211-more-test-ve-on-friday-state-to-tighten-restrictions/articleshow/76777651.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Asymptomatic to be treated in home districts||KOCHI: Asymptomatic people, who test positive in the Covid-19 antigen test at airport, will be moved to the Covid hospital in their residential area, the state government has decided. Expats who test negative in antigen test will be sent for home quarantine. If they test positive with symptoms, they will be sent to the nearest Covid hospital. “Those found to be positive at airport using an antigen test and asymptomatic and clinically and psychologically stable shall be transported directly to the Covid hospital in their residential districts in special ambulances,” states an advisory issued by principal health secretary Dr Rajan Khobragade. This has been decided as the state government feels that patients may find it convenient to get treatment at their own residential districts. The government will arrange transport for such patients to the Covid hospital in their home district. Till July 2, all expatriates arriving in Kerala were tested for Covid-19 at the airport with IgM rapid antibody tests. If they tested positive in the antibody tests, then they were taken to Covid first line treatment centres and subjected to RT-PCR tests. However, with the minimum turnaround time for RT-PCR test results being six to seven hours, many had to wait for hours together. This caused inconvenience to the passengers and many complained of feeling restless till the results come. But with ICMR recommending that rapid antigen test kits can be used as a diagnostic test, Kerala government has now decided to use it in the airports here as a confirmatory test for those who test positive in antibody tests. “Instead of RT-PCR for confirmation, rapid antigen testing may be performed for all those who tested positive with IgM. Rapid antigen tests can give the results within 30 minutes,” the advisory states. Antigen testing may be performed at airport or at Covid care centres. Antigen positive travellers will be treated as Covid positive patients. Meanwhile, as a general protocol, government has decided to offer all symptomatic traveller, even if they test negative in antigen test, the RT-PCR testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/if-ve-asymptomatic-expats-to-be-treated-in-their-dists/articleshow/76777634.cms||Preetu Nair
July 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Quaid-e-Millath Colony folk seek basic amenities||Coimbatore: Residents of Quaid-e-Millath Colony near South Ukkadam in the city on Friday demanded the city corporation to provide basic amenities such as drinking water, streetlight, proper roads and drainage system in their locality. Holding placards in front of their houses, they also protested the official apathy. M Abdul Rahim, a resident, said, “Most of us don’t have a household drinking water connection. The city corporation has not paid heed to our repeated requests to set up at least public taps in our locality. We are still depending on water tankers, which supply potable water supply once in 40 days that too after constantly putting pressure on the concerned official.” To ensure that they don’t run out of water, he said, they had been storing water in five 175-litre containers. There are more than 300 families in the colony that comprises Reshma Garden, Arputham Nagar and Rose park. The residents also have problems with the sewage treatment plant. Abdul Rahim said the treated water that was discharged from the plant has been overflowing near his house. “As a result, sludge has formed there. And when it rains, it becomes very difficult for us to pass through the area.” Pointing out that the sewage water has been remaining stagnant in the area, another resident A M Sirajdheen said because of that there was a foul smell. “It has contaminated the groundwater as well over the years.” According to him, there aren’t streetlights and proper roads in the locality. “It has been almost a year since sanitary workers collected waste at our doorsteps. We had petitioned officials several times, but they haven’t yet taken any steps to address our issues. All that we want the city corporation to do is to provide us drinking water at least once in 15 days, fix the drainage system and install streetlamps at the earliest. Repairing bad roads could wait for some time.” When contacted, a city corporation official said, “The width of the storm water drain, through which treated sewage water is flowing, is reduced due to encroachments. Hence, sewage water is overflowing. Based on a complaint from the residents, we had covered the area with sand last week.” The official also assured to look into their complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/quaid-e-millath-colony-folk-seek-basic-amenities/articleshow/76778332.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 4, 2020||Dehradun||Fees of non-clinical PG courses decreased to Rs 1 lakh per year in govt colleges||Dehradun: The state government on Friday decreased the fees of non-clinical postgraduate (PG) courses in the government colleges. It has been brought down to Rs 1 lakh per year from the earlier Rs 5 lakh. The decision was taken as the students were "not taking interest in non-clinical PG courses due to high fees". According to the orders issued by secretary, health, Amit Negi, this would be applicable in anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, pharmacology, forensic medicine, microbiology and community medicine courses. Earlier, Rs 60,000 was the fees per year for non-clinical PG courses for the students who used to sign a bond with the state government to give their services to the state for five years after the completion of course. For the rest of the students, the fee was Rs 5 lakh per year. Mostly, non-clinical courses are of three-year duration. “There was less interest of students in non-clinical PG courses in government colleges due to some reasons. It has been hence decided that the fees of all the non-clinical PG courses will be Rs 1 lakh per year,” said the orders from Negi which also mentioned that the state has already done away with the bond system for non-clinical courses in 2019. “Students will take more interest in non-clinical courses after the reduction in fees,” said Negi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fees-of-non-clinical-pg-courses-decreased-to-rs-1-lakh-per-year-in-govt-colleges/articleshow/76776534.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 4, 2020||Delhi||2,520 fresh Covid cases take Delhi’s count past 94,000||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 2,520 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the tally to over 94,000. The death toll mounted to 2,923, the authorities said. At 3,947, the capital on June 23,had reported the highest single-day spike till date. However, in the past five days, the number of fresh cases has oscillated without a particular trend in figures. The number of cases reported from June 28 to July 1 are —2,889 cases (June 28), 2,084 (June 29), 2,199 (June 30) and 2,442 (July 1) — with a steady rise in death figures. As many as 59 fatalities have been recorded in the past 24 hours, said an official in the state health department. On the brighter side, the positivity rate of Covid-19 reduced to 10.4% on Friday, with only 2,520 of 24,165 samples testing positive. Positivity rate refers to the number of cases reported among the total samples tested. In the second week of June, it was recorded at 30% and above on multiple occasions. But over the past 11 days, data released by the government shows that the positivity rate has been coming down consistently. Union home minister Amit Shah took a meeting to review management of Covid-19 in the state. Also, an order was issued by the state health department to deploy psychiatrists working in state-run hospitals and medical institutions to dedicated Covid hospitals of Delhi government to provide teleconsultancy to patients who require psychiatric consultancy. Delhi currently has 26,148 active cases; of these, 5,635 are admitted to various hospitals. Around 2,000 others are admitted to the Covid care and health centres, which have basic medical facilities for managing mild cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2520-fresh-covid-cases-take-delhis-count-past-94000/articleshow/76778985.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Coimbatore||City NGO bags Global Humanitarian Award||Coimbatore: City-based non-governmental organization No Food Waste has bagged the Global Humanitarian Award for exemplary service in 12 cities in the southern part of the country during the Covid-19 pandemic. The award was bestowed by World Humanitarian Drive (WHD) under the category Pillars of Society. Out of the 1,600 nominations from across the world, as many as 100 individuals, organizations and community groups from 35 countries were awarded through a virtual honouring ceremony. Volunteers of the NGO distributed food to over 18.35 lakh people and grocery kits to 18,568 families since the lockdown was imposed. They collect surplus food from weddings and other functions to distribute among the people in need. They had set up a centralized kitchen to serve the people in need and had been distributing over 15,000 food plates per day. They had been working closely with the city corporation and other organizations. “Ever since the lockdown was relaxed, we have been focusing on distributing grocery kits to the families in need. Using corporate donations, we have been distributing milkshakes and biscuits to people,” said NGO founder Padmanaban Gopalan. He credited the volunteers, who had been working tirelessly during the lockdown period, for the achievement. Expressing happiness on being selected for the award, A Ashiq, an 18-year-old volunteer of the NGO, said it will make others join their cause. No Food Waste plans to launch a subsidised meal programme to ensure that those who do not have access to kitchens, get food at an affordable price, Padmanaban said. “As the number of Amma Unavagams are limited in the district and most of the messes and food carts are yet to resume business, many people are struggling to meet their expenses,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-ngo-bags-global-humanitarian-award/articleshow/76778338.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Labour unions hold joint protest against anti-people policies of govts||Ludhiana: Attacking the policies of the central government, various labour and trade organisations of the city have demanded roll back of the changes in the labour laws made in the BJP ruled states. A protest was organised on Friday by these organisations from Punjabi Bhawn to at the mini secretariat at Ludhiana. The protesters included members of various unions, including Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), The All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and Central Trade Unions (CTU). Meanwhile, speaking on the issue, D P Maur, secretary of Communist Party of India Ludhiana said, “Today’s protest was against the draconian changes in the labour laws and government’s total apathy of the governments in the face of loss of jobs and livelihood which has pushed labourers into abject poverty. The BJP ruled states, like Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Gujarat, have made such drastic changes in the labour laws which will turn workers into bonded labourers.” Maur also added, “The merging of 44 laws into four codes will lead to snatching away of almost 80% rights of workers. Change of timings from eight hours to 12 hours will lead to exploitation. Today’s protest was just a small trailer for the government. If it doesn’t rollback the changes made in labour laws, lakhs of workers will hit the streets nationwide to take back their rights.” According to Baldev Modgil, another trade union leader, “The domestic workers are at receiving end at this time as they are trying to feed their families by working inspite of such critical conditions due to Coronavirus but even after taking such risks they most of them are not being paid.” Tarsem Jodhan, another union leader, said, “BJP government, whether at centre or in states, is taking disastrous decisions and destroying livelihoods of lakhs of honest and hard working workers and employees. It is our warning to the government, stop the politics and false claims, rollback the changes made or else there will be huge protests in every city, town and village of India.” Other leaders who were present for the protest included Sarabjit Singh Sarhali, Prof Jaipal singh, Manpreet Singh Nihal, Charan Sarabha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/labour-unions-hold-joint-protest-against-anti-people-policies-of-govts/articleshow/76778733.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Chandigarh||MC organises seminar on corona for staff||Ludhiana: For creating awareness among the frontline corona warriors of the civic body, a seminar was organised at zone A meeting hall on Friday where Bishav Mohan, professor of cardiology, Dayanand Medical College & Hospital (DMCH) gave tips to remain safe from Covid-19. The employees from operation and maintenance cell, bridges and road department, building branch and health wing of civic body attended the seminar. The employees were told to be careful in July and August, especially when rainy season will set in, as along with Covid-19, they will have to fight several other health issues as well. Chief sanitary inspector Ashwani Sahota said, “We were told about new symptoms like no taste and no smell.” He said in the coming months fever will become common and it will become difficult to differentiate between dengue and Covid-19. He said a booklet was distributed among all employees about coronavirus. The employees attended the seminar in meeting hall and seating arrangement was done in a way that social distancing could be observed. The employees claimed that they learnt many precautionary measures that will come to their aid in the coming months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-organises-seminar-on-corona-for-staff/articleshow/76778734.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kochi||Group ready to hand over private medical college to Kerala government||THRISSUR: The NRK group, led by Dr Azad Moopen, has expressed its willingness to hand over DM WIMS medical college and other institutions at Meppadi in Wayanad to the government. The government has formed a seven-member committee to study the infrastructure and other aspects of the institutions. The order issued by principal secretary Rajan N Khobragade said the panel will be headed by Dr Viswanathan from Thiruvananthapuram MCH and CJ Anitha will be the chairperson of technical committee. The order added that chartered accountant S Suresh Babu, member of the fee regulatory committee, will study the books, accounts and balance sheet of DM WIMS institutions and prepare a valuation report regarding movable and immovable assets. Director of medical education Dr Remla Beevi said the committee will submit a report within three weeks. “Committee has been appointed primarily to evaluate whether it will be feasible to take over the institutions and at what cost,” she said. The panel was constituted after Dr Moopen wrote a letter in this regard on June 5, 2020. DM Foundation has not given a clarification and sources in the group said it will issue one on Saturday. But, leaders of Kerala Private Medical College Management Association said all 23 private medical colleges in state are battling financial crisis and many will have to be closed down or taken over by the government. Kerala Medical College, Cherpulassery has shut while SR Medical College, Varkala is on the verge of closure and admissions remain suspended at Kannur Anjarakandy medical college. Association president Dr KM Navas and secretary Anilkumar Vallil blamed the government fee structure for the crisis. They said Rs 6-7 crore was need each month to run a medical college with 150 seats and the annual fee should be Rs 10-Rs 12 lakh/student. Government has fixed fee at Rs 6-7 lakh/student. State planning board member Dr B Ekbal said financial crisis of DM WIMS medical institutions need not be the reason for the proposal. At present, there is no government medical college in Wayanad and government was exploring the possibility of setting up one there, he said, refuting the complaint of private medical colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/group-ready-to-hand-over-pvt-med-college-to-govt/articleshow/76777679.cms||T Ramavarman
July 4, 2020||Dehradun||Govt nod to open banquet halls won’t bring much respite, say owners of wedding points||Dehradun: A day after banquet halls and community centres were allowed to operate in the state, owners of these facilities have said that the decision won’t bring much relief and organising functions with Covid-19 norms in place will be a “no profit-no loss” business for them. Manish Batola, who owns a marriage lawn and banquet hall in Dehradun, says, “All our bookings got cancelled during the peak wedding months of March, April, May and June. Now, the government has allowed us to reopen our facilities but just about 10 days are left in the ongoing wedding season.” The owners of wedding venues are also concerned about the norm that forbids the entry of more than 50 guests in a wedding function. “Around 100 people, including cooks, waiters, helpers, cleaners, and other staff, are involved in the entire preparation. However, as we are allowed to host only a limited number of guests, we are forced to reduce our tariff by more than 50%. If we don't do that, no one will book our venues. More than 90% bookings, which were to be scheduled in the last four months, have already been postponed till September.” The average rent charged by even the smaller wedding points range between Rs 1.2 lakh and Rs 1.5 lakh per event and those who own big facilities charge somewhere between Rs 2.3 lakh and 2.5 lakh. “With just 50 guests, we won’t even be able to recover our operational cost. We won’t be able to make any profit unless the government allows at least 200-250 guests," added Batola. Arun Kumar, a city-based caterer, said, “Be it 50 people or 500, we require the same staff to cook and serve food. Thus, we will continue to suffer till the time the number of people permitted in a wedding function is raised. The marriage season will end soon and we will be left with no major contracts for a few months. During the lockdown, bookings worth Rs 15 lakh got cancelled. The entire wedding industry is going through a difficult time currently.” Not just the organisers but also the members of the bands, who play music during the ceremony, are struggling to make ends meet. Anuj Saini, a member of city’s Bharat Band, said, “The government has allowed weddings but our business will pick up when the cap of 50 guests is raised. It’s not possible for people to dance at weddings while maintaining social distancing and hence, people are not booking us for functions. We hope that the business picks up during the winter season. At present, members of many bands across the city have taken up other odd jobs like selling fruits and vegetables to earn their livelihood.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-nod-to-open-banquet-halls-wont-bring-much-respite-say-owners-of-wedding-points/articleshow/76776543.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 4, 2020||Mysuru||Covid lab in Kodagu sealed after two technicians test positive||Madikeri: In the wake of two healthcare employees who were working in the capacity of laboratory technicians at the Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences testing positive for the novel coronavirus, the district deputy commissioner’s office issued a release to the media stating that the laboratory used for testing swab samples for Covid-19 would remain closed till Saturday. The release went on to add that no Covid-19 samples would be tested until the laboratory was completely sanitised. In addition to the two laboratory technicians, two more individuals tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Friday, pushing Kodagu’s tally of active Covid cases to 73. The laboratory is expected to resume normal operations from Sunday. Meanwhile, after postal workers in Madikeri came in contact with a Covid patient from Navodaya Vidyalaya, the post office in the town was closed on Friday afternoon. While four primary contacts of the infected patients have been asked to quarantine themselves at home, the post office is likely to open after it is sanitised on Saturday. Spike alarms Kodagu residents Kodagu was one of the few districts in Karnataka that had managed to remain untouched by the novel coronavirus from March through May. However, the easing of the lockdown norms and unrestricted movement of people from other states and districts to Kodagu has resulted in the hilly district now being home to as many as 73 active cases. In the wake of four fresh cases being reported in the district on Friday, as many new containment zones have been designated in Kodagu, taking the total number of such areas to 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/covid-lab-in-kodagu-sealed-after-two-technicians-test-positive/articleshow/76776548.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Railways refund tickets worth Rs 3 crore in Ludhiana alone||LUDHIANA: The local railway authorities have already shelled out more than Rs 3 crore to thousands of passengers to refund booked fares after the railway ministry decided to cancel all trains for one more month owing to rise in number of Covid-19 cases. More than 30,000 local passengers have reached the reservation counter of the city railway station to get back their refund amount on cancelled train tickets. However, railway authorities have also extended the validity of its beneficiary scheme of getting relaxed funding on previously cancelled train tickets. This decision will be helpful for all those passengers whose fares were partly deducted as service charges after they had cancelled their ticket voluntarily in March. Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar confirmed that more than Rs 3 crore has been refunded so far. “For managing passenger rush, railway has opened three counters for booking tickets and getting back refund on cancelled tickets.” Rajveer Singh, who had decided to cancel his train ticket after hearing the news about daily rise in cases in major cities of the country like Mumbai, Kolkata and Delhi, said the railways has given major relief to passengers by extended the validity of refunding period. “This is a major relief to the middle class which is struggling with large issues related to financial management after losing jobs and facing pay cuts in Covid-19 era,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/railways-refund-tickets-worth-rs-3-crore-in-ludh-alone/articleshow/76778735.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 4, 2020||Delhi||People cannot be forced to donate plasma: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: People cannot be forced to give an undertaking to donate plasma before receiving treatment for Covid-19, and any donation has to be voluntary, Delhi high court observed on Friday.  A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan declined to entertain a PIL seeking directions to the Centre and the AAP-led Delhi government to make it mandatory to obtain plasma from patients who have recovered from Covid-19 either at home or at a hospital.  The court, however, asked the respondents - the Centre, Delhi government, National Disaster Management Authority and various civic bodies - to treat the petition as a representation, which had sought framing of guidelines and constitution of a statutory body to regulate smooth availability of plasma. The petition claimed that both the governments were not taking effective steps for ensuring sufficient availability of plasma for Covid-19 patients. It sought the court's direction to make it obligatory on the part of every recovered patient to donate plasma at the first instance.  The plea submitted that, since there was no other effective tool except plasma therapy to treat Covid patients, the government must constitute a committee that would regulate the availability of plasma. It urged the court to pass necessary orders for establishing a proper mechanism for making it mandatory for all the hospitals operated under both the governments, municipal corporations or private testing labs to send data of all the Covid positive cases.  However, the bench observed that people cannot be forced to donate plasma. It also pointed out that a plasma bank has been inaugurated in the capital and recovered people can donate their plasma there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/people-cannot-be-forced-to-donate-plasma-delhi-hc/articleshow/76778995.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: 5,000 fever camps to offer Covid-19 test||COIMBATORE: Municipal administration minister S P Velumani on Friday unveiled plans to conduct 5,000 special fever camps in the district this month in association with the public health department and local bodies. At the camps, he said, people with flu like symptoms would be tested for Covid-19. Addressing the media at the district collectorate, the minister called on the people to attend the camps if they were having fever, cold and other symptoms. “Doctors would take throat and nasal swabs from them for Covid-19 test. We hope the drive would help us control the spread of the virus in the district.” Velumani said 131 flights with 19,161 passengers from various parts of the country and abroad had landed in the city airport since the central government granted permission to operate flights on May 25. “They were all tested for the infection and only 111 were positive. Among them, 46 were from the district and the remaining were from other parts of the state.” Pointing out that 60,282 people were tested for the virus in the district until Thursday, the minister said only 608 of them were found to be infected. “At least 318 patients have already recovered and are out of hospitals. Another 287 are undergoing treatment now,” he said without mentioning what happened to the remaining three in the list. Referring to the flow of people from other districts and states, Velumani said 8,302 people had returned to the district so far and that they were all kept in home quarantine under the strict scrutiny of the city corporation, revenue, public health department and police officials. “The district has 400 beds in ESI Hospital, 405 in Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, 471 in taluk hospitals, 240 in primary health centres, 1,456 in private hospitals, 13 in upgraded primary health centres and 713 beds in other government hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. The government has arranged 1,000 more beds at six places, including Codissia, for asymptomatic patients. The district has in total 4,685 beds for the infected,” the minister said.  Velumani also visited the Codissia trade fair complex and inspected the work on setting up Covid-19 care centre with 400 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5000-fever-camps-to-offer-covid-19-test/articleshow/76778357.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Can’t swim in canals, rivers in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: As on Friday, nobody will be allowed to take a plunge in the canal, river or any other water bodies in the city, the Ludhiana commissioner of police (CP) has prohibited it under Section 144 of CrPC. CP Rakesh Agarwal said often children, youngsters and other people take a dip in the canal and river and often get drowned. The move is to avert such incidents, he added. He also said the Ludhiana police will create an awareness about this among the city residents through media, social media and public addressal system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cant-swim-in-canals-rivers-in-ludh/articleshow/76778738.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kochi||Three-tier team to help children cope with stress||KOCHI: The state government has intensified its psycho social support (PSS) system for children. Realising the need to address emotional issues and doubts in the minds of children caught in the uncertainty of Covid-19, a three-tier team has been put in place to reach out to children facing any kind of mental stress at home. “We have been conducting online counselling since March. However, as the schools are normally closed during April and May, school counsellors were shifted to be part of Covid counselling during which they would also enquire about children at houses as part of psycho social support programme,” said T V Anupama, director, department of women and child development. She said though counsellors continue to be primarily on Covid-related tele-counselling, there is an emphasis to look into child welfare too. “We understand that children are facing a different type of pressure mainly with schools not opening in the near future. Also, this is the exam result season during which we are generally very active,” she said. However, under Covid care, anganwadi and Asha workers come under first round of alert system at the ward levels. They would first identify children showing mental stress and behavioural problems. The counselling would be conducted by interacting with parents and children through phone. “We are doing a lot of tele-counselling. However, we have not seen any major issues that needed physical visits of doctors,” she said. Meanwhile, the psychosocial support programme under the state mental health authority has been a huge success for many Covid-19 patients and families. About 1,143 personnel are working under the system and they have attended to 5,61,965 people in quarantine/ isolation as on July 2. In addition to this, PSS calls are also given to mentally-ill patients, parents of children with special needs, guest workers and elderly people living alone. Counselling service is also given to alleviate stress of personnel working in corona outbreak control activities. Co-ordination of community-based de-addiction is also being done. As on July 2, 12,59,705 PSS and counselling calls have been given in Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/three-tier-team-to-help-childrencope-with-stress/articleshow/76777694.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
July 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana businessmen seek interest waiver on advance deposit of power bills||LUDHIANA: City businessmen, led by president of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), Upkar Singh Ahuja, met the chief engineer of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) Varinderpal Singh Saini on Friday. The meeting was organised to address the problems being faced by the industrialists from PSPCL. The businessmen sought waiver of interest on advance consumption deposit (ACD) of power bills. Ahuja said, “As far as PSPCL is concerned, there are several issues being faced by us. The major being interest on the ACD on power bills and high power charges. Considering the ongoing crisis due to Coronavirus pandemic, it is very important that the resolution of our problems is done at the earliest. Therefore, a meeting was organised today between our delegation and PSPCL chief engineer Saini. The meeting was held in very cordial environment and other senior officers of the department, including deputy chief engineer Harjit Singh Gill were also present. We also discussed the issues related to the industry like capping of power tariffs for industry and simplification of obtaining power connection. Chief engineer has assured us that all our demands would be looked into and a speedy resolution will be done.” According to Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of CICU, “One of the major point that came up for discussion in the meeting was the shortage of proper staff in PSPCL offices, mainly Focal Point Division. In addition to this, we have also demanded relaxation in fixed charges and electricity duty in the power bills. We have also demanded that the rate of power tariff should be fixed at Rs 5 per unit for all categories of the industrial consumers.” Chief engineer Saini meanwhile thanked the businessmen for giving him feedback about the problems being faced by them and the probable solutions and also assured that such meetings would be organized time to time with the businessmen. Meanwhile other businessmen who were present in the meeting included Honey Sethi, Gautam Malhotra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-seek-interest-waiver-on-advance-deposit-of-power-bills/articleshow/76778736.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Dehradun||Met predicts ‘very heavy rainfall’ in four districts, including Dehradun||DEHRADUN: The regional meteorological centre on Friday issued a ‘yellow alert’, predicting heavy to very rainfall with intense spells in four districts, including Dehradun. According to the weather department, heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in Nainital, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar and Dehradun districts on July 4. And, heavy rainfall may lash in Tehri, Rudraprayag, Pauri and Udham Singh Nagar districts. “Widespread rains are likely to occur across Uttarakhand on July 4, with heavy spells predicted at isolated places. Dehradun is expected to receive an intense spell of rains during the next 24-hours,” said Bikram Singh, director, regional meteorological centre. On Friday, Dehradun witnessed thundershowers during the evening hours. According to the Met, 37.8mm rain was recorded.Several places in the Kumaon region also received heavy rainfall. For instance, Pantnagar received 50mm rainfall while Didihat witnessed 30mm rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/met-predicts-very-heavy-rainfall-in-four-districts-including-dehradun/articleshow/76776582.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 4, 2020||Dehradun||US Nagar farmer grows red ladyfingers, says India won’t need to import the variety anymore||Rudrapur: A farmer from Sitarganj in Udham Singh Nagar district has successfully managed to cultivate red ladyfingers in his farm using organic means. Anil Deep Mahal says that after he is able to grow them in bulk, Indian farmers can follow the suit and thereafter, our country wouldn’t need to import this variety. “The maturity time for a red ladyfinger (red okra) crop is about 50 to 65 days. It tastes quite like a blend of eggplant and asparagus. My cultivation method is purely organic and as people are getting more health conscious, farmers can earn good profit from this crop,” Mahal told TOI. Explaining the health benefits of a red ladyfinger, Mahal said, “It is good for eyesight, skin, helps increase RBC count in the body, boosts immunity, helps in weight loss, controls diabetes, helps patients of constipation, and lowers cholesterol. It is also a good source of Vitamin A, folacin, Vitamin B, magnesium, potassium, and calcium. This vegetable variety is fat-free and cholesterol free as well.” When asked about how he got the idea of cultivating red ladyfingers, Mahal added, “I noticed this variety, which India imports, when I had gone to Delhi. When I came back here, I ordered the seeds at an e-commerce platform and cultivated these. I have sown over a hundred plants in almost a quarter acre area of my farm. Famers from all across the state are coming to me with their queries as they are interested in producing red okra. The market price of red ladyfinger will be a little over Rs 100 per kg. I will be producing seeds now to sell it to the farmers so that the red ladyfingers are grown at a larger level.” Meanwhile, agro-scientist Dr Anil Hafeez has said that the scientists at Indian Institute of Vegetable Research in Uttar Pradesh cultivated this variety known as “Kashi Lalima” in 2019. “The variety did not gain any popularity among farmers then owing to its high price and the lackadaisical approach of state officials. If Mahal manages to produce seeds at a lower price and with good yielding capacity, Terai farmers can make good fortune out of this crop as people are quite health conscious now. This crop has the capacity of giving 50 quintals per acre and it does not need any chemicals, pesticides or fertilisers to grow. Furthermore, the crop’s maturity time is also short,” added Dr Hafeez.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-nagar-farmer-grows-red-ladyfingers-says-india-wont-need-to-import-the-variety-anymore/articleshow/76776587.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala govt forms special cell to monitor relief packages||KOCHI: The state government, on Thursday, issued an order to set up a special cell for monitoring Covid-19 relief packages. “In the background of the Covid-19 crisis, the government is of the view that there is a need to monitor the flow of benefits to various sectors of Kerala economy from various relief packages announced by central and state governments, which are to be mainly implemented through banking sector and other financial institutions. Industry representatives have mentioned that there is often a delay in accessing these credit relief schemes due to lack of proactive action by the financial institutions. It has therefore been decided to constitute a special cell in finance department to review the progress on implementation of various Covid-19 credit relief measures and packages announced by central and state governments and their agencies,” the order said. “The monitoring cell will be headed by additional chief secretary (finance) and will have representatives from SLBC, managing directors of KFC, KSIDC and Kerala Bank as well as the secretaries of concerned departments and representatives of the concerned industry associations like KSSIA, CREDAI etc,” the order said. The purpose of the committee would be to monitor the extent to which certain sectors as well as vulnerable categories like street vendors have been able to access various Covid-related credit relief schemes and how to facilitate and enhance greater access to these schemes, the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-forms-special-cell-to-monitor-relief-packages/articleshow/76777710.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Trichy||3 test +ve for Covid-19 during random testing at veggie mkt||Trichy: Three people tested positive for Covid-19 in a random screening conducted by the Trichy Corporation at Mathuram ground vegetable market on the East Boulevard (EB) road. Of the three, two were asymptomatic. As many as 112 traders and load men were screened at the vegetable market on July 1, of which, swabs were collected from 47 people. The results came on Friday. The three, aged 35, 39 and 58 years respectively are from Srirangam, Ariyamangalam and K Abishekapuram zones. Samples from their close contacts were also collected. They have been told to be on home isolation. “Most of us have no travel history. We only frequented the temporary wholesale vegetable market at G Corner ground,” a trader said. “We are inquiring whether the three patients had travelled outside the city in recent past,” corporation commissioner, S Sivasubramanian said. The presence of asymptomatic cases has exposed the need to carry out random tests in other vegetable and meat markets. District collector S Sivarasu told TOI that more random tests will be conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-test-ve-for-covid-19-during-random-testing-at-veggie-mkt/articleshow/76778748.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 4, 2020||Mysuru||75-year-old woman dies of Covid in Hassan||Hassan: The district on Monday reported one more Covid-19 death on Friday while 13 more persons tested positive for the virus, taking the active cases to 193. The deceased, third consecutive Covid fatality since July 1, has been identified as a 75-year-old woman from Sakleshpur taluk. The woman had complaints of pneumonia, blood pressure, and severe acute respiratory illness, said district surgeon Dr Krishnamurty. After a cop attached to the District Armed Reserve tested positive for Covid-19, the office will remain closed to the public till Saturday afternoon and sanitisation of premises were carried out on Friday. The infected guard on Wednesday completed his weekly turn at the SP office. His swab samples were collected on June 1. He remains asymptomatic and his 22 primary contacts, including eight family members have been traced. “Soon after the guard’s test report was out on Friday around 6.30am, sanitisation of SP office began. Although public is denied access till Saturday afternoon, the control room works round the clock. The office has not been sealed down,” said assistant superintendent of police BN Nandini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/75-year-old-woman-dies-of-covid-in-hassan/articleshow/76776593.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Nashik||Five stolen bikes worth Rs 4.8 lakh recovered||NASHIK: The crime branch unit-1 of the Nashik city police has arrested two people from the Adgaon Bride and recovered five stolen motorcycles worth Rs 4.8 lakh from them. The teams were on patrolling duty when they saw two people standing near the bridge with a parked motorcycle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/5-stolen-bikes-worth-rs-4-8l-recovered/articleshow/76880886.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Agra||2 killed in a road accident on Yamuna expressway||Agra: Two persons were killed and another injured when their car hit a divider early Friday morning on Yamuna expressway. The accident occurred in Naujheel area of Mathura district and the car was heading toward Noida. The deceased were identified as Abdul Waheed Begh and Mohammad Shafi from Jalaun district.The injured was identified as Aman.Naujheel police claimed that the driver of the car fell asleep on the steering wheel and lost control of the car and hit into divider.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-killed-in-a-road-accident-on-yamuna-expressway/articleshow/76776599.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19: Trichy to test 600 people from Saturday||TRICHY: The district administration has planned to scale up Covid-19 testing in the city to 600 tests per day from Saturday, from the current average of 300-350 per day. With 10 lakh population, Trichy Corporation’s testing rate was identified as one of the lowest for major cities in the state since Madurai and Coimbatore tested more than 1,000 people per day in recent weeks. Following public pressure, 1,145 samples were tested on July 2 across the district. Of them, 426 tests were conducted in the city, the highest so far in recent weeks. Official sources said that Trichy Corporation has informed all medical officers in 18 urban primary health centres (UPHCs) to test up to 50 people per day, a majority will be symptomatic cases. “Our capacity is to conduct 1,000 tests per day. The testing rate was already increased. From July 4, we will increase the testing further,” district collector S Sivarasu said. Corporation sources said that adequate kits were dispatched to all UPHCs to collect swabs. This apart, all the 65 bill collectors with the civic body were provided with thermal forehead thermometers for door-to-door inspections to identify fever cases in at least 100 houses per day. Those who have symptoms will be asked to give samples at the nearest UPHC. Instead of conducting fever camps, the civic body opted door-to-door screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-to-test-600-people-from-today/articleshow/76778743.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 4, 2020||Dehradun||Pant varsity to offer online vocational courses||Rudrapur: Pantnagar-based Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture & Technology (GBPUAT) has decided to launch online certificate and diploma courses in different skill-based vocations. This is the first time that the 60-year-old university will invite applications for short-term vocational courses. The decision to launch online certificate courses comes in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Dr Tej Partap said, “It is for the first time that the university has decided to initiate short-term certificate and diploma courses for everyone. These courses will help students who want to gain professional knowledge of agricultural vocations from experts.” Dr SK Kashyap, Dean, College of Agriculture, informed “There is no prescribed eligibility for enrolling in these short-term courses. These courses will be launched in August 2020. The World Bank-funded National Agricultural Higher Education Project will support the courses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pant-varsity-to-offer-online-vocational-courses/articleshow/76776595.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 4, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: 11 in old age home brave Covid, write strong success story||CHENNAI: For Balamurugan, a sanitary inspector of Greater Chennai Corporation, Friday turned out to be a special day. A woman inmate of an old age home in zone 15, where he is employed, expressed thanks for giving all residents of the home the strength to recover from Covid-19. In what the corporation says is one of the biggest recovery stories in the city, the home for the elderly in the southern region has escaped becoming a cluster. There have been no mortalities either, despite all the residents being in the vulnerable age group and having co-morbidities. Around 25 days ago, Greater Chennai Corporation officials said, a 78-year-old man from the home tested positive for Covid-19. He was admitted to a private hospital and returned to the home after a week. “The nurse came to check all the people. Later, when we took swabs of all the 42 people including the cook and help, 11 tested positive,” an official said. These included two aged above 90, two above 80 and four above the age of 70, an official said. But all of them were asymptomatic. Alby John, the regional deputy commissioner (south), said they were worried about this development. Almost all of the residents in the home are retired doctors and government employees who have been living there as their children are working in foreign countries, a corporation official said. They were all taken to the Omandurar Superspecialty Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital for scans and other tests, after which doctors advised them home isolation. “At the home, each of the residents has a separate room with attached bathroom. But we dissuaded them from cooking food there,” the official said. So, nutritious food, which was being cooked in the home, was ordered from outside. Corporation officials ensured that the rooms were properly disinfected, while staff who went to check on them wore complete Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and took all precautions. What came as a huge inspiration to the corporation authorities was the fact that all the seniors cooperated fully, taking medicines on time for 15 days, maintaining physical distancing and wearing masks all the time. “Many youngsters in the city are not following these basic precautions. Look at these seniors, they co-operated fully,” an official said. The woman, who is more than 70 years old, thanked corporation officials for giving them self-confidence and the belief to fight the disease. “We were scared, but when the doctors at the hospital told us not to worry, it gave us strength,” she told officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/11-in-old-age-home-brave-covid-write-strong-success-story/articleshow/76777732.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
July 4, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Body of rape victim handed over to kin||TRICHY: The body of the seven-year-old girl who was raped and subsequently murdered in Pudukottai district was handed over to the family members after post mortem on Friday. District collector P Uma Maheswari handed over a cheque of Rs 9.12 lakh to the family members of the victim as announced by the CM and relief under Pocso Act. After garlanding the moral remains of the girl, the collector said that steps will be taken to ensure that such incidents does not reccur besides ensuring strictest punishment for the perpetrator. The accused M Raja, 26, was arrested and senior police officials have ruled out the involvement of anyone else except him. While stating that his statement has matched with the evidence collected from the crime spot, the police said that as the victim started raising alarm after he raped her, he banged her head on a tree at the crime spot. A blood-soaked cloth was also recovered from the crime scene based on the statement from the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/body-of-rape-victim-handed-over-to-kin/articleshow/76778749.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Meerut||Botched encounters: Better intelligence inputs could have saved many lives||Meerut: UP Police’s annals are full of botched encounters where alleged lack of intelligence inputs led to disastrous consequences, like the one in Kanpur village where police personnel became sitting ducks in an attack by a criminal group on Thursday night. Eight policemen lost their lives and at least seven are in hospital.Among them, the deadliest was in 2004. Suspected naxalites ambushed a truck carrying police and provincial armed constabulary (PAC) personnel on a camping duty in Chandauli district. 17 policemen, including 13 PAC personnel, were killed in the attack.In 2007, a notorious dacoit Thokia had ambushed a Special Task Force (STF) team near Bhogolan village in Banda district killing five STF men and a police informer.In 1981, nine policemen, including inspector Rajpal Singh and two sub-inspectors, were killed during an encounter in Aliganj police station of Etah. For the attack, Chaviram gang divided in three groups and ambushed the police team led by inspector Rajpal. “Light machine guns and SLR rifles were looted from the raiding police team,” recalls former director general of police (DGP) Brij Lal.In January 2018, UP police constable Ankit Kumar (27) was shot in the head and killed in an encounter with a member of the dreaded Mukeem Kala gang in Shamli district. On July 2 last year, a west UP gangster Rohit Saandu escaped the clutches of an escort team while in transit from Muzaffarnagar court to UP’s Mirzapur prison, where he was lodged. His associates, who had attacked the escort team at an eatery in Muzaffarnagar, also shot dead sub-inspector Durg Vijay Singh and took Saandu away.Kanpur’s encounter is the recent addition in the list of encounters which could have been handled in a better way had there been more intelligence inputs.Soon after coming to power, the new Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government promised better law and order in the state and gave policemen a “free hand”. According to official figures obtained in December last year, 103 criminals were killed and 1,859 injured in 5,178 police encounters since 2017. A total of 17,745 criminals surrendered or cancelled their own bails to go to jail, the department said. In most of the encounters, the alleged criminals were shot in either of the legs. In a few cases, bullets scraped through the arms of policemen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/botched-encounters-better-intelligence-inputs-could-have-saved-many-lives/articleshow/76776606.cms||Piyush Rai
July 4, 2020||Agra||Slain constable from Mathura was to get married||Agra: Killed during the Kanpur encounter, constable Jitendra Pal Singh (26) of Mathura was the only earning member of his family. His home in Mathura’s Barari village was full of visitors who consoled the grieving family members, but in vain. Singh was the eldest among four siblings, and had joined the police force in 2018. The rest wanted to follow him.According to his family members, he had come home on June 15 on one-week leave and returned to duty on June 23.Jitendra’s youngest brother Saurav, who is pursuing BSc and also preparing for the Air Force, said, “We all have been shattered with our brother's death. We were planning to get him married soon.”“My brother, father Teerthpal Singh, along with mother Rani have left for Kanpur to bring his body back home,” he said.His cousin brother Bhuri Singh, who had gone with Jitendra’s parents to Kanpur, said that they were not given his body and asked to return to his hometown. “The department will bring back his mortal remains there,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/slain-constable-from-mathura-was-to-get-married/articleshow/76776602.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Meerut||Mapping journey of AK-47 from Russia to UP’s hinterland via Bihar||MEERUT: A hail of bullets from automatic weapons, most likely AK-47, gave the raiding policemen in Kanpur no chance to take positions, and retaliate. Eight of them including a DSP-rank officer fell to the bullets allegedly fired by notorious criminal Vikas Dubey and his cohorts late Thursday night. The sensational killings have again brought to the fore the disturbing trend of criminals using assault rifles like AK-47. Till last year, the policemen in UP were armed with archaic .303 Lee-Enfield rifles, which were used during World War I. Pitted against deadly AK-47, they didn’t stand a chance. Though the police are waiting for forensic report, sources on ground confirmed that the bullet casing of AK-47 was recovered from the encounter spot. While gangs in western UP relied heavily on country-made weapons, their counterparts in the eastern part preferred sophistication. It is believed that scores of tweaked variants of Russian Kalashnikov assault rifle, famous as AK-47, started making inroads into UP’s crime world in the early 1990s. It was in the mid-1990s that gangster Shiv Prakash Shukla carried out several murders with the deadly assault rifle -- when most of the UP’s police department brass had not even seen it. Senior police officers who have closely followed the crime scene then said the AK-47 made its way into UP courtesty Shukla who got it from his close associate and dreaded criminal Suraj Bhan in Bihar. A senior police officer claimed that it started after the Purulia arms drop in 1995. “Use of AK-47 was limited till the Purulia arms drop incident. After that, the weapons made their way into the hands of several criminals in Bihar,” DIG Bareilly Rajesh Pandey who was with the STF in the late '90s told TOI. The Purulia incident happened on December 17, 1995. A consignment of several hundreds of Soviet-made AK-47s, a million rounds of ammunition, hand grenades and rocket launchers were dropped from an Antonov An-26 aircraft over four villages of Purulia district in West Bengal. “Suraj Bhan had sent his men to fish out 14 of those dropped rifles from the bottom of a pond. He had then abducted a CRPF armourer from Patna to fix the rifle and make it ready for use. Shukla had managed to secure some AK-47 rifles from Suraj Bhan,” DIG Pandey said. While Shukla is the one who “main-streamed” AK-47 in UP’s crime world, it is believed that many gangsters like Munna Bajrangi, Brijesh Singh and Mukhtar Ansari managed to get their hands on the rifle by the late '90s and used it to settle differences with rivals. On November 29, 2005, BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai was killed by his rivals who used AK-47 rifles. Gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari along with seven others were booked in the case but were later acquitted by a CBI court in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mapping-journey-of-ak-47-from-russia-to-ups-hinterland-via-bihar/articleshow/76776611.cms||Piyush Rai
July 4, 2020||Meerut||Saharanpur police recall Vikas Dubey as drug addict & its peddler||Strap: Was Arrested With Doda Post in 2006, Booked Under Narcotics ActMuzaffarnagar: “I clearly remember him. It was 2006. I had arrested him-- Vikas Dubey-- from T-point near the district hospital while he was going there with an injured leg. He was carrying at least 5kg Doda Post. He was addicted to it. After interrogation, it was found that he had 37 criminal cases. Even the then SSP of Saharanpur had also interrogated him separately,” said Rishi Ram Katheria, former station house officer (SHO) of Janakpuri police station in Saharanpur. He is now posted in CB-CID in Meerut.Current UP STF chief Amitabh Yash was the SSP Saharanpur then. Dubey was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 and was even sent to jail then. He came out on bail just like the other cases, but the case against him is still pending in a Saharanpur court, about 15 years after he was booked. According to superintendent of police (city) Saharanpur, Vinit Bhatnagar, “It is a very old case. He was arrested by a police team from Janakpuri and a case crime number 133/6, in section 8/15 NDPS act was registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/saharanpur-police-recall-vikas-dubey-as-drug-addict-its-peddler/articleshow/76776613.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Covid reaches Nilgiris villages||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Covid-19 has breached TN’s last bastion, Nilgiris villages. The district recorded the second case of Covid-19 from the rural areas of the district with an 85-year-old woman from Thangadu-Oranalli village testing positive for the virus on Friday. Ten days ago, many people who attended a funeral at the village visited the woman to seek her blessings. Throwing all caution to wind, over 300 people, even from Coimbatore and Bengaluru, had attended the funeral in the village. A 50-year-old woman from Kerbetta village in Kotagiri taluk was the first person to test positive for the virus from rural areas of the district. She tested positive on Thursday after she returned from a private hospital in Mettupalayam. Health officials have sealed entry points of both the villages. Health officials are worried that the woman from Kerbetta would have spread the virus to many people as she had visited many places in the village before showing symptoms for the virus. In the case of a woman from Thangadu-Oranalli village, many people visited her after the funeral and further on a ritual day. While Kerbetta woman is being treated at the Ooty government hospital, Oranalli woman is in ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. Samples have been lifted from around 100 contacts of the Kerbetta woman. "People from Bengaluru had come for the funeral at Thangadu-Oranalli village a week ago. One of them might have transmitted the virus to the woman while receiving blessings," deputy director of public health Dr P Balusamy said. In this case, health officials traced 45 contacts, including her family members and samples of swabs were lifted from them. With Friday’s case, the number of Covid-19 cases in the district reached 117. While 56 cases are being treated at the Ooty government headquarters hospital, the remaining are admitted in ESI Hospital in Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-reaches-nilgiris-villages/articleshow/76778378.cms||Shantha Thiagarajan
July 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Denied admission by five hospitals, ailing constable dies at home||BENGALURU: A 49-year-old police constable here died in his house on Friday morning after five reputed hospitals refused to admit him over a period of six hours. Ravi Kumar was taken in a car by his wife and a relative to these hospitals across the city between 9pm Thursday night and 3am Friday. After the 40-km drive was in vain, he was taken back to his Vijaynagar home where he breathed his last around 9am. Ravi, who is part of a Hoysala patrol vehicle attached to Vijayanagar police station, is survived by his wife Sneha Kumar and two daughters and a son. The family’s woes began around 2pm Thursday when Ravi Kumar, who was at work, complained of uneasiness and returned home. Sneha told TOI they went to five hospitals in the night but none admitted her husband. What’s worse, no doctors from all the five hospitals even came out to examine Ravi. “Kumar rested for some time. By nightfall, he complained of acute stomach ache. First, we took him to a well-known hospital on Uttarahalli Road, near Kengeri. But the staff refused to admit him, saying they had no free beds. We went to two popular hospitals in Vasanthnagar. They too refused to admit him saying their doctors had gone home,” Sneha said. Kumar’s condition was deteriorating and he became semi-conscious. “We then went to a hospital on Tumakuru Road and later to another hospital in Basaveshwaranagar. At both places, we were told he couldn’t be admitted without a Covid-19 test,” she said. A close family member told TOI that for the past couple of years, Kumar was suffering from liver- related issues. Kumar’s throat swab samples were collected by a private laboratory and the result came negative for Covid-19. He was laid to rest in his village in Ramanagara district late Friday night. Earlier this week, a 52-year-old man from the city showing symptoms of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) died after 18 different hospitals denied admission. TOI had published the ordeal of the patient and his family, following which the health & family welfare department issued show-cause notices to some of the hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/denied-admission-by-five-hospitals-ailing-constable-dies-at-home/articleshow/76776670.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
July 4, 2020||Trichy||Daily wager living in one-room house gets Rs 3 lakh EB bill||Trichy: Ever since free power of 100 units per billing cycle was announced in the state, V Lingeswari, 49, from Karur district did not have to pay the EB bill even once as she never exceeded the limit. However, she got the shock of her life on being informed by her tenant living next door about a Rs 2.93 lakh bill for the tiny 100sq ft single room house she resides in. A resident of Bagavathi Nagar 4th cross in T Sellandipalayam village, Lingeswari, a daily wager, wondered if the textile unit where she works would pay this much for a bill cycle of 60 days. She is the only person living in the house as her husband work as a security guard at night while her son works in Bengaluru. Apart from a light, fan and fridge, she occasionally uses a wet grinder. When she approached the electricity board office in Rayanur, officials admitted that the bill was due to a calculation error on the part of officials. “The assistant engineer in Rayanur office sent another official to examine the reading at my house and informed that it was an error on their part. Since the amount was high, I was asked to write a letter requesting for revision of bill,” she added. The revised bill is now Rs 168. “The electricity reading was taken in June after a gap of four months. We have 18,000 service numbers and one or two errors will happen,” said a senior electricity board official. Lingeswari said the error is not new and some more customers had turned up with similar complaint of exorbitant bills when she approached the office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/daily-wager-living-in-one-room-house-gets-rs-3-lakh-eb-bill/articleshow/76778750.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 4, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Hotspots in Chennai get better, record fewer active cases||CHENNAI: Tondiarpet, Royapuram and Teynampet zones (zones 4,5 and 9) — which are among the worst-hit by Covid-19 in the city — have the lowest percentage of active cases, according to the data released by the corporation. This means they have less active cases when compared to the total cases recorded in the zone. Royapuram zone (8,506) has the highest recorded cases in the city followed by Teynampet (7,017) and Tondiarpet (6,941). A majority of the infected in these zones have recovered. While the zones have the least percentage of active cases now, this was not the case a month ago. Corporation officials said focussed intervention since the beginning in these red zones has shown results. “Tondiarpet and Royapuram zones especially have a significant slum population and if not controlled systematically since the beginning, the zones alone had the potential to record 1,000 cases a day,” said a senior official with city corporation. Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner G Prakash on Wednesday said community intervention programmes in slum areas in co-ordination with NGOs have shown results, apart from the other consistent interventions undertaken by the city corporation. Citing the example of Tondiarpet zone, which has about 50% slum population and is among the top three most affected zones in the city, the commissioner said for the past 14 days, only 10% of cases are reported from the slum pockets. “This is a huge achievement, possible because of the intervention by the corporation along with co-operation of the public,” said Prakash, mentioning about the door-to-door surveillance by volunteers, increased number of fever camps possible because of doctors appointed for each ward, home quarantine monitoring system among others. Zonal staff said several efforts such as intense decongestion carried out in Royapuram zone in the beginning of June has paid off. Residents in slum and other densely populated areas were shifted to either wedding halls or corporation community halls, even if healthy, to cut off the spread. According to a zone level official, though awareness through television, radio and other means were undertaken since the beginning, personal communication through volunteers proved helpful. The official noted that almost 65% of the population in slums in Tondiarpet and Royapuram has started using cotton reusable masks supplied. According to city corporation, there are 1,979 unnotified slums in the city. Officials noted that in such areas where population density is more, if not for timely and proper intervention, explosion of cases will be more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hotspots-in-city-get-better-record-fewer-active-cases/articleshow/76777742.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Trichy||HC stays BDU recruitment of teachers on AUT plea||Trichy: The Madras high court on Thursday stayed the Bharathidasan University’s (BDU) decision to proceed with the appointment of regular teaching faculty posts temporarily. The court was hearing a petition filed by the Association of University Teachers (AUT) seeking a direction to the university to not proceed with the appointments. The petition said the BDU being a state-run university, had adopted policy of reservation in contrast with the state policy in the appointment of 54 regular faculty positions for which advertisement was issued in July last year. The university considered whole university as single unit for reservation. While this was in contrast with the state policy of considering each department a single unit, then secretary, higher education department, Mangat Ram Sharma had pointed in a letter to the university that the ordinance by the Union government is applicable for central educational institutions and BDU – a state university, doesn’t fall in that category. Further, the university also sought exception for this recruitment alone from the state government when higher education department objected to its move. While the higher education department gave its nod in May this year, the AUT filed the petition in the Madurai bench of the Madras high court, seeking to stay recruitment notification and the go ahead from the higher education department. The petition will be heard again on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hc-stays-bdu-recruitment-of-teachers-on-aut-plea/articleshow/76778752.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Bhopal||MP saw 5,500 Covid-19 cases in June; maximum infections from Bhopal||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh reported 5,504 Covid-19 cases between June 1 and June 30 — Unlock 1.0. At least one case was reported from each of the 52 districts of Madhya Pradesh. Even the newly formed Niwari district, where there were no cases till May 31, reported nine positive cases in the month of June. The maximum number of cases were reported from Bhopal and Indore — which account for 46% of the cases. While 1,322 cases were reported in the state capital in June, 1,223 cases were reported in Indore. It was thus the state capital Bhopal where maximum cases were reported in the state. There were at least eight districts, namely Singrauli (5), Hoshangabad (4), Sehore (4), Agar Malwa (3), Jhabua (3), Umaria (3), Mandla (2) and Alirajpur (1) districts where less than 5 cases were reported in the month of June.Among districts which saw the maximum increase in number of cases was Morena — which reported the third highest number of cases (315) in the month of June—had no active cases till May 1. In the past one week, there has been at least two occasions when the maximum number of cases in the entire state were reported from Morena district. Similarly, Gwalior, where there were only 3 active cases till May 1, reported 257 cases in the month of June. This spike in number of cases could be attributed to several aspects like increase in the number of tests, return of migrant labourers among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-saw-5-5k-cases-in-june-max-infections-from-bhopal/articleshow/76777730.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ranchi||Parents’ body protests against private schools charging fees||Ranchi: Members of Jharkhand Abhibhawak Sangh (JAS), an outfit of parents, on Friday staged a three-hour fast at Bapu Vatika in Morhabadi ground demanding waiver of fees at private schools for the period of lockdown. The parents also demanded setting up of a single education board for the entire country and proper implementation of the Jharkhand government order issued on June 25 which directed private schools to charge only the tuition fees and prevented them from asking for fees under other heads for the period of lockdown. JAS president Ajay Rai said, “Despite the government’s order, several schools are applying pressure on parents for payment of fees under all heads.” He added, “Similar protests were held in other parts of the state, including Bokaro, Dhanbad and Giridih and in different parts of the country like Uttar Pradesh and Odisha.” Rai reiterated that a large number of parents, particularly those engaged in the private sector jobs, were rendered unemployed and their economic condition deteriorated during the lockdown. JAS also submitted a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Hemant Soren and others through an e-mail and requested proper direction to the ministry of human resource development for justice to the parents and their wards. The protesters also demanded discontinuation of online sessions for Classes I to VIII. “The government should allot time on Doordarshan for conducting classes for students of CBSE and ICSE,” opined one of the protesters. The parents also sought renovation of government schools and restoration of quality education in them and strict implementation of NCERT courses in private schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/parents-body-protests-against-private-schools-charging-fees/articleshow/76777520.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ranchi||DVC should not threaten to curtail electricity supply: Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren to power minister||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday sought Union power minister Rajkumar Singh’s intervention to soften the stance of Damodar Valley Corporation over its outstanding dues from Jharkhand government. Hemant, in a virtual meeting with Singh and the power ministers from other states, asked the Union minister to ensure that DVC does not threaten to curtail its power supply over non-payment of outstanding dues. “The DVC has threatened to curtail its power supply again, despite the fact the its outstanding power bills up to March (2020) have been paid. The outstanding dues have been left behind by the previous government,” Hemant said in the meeting. “The Union government must direct the DVC that it should not curtail power supply to Jharkhand. The state government will clear its dues on the basis of the electricity consumed,” he added. The DVC, which supplies power to seven districts of Jharkhand, threatened to curtail power supply by 50% since July 1 if its outstanding dues were not cleared. However, the PSU softened its stance after JBVNL MD Rajiv Arun Ekka wrote to DVC chairman, urging not to curtail the supply. There are 10 lakh consumers under DVC’s command area, which comprises Dhanbad, Bokaro, Giridih, Koderma, Chatra, Hazaribag and Ramgarh, including several industrial units. DVC had curtailed power supply for days earlier this year after it gave the JMM-led government an ultimatum, asking it to clear the outstanding amount of Rs 5,670 crore. State energy department had written to the Union power ministry and flagged the poor revenue collection owing to the lockdown. The Jharkhand Urja Sancharan Nigam Limited has also written to the Union government urging it to write off a portion of the state’s dues to the DVC, sources said. The monthly revenue collection of the state-run discom JBVNL (Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited) is around Rs 350 crore. However, with the lockdown, the collection has dropped to Rs 120 crore, officials said on anonymity. Meanwhile, in the meeting, which was held to seek suggestions on the draft of the Centre’s new Electricity Amendment Bill 2020, Hemant objected to the proposal to form a central regulatory commission. “This will curb the states’ jurisdictions,” he said in the meeting. The CM also recommended that subsidy provision for consumers must be kept intact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dvc-should-not-threaten-to-curtail-electricity-supply-jharkhand-cm-to-power-min/articleshow/76777466.cms||Dhritiman Ray
July 4, 2020||Ranchi||BJP makes organizational reshuffle||Ranchi: The Jharkhand unit of BJP rejigged its organizational set up seven months after its defeat at the hands of the JMM-led mahagathbhandhan in the 2019 assembly polls. Five months after it got a new president in Deepak Prakash, the BJP’s 19-member state core committee saw the inclusion of fresh faces. Former Mandar MLA Gangotri Kujur, sitting Khunti MLA Neelkanth Singh Munda, former minister Raj Paliwar, Koderma MP Annapurna Devi, Chatra MP Sunil Singh and Dhanbad MLA Aparna Sengupta were appointed vice-presidents. Former CM Raghubar Das and veterans like C P Singh did not find a place in the new team. While Dharampal Singh was reappointed the organizational secretary, Rajya Sabha MP Samir Oraon was made general secretary along with Aditya Sahu and Pradeep Verma. Mandu MLA Jaiprakash Bhai Patel and Hatia MLA Navin Jaiswal were appointed pradesh mantris. “The new team will work with new zeal and strengthen the party’s organization,” Prakash said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-makes-organizational-reshuffle/articleshow/76778016.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Jamshedpur||DVC should not threaten to curtail electricity supply: Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren to power minister||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday sought Union power minister Rajkumar Singh’s intervention to soften the stance of Damodar Valley Corporation over its outstanding dues from Jharkhand government. Hemant, in a virtual meeting with Singh and the power ministers from other states, asked the Union minister to ensure that DVC does not threaten to curtail its power supply over non-payment of outstanding dues. “The DVC has threatened to curtail its power supply again, despite the fact the its outstanding power bills up to March (2020) have been paid. The outstanding dues have been left behind by the previous government,” Hemant said in the meeting. “The Union government must direct the DVC that it should not curtail power supply to Jharkhand. The state government will clear its dues on the basis of the electricity consumed,” he added. The DVC, which supplies power to seven districts of Jharkhand, threatened to curtail power supply by 50% since July 1 if its outstanding dues were not cleared. However, the PSU softened its stance after JBVNL MD Rajiv Arun Ekka wrote to DVC chairman, urging not to curtail the supply. There are 10 lakh consumers under DVC’s command area, which comprises Dhanbad, Bokaro, Giridih, Koderma, Chatra, Hazaribag and Ramgarh, including several industrial units. DVC had curtailed power supply for days earlier this year after it gave the JMM-led government an ultimatum, asking it to clear the outstanding amount of Rs 5,670 crore. State energy department had written to the Union power ministry and flagged the poor revenue collection owing to the lockdown. The Jharkhand Urja Sancharan Nigam Limited has also written to the Union government urging it to write off a portion of the state’s dues to the DVC, sources said. The monthly revenue collection of the state-run discom JBVNL (Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited) is around Rs 350 crore. However, with the lockdown, the collection has dropped to Rs 120 crore, officials said on anonymity. Meanwhile, in the meeting, which was held to seek suggestions on the draft of the Centre’s new Electricity Amendment Bill 2020, Hemant objected to the proposal to form a central regulatory commission. “This will curb the states’ jurisdictions,” he said in the meeting. The CM also recommended that subsidy provision for consumers must be kept intact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/dvc-should-not-threaten-to-curtail-electricity-supply-jharkhand-cm-to-power-min/articleshow/76783624.cms||Dhritiman Ray
July 4, 2020||Ranchi||CRPF jawan from Sahibganj dies in J&K after clash with terrorists||Dumka: A CRPF jawan, Kuldeep Oraon, of Sahibganj district died in a gun battle with terrorists in Srinagar’s Malbagh area on Thursday night. His father Ghanshyam Oraon was informed about his death on Friday by officials of the paramilitary force. This comes a fortnight after two Indian Army jawans from Jharkhand — Kundan Kumar Ojha and Ganesh Hansda — were martyred in the Galwan valley stand-off with China’s People’s Liberation Army. A retired CRPF jawan, Ghanshyam said, “It is a matter of pride for us as my son sacrificed his life while battling with enemies of the motherland.” Kuldeep is survived by his wife Bandna Oraon, a constable in the West Bengal police, presently posted in Barrackpore, and two children, including nine-year-old Yash and five-year-old Waisi. Chief minister Hemant Soren took to Twitter to express his condolences to Kuldeep’s family and said, “The nation is proud in his martyrdom.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/crpf-jawan-from-sahibganj-dies-in-jk-after-clash-with-terrorists/articleshow/76777564.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ranchi||Demand for fee concessions in varsities||Ranchi: Various student unions have demanded fee concessions in government universities in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown. The students’ wing affiliated to Ajsu Party staged a demonstration at Ranchi University (RU) on Thursday and demanded fee waiver for the semester coinciding with the lockdown period. It said that hostel charges should also be dropped. The Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University (DSPMU) Student’s Union staged a demonstration outside the vice-chancellor’s office on Thursday, seeking fee concession in self-financed courses like BBA, MBA, computer applications and information technology. The union also demanded that students of semester II and IV in under-graduate courses and semester II in post-graduate courses be promoted without examination under the prevailing circumstances. Joint secretary Mazil Oroan said it would be difficult for a large number of students to pay their fees during the ongoing pandemic. Meanwhile, National Students Union of India member Indrajit Singh said that they, too, have submitted a memorandum to RU, seeking fee-waiver for hostel inmates and for those pursuing self-financed subjects. Vice-chancellor of DSPMU S N Munda said that the university would take a call on fee waiver soon. The pro vice-chancellor of RU, Dr Kamini Kumar, however, said that no discussions on waiving fees have taken place till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/demand-for-fee-concessions-in-varsities/articleshow/76778116.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ranchi||Doc kills self in Kolkata days after FIR in Dumka||Dumka: A doctor from Kolkata, who was practicing at a private hospital in Dumka, killed himself days after rumours surfaced accusing him of siphoning off money allotted for Ayushman Bharat scheme. Dr S S Mal (36), a resident of Phoolbagan locality in Kolkata, consumed poison at his home on June 30. He was associated with the Bharti Hospital here. An FIR against Mal was lodged at the Dumka town police on June 23 on the complaint of Shahid Iqbal, district coordinator of MD India TPA Insurance Private Limited. Iqbal had complained that Mal, in connivance with Bharti Hospital management, withdrew Rs 4.82 lakh from the insurance company’s account with bogus claims of cataract surgeries performed on Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries in March, 2019. Mal had conducted 78 surgeries at the hospital and all the patients were beneficiaries of the Ayushman scheme. The hospital management said a probe was conducted and Mal was given a clean chit on July 30 last year. Two days after FIR was lodged against him, Mal wrote to Dumka SP Amber Lakda and pleaded innocence. In his letter, Mal referred to the publication of news regarding the lodging of FIR in various vernacular dailies. He branded the news pieces as humiliating. Lakda said, “We have received information about his death. Investigation is underway.” Amita Rakshit, MD of the hospital, said, “The news of his suicide is shocking. He was a dedicated surgeon who used to conduct 2,000 surgeries a year. He was depressed since the FIR was filed and the false news started doing the rounds. The complaint is motivated and is baseless.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/doc-kills-self-in-kolkata-days-after-fir-in-dumka/articleshow/76778076.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ranchi||Why were other candidates chosen for PwD seats: Disability comm to JPSC||Ranchi: The state disability commissioner, Satish Chandra, shot off a letter to Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) on Thursday asking the latter to clarify why candidates from other categories were chosen for seats allocated for persons with disabilities (PWD). The letter was issued three days after the state government recommended the personnel department to initiate the joining process of 326 candidates who cleared the sixth JPSC exam. Incidentally, the state personnel department in 2016 had adopted a resolution at the direction of the Jharkhand high court to reserve a seat on the basis of eligibility for Vivek Kumar Singh, a PWD candidate in the fourth JPSC exam. But JPSC ignored the resolution and selected two other candidates on the PWD seats. The letter also directed JPSC to conduct an inquiry into the matter and to ensure that 4% reservation is given to candidates from the PWD category as per the provisions of the Rights of Persons With Disabilities Act. Controller of examination, JPSC Gyanendra Kumar said, “The candidate in question is from the fourth JPSC and the commission had recommended his name during the fifth JPSC as per the resolution of the state personnel department. Also, we haven’t yet examined the letter issued by the disability commissioner.” On being quizzed about the selection of two non-PWD candidates for PWD seats in the final merit list published on April 21, Kumar said, “Everything has been done in accordance with the rules and regulations of the state government.” But as per the provisions of the persons with disabilities Act, selection of non-PWD candidates for PWD seats is prohibited, and vacancies, if any, in the PWD category must be added to the next recruitment cycle. Notably, many successful candidates, among others, have already approached the court alleging irregularities in the final JPSC list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/why-were-other-candidates-chosen-for-pwd-seats-disability-comm-to-jpsc/articleshow/76777597.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ranchi||Govt sounds two-day lightning alert in Jharkhand||Ranchi: The state disaster management department on Friday issued an alert of heavy lighting for the next two days starting Saturday. The alert was issued to minimise loss of life and property after Bihar recently recorded a large number of casualties and loss of property due to lightning strikes last month. Talking to TOI, state disaster management minister Banna Gupta said, “We have directed the deputy commissioners and disaster management officers of all the 24 districts to be alert at all times and keep necessary arrangements in place in view of the forecast.” Meanwhile, the department also issued an advisory on Friday evening about the do’s and dont’s during a lightning strike and asked people to be aware and follow the advisory during the strike. The advisory mentions, “People staying indoors are asked to avoid using any electrical appliance during lighting and to avoid venturing on terrace using metal ropes for drying clothes as it can act as conductor for the lighting.” It further added, “For people who find themselves outdoors during the strike, it is advised to avoid standing in groups and to immediately take shelter in a pucca building.” For people travelling in vehicles during the strike, they were advised to remain inside the vehicle and to not venture out. The advisory also asked farmers to search for a safe shelter and avoid waterbodies during the strike. “In case a person gets electrocuted during the lightning, it has been advised to give him CPR and to contact the circle officer immediately for assistance,” the advisory read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-sounds-two-day-lightning-alert-in-jharkhand/articleshow/76777424.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ranchi||Strike hit CIL production by 81%: trade unions||Ranchi/Dhanbad/Ramgarh: Notwithstanding the appeals made by Coal India Limited (CIL) chairman Pramod Agarwal and subsequent appeals made by the chairman-cum-managing directors of the PSU’s subsidiaries, CIL employees remained on strike for the second consecutive day on Friday, bringing production to its knees. The Dhanbad-based Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) produced a meagre 7,020 ton in the first shift of work. Several trade unions, which went on strike under the banner of All India Coal Workers Federation (AICWF), claimed the daily production dipped by 81% of its normal average across all CIL subsidiaries. In Ranchi employees who attempted to return to work to Central Coalfields Limited’s headquarters were turned back by representatives of several trade unions. Talking to TOI, BCCL CMD PM Prasad said attendance improved marginally but production was carried out with the help of outsourced workers. “The coal dispatch through railway racks remained normal but road dispatch was affected and we have witnessed a shortfall of around 15,000 tons," Prasad added. Earlier in the day, CIL chairman, in an open appeal, urged employees to return to work as demonstrations, sloganeering and dharnas continued in different collieries of BCCL, CCL and ECL with trade union leaders claiming the strike a total success. BK Rai, the president of Akhil Bharatiya Khadan Mazdoor Sabha (affiliated to RSS backed BMS), said: “The amount of support the strike garnered can be gauged from the fact that CIL’s production dipped to 19%. In CCL, production, dispatch and over burden removal was down by more than 60%. AICWF president D Ramanandan said the three day strike will not affect the CIL’s coal stocks. “Due to less demand during lockdown, CIL’s coal stock is around 19 MT. So shortages is not an issue,” Ramanandan told the TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/strike-hit-cil-production-by-81-trade-unions/articleshow/76777983.cms||NK Agarwal
July 4, 2020||India||Asymptomatic Covid patients can now stay in home isolation||NEW DELHI: With a large number of asymptomatic cases found testing positive for Covid-19, the health ministry has revised the home isolation guidelines to allow such patients to stay in home isolation along with very mild and pre-symptomatic cases. However, patients with immune-compromised status (like HIV, transplant recipients, cancer therapy) are not eligible for home isolation, the revised guidelines said. Also, patients over 60 years and those with co-morbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung/liver/kidney disease and cerebro-vascular disease among others shall only be allowed home isolation after proper evaluation by the treating medical officer, the guidelines said. As per the new guidelines, patients under home isolation will stand discharged after 10 days of onset of symptoms and no fever for three days. However, after that, the patient will be advised to isolate at home and self-monitor their health for a further seven days. There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over, the guidelines said. Eligible cases can opt for home isolation if they have the requisite self-isolation facility at their residence so as to avoid contact with family members. The guidelines come against India’s Covid-19 tally rising to 6.25 lakh on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/asymptomatic-covid-patients-can-now-stay-in-home-isolation/articleshow/76778999.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Rape case: Karnataka high court judge expunges his observations||BENGALURU: A Karnataka high court judge on Friday expunged his observations made while granting bail to a rape accused after the state government moved an application seeking deletion of those lines.  The remark had drawn criticism from a section of lawyers, activists and intellectuals too. Justice Krishna S Dixit ordered expunging of the last four lines of para 3(c) of his judgment of June 22 in which he had granted bail to a 27-year-old man accused of raping his 42-year-old employer. The HR entrepreneur had lodged a complaint of rape against her employee with RR Nagar police on May 2. Observation won’t affect probe: JudgeAn FIR was registered under IPC Sections 376 (rape), 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation) as well as Section 66-B of Information Technology Act 2000. Justice Dixit passed the order after the government moved an application, saying the observation may influence the investigation as well as trial. “It hardly needs to be stated that the observations made by this court in the subject judgment being confined to consideration and disposal of the bail petition shall not influence in any way investigation of the offences alleged and the likely trial thereof,” the judge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rape-case-karnataka-high-court-judge-expunges-his-observations/articleshow/76779011.cms||Vasantha Kumar
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||RTE dilemma: Now, Std IX students sans ‘free’ cover||Nagpur: The first batch of students in Maharashtra who secured free school admissions in 2012 under the Right to Education (RTE) Act are now stepping into Std IX and out of the ‘free seat’ purview. RTE is applicable only till Std VIII, which means these students have to now pay up or face the threat of being removed from schools. Maharashtra English Schools’ Trustee Association (MESTA) says around 10,000 students fall under this category. Sanjay Tayde-Patil, president of MESTA, said “The government has still not decided what will be the future of these kids. They have not even initiated a dialogue with us to discuss options.” The reason this issue has not yet snowballed into a major controversy is because schools have not physically reopened. Murmurs of the union government planning to extend RTE provisions till Std XII have been doing the rounds for a couple of years, but the central Act never got amended. The only official statement came during the hearing of a PIL in the Delhi High Court filed by well known activist Ashok Agrawal. “In 2019, the government filed an affidavit indicating that RTE provisions will be extended, and added that the same will take a few months. It was expected to be done by December of the same year. But now, the new session has started and the government’s apathy continues,” said Agrawal, who takes up social causes through his organization Social Jurist. “In Delhi, the free admission provision had been implemented much earlier than Maharashtra and I have seen students being forced to leave schools because of their inability to pay the fees. Lakhs of children will be forced to drop out of formal schooling,” said Agrawal. In Nagpur, around 1,100 students will be affected as admissions were low in the first year of RTE. Currently, on an average, 5,000 students take admission in Nagpur under RTE. Due to the delayed reopening of schools, all stakeholders are adopting a wait and watch policy with a few applying pressure in a ‘measured’ manner. “Discrimination has started in some schools and their online access has been stopped,” said RTE activist Shahid Sharif. The owner of a school, who did not wish to be named, said that it’s not financially viable to provide free education to RTE kids. “Most of us have shifted to minority status, which puts us outside the purview of RTE admissions. Now, we will continue free education for everyone who is already enrolled, because new admissions have stopped,” said the owner. TOI reached out to Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal but received no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rte-dilemma-now-std-ix-students-sans-free-cover/articleshow/76777894.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 4, 2020||India||Centre: 1.2cr PPE, 2cr masks sent to states||NEW DELHI: The Centre said it had provided over 1.18 crore PPE kits and over 2 crore N95 masks to states and central medical institutions across the country since April 1. In addition, 11,300 ‘Made in India’ ventilators were dispatched to various states. In a detailed note on the status of protective equipment and infrastructure, the government on Friday said of the 11,300 ventilators dispatched to states, UTs and central institutions, 6,154 ventilators were delivered to various hospitals. The government is also ensuring the installation and commissioning of ventilators. The health ministry said 1.02 lakh oxygen cylinders were being supplied to states/UTs and 72,293 of these had been delivered. Also, more than 6.12 crore HCQ tablets have been distributed so far. Till now, 7.81 lakh PPEs and 12.76 lakh N95 masks have been supplied in Delhi, 11.78 lakh PPEs and 20.64 N95 masks in Maharashtra and 5.39 lakh PPEs and 9.81 lakh N95 masks in Tamil Nadu. These are three of the worst affected states. The government said most of the products supplied to states like PPEs were not being manufactured in the country in the beginning and there was a global rush due to the pandemic, resulting in scarce availability in foreign markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-1-2cr-ppe-2cr-masks-sent-to-states/articleshow/76779018.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||Shiv Sena sacks city chief Kadao||Nagpur: Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray has sacked city president Mangesh Kadao and frozen the post of his district counterpart Prakash Jadhao. City police had registered offences of extortion and cheating against Kadao. Action is also expected against city Yuva Sena chief Vikram Rathod and his brother Sanjog for allegedly threatening a moneylender. Kadao has been booked in three cases and serious criminal charges have been pressed against him. Ambazari, Sakkardara, Hudkeshwar and Bajaj Nagar police stations had received complaints against him. After investigating these complaints, the first information reports (FIRs) were filed late on Tuesday. Kadao faces charges of illegally occupying a bungalow in Puranik Lay-out and stealing cash, gold ornaments and household goods. He allegedly sought Rs 1.5 crore from the legal owner for vacating the house. He is also accused of beating up the owner. In the second case, he is accused of cheating a person by mortgaging three shops that he had sold. He threatened the buyers, who gave him Rs 18 lakh, and refused to vacate or service the mortgage. In the third case, Kadao has been booked for cheating a flat buyer from Manewada. The Sena leader is at present absconding and police is looking for him. Jadhao’s name got sullied when a Shiv Sena worker Ashok Dhapodkar lodged a police complaint in Bajaj Nagar police station alleging that he had given Rs 25 lakh to Kadao for making him the party’s Gadchiroli district president and providing him a ticket for the 2019 assembly elections. Earlier, Dhapodkar claimed that Jadhao was present when he gave the sum to Kadao but later retracted his allegation. Bajaj Nagar police has not registered an FIR in this case so far. Sena sources said that the Rathod brothers might also be expelled from the party. Vikram Rathod, city chief of Yuva Sena, and his brother Sanjog (Yuva Sena’s south Nagpur chief), were booked for allegedly demanding Rs15 lakh from a licensed moneylender. Ajni police had arrested Sanjog while Vikram is still on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shiv-sena-sacks-city-chief-kadao/articleshow/76777928.cms||Ashish Roy
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||Std X, XII NMC students to get tabs to bridge e-learning gap||Nagpur: With private and government schools moving to online mode of learning, necessitated due to the coronavirus pandemic, unequal access to digital resources is posing a huge challenge to students in NMC-run schools. To overcome this, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) plans to provide notepads/tabs to over 2,250 Class X and XII students, said civic body’s education officer Priti Mishrikotkar. Mishrikotkar told TOI that NMC schools have a strength of around 19,000 students in Class I to XII. “Due to pandemic scare, the civic body has decided not to reopen schools till state allows it,” she said. “As we want to make up for the loss for students in Class X and XII, we are planning to procure notepads for them. The tab will have the syllabus installed in it,” she said. An online meeting of teachers will be held for deciding the teaching method to be adopted in NMC schools, said the officer. The civic administration has responded positively to the idea of providing tabs to students, said the EO. Some teachers are, however, sceptical. An NMC teacher, who did not wish to be named, pointed out lack of proper database of parents. In the absence of contact numbers, it would be difficult to reach out to the parents, said the teacher. She also pointed out that of the 50 children in a class, only a few had smartphones while most of the parents own basic mobile. Though the schools haven’t received any orders, several teachers had started classes using WhatsApp. A couple of students responded to the new method, but we are yet to cover all students of Class X and XII, the teacher added. It’s difficult to judge how the students grasped the lessons in online mode, the teacher pointed out. Meanwhile, a delegation of NCP led by Vedprakash Arya met additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi demanding smartphones be distributed to poor students of the civic schools. “Many private schools in the city had begun online classes even before the government allowed it. In those schools also, children admitted under the economically weaker section (EWS) quota are vulnerable,” said Arya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/std-x-xii-nmc-students-to-get-tabs-to-bridge-e-learning-gap/articleshow/76777937.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||NHAI contractor’s shoddy work cuts off village in Ytl||Nagpur: Kamathwada, a village in the Kalamb taluka of Yavatmal village, is almost cut off from the main stream due to the shoddy road work done by National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) contractor Dilip Buildcon. Kalamb tehsildar NB Meshram, who conducted a spot panchnama, assured the villagers of action against the contractor.Kamathwada is nearly 20 kilometres from Yavatmal, towards Wardha on the Butibori-Tuljapur national highway. It is around 300 metres off the highway. After NHAI cemented and four-laned the highway, a huge gap developed in the joint between the highway and the village approach road.Dilip Buildcon, the toll collector for the Yavatmal-Wardha section, built a small road, including a bridge, on a nullah for villagers and their vehicles to easily ascend or descend the highway. This road belongs to Yavatmal zilla parishad (ZP) but is maintained by the contractor. The bridge, built during the last rainy season, was washed away after the first heavy rain in Kamathwada.Sandeep Sawarkar, a resident of the village, told TOI, “The contractor promised to build a proper bridge after the end of the rainy season. However, he again built a shoddy structure that got washed away after Thursday evening’s heavy rain. The tehsildar conducted a spot panchnama after we informed him on Friday morning.”Sawarkar told TOI that the approach road, on which the washed away bridge was situated, was very important for the villagers. “With the bridge gone, we now have to take a 5-km detour. It’s difficult to ply tractors and trucks on the detour roads,” he said.The Kamathwada resident has demanded strict action against Dilip Buildcon. “Due to the contractor’s sub-standard work, we have been inconvenienced twice. Just because we are not toll payers, he is treating us shoddily. It is his duty to ensure proper connectivity to villages situated near the highway. Before the highway was four-laned, we never faced such problems,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nhai-contractors-shoddy-work-cuts-off-village-in-ytl/articleshow/76777950.cms||Ashish Roy
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||Back from Qatar, many won’t go back||Nagpur: Rajendra Parate, a software engineer was looking dejected after de-boarding the Indigo flight which landed from Qatar at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar International Airport here on Friday. He not only lost his job, but was also forced to return to the native town with his wife and child. He was among 150 flyers who landed in the city with their families in the first chartered flight for which they paid about Rs24,000 per head. It wasn’t a part of government’s Vande Bharat mission, but arranged by the expatriates in association with Maharashtra Mandal in Qatar. After arrival, all travellers were provided an option of mandatory week’s quarantine at various city hotels or told to make arrangements at native places. Another charted flight was scheduled to land in Mumbai by midnight, which would be full of Maharashtrians, according to Vinod Nair, a city resident and a member of Indian Cultural Centre (ICC) in Doha, who is helping out thousands of stranded Indians to return. Due to his efforts, the first flight carrying Indians, including those from Vidarbha, landed in Mumbai last month from Qatar. “All of them were stranded for over three to four months and were trying to get back to the native places. Most of these were from adjoining states of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Since there is no international airport nearby, they preferred to land in Nagpur,” Nair told TOI from Doha. The passengers, who heaved a sigh of relief after landing in the city, also thanked Maharashtra Mandal president Nilambari Savardekar for her help along with Nair. “Most of repatriates have lost jobs in the last three to four months and were in dire straits. The Nagpur flight included 84 flyers from Chhattisgarh, 54 from Maharashtra and remaining from MP. We were helped by Nair and ICC team in securing the requisite permissions from various offices for the flight,” she told TOI. Among those coming back included C James from Kerala, now settled at Harda in Hoshangabad. She had gone to attend her daughter’s pregnancy, but was stranded there due to the lockdown. Her husband James, was eagerly waiting for her outside the arrival lounge, but the authorities asked her to undergo seven days quarantine. “I arrived here with a driver after over seven hours of journey, but now I’ve to forcibly wait here,” he said. Nimraj and Kanchan Rahangdale were impatiently looking out for their son Shubham, who was on the flight. He had gone for internship in Qatar after completing his engineering from JD College. “We’re relieved and wouldn’t like to send him again to any country in this pandemic situation,” they said. Sachin Borkar, who was among the flyers, had gone to Qatar for working on the FIFA stadium on a long term visa. But after the lockdown, his contract was terminated midway due to global crisis. “I am from Paoni in Bhandara and was working with an Italian firm. Now, I wouldn’t like to go back.” Doctor Abdul Qadir Khan from Betul, who was working with a leading hospital there, said that though he came back to be with his family, he would like to resume the job in Qatar whenever the situation normalizes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/back-from-qatar-many-wont-go-back/articleshow/76777968.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||E-auction of NMC’s fire tenders: Bidder backs out||Nagpur: Citing poor financial condition due to lockdown, a scrap dealer, who was shortlisted in e-auction of three fire tenders and three emergency tenders, withdrew from purchasing the vehicles of NMC’s fire and emergency services department at the last moment. Fire department officials informed this during the standing committee meeting which was chaired by its chairman Vijay Zalke, who directed the former to e-auction only one vehicle at a time to avoid such a situation in future. According to NMC sources, fire department had received nod from the civic administration to dispose of three small fire tenders, three emergency tenders and three ambulances. The department had also obtained standing committee permission for e-auctioning and to discard the vehicles in phases. Accordingly, a bidder was shortlisted through e-auction. For scrapping three small fire tenders, against the department’s offset value of Rs1.95 lakh, the bidder had quoted Rs3.71 lakh. Similarly, against the offset value of three emergency tenders, the bidder had expressed to pay Rs3.06 lakh. The offset value of other machinery, wooden, plastic and rubber material too increased from Rs1.66 lakh to Rs4.99 lakh in the e-auction. Now, citing financial crisis, the bidder expressed his inability to pay the amount to purchase the firefighting vehicles and scrap. Zalke also expressed concern over the civic body stopping many civic works, especially repairs of chambers, sewerage networks etc worth Rs81 crore following municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe’s verbal order. He directed the civic administration to ensure written orders of senior officials in all files if the works are to be stopped. The standing panel chief also expressed anguish over substandard work of cement road works and ordered public works department to impose penalty on the contractor. Zalke also directed the administration to follow-up with Nagpur Improvement Trust to get development charges it had collected from layout holders. This will help the civic body to improve amenities, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/e-auction-of-nmcs-fire-tenders-bidder-backs-out/articleshow/76777984.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Curbs won't help, focus on Covid care, says experts||BENGALURU: Karnataka is reconsidering its plan of imposing stringent curbs in the state from July 6 after a panel of experts said such measures won't help contain the spread of virus and suggested that treatment and hospital infrastructure must be the focus.  Health experts held meetings with CM BS Yediyurappa on Friday. They said restrictions like lockdown will postpone - and not prevent - the peak period by about three months. They said the state must, instead, train its sights on optimising the existing clinical infrastructure and effective utilisation of resources. ‘Lockdown can only defer spread’For a targeted approach, experts said patients must be split into four categories — asymptomatic, mild, moderate and severe — and only the last group must be shifted to Covid hospitals. Also, the government must focus on preventing infection among children below10 years and those above 60 with comorbidities. “Lockdown is not a solution to get rid of the virus. It can only defer spread of the pandemic by three months,” said S Sacchidanand, chairman of Covid-19 clinical experts’ committee and RGUHS V-C. The first two months of lockdown were needed as it helped the government prepare the ground for tackling the pandemic. Dr MK Sudarshan, chairman of Covid-19 technical committee, said it’s time the process of development of herd immunity was accelerated and added lockdown will impede the speed. Medical education minister said experts have given their opinion and the government is assessing it. There’s a realisation lockdown is not the solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-curbs-wont-help-focus-on-covid-care-says-experts/articleshow/76779036.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||Rotary, TOI launch massive tree plantation drive in city||Nagpur: In a unique initiative, Rotary Club of Nagpur Vision has teamed up with The Times of India to launch a massive tree plantation drive in and around the city. On Sunday, over 100 fruit-bearing trees will be planted in Navarmari village, 35 kilometres from Nagpur. The villagers will be the caretakers of the trees that would provide them economic support. “We intentionally chose fruit-bearing trees so that apart from green cover, the villagers also get income from them. We will also be planting bamboo trees as they are fast-growing, easy to maintain and have good economic value,” said Nilanjan Bhowmick, director (environment) at the Rotary Club of Nagpur Vision. Various species including mango, oranges, guava and others would be planted. Apart from this, the focus is also on increasing the declining tree cover in the urban areas. To promote this, a ‘Green Your Neighbourhood Challenge’ is being launched across the city under which citizens are encouraged to come forward and plant at least one tree in their house or neighbourhood. Saplings of various species including saptaparni, karanj, amaltas and others are available with the social forestry department at a nominal price of Rs 8 till July 31. “We appeal to all the citizens to actively take part in the challenge so that the overall density of trees increases in the city. Environment conservation is a priority,” said Bhowmick. The movement is targeting planting at least 500 trees by the end of this month. “Globally, we are focusing on protection of environment. The arrival of monsoon is the perfect time to carry out plantations in a scientific way,” added Bhowmick. Citizens across Nagpur are invited to take part in the green movement. Photographs taken with the planted saplings should be mailed to nilanjanbhowmick@gmail.com. The best pictures will be published in TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rotary-toi-launch-massive-tree-plantation-drive-in-city/articleshow/76778026.cms||Manka Behl
July 4, 2020||India||‘State-backed’ group spying on Indians: Report||NEW DELHI: After seven years of targeting countries in West Asia and Europe, a sophisticated and resilient cyber espionage group, Promethium, has shifted its focus to India, claimed cybersecurity experts. By compromising the download files of widely-used softwares, it has been stealing documents and encrypted communication from devices for at least a year. Who has been behind the attacks is not known. The group, also called StrongPity3, has been operating since 2012 but it has been notoriously difficult to track down or attribute to a single actor. Cybersecurity researchers believe that the attacks are state-backed for two reasons — the group keeps coming back even after being exposed and the compromise happens at the level of the internet service provider. Now, Promethium’s footprint is expanding. “The samples related to StrongPity3 targeted victims in Colombia, India, Canada and Vietnam,” cybersecurity intelligence platform Cisco Talos wrote in its latest report. The new attacks, in which India was also targeted, go back at least a year, maybe more. “Talos has identified at least three different campaigns since July 2019,” the report said. Talos is the cyber threat intelligence unit of American technology conglomerate Cisco Systems. Talos reported that the attack happens when people try to download legitimate softwares. Instead of getting the actual files, the user is directed to the malware, which scans the system and sends out information without the user ever knowing. So the setup file that the user does download is trojanised, infected. It “will install the malware and the legitimate application, which is a good way to disguise its activities,” the Talos report said. But it’s careful. “In some cases, it will reconfigure Windows Defender before dropping the malware to prevent detection.” That is, it will add itself to the Windows Defender exclusions list. Next, it will check for the antivirus and, depending on the level of security, will drop the malware. With three files. One, to execute itself. A second, to establish contact and launch the third file, for the exfiltration of data. This third file will collect every Microsoft Office file it encounters on the system in an infinite loop with 6,050-millisecond gaps. It looks for files with specific extensions, creates an archive of these files (if a file is larger than 160kb, it is split), encodes the archives and exfiltrates them. The group in its many forms has, since 2016, been recognised as a “sophisticated and stealthy surveillance project” by at least five cybersecurity intelligence or research teams — from BitDefender, CitizenLab, Microsoft, Kaspersky and AT&T. Talos is the sixth. In its earlier attacks, the targets were activists and adversaries of the government. So what does its expansion to India mean? It’s difficult to say yet. Craig Williams, director of outreach, Cisco Talos, told TOI, “Our published research provides all of the details we are prepared to provide at this time. Threat actors are always going to be working towards finding weaknesses in attractive verticals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/state-backed-group-spying-on-indians-report/articleshow/76779035.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
July 4, 2020||Nagpur||Student gets RTE seat in three schools||Nagpur: Members of RTE admissions verification committee were shocked to notice that a student had secured admission in three schools, something which is impossible considering only one application is allowed per student. Shockingly, the parents created three applications using separate dates of birth to hitch a free ride using RTE quota. Even the RTE software failed in detecting similar entries in the name and address column. In all three applications, parents’ name, child’s name, address, caste category etc were absolutely the same. The only difference was in date of birth. Shahid Sharif, part of the RTE verification committee, said, “This means more fraudulent cases might have already got admission across the city. This one was detected through manual supervision and a lot of effort. I feel the entire RTE process needs to be overhauled as it is proven that software can be manipulated. If we can detect the fraud, why can’t the education department do it.” State education director (primary) Dinkar Temkar, who is in charge of RTE process in Maharashtra, expressed surprise. “After online applications come, we check for common names etc and manually delete these before the lottery is initiated. We will reject this particular admission,” said Temkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/student-gets-rte-seat-in-three-schools/articleshow/76778052.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 4, 2020||Vijayawada||YSRC seeks disqualification of Narsapuram MP Krishnam Raju||VIJAYAWADA: The ruling YSRC has sought disqualification of its MP from Narsapuram in West Godavari district, K Raghurama Krishnam Raju. A delegation of the party MPs, led by its Parliamentary Party leader and Rajya Sabha member, V Vijayasai Reddy, met Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla in Delhi and lodged the complaint against the MP. The delegation also submitted a representation to the Lok Sabha speaker citing reasons for their demand. They also submitted visual and documentary evidence to prove their charge against the defiant MP. Later, addressing media persons in the national capital, Vijayasai Reddy said that they have submitted all evidence required to prove anti-party and indiscipline activities of the Narsapuram MP. He said that the MP seems to have crossed all limits to be in the party and is understood to have made up his mind to leave the party. “His heart and soul are not with the (YSR Congress) party. He is causing damage to the party and making derogatory remarks against the leadership in defiance of all norms and practices,” Vijayasai Reddy said. He alleged that the MP had aligned with the opposition parties to speak against the party and cause damage to the party leadership. Party floor leader in Lok Sabha, P V Midhun Reddy, said that it was painful for them to seek disqualification of a colleague but they were compelled to do so by the defiant MP. He dared the Narsapuram MP to resign and seek re-election if he is confident of victory and if he is really disappointed with the leadership. The MPs--Margani Bharath, Nandigam Suresh and Lavu Srikrishnadevarayalu--who were also part of the delegation found fault with their fellow MP for his open outburst against the party and the state government. They said that the MP had never made any attempt to use the party platform to air his views but had gone to the media, which attracted the disciplinary action. Meanwhile, sources said that the delegation had submitted copies of his statements, advertisements – both print and visual – claiming himself as a candidate of the YSR Congress for Narsapuram Lok Sabha constituency during the elections and now challenging and raising a dispute on the name of the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-seeks-disqualification-of-narsapuram-mp-krishnam-raju/articleshow/76777274.cms||Gopi Dara
July 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No Chinese goods in Diwali sale, say traders||NEW DELHI: In the wake of the border conflict, the Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI) has launched a campaign against Chinese products and the participating traders have decided not to import any product from China for Diwali.  Goods like lights, idols of Lakshmi-Ganesha, lamps, toys, gift items, phones and decorative items worth thousands of crores are imported every Diwali and sold across north India by Delhi-based wholesalers. A protest against these goods was organised by CTI at Connaught Place on Friday. "China sells goods worth billions of dollars in India and its products have also captured the demands generated during festivals," said CTI convener Brijesh Goyal. Traders usually place orders for Diwali in July. "We have started this campaign to motivate traders not to place orders and most of them have agreed," said Goyal. "More use of made-in-India goods will also solve the problem of unemployment," said a trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-no-chinese-goods-in-diwali-sale-says-traders/articleshow/76779046.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Speed laser guns to arrest overspeeding||VISAKHAPATNAM: With motorists in Visakhapatnam continuing to flout speed limits, city traffic cops have procured ten speed laser guns to catch over-speeding vehicles. According to a report by the ministry of road transport and highways, of the 7,556 people who lost their lives in road accidents in Andhra Pradesh in 2018, over-speeding was the reason for 6,196 of those fatalities. Speaking to TOI, Ch Adinarayana, ADCP (traffic), said that traffic cops booked a number of over-speeding cases in April, during the lockdown. “We have observed that motorists are riding at high speeds in certain stretches and the city traffic police are booking nearly 150 to 200 over-speeding cases a day,” he added. “The procurement of the speed laser guns got delayed due to the lockdown. Otherwise, we would have received it by April. We have issued e-tenders for procurement and two Delhi-based firms have approached us. We will decide on model and quality and procure them in a few days,” Adinarayana said. Some of the stretches where over-speeding is rampant are Beach Road, BRTS Road, port-connectivity road, and some stretches on NH-16. A senior police officer with the traffic wing said that they are already using four speed laser guns. “But the vehicular population of Vizag is over 13 lakh. Which is why, the city police needed 10 more speed laser guns to check the menace of over-speeding,” the officer said. City police commissioner RK Meena said that the police have booked around 8,000 over-speeding cases in the last three years. “We have decided to mitigate the over-speeding menace by procuring more speed laser guns and deploying them at all major roads,” Meena said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/speed-laser-guns-to-arrest-overspeeding/articleshow/76777317.cms||Nalla.Babu
July 4, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD trust board meet today||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) trust board will review the Covid-19 measures in place during the trust board meeting to be held under the chairmanship of YV Subba Reddy at Tirumala on Saturday. Sources in the temple body said while TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy, EO Anil Kumar Singhal and a few other trust board members will attend the meeting which will be held at Annamaiah Bhavan at Tirumala on Saturday. Other members will take part in the meeting through video-conference. The TTD trust board is likely to discuss a wide range of issues including measures in place to prevent the outbreak of the novel coronavirus at Tirumala, scaling up pilgrim footfall at the temple town and financial aspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-trust-board-meet-today/articleshow/76777452.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 4, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Low-risk patients may get to go home||CHENNAI: Asymptomatic or moderately symptomatic patients being treated at Covid care centres (CCC) in the city may be allowed to go home two or three days after admission, according to a new protocol. However, this will be subject to an authorisation letter issued by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC)’s sanitary inspector that the patient has proper facilities to be in home isolation. The move was planned since many patients did not want to stay put at CCCs and preferred to be in home isolation, officials said. It has come into effect at many CCCs across the city in the past few days, health department sources said. This was confirmed by a sanitary inspector as well. As per official data, as on June 30, 4,867 patients are lodged in Covid care centres. Only patients below 50 years of age and those who don’t have co-morbidities will be given the leeway, a doctor said. “We will be monitoring their health closely. Only if they are improving and don’t have complications, will we permit this,” the doctor said. The patient will continue to be in the doctor’s care even if sent home for isolation. About the authorisation, a sanitary inspector said, “We will inspect their homes and check if they have a separate room with an attached bathroom, which are necessary for home isolation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-low-risk-patients-may-get-to-go-home/articleshow/76779068.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
July 4, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai gets first heavy rain; red alert for today||MUMBAI: Waterlogging and traffic jams plagued several areas while three flights were diverted at city airport on Friday as Mumbai received its first heavy rain of the season. The Met department has issued a red alert—indicating extremely heavy rain at isolated places—for parts of Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad for Saturday. The IMD Colaba observatory recorded 156mm in the three hours starting 8.30am — very heavy rain as per IMD classification. After that, the reading rose marginally to 161.4mm by 8.30pm, as the action shifted northwards in the afternoon. Santacruz recorded 102.7mm till 8.30pm. On a day the first heavy showers of the season lashed the city, the IMD did something for the first time: it issued an impact-based forecast and even suggested the action that could be taken. The IMD listed out waterlogging and flooding in many low-lying areas, localised and short-term disruption to municipal services like water and electricity, major disruption of traffic flow and also the possibility of collapse of very old buildings and the falling of trees. It suggested traffic be regulated effectively and people in the affected areas restrict their movements. The heavy rain first began with parts of the island city witnessing a continuous downpour, and from 11am the suburbs and adjoining cities of Thane and Navi Mumbai received the same treatment. Colaba recorded 156 mm from 8.30 am to 11.30 am, and it fell in the very heavy rain category in the IMD classification. During that time period, the suburbs received only 61 mm. By 8.30 pm, the figures were 161.4 mm in Coaba and 102.7 mm in Santacruz. Due to poor weather conditions, three flights coming in to land at the airport were diverted elsewhere, said a Mumbai International Airport Ltd spokesperson. Of these, two were non-scheduled charter flights, which were diverted to Pune, and one was an Indigo flight from Ranchi, which was diverted to Ahmedabad. Apart from this, an IndiGo flight from Kochi which was on approach to land carried out a goaround and landed later. Weathermen said one of the reasons for the heavy rain activity was the prevalence of very intense convective clouds over the city and suburbs, which caused intense spells of rainfall, which are classified as between 3 cm and 5 cm per hour. K S Hosalikar, deputy director general (western region), India Meteorological Department, said satellite imagery indicated that clouds were still prevalent on the west coast. “Radar and satellite images are indicating active monsoon over the west coast, including Mumbai. Heavy rain warnings are therefore given out for Mumbai and the entire west coast in the coming 24 to 48 hours,” he said. Dr Madhavan Nair Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, took to Twitter to say that a mid-tropospheric circulation off the Gujarat coast would cause heavy rain over north Konkan, including the city, south Gujarat and Saurashtra in two to three days. He said that by next week the activity would shift again to the Himalayan foothills and North-East India, causing heavy rain there. Independent meteorologists said the reason for the intense rain in the island city during the morning hours was that the build-up of clouds happened off the Raigad coast initially. “South Mumbai being much closer [to Raigad], it recorded heavy rain, and then clouds started spreading further northwards. Also, the offshore trough being more towards Gujarat coast with a tilt towards Raigad, helped in triggering the system [clouds] to form initially in that area and later spread out to the north,” Akshay Deoras, a PhD student at the department of meteorology, University of Reading, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-gets-first-heavy-rain-red-alert-for-today/articleshow/76779067.cms||Richa Pinto
July 4, 2020||World||After HK, US & China spar over PLA drills in South China Sea||WASHINGTON/BEIJING: China on Friday rejected criticism by the US defence department of its plan to hold military exercises in the South China Sea, and suggested that Washington was to blame for increased tensions in the region. The Pentagon said in a statement on Thursday that conducting military exercises over disputed territory in the South China Sea was “counter-productive to efforts at easing tensions and maintaining stability”. China announced last week it had scheduled five days of People’s Liberation Army’s drills starting July 1 near the Paracel Islands, which are claimed by both Vietnam and China. “The military exercises are the latest in a long string of PRC actions to assert unlawful maritime claims and disadvantage its Southeast Asian neighbours in the South China Sea,” the Pentagon statement said, referring to the People’s Republic of China. Vietnam and the Philippines have also criticised the planned Chinese drills, warning it could create tension in the region and impact Beijing’s relationship with its neighbours. Philippine foreign affairs secretary Teodoro Locsin warned China “it will be met with the severest response, diplomatic and whatever else is appropriate” should the exercises spill over to Philippine territory. Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian, asked about the Pentagon’s comments during a daily briefing in Beijing, said the military exercises are within the scope of China’s sovereignty and said that certain “non-regional countries” conducting military exercises in the South China Sea are affecting the region’s stability. China claims 90% of the potentially energy-rich South China Sea, but Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam also lay claim to parts of it, through which about $3 trillion of trade passes each year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/after-hk-us-china-spar-over-pla-drills-in-south-china-sea/articleshow/76779081.cms||---
July 4, 2020||India||Times Now exposé led to TN cops’ arrest||The Tamil Nadu government was forced to arrest the four policemen for the custodial death of father-son duo (Jayaraj and Bennix) in Tuticorin district after Times Now accessed and presented incriminating evidence pertaining to the alleged case of police brutality. The crucial evidence relating to custodial violence, which the news channel presented during its seven-day special campaign, #IndiaStandsForHumanePolicing, exposed the lies of the Sathankulam police. The jail admission records and hospital records of Jayaraj and Bennix, which was first put out by Times Now, proved that they sustained serious injuries while in police custody. Further, the channel spoke to the two police constables who escorted Jayaraj and Bennix to the sub-jail and one of the cops, Muthuraj, confessed that the victims had suffered the injuries mentioned in the records at the police station. The father-son duo was picked up by the police on June 19 for allegedly keeping their shop open beyond the permissible lockdown time limit, and were tortured while they were in custody, resulting in their deaths. Times Now put out the CCTV footage showing scenes outside the shop on June 19, which busted claims made by Sathankulam police in their FIR that the duo rolled on the ground and got injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/times-now-expos-led-to-tn-cops-arrest/articleshow/76779098.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Home isolation for asymptomatic and mild Covid cases||BENGALURU: People below 50 years who have very mild symptoms of Covid-19 can opt for home isolation if they can ensure no contact with other family members at their residence and coordination with health authorities. The Karnataka government allowed asymptomatic and mild symptomatic Covid-19 cases, including those in Bengaluru, to be in home isolation. The guidelines for home quarantine were issued on Friday. Patient should have PPE, pulse oximeter at handThe decision was taken after CM BS Yediyurappa met medical experts in Bengaluru earlier this week who suggested the measure to lessen the burden on Covid hospitals. Among the guidelines for home isolation issued on Friday, the patient should be clinically assigned as a very mild or pre-symptomatic case by the treating medical officer. A team will inspect the house to check for facilities to isolate the patient and to quarantine family contacts. However, patients with comorbid conditions such as kidney disease including dialysis, heart diseases, stroke, TB and cancer are not eligible for home isolation. Those with hypertension, diabetes, obesity, and thyroid are allowed only if the conditions are well-managed and under good clinical control. At home, a caregiver should be available 24 x7. A regular communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a pre-requisite for the entire duration of home isolation. Each patient in home isolation should always have an oxygen saturation of not less than 95%. The patient should have a pulse oximeter, digital thermometer and personal protective equipment (face masks, gloves) at hand during home isolation. Violations can be reported by calls to 080-45451111 or on WhatsApp at 9777777684. Further, the patient will have to agree to monitor his/her health and regularly and inform their health status to the physician and district surveillance officer (DSO) for further follow-up by the surveillance teams. A signed undertaking to follow all rules of self-isolation will also be sought.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-home-isolation-for-asymptomatic-and-mild-covid-cases/articleshow/76779092.cms||Anil Gejji
July 4, 2020||Business||Apex trade body demands audit of GSTN portal||Kolkata: The Confederation of West Bengal Trade Association (CWBTA), the apex body of traders in the state, has demanded an audit of the GSTN (Goods and Services Tax Network) portal by a committee comprising IT professionals, tax payers and government officials. It has also urged the Centre to review interest and penal provisions in the post-Covid era. In an open letter, CWBTA has pointed out that due to the increased number of complicated returns with repeated amendments, traders take help from professionals by spending more money and time. According to the trade body, three years ago, the main purpose of introducing GST was to take VAT, CST, Excise and Service Tax and others under one umbrella. “Initially, all industries and trade as well as the commercial tax authorities, accepted that it was being introduced half-baked and during the course of time, it would be in proper shape. But notifications after notifications pointed out that GST still has not yet achieved its proper shape and compliance-friendly nature,” it added. Elaborating some adverse features arising out of continued changes, CWBTA stated that the facility of revising returns in the earlier regime used to easily iron out figures/presentation to the convenience of both sides of law. Not providing any revision facility of 3B is the biggest problem faced by the traders. Besides, it feels that formats of annual returns, even after three years of work to ease them, should be more simplified. CWBTA president Sushil Poddar said that the problem with GSTN continues. “Even though it is an accepted fact that the introduction of GST was on trial and in formative stage, charging late fees is not rational. No consideration is being made on this. Interest charge, even for the amount deposited in the bank, is uncalled for,” he added. Poddar also wanted to draw the attention of the Centre to the fact that transfer of credit from VAT to GST is yet to be allowed to many. “Funds are blocked since refund of excess credit takes a very long time despite compliance of cumbersome procedural work. There is no ease-of-doing business. On the third anniversary of GST, we wish and pray for its improved health and offer all possible cooperation to the tax department,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/apex-trade-body-demands-audit-of-gstn-portal/articleshow/76778377.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Business||Coal India CMD urges striking staff to join work||Kolkata: Coal India (CIL) CMD Pramod Agrawal has appealed to the striking workmen of the company to resume their duties. “Considering the Covid situation in the country and the international scenario, Coal India’s role assumes all the more importance and I earnestly appeal to you to resume your duties in the larger interest of the nation,” he said. However, the PSU miner claimed that its off-take, production and over burden removal continued on July 2 despite the strike by its workmen. “Amid the ongoing strike, CIL despatched 5.78 lakh tonnes (LTs) on July 2. This is around 42% of the normal average off-take. Similarly, coal production was 4.81 LTs, which is close to 38% of the average number,” CIL said in a statement. In his appeal, Agrawal said that the minister of coal while addressing their Charter of Demands has reassured them that there was no question of privatisation of Coal India or demerger of CMPDIL (Central Mine Planning and Design Institute) from CIL. “There would be no adverse effect on present or future employment on this reason and no coal block of CIL would be given away for commercial coal mining,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/coal-india-cmd-urges-striking-staff-to-join-work/articleshow/76778379.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Sunday curfew to kick in on Saturday night||Bengaluru: Police have issued a warning that people who venture out during the weekend curfew, from 8pm on Saturday to 5am on Monday, could see their vehicles being seized under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The offenders will have to approach a court to get their rides back. During the previous lockdown, police impounded around 45,000 vehicles over violation of movement restrictions. Police commissioner Bhaskar Rao said on Friday that there would be a strict vigil between Saturday night and Monday morning. The weekend curbs will remain in place till August 2. “Every day, night curfew orders are implemented in the city between 8pm and 5am. Since Sunday is a full lockdown day, the restrictions will begin at 8pm on Saturday and end at 5am on Monday,” he said, adding that essential services were exempted from the rule. At the police commissioner’s office on Friday, Rao and other senior IPS officers on Friday paid tributes to four city cops who died after contracting coronavirus. To date, about 170 police personnel have been tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-sunday-curfew-to-kick-in-on-saturday-night/articleshow/76778828.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ranchi||5 cops +ve, Ranchi gets 27 Covid cases in biggest spike||Ranchi: Six police personnel deputed across various police stations in Ranchi and eight patients from Millitary Hospital in Namkum locality were among the 27 persons in the city who tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, as the state capital recorded its biggest single-day spike in new infections. While Jharkhand recorded 112 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, the number of recoveries crossed the 2,000-mark with 13 persons discharged in three districts. Of the 112 cases, 49 cases were those that were added to Thursday’s tally of 60, taking the day’s total figure to 109 and resulting in the biggest one-day spike in East Singhbhum (51 cases). The state continue to do well on recovery part as Jharkhand was placed 10th nationally with a recovery rate of 76.6%. Jharkhand has now recorded 2,697, of which 681 are active 2,001 have recovered and 15 have died. The six personnel who tested positive in the capital are from five different police stations — Bariatu, Chutia, Hindpiri, Argora and Dhurwa — and one is from Police Line,” said Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra. Among the other cases detected on Friday, East Singhbhum recorded 15, Koderma eight Dumka, Garhwa and Giridih three each and Latehar and Palamu two each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/5-cops-ve-ranchi-gets-27-covid-cases-in-biggest-spike/articleshow/76777305.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 4, 2020||Gurgaon||After Delhi, we’re testing most in NCR: Gurugram administration||GURUGRAM: The Gurugram administration on Friday claimed that among all the 19 districts that come under NCR, Gurugram has conducted the highest number of Covid-19 tests after Delhi.The gap with Delhi is, however, huge. During a press conference in the city, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri shared that Gurugram is testing 2,600 people per million, while adjoining Faridabad is conducting 1,078 tests per million, Sonipat is testing 1,045 people per million and Jhajjar 554 people per million. Till date, Gurugram has collected 38,821 samples. This is far lower than Delhi's 5,72,530 samples but more than Faridabad (25,864), Ghaziabad (24,582 till Thursday) and Noida (23,591). Delhi, which is conducting the most number of tests in the country currently, is collecting 28,895 samples per million people. Haryana is testing 9,662 people per million, lower than neighbouring Rajasthan which is testing 11,057 people per million but more than Uttar Pradesh which is conducting 3,474 tests per million. Khatri also pointed out that Gurugram is, at present, conducting 2,000 tests daily and plans to improve this figure soon. “We are testing vigorously to identify positive cases and immediately isolate them to curb the spread of the virus,” said Khatri. The administration gets a status update from patients in home isolation every day through the zoom videoconferencing app, Khatri pointed out, and has also started free counseling sessions for such people. “We have so far received more than one lakh calls on our helpline regarding Covid-19,” he said. Describing the recent trends, he said that the active cases in Gurugram have declined. “We used to have more than 2,400 active cases which has reduced to 1,183,” he said, adding that around 8,000 immunity booster kits have been distributed among people in high-risk areas. The administration along with health department is aggressively conducting testing in the eight large outbreak regions. In these eight regions, sero, antigen and RT(PCR) tests are being conducted by health department. Also, police presence in these areas will further increase in the coming days. Nikita Gehlot, Deputy Commissioner of Police (headquarters), pointed out that 2,000 policemen are deployed in Covid-19 duty across the district. “We are tracing Covid patients whose contact information is incomplete. Till now, we have received details of 1,500 people, out of which 1,200 have been traced. 270 people are still untraceable as they submitted invalid phone numbers while giving their samples. However, things have improved after the health department issued show-cause notices to private labs for not collecting complete information of people at the time of sample collection. We are visiting people who are not reachable on phone to ensure that they are following the norms,” she said. During Friday’s discussion, Khatri assured that Gurugram health infrastructure has been upgraded to handle Covid-19 cases. “We have every arrangement in place. Of the total 4,708 hospital beds, 1,486 have been reserved for Covid-19 patients. 192 of these are ICU beds and 92 are equipped with ventilators. At present 375 beds, 102 ICU beds and 38 beds with ventilators are occupied by Covid-19 patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/after-delhi-were-testing-most-in-ncr-gurgon-administration/articleshow/76778202.cms||Ipsita Pati
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||Big, fat Kolkata weddings shed weight under Covid compulsions, go safer||KOLKATA: Thermal checks instead of flower showers, disinfectant sprays at entrances instead of rose water, bottles of sanitizers and a face mask for each guest in place of mementos and strictly no late-evening rituals — the big, fat Kolkata wedding has undergone a sea change in a post-Covid world, a world where there can be a maximum of 50 guests, and the ceremony has to be wrapped up by 9pm. And while no liquor can be served, it’s an entirely new game of tact and diplomacy to decide which second cousin or distant aunt to leave out of the invite list. Even the mandatory group photos with bride and groom are no longer allowed; neither are the countless hugs and handshakes. A number of families have taken to live-streaming the entire ceremony and splitting guests into smaller home functions in the run-up to the actual wedding. “Planning a wedding was never easy. Now, it has got tougher as I had to tactfully invite friends and family to different functions on days leading up to the wedding, keeping only the closest relatives and friends for the wedding, as there’s a limit on the number of guests,” said Utsav, a businessman who got married last Tuesday. Utsav had originally planned his wedding in Vietnam in February, but postponed the wedding to June 30 because of the pandemic, thinking he would hold a large reception at a city venue. But as the Covid numbers kept rising, he soon realised he would have to make it much, much smaller. “We had no clue whether the lockdown would be lifted by June, and were wondering whether we could at all get married now,” Utsav said. “We made the necessary changes when Unlock was announced, although the honeymoon has been put on hold indefinitely.” The wedding season began last week and will continue till September. According to wedding planners, this year, it’s a new challenge for them: whatever decorations and innovations they make will be focused on social distancing and disinfection themes. “We are working with a handful of staff, who are all in PPEs,” said Preksha Chhajer Choudhary, a city-based wedding planner. “At the time of the wedding, thermal scanning of all guests, disinfection of everyone entering the venue and distribution of masks and sanitizers at different levels of the wedding is a must now.” Even the timings have changed. “To ensure all rituals are completed before the start of the night curfew hours, we even changed the ceremony timings and began the rituals from afternoon, even when the priest was saying evening was best time,” said a 26-year-old IT professional who got married on Thursday. With distancing norms and the introduction of masks, the concept of wedding photography and wedding dress has also changed. There’s no more pre-wedding or post-wedding shoots and a strict no-no on large group shots. At some weddings, even some very Bengali rituals, such as chhadnatola and gaye-halud, which involved large gatherings, are being avoided. “We are also working with a very small team of photographers to maintain distancing protocols,” said wedding photographer Anirban Brahma. Even grooms like Abhishek Gupta, who got married on Thursday, said they kept only packaged food for guests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/big-fat-city-weddings-shed-weight-under-covid-compulsions-go-safer/articleshow/76778723.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 4, 2020||Ranchi||With no Shravani Mela, Deoghar, Dumka to lose more than Rs 300cr||Dumka: Sunita Devi (66) sells bangles by the side of a narrow lane leading to Baidyanath Dham temple. She earns approximately Rs 3,000 a month. Her son Budhiya sells pickles on the same road a 100 yards away. Together, the duo earns around Rs 7,000 a month, enough to sustain their family of five. Sunita and Ramesh eagerly wait for Shravan every year. With lakhs of devotees coming to the town from various parts of India, their sales rise. “If the business is good during Shravan, we take home anywhere between Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000 during the month.” The mother-son duo is not alone. Thousands of small-time traders in Deoghar make a chunk of their annual income during Shravan. Be it hotels, eateries, store owners, transporters and daily wagers — the economy of the town revolves around Baidyanath Dham temple and the lakhs of devotees who converge on the town during Shravan. With the Jharkhand high court cancelling Shravani Mela and allowing virtual darshan this year, traders and hoteliers in Deoghar and Dumka districts are starting at losses to the tune of Rs 300 crore. More than 50 lakh devotees visit the temple during the holy month. Lakhs of kanwariyas fetch water from the Ganga at Sultanganj in Bihar and then walk over 100km to pour it on the ‘Jyotirlinga’ at the temple. The Baidyanath Dham temple trust’s coffers have swollen in recent years. As per the Deoghar district administration, the temple earned Rs 14.16 crore in 2018-19, significantly higher than the Rs 8.74 crore the previous fiscal. Banks, both private and public sector, estimated that 35 lakh kanwariyas who visited the town in 2018 spent close to Rs 400 crore on food, lodging, transport and purchasing puja paraphernalia. “This money was the mainstay of this town’s income,” a PSU banker posted at Deoghar said. As per the Deoghar Chamber of Commerce and Industries (DCCI), every devotee visiting the temples spends up to Rs 6,000. “Deoghar and Dumka record a turnover of more than Rs 300 crore during the month of Shravan. The HC ruling will have a huge impact on the economy of the two districts,” DCCI president Gopal Sharma said. Deoghar’s residents are staring at an economically bleak year ahead. From puja essentials to hotels, food and conveyance, the devotees contribute heavily to the town’s economy. Thousands of makeshift eateries, which employ around 10,000 people during the Mela, and vendors selling various items along the 105-km stretch from Sultanganj to Deoghar will also bear the brunt. “We are already under financial stress because of the advance payment we made to our suppliers of khowa — the key ingredient in making peda, the most sought-after prasad among devotees. Now, we will miss out on earning a sizeable amount of money from selling naivedyam items,” Triyugi Mandal, a local, said. “For many, the earnings made this month-long help them sustain their livelihood for the rest of the year. This time, they won’t earn a penny,” Durlabh Mishra, former president of Panda Dharmarakshini Sabha, the priests’ body at the temple, said. “The government and the court should have allowed the fair with tighter social distancing protocols,” he added. Earlier this week, a delegation of priests had met chief minister Hemant Soren in Ranchi and urged the government to allow the fair will stricter norms. However, Soren turned down their request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/with-no-shravani-mela-deoghar-dumka-to-lose-more-than-rs-300cr/articleshow/76777271.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata port plans to turn into hub for Bangla cargo||EDITED/ 369 words Kolkata: In an attempt to ease trade between India and Bangladesh, the Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port Trust (SPMPT) in Kolkata has initiated a move to transport containers to Chittagong by ship. The ships will depart Kolkata with large numbers of containers and sail to Chittagong along the Indo-Bangladesh Protocol Route. According to experts, this will not only save transportation costs for importers but also help avoid congestion along roads. “A regular service commenced between the Kolkata Dock System (KDS) and Chittagong from Friday. The service was launched by Zim Integrated Services in association with Bengal Tiger Lines and inaugurated by S Balaji Arunkumar, deputy chairman, SPMPT. Chairman Vinit Kumar has played a key role in getting this service started. The maiden voyage by Singapore flag carrier MV Asiatic Moon will help transport nearly 300 containers of Indian exports to Bangladesh,” a senior SPMPT official said. The primary items exported are ferro metal alloys and garments. Till date, MV Asiatic Moon will be the largest vessel to travel between Kolkata and Bangladesh. It can carry up to 600 containers in a single voyage. So far, only smaller vessels with a capacity of 80-100 containers plied on this route. According to the official, exporters to Bangladesh will now be assured of quicker and safer shipment of products. “The port and the shipping line are also in consultations with Federation of Indian Exports Organisation (FIEO) to enable all exporters to get to know of this facility. The more containers per ship, the cheaper will be the transportation cost. This is also an opportunity to ease the pressure brought about by the issues faced by overland routes through Petrapole. This new service will be over and above the existing vessels already plying between the two countries. Hence, it is actually an increase in capacity,” the official added. Kumar said another service is scheduled to start from KDS to Chittagong in July second week. The vessel, MV Xpress Godavari, operated by Xpress Feeders will carry the containers. With global shipping players venturing into direct Bangladesh calls from Kolkata, it is expected that this trade line shall be strengthened and the Kolkata port is poised to turn into a hub for Bangladesh trade, he added. EOM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-port-plans-to-turn-into-hub-for-bangla-cargo/articleshow/76778711.cms||Jayanta Gupta
July 4, 2020||Ranchi||Bank branch shut in Koderma after employee tests positive||Koderma: The office of a public sector bank in Jhumari Tilaiya was sealed on Friday after one of the employees tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday evening. Koderma DC Ramesh Gholap and SP Ehtesham Waqarib took a stock of the situation on Friday. Talking to the media, Gholap said, “The infected banker had recently visited Munger in Bihar to attend a family event. The bank branch, which is located at a market complex, was first sanitised and then sealed.” The banker’s rented apartment in Jhanda Chowk and its neighbourhood were declared as a containment zone. “The banker’s colleagues will be quarantined and a contact-tracing is on to ascertain how many people he had come in contact with,” Gholap added. The branch manager said the employee resumed duty on June 29 and was found to be running a mild temperature when he was screened before entering the office. “Later, he contacted the district health workers and submitted his samples for Covid test,” the manager added. Meanwhile, the Koderma administration on Friday said it has constituted flying squads to conduct surprise raids on citizens to check if they are wearing masks while venturing out of their homes. Till Friday morning, the total number of Covid patients in Koderma stood at 186 of which 34 are active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bank-branch-shut-in-koderma-after-employee-tests-positive/articleshow/76777281.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Jobs on the line, teachers sell noodles to make ends meet||BENGALURU: Twelve teachers from a private school on Mysuru Road goes from door to door selling packets of noodles, at times to their own students, to earn some form of income and support their families. With on-campus classes suspended indefinitely because of the pandemic, the cash-starved school management has not paid them full salary for the past three months. Their ordeal shows how the prolonged closure of schools has left the teachers’ fraternity in a precarious financial condition. Many are struggling to make ends meet. A teacher in Ballari paints murals and messages on Covid awareness“I became a teacher out of passion. I love children. Never have I felt so dejected,” said a teacher from the said group, who has been in the profession for 22 years. She spoke to TOI after selling some noodle packets to her relatives on Friday. “It would be unfair to blame the school management (for the situation). It could not collect fees from students, not just for this year but also the past term. It is trying to help us by providing alternative work till on-campus classes resume,” she said. The school owner runs a factory that produces agricultural and noodle-making machinery. “I asked a customer, who has a branded noodle and pasta business, to help my teachers. I pick up packets of Hakka and instant noodles or vermicelli from the customer’s factory and bring it to the school. Teachers handle door-to-door sales,” said the school owner, Srinivasa V. The teachers sell the products to relatives, friends, neighbours and their own students. “The commission we get helps us meet our daily needs. We were called nation builders. Now, we cannot even sustain a home, let alone build the nation,” said the veteran teacher. “Our expertise is not marketing. I manage to sell 20 packets a day.” The school conducted online classes for some grades till June 28. “Parents have not paid even the last term’s fee. Total dues stand at Rs 3 lakh; only 10 per cent of the parents have paid. There have been no new enrolments. This is an unprecedented situation,” Srinivasa said. The school has 500 students and it charges an average fee of Rs 1,000 per month. “The faculty is like a family. We are trying our best to help them,” he added. The teachers say they are one community which has not received any assistance from the government. “A teacher welfare fund is collected from schools annually. The government should use it in this situation,” said D Sashi Kumar, secretary, KAMS, Association of Managements of Schools of Karnataka. Loader, graffiti artist & tailorMany other teachers in Karnataka have been forced to take up alternative work, including odd jobs, to feed their families. Yelsin Wilson, a physics teacher from a PU college in Bengaluru, will join restaurant chain Maiyas for loading/unloading work on July 6. “I have finished my health check-up and am ready to join Maiyas. I am ready to do any work as I have not been paid for four months,” Wilson said. “I had even enquired about employment under rural job scheme MNREGA in my panchayat, Nelguli, and I applied on kayakamitra app for a digging job. I didn’t get a response even after 15 days.” Sudarshan, a drawing teacher in Ballari, opened a novelty shop selling bangles. Customers were few and far between, so he turned to drawing, painting murals and Covid awareness messages on walls of hospitals, temples and railway stations. The work earns him Rs 150-200 a day. “Four to five drawing teachers from other schools are doing the same thing. A co-worker at a government school, Yellarthy Narasimha Murthy, and his friends pay for our work,” he said. A Kannada teacher from a private school in Singasandra has got into stitching. “I applied for a receptionist’s position and other jobs, but there were no vacancies. I sought work at a neighbourhood tailoring unit, but it had no orders. I then brought out my old tailoring machine from storage and got to work,” she said. “It’s difficult to get customers. I can’t give up as my husband’s salary has been cut by half.” Experts fault govtMaya Menon, founder-director of Teacher Foundation, blamed the government. “It should have anticipated that schools won’t be able to reopen in June. It took ad-hoc and short-term measures. Schools were asked not to pressure parents over fees. Some reputed schools may have a financial buffer to weather the crisis, but most schools rely on fees for survival,” Menon said. “Parents who can afford to pay fees delayed the payment. It’s a big mess. The government could have asked private schools to stagger fee collection instead of taking lump sum payments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-jobs-on-the-line-teachers-sell-noodles-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/76778820.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||Relief clash rocks E Midnapore; oppn seeks judicial probe||Patashpur/Basirhat: Police allegedly fired two rounds in the air and resorted to a lathi-charge to disperse a crowd of 250-300 BJP supporters blocking the Patashpur state highway in East Midnapore on Friday against alleged corruption in the distribution of relief to Amphan victims. It prompted Congress and Left to demand a judicial inquiry into the “mess” over distribution of relief. Pointing to the continuing groundswell across districts, party leaders held that things didn’t improve a week even after the CM’s all-party meeting on June 24. When Patashpur II panchayat samity sabhapati and local Trinamool leader Chandan Sau reached the spot, demonstrators allegedly gheraoed him. A large police force reached the spot, but, by then, the demonstrators had turned violent by damaging a bus. The demonstrators alleged that police fired two rounds and lathi-charged them. A senior police officer said, "The demonstrators turned violent and attacked police, injuring several of our men. We did not fire in the air, as alleged.” BJP Contai president Anup Chakraborty said: “We have captured the police firing on video. Police were heavy-handed in dispersing a peaceful demonstration.” Leader of opposition and Congress leader Abdul Mannan and Left Front leader Sujan Chakraborty wrote to Mamata Banerjee on Friday saying the government didn’t act on the CM’s promise at the all-party meeting. “We had demanded that the government publish the list of beneficiaries at the panchayat office. There was also a promise to upload the list on the government website. But nothing has happened in most places,” said Chakraborty. They also sought legal action against panchayat representatives and officials who drew up the “faulty list” for relief distribution in which many genuine victims were left out. “Some of them are known to have returned the relief money. The administration should lodge FIRs against officials who had a hand in drawing up the faulty list,” Chakraborty said, a day after Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh made the same demand. In North 24 Parganas, several hundred villagers blocked Hasnabad-Malancha Road at Amlani from 8-10.30 am on Friday demanding immediate arrest of local Trinamool panchayat samity member Taslima Bibi who, they alleged, had helped her family get Amphan compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/relief-clash-rocks-e-midnapore-oppn-seeks-judicial-probe/articleshow/76778638.cms||Suman Mondal
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||NGT turns down OIL plea to recall order||Kolkata: The National Green Tribunal, on Friday, turned down Oil India Ltd's plea to set aside its order to constitute an expert committee that would look into the damages caused to environment, biodiversity, human and public health by the fire that has been raging in its oil wells in Baghjan, Assam, for almost a month. The tribunal recognised the value of the National Park and the wetlands in the area and, by its order dated June 24, issued notice that an expert committee headed by Justice BP Katakey (former Judge of the Gauhati High Court) and seven other members be set up. In response, OIL appealed to the tribunal that the order should be recalled, arguing that it had hired international experts. It also urged that the direction to deposit the amount of Rs 25 crore was unnecessary as OIL was a PSU and undertook to pay whatever amount was required on its liability being ascertained. The OIL counsel further argued that other enquiries had been ordered, and therefore, the plea of the petitioner — environmentalist Bonani Kakkar — was unnecessary. The NGT disagreed. It ruled that other enquiries were not a substitute to the information sought to be gathered by the green tribunal, as the powers of NGT were exclusive. It also observed that the liability for compensation by OIL was absolute and not dependent on any finding of fault. It therefore refused to recall its previous order constituting the expert committee. Additionally, the NGT reiterated that the ministry of environment and forests should review its monitoring mechanism to check and prevent violation of environmental norms so as to prevent accidents in establishments dealing with hazardous chemicals. On the specific undertaking given by OIL that it had set aside Rs 130 crores and would promptly make available whatever amount was required for discharge of its liability, the NGT deferred its previous direction for deposit of Rs. 25 crores, till the Expert Committee works out the actual amount of compensation payable by OIL, and the manner of its disbursement. The expert committee is expected to submit its report by July 29, 2020, when the matter will be further heard. Reacting to the order, the senior advocate for the petitioner, Siddharth Mitra, said, “The Principal Bench has, in fact, strengthened the earlier order by reiterating the role of the expert committee and the monitoring responsibility of the MOEF.” Added Shruti Agarwal, who is assisting Mitra on the matter, “It is also to be noted that the Rs 25cr deposit ordered earlier has been replaced by an undertaking of absolute liability by OIL; that is a major step."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ngt-turns-down-oil-plea-to-recall-order/articleshow/76778687.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||Flowers at Esplanade at TMC 21/7 gathering||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee has made amends to the Martyrs’ Day programme on July 21 while adapting to the new normal. The human crowd will be missing from Esplanade this year, not the flowers, in memory of the 13 people killed in police firing more than two decades ago in 1993. Banerjee will speak from somewhere else that she will announce shortly. The CM, at Friday’s core committee meeting, decentralized the gathering plan and asked workers and supporters to assemble at booths at a particular time and offer tributes to the martyrs. Banerjee had earlier said at Nabanna she is ready to sacrifice the July 21 gathering like people have sacrificed Rath Yatra or Shraboni Mela. The form apart, Banerjee is in no mood to give up her aggressive stance against BJP. The TMC chief has asked organisers to reach out to people with an eye on the 2021 assembly polls. She has planned a series of stirs across the state against a host of issues — spiralling of petrol and diesel prices, opening up of coal sector and throwing open select railway services to private hands — from July 7 to July 13. According to Trinamool insiders, the programmes will help them renew contact with people and also corner the BJP government on one hand and checkmate Left and Congress trying to gain grounds by agitating against BJP’s “anti-people” policies. With BJP seniors continuously taking on Banerjee for depriving people of Bengal from the Centre’s bounty, the TMC chief has asked leaders to counter BJP’s campaign with the “pro-people” policies of the state government. Sensing the groundswell against corruption over distribution of relief in Amphan-hit districts, Banerjee once again sent out a stern message against Trinamool men involved in the mess. The districts of north Bengal where BJP made a surprise win in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls have also come under focus. The TMC chief asked leaders in north Bengal often found working at cross-purposes to work together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flowers-at-esplanade-at-tmc-21/7-gathering/articleshow/76778279.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Ranchi||No Shravani Mela, only virtual darshan of Deoghar deity: HC||Ranchi: For the first time in history, the centuries-old iconic Babadham temple in Deoghar will not host the month-long Shravani Mela and devotees will have to do with online darshan of the deity. In normal times, more than 50 lakh devotees and kanwariyas visit the temple during the holy month of Shravan every year. Acceding to the threat of Covid-19 pandemic, the Jharkhand high court on Friday ordered that the mela cannot be organized in the temple town of Deoghar amid the pandemic and directed the government to ensure the facility of “virtual darshan” of the deity is available for devotees during the holy month of Shravan starting on July 6. Hearing a public interest litigation filed by BJP’s Godda MP Nishikant Dubey, a division bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad expressed their discontentment over the cancellation of the mela, a centuries-old tradition, but said it is in the best interest of the people. Discussing the matter with the advocate general Rajeev Ranjan and principal secretary for disaster management Amitabh Kaushal, the court said it understood the risks involved and strong decisions need to be taken amid this “extraordinary situation” where lives of the people are at stake. The court order is in sync with the state government decision to cancel the mela. The state had earlier filed an affidavit showing “reluctance” to organize the festival as it was apprehensive about virus spreading rapidly amid large gatherings of devotees. During the hour-long online proceeding, advocate general Rajeev Ranjan informed the court that most Covid-19 cases in the state are asymptomatic and these carriers could unknowingly spread the virus, which could prove to be deadly for a large number of people and it is in the larger interest of the society that gatherings are avoided. While the bench was convinced that the mela at the Baba Baidyanath temple must be cancelled, it said it realized that the temple could not be allowed to let in a chosen few devotees as that would be discriminatory for others. Hence, the court said a “virtual darshan” facility would be the solution to the issue. Dubey had filed the PIL seeking guidelines from the high court to hold the Shravani Mela under the supervision of the Deoghar district administration. Dubey had mentioned in his petition that devotees should be allowed to visit the temple in small numbers adhering to social-distancing norms and other precautionary measures. Dubey’s counsels R P Mishra and Khushbu Kataruka argued before the bench that the mela could be organized by following strict guidelines. In his petition, Dubey said daily prayers during Shravan in Babadham temple and Basukinath temple in Dumka were not stopped during natural calamities and even epidemics like cholera and plague in the 19th and 20th century. Durlabh Mishra, former general secretary of the priests body at Babadham temple, said that never in the past was Shravani Mela called off. “We have witnessed several epidemic and pandemics still worship and shravan festival went unabated. Even during the Mughals the process was never disrupted,” he said. Last month, while announcing relaxations in lockdown curbs, chief minister Hemant Soren had said that religious places would be the last to open in Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-shravani-mela-only-virtual-darshan-of-deoghar-deity-hc/articleshow/76777227.cms||---
July 4, 2020||Kolkata||Civil aviation secy seeks Bengal rethink on flights||Kolkata: Civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola has written to Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, asking the state government to reconsider its request for curtailment of domestic flights to Kolkata airport. Sinha had on Tuesday written to Kharola, urging him to stop flights from eight cities worst affected by Covid and had also called for restricting other flight operations by suggesting that an airline operate to Kolkata only once a week. Kharola urged the state to reconsider the request. The development comes at a time the DGCA is increasing flight operations from 30% to 45% of pre-lockdown schedule. In Kolkata, 65 flights are currently operating daily, down from 210-odd flights in late February and early March. Bengal has sought a ban on flights to Kolkata from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai, Indore, Ahmedabad and Surat till July 16. The Bengal government had delayed resumption of domestic flight by three days from May 25 to 28 citing devastation caused by Amphan. Thereafter, only 10 flights were allowed to operate daily till June beginning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/civil-aviation-secy-seeks-bengal-rethink-on-flights/articleshow/76778297.cms||---
