July 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru’s art galleries struggle to keep the show running||After a wretched few months of fear and loss, Bengaluru’s art galleries finally opened doors to the public again when the lockdown was eased last month. But are these venues in the city actually back to business? Technically, yes. But the majority of them are struggling to stay afloat amid poor sales of artworks, fewer exhibitions and even lesser visitors. ‘People are still scared to go for an art exhibition’Pointing at a drastic fall in the number of visitors due to the Coronavirus outbreak, S Ramesh Magar – Director of 25-year-old Magnitude Gallery – says, “Right now, sales are very poor. Although we work with a select set of artists, and they have been creating new work while in isolation, there aren’t many takers of these artworks yet.” Voicing his concern over further shutdown, Ramesh says, “It will have a huge impact on artists and art galleries. Now, at least, we have a few visitors coming in.” ‘Visiting an art gallery in person cannot be replaced by a virtual experience’Considering all precautionary measures and physical distancing norms, many art galleries are entertaining customers strictly on the basis of appointments. Meanwhile, some have already made the transition to the online space to conduct exhibitions and even sell their artworks. “This experience, however, is way different from having an actual exhibition at a venue, where people walk in, appreciate the exhibits and even have a conversation with the artist, before deciding on buying an artwork,” says Premilla Baid, Director of Gallery Sumukha. Until more frames are hung on the walls, art lovers are also welcome to view and buy stock artworks. So, are you prepared to operate even if there is another lockdown? “In a way, yes. We are not planning to host physical shows until year-end. It is going to be tough. But given the current scenario, we’ll probably have to take that path,” she explains, adding, “Although not a very lucrative option, virtual sales are key now. It will, at least, enable us to sustain our staff members in this crisis. Next year, our gallery will turn 25. I hope things will get better by then. A lot of artists are also struggling. So, we are trying our best to help some of them.” ‘Given the persistent health risk, we are okay with fewer customers for now’Archana Shenoy, Director of Curatorial Practices at gallery g, says, “We were open for internal work when the lockdown was initially lifted, but we weren’t open to the public until recently. We have also had a show, but there wasn’t a launch night as such – something that we used to have for our pre-Covid shows. We invited a few of our regular customers to view the artwork. It was a by-appointment-only guest list.” The show is still on, but the footfall is considerably less, says Archana. “We are okay with fewer visitors. We do not want to put anyone at a health risk,” she adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalurus-art-galleries-struggle-to-keep-the-show-running/articleshow/76787145.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
July 5, 2020||India||US Ambassador to India wishes Americans on country's 244th Independence Day||NEW DELHI: US Ambassador to India Kenneth I. Juster on Saturday extended wishes to the Americans on the occasion of the country's 244th Independence Day. "From all of us at the U.S. Mission in India, we wish our United States of America a very Happy 244th Birthday! #IndependenceDay #4thofJuly," Juster tweeted. Earlier today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has congratulated US President Donald Trump and the people of the United States on America's Independence Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-ambassador-to-india-wishes-americans-on-countrys-244th-independence-day/articleshow/76791611.cms||---
July 5, 2020||World||Amid furore over monuments, Trump call for garden of statues||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump has a vision for his second term, if he wins one, of establishing a “National Garden of American Heroes” that will pay tribute to some of the most prominent figures in US history, a collection of “the greatest Americans to ever live.” His idea, conveyed in a speech on Friday night at Mount Rushmore and expanded on in an executive order, comes as elected officials and institutions are reckoning with whether it is appropriate to continue to honour people, including past presidents, who benefited from slavery or espoused racist views, with monuments or buildings and streets named after them. Absent from Trump's initial list are any Native American or Hispanic individuals. The White House and Interior Department declined to comment on how the list was assembled. To be certain, the monument is far from a done deal and Trump's plan could be dashed if presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden denies him a second term in November. It includes George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln and Martin Luther King Jr, all already represented on or near the National Mall in Washington, along with Susan B Anthony, Daniel Boone, Davy Crockett, Frederick Douglass, Amelia Earhart, Billy Graham, Douglas MacArthur, Christa McAuliffe, Jackie Robinson, Betsy Ross, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Harriet Tubman, Booker T Washington and Orville and Wilbur Wright. But Trump also is looking to put an ideological stamp on the idea of American greatness with the inclusion of conservative stalwart Antonin Scalia, the late Supreme Court Justice. The group of 30-plus features Founding Fathers and presidents, civil rights pioneers and aviation innovators, explorers and generals. Trump in recent weeks has repeatedly condemned the desecration and toppling of historic statues by demonstrators during protests over racial injustice and police brutality following the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. “We will raise the next generation of American patriots,” Trump said at Mount Rushmore. “We will write the next thrilling chapter of the American adventure. And we will teach our children to know that they live in a land of legends, that nothing can stop them, and that no one can hold them down.” His executive order says the garden should open before July 4, 2024, and he leaves it up to a federal task force to make recommendations about the use of federal money and a proposed site. The order specifies “a site of natural beauty” that is near at least one major population center. The order says priority should be given to monuments to former presidents, to individuals and events relating to the discovery of America, the founding of the United States, and the abolition of slavery. “None will have lived perfect lives, but all will be worth honouring, remembering, and studying,” according to the order. The order includes language to make clear that non-US citizens who played significant roles in American history also could be honoured in the garden. As examples of individuals who made substantive contributions to America's public life or otherwise had a substantive effect on America's history, it cites: Italian explorer Christopher Columbus; Junipero Serra, a Roman Catholic priest who established Spanish missions in California; and the Marquis de La Fayette, a French officer who fought in the American Revolutionary War. A statue of Columbus, who has been criticised for brutal treatment of Native Americans, was removed this past week from outside the city hall in Columbus, Ohio. Last month, protesters toppled a statue of Serra in San Francisco's Golden Gate Park. Some historians say that Serra, who was canonized by the Catholic Church, had a mixed history that included him acting as an agent of the Spanish Empire's colonization efforts in the 18th Century. Trump on Friday again lashed out against a “left-wing cultural revolution” that he says is teaching American children “that the men and women who built" the country "were not heroes, but that were villains.” “The radical view of American history is a web of lies — all perspective is removed, every virtue is obscured, every motive is twisted, every fact is distorted, and every flaw is magnified until the history is purged and the record is disfigured beyond all recognition,” Trump said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/amid-furore-over-monuments-trump-call-for-garden-of-statues/articleshow/76791850.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Gurgaon||Amid exodus, enter the furniture-keepers in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: Milan Ranjan, a 29-year-old IT professional, was heading back to Ranchi as his office had offered him the option of working from home till early next year. But he had a bed, a cupboard, a refrigerator and a 50-inch TV he had bought to watch football matches after work. In these times of pandemic, no packing agency was ready to transport them all the way to the Jharkhand capital. Milan looked up the internet, even enquired from friends on social media if they knew anybody who could keep his furniture for a fee. The monthly house rent of Rs 20,000 was proving to too costly. While a few companies offer storage space for a fee, it was a Facebook post from Anish Bakshi, a resident of Ardee City, that caught Milan’s attention. It said, “If you have left Gurugram due to lockdown but are still paying rent to landlords because your stuff is still here, we are offering storage space in Ardee City. You can arrange for packers and movers to shift your stuff to our place and keep it here for as long as you want at less than 50% of your rent.” It took Milan less than 24 hours to strike a deal. “This is such a good idea. People of Gurugram are coming forward to help each other keep their stuff as they understand how difficult it is to pay the high rent in the city,” the 29-year-old said. Work from home arrangements have not only led to an exodus of white-collared executives to their hometowns, it has also given birth to a new class of businessmen — the furniture-keepers. As more and more people leave the city and find it pointless to pay house rent just to store their furniture, agencies and individuals are coming forward to offer space for a reasonable fee. Over the past few weeks, there have been several posts on social media where users have offered their houses or garages to those willing to store stuff. These temporary arrangements cost anything between Rs 2,000 and Rs 4,000 a month, much cheaper than house rent in any part of the city. Akshay Sahni had made a similar offer on social media a few days earlier. Since then, his phone hasn’t stopped buzzing. “This concept is fast picking up. We are offering storage space in DLF 2 and 3, Sikenderpur, MG Road, Cyber City, IIfco Chowk and Udyog Vihar. All my accommodations in these areas are vacant and they can be used to store stuff. People just need to pay 40% of the rent,” he added. This is a win-win situation for both. While those leaving the city can save on paying house rent, those owning PGs and rooms are getting some business in the absence of tenants. Joy Sahni, who owns a flat in DLF Phase 2, has been getting 7-8 calls daily about storage space. “Business is tough these days as most people have left the city. I realised that people may move out, but they need space to store furniture and other stuff. This is a temporary arrangement, but looks feasible for now,” he added. Those leaving their belongings back are also ensuring they are not cheated later. “I asked for the owner’s ID proof and an agreement before I decided to keep my stuff with him. They are charging a nominal rent. For a few bags of clothes, books and kitchen utilities, it is just Rs 1,000 a month,” said M Srinivash, an IT professional who is moving to Chennai. Those offering space are also leaving no stone unturned to ensure there is no problem in the future. “I am asking people to send me pictures of each and every item they are planning to keep with me. I don’t want any problems later,” said Neeraj Yadav, who has offered a part of his Sector 23 flat after his roommate left.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/amid-exodus-enter-the-furniture-keepers/articleshow/76791627.cms||Ipsita Pati
July 5, 2020||India||Many retired Gorkha soldiers in 6.6k to get J&K domicile||NEW DELHI: The past one week since the Jammu & Kashmir administration started issuing domicile certificates, over 6,600 applicants — majority of them retired soldiers and officers from the Gorkha community — have got the document that allows them to buy property and apply for jobs in the Union Territory. “More than 5,900 certificates have already been issued,” said Vijay Kumar Sharma, additional deputy commissioner (revenue), Jammu. In Kashmir, about 700 certificates have been issued, many of them former Gorkha soldiers and officers. “In my tehsil alone, there are nearly 2,500 from the Gorkha community who had served in the Indian Army and their families who got domicile (about 3,500 have applied). There are quite a few from the Valmiki community also,” said Dr Rohit Sharma, tehsildar of Bahu in Jammu. Valmiki community members were brought to the state in 1957 from Punjab after local sanitation workers went on a strike. It was the protest mostly by four groups — Gorkha servicemen, Valmikis, West Pakistan refugees and women who had married outside J&K -- that had been at the centre of the decision to expand domicile criteria in the Union Territory. Lakshmi Devi, 72, a widow, of Gorkha ethnicity, shows her domicile which makes a citizen of Jammu and Kashmir. Her husband served Indian Army in 64, Artillery Regiment for 30 years.The domicile rules had been notified by the J&K administration on May 18, with a rider that issuing officers (tehsildars in this case) who did not provide certificates in 15 days would be penalised Rs 50,000. Non-locals who had lived in J&K for 15 years, their children, officers with central government and central institutions and anyone who has studied in J&K for seven years and appeared in the Class X or XII exams became eligible. A domicile of Prem Bahadur, 68 years old ex Army officer who served in Gorkha Regiment between 1968 to 1987.The applications have kept coming in — at least 33,000 so far. “We get an average of 200 applications a day,” an official said. They started issuing domicile certificates last week; June 26 was when an IAS officer from Bihar, Navin Kumar Choudhary, who had served the J&K government for 26 years became the first senior non-local officer to get a domicile certificate. Chaman Lal , 61, an ex-serviceman of Gorkha ethnicity, who served in Jak Rifles Of Indian Army till 2001, shows his new domicile certificate. His father worked with the last J&K princely ruler Hari Singh and his son now works in JakRif regiment in Army.Things have slowed because of internet speed; it's stll 2G internet service in these parts. “But we are doing all we can. It is a time-bound procedure. We have notified rules to act against any tehsildar who delays offering domicile. We will not allow the wait to be prolonged any further,” said Rohit Kansal, spokesperson of the J&K administration. Prem Bahadur, 68 year old ex-serviceman of Indian Gorkha ethnicity who served in Gorkha Regiment between 1968 to 1987 shows his domicile that makes him a Citizen of Jammu and Kashmir.The minor glitches notwithstanding, for the Gorkha community which has been living here for more than 150 years this ended a wait they had nearly given up on. “My father Harak Singh had served in the army of the then ruler Maharaja Hari Singh. My brother Om Prakash and I went on to join the Gorkha Rifles. I retired as a hawaldar, and he as a lieutenant,” 68-year-old Prem Bahadur told TOI. “Every year since we left the Army, we would apply for Permanent Resident Certificates (PRCs, required for jobs, admissions and property ownership). But it was of no use. Now, my MBA son can apply for a government job. And I can die in peace knowing I served India.” The former soldiers see this as a recognition of a lifetime spent protecting the country. “My father served in 3 JAK Rifles, I served in 2 JAK Rifles. My son Shiva is in 7 JAK Rifles. We were always proud Indians even though people would say our ancestors were born in Nepal,” said Chaman Lal, a 62-year-old retired officer. “We knew there would be justice.” Watch Many retired Gorkha soldiers in 6.6k to get J&K domicile||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/many-retired-gorkha-soldiers-in-6-6k-to-get-jk-domicile/articleshow/76792089.cms||Rohan Dua
July 5, 2020||India||Govt lists norms to tackle mental health issues||The government has issued guidelines for general and specialised mental health care during the Covid-19 pandemic which has had a psychological bearing on many people, reports Ambika Pandit. The detailed document, prepared by Bengaluru-based National Institute of Mental Health & Neurosciences (NIMHANS), calls upon policy-makers to ensure that mental health issues are integrated into the broad framework of Covid-19 care. The document says setting up helplines is key for Covid patients admitted to hospitals, or in home quarantine, in order to help them get over the stigma attached to the disease. The guidelines caution about suicide risk of not just those exposed to Covid-19 pandemic but also front-line healthcare professionals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-lists-norms-to-tackle-mental-health-issues/articleshow/76792106.cms||Ambika Pandit
July 5, 2020||India||Workation costs from 25,000 for 10 days to 2 lakh a month||After the pandemic forced people out of their office and strapped them to their couch for months, the idea of a ‘workation’ — previously deemed problematic for blurring the line between work and leisure — now seems like an appealing compromise. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/the-holiday-is-back-but-its-now-called-a-workation/articleshow/76645601.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/workation-costs-from-25000-for-10-days-to-2-lakh-a-month/articleshow/76792111.cms||Mohua Das
July 5, 2020||India||Flights from Delhi, 5 other cities can’t land in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The civil aviation ministry has announced suspension of flights to Kolkata from six cities with a high incidence of Covid-19, including Delhi and Mumbai, with effect from Monday in accordance with a request from the Bengal government. “No flight shall operate to Kolkata from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad from July 6 to 19 or till further orders. Inconvenience caused is regretted,” Kolkata airport’s Twitter handle announced on Saturday. State chief secretary Rajiva Sinha had written to civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola on Tuesday, seeking an embargo on flights from these cities as well as Surat and Indore. Technically, travellers from Delhi or Mumbai would still be able to fly to Kolkata through another city like Raipur, Bhubaneswar or Vishakhapatnam, although that would make travel even more expensive than it is now. With six cities struck off the list, the already curtailed flight schedule to and from Kolkata has been pruned further from 65 to 40. Arrival of international repatriation flights has already been suspended following the state government’s request, leading to the cancellation of five flights that were scheduled between July 1 and 15. Two of these flights were from the Gulf, another two from the US and one from the UK. The civil aviation ministry may have acquiesced to these requests, but officials hope to persuade the state government into dropping the other demand of curtailing flights from other cities by limiting each airline's operations to once a week. Kharola on Friday urged Sinha to reconsider the request. Airlines, too, are hoping there is no further curtailment. Airline officials, however, say it will be a logistical nightmare if their operations were to be limited to once a week. Travel agents, too, have pointed out that such a plan won't be feasible as passengers would then need to book with multiple airlines for to-and-fro travel. Flyers from the Northeast, who usually take flights to the rest of the country via Kolkata, will be hit the hardest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/flights-from-delhi-5-other-cities-cant-land-in-kolkata/articleshow/76792146.cms||Subhro Niyogi
July 5, 2020||India||New Railways timetable likely to see cut in halts and trains||NEW DELHI: Train operations are unlikely to be what they were before the pandemic with the Indian Railways preparing a ‘zero-based’ timetable for all trains. This means the schedule and frequency of all earlier time-tabled passenger trains will be rewritten giving the railways flexibility to reduce the number of halts of mail/express trains and some other trains as well, sources said. Earlier this week, V K Yadav, railway board chairman said that the plan to roll this out has been delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic, but it will be implemented. Sources said in some cases stoppages of express/ mail trains would be done away with after assessing the number of passengers boarding and de-boarding at these stations. “It would also be easier to stop some of the trains running once or twice a week. Many halts were approved in the past due to political considerations,” said an official. The reduction in number of halts is expected to result in reducing the travel time as trains can run non-stop for longer distances. The railway board chief had said the 151 trains to be operated by the private players will also be part of the zero-based timetable trains. Meanwhile, some railway officials told TOI that the railway ministry should take care while deciding the timing of the trains by private operators. “It should not go the Air India way that we allow private players to run trains during the most preferred timings,” said an official. Watch Indian Railways to prepare 'zero-based' timetable, cut in halts and trains likely||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-railways-timetable-likely-to-see-cut-in-halts-and-trains/articleshow/76792172.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 5, 2020||India||Defend freedom of speech: Retired bureaucrats pen open letter||NEW DELHI: A group of retired civil servants have lamented the “assault” on the rule of law in India and urged every Indian to “unite” in defence of Article 19 the Indian Constitution, which protects freedom of speech and expression, pointing to the criticism of arrests of certain persons, including the accused in Delhi riots cases. Referring to critical reports by independent experts and special rapporteurs associated with United Nations, regarding the arrest of 11 persons like Kafeel Khan, Safoora Zargar, Akhil Gogoi and Sharjeel Imam, 99 former bureaucrats, writing under the banner of ‘Constitutional Conduct Group’, have in an open letter called for the rights to freedom of speech, expression and assembly as guaranteed by Article 19 of the Constitution. The signatories, including Shiv Shankar Menon, Vappala Balachandran, Jawahar Sircar, Wajahat Habibullah, Shyam Saran, Najeeb Jung and Trilochan Singh among others, said Public Interest Litigation gave voice to the suppressed on issues like bonded labour, child labour and the illiterate without work or food finding resonance in the corridors of power and Article 19 of the Indian Constitution is “key in this struggle”. “The rampant erosion of the rule of law in evidence today militates against the actualisation of the freedom of speech which is the cornerstone of democratic functioning. The gulf between the rule of law rhetoric and reality is getting wider and wider. The police establishments across the country appear to have become proxies for the respective ruling parties,” says the open letter. The letter also raises concerns over India’s deteriorating performance on the press freedom index of Reporters without Borders, where it has fallen 5 places since 2015 to land at 142 out of 180 countries in 2020. “Any criticism of the government is considered “anti-national” and invites punitive wrath. The law of sedition, itself a colonial relic, is resorted to by a succession of governments, but its application has sharply increased. From 2016 to 2018, 332 persons were arrested under this law but only 7 convicted, exposing the absence of evidence and exercise of vendetta,” the former bureaucrats said, citing cases of journalists and activists being targeted with stringent laws like UAPA for raising voice against the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/defend-freedom-of-speech-retired-bureaucrats-pen-open-letter/articleshow/76792192.cms||---
July 5, 2020||India||Why these trafficking survivors are studying to become lawyers||When she was just 17, Sabeena was promised a government job. The amount of money being demanded was a lot but she would be secure for life. The offer was almost too good to be true. It was. On the pretext of conducting the final round of interviews, Sabeena was raped by the man and then passed around to his friends. The abuse continued for a month till she threatened to go to the police in West Bengal’s Behrampore. Now, almost 14 years later Sabeena will have her day in court. This time, however, she will not be a helpless girl but a lawyer fighting for her rights. This year, she will graduate from a Kolkata law school.“I didn’t get insaaf (justice) then but I will fight for others now,” she says. Sabeena is part of a small group of trafficked and sexually abused women who are training to be lawyers, police officials and social workers at the School for Justice (SFJ). SFJ is an initiative, started by the NGO Free A Girl. The programme supports children economically so they can study professional courses and also provides them with counselling and safe homes to stay in collaboration with other NGOs. Free A Girl India CEO Shikha Phillips says that vocational skill training offered to trafficked young girls by most shelter homes was a way to keep them gainfully occupied which did not add long term sustenance as a profession. “We wanted to bring change in the system. As police officials, lawyers and social workers the girls can fight for themselves and use their experience to benefit society,” she says. The programme started with 18 girls in Kolkata in 2017, and expanded to include 11 in Mumbai in 2019 where students were provided an opportunity to pursue higher education. But it has not been without its challenges. The NGO found that while initially the girls were excited to study further, there were problems of language and limited educational background. Several dropped out because they found legal studies too tough. Of the 18 girls enrolled in Kolkata, eight remain. This also provided an opportunity for the organisation to tweak their programme and include children from Class X onwards and provide them mentorship in English and other subjects. Other courses besides law were also included, like policing and social work. There are some who are in school and dream of joining the police force. Plans are afoot to start similar initiatives in Delhi and Bihar. Anti-trafficking activist Sunitha Krishnan says that those who are able to overcome their trauma stand apart. “They have the drive to prove themselves to society. They have been pushed to the brink and have found something within themselves to come back and fight,” she says. But it is a tough ask. Of the 23,000 girls her organisation Prajwala has rescued, barely a handful have become doctors or lawyers. The first time she saw a lawyer, draped in black and white robes, 19-year-old Nazia was filled with fear and dread. But for the girl who ended up destitute because she ran away from abusive parents, the dream of wearing the black and white robes and arguing in court does not seem so far-fetched after all. “In the beginning I was wary and unable to trust people around me. But now I feel confident and motivated to face the world,” says Nazia, currently studying for law exams in Mumbai. Going through those fat lawyerly tomes is not easy but she finds motivation in the injustice around her. “There are so many women and children who cannot fight for themselves. I want to stop the violence and torture that they face,” she says. The daughter of a commercial sex worker, Mumbai-based Benazir has lived in an orphanage since age five. Her mother contracted HIV and died, leaving Benazir and her sister to fend for themselves. But she was determined to continue with studies. “I was very withdrawn and quiet initially. The counsellors at the shelter home and the NGO helped me gain confidence,” she says. It is her personal journey which gave her the idea of working as a social worker. “I can understand a person’s trauma and mental problems. I feel I can guide them better,” she says. Benazir is currently studying for her masters in social work. “I hope I can support my sister and myself someday,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/why-these-trafficking-survivors-are-studying-to-become-lawyers/articleshow/76792196.cms||Himanshi Dhawan
July 5, 2020||Allahabad||Covid 19 impact: No activities on Dashashwamedh ghat and Sangam||Prayagraj: A day before the beginning of Shrawan month, the Sangam and Dashashwamedh ghat, Daraganj, which usually echoes with slogans like ‘Jai Makakal’ and ‘Bam Bam Bhole’ and witnesse sea of kanwaraiya taking holy Ganga jal till last year, on Sunday witnessed deserted look. With state authorities appealing devotees this year to perform Rudrabhishek and Jalabhishek at homes during the Shrawan month in the wake of coronavirus pandemic, no religious and social activities were noticed on the river banks. Police teams were spotted patrolling along the ghats. Every year, scores of Lord Shiva devotees from across the state undertake the pilgrimage called Kanwar yatra, on foot during Shrawan- a month in the Hindu calendar. Wearing saffron-coloured clothes with decorated pot on their shoulders, the pilgrims visit Kashi Vishwanath, and Baba Baidyanath Dham in Jharkhand after fetching holy water of river Ganga in Prayagraj.The month of Shravan is beginning from Monday. Ganesh, a shopkeeper selling puja materials to kanwariyas during shrawan, told TOI that “ Due to coronavirus pandemic, there is no religious and commercial activities on the banks of Ganga (Daraganj) and Sangam area”. He added, “Every year, groups of Kanwariyas ahead of beginning of Shrawan month used to start flocking the Ganga to prepare for their journey towards Kashi Vishwanath and Baba Baidyanath Dham, but this year all activities are absent ”. Pappu Nishad, president of Prayagraj Navik Sangh said “ This was the first time when the activities of Kanwariyas are missing”. He added that no devotees were seen on the Dashashwamedh ghat on Sunday. He said that several police teams were seen patrolling on ghats to check the mass movement of devotees, if any. Meanwhile, Inspector General of police (Prayagraj range), KP Singh told TOI, “We have agreed to the proposal that individual devotees would be performing jalabhishek at local Lord Shiva temple where norms like social distancing and wearing of mask would be strictly followed”. He also said that all necessary arrangements have been made to ensure the compliance of Covid-19 protocol and not more than five people will be allowed for ‘jalabhishek’ at the temples. Adequate police forces have also been deployed on the prominent Lord Shiva temples including Mankameshwar, Padila Mahadeo, Someshwar Mahadeo, and Nagvasuki temple premises to ensure safety and security as well as strict compliance of the Covid protocol. He also made it clear that there would be no gathering of groups of devotees and individuals would be allowed to visit temples for jalabhishek. IG also said religious leaders and organisations have been contacted to ensure that no assembly of more than five persons took place anywhere keeping in view the Shrawan month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-19-impact-no-activities-on-dashashwamedh-ghat-and-sangam/articleshow/76801088.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||All Class IX, XI students to be promoted: Goa board||PANAJI: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has said that all students in Class IX and XI during the academic year 2019-20 will be promoted to Class X and XII, respectively. The Goa board has clarified that on April 17, 2020, it had issued a circular stating that as a one-time measure this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, all students from Class IX and XI were eligible to answer the supplementary exam for these classes. Subsequently, on July 3, the board issued a circular stating that the supplementary exam for students in Class IX and XI has been cancelled. Therefore, all students eligible for supplementary exam for the academic year 2019-2020 will be promoted to the higher class. Board officials said this means that students who have failed in any number of subjects, even all subjects, are eligible to be promoted to the higher class. “It is crystal clear that students eligible for supplementary exam will be promoted to higher class. To be precise these students may include failure in one, two, three or all six subjects,” Goa Board secretary Bhagirath Shetye said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-board-all-class-ix-xi-pupils-to-be-promoted/articleshow/76791880.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Surat||Diamond polisher jumps off bridge into river, dies||Surat: A 30-year-old diamond polisher jumped off a bridge on Tapi River on Saturday morning reportedly over economic crisis. According to Kapodra Police station officials, the incident occurred at Savji Korat Bridge near Varachha area in the city. Locals informed the fire brigade personnel about the incident who fished out the deceased body and sent it for post-mortem to SMIMER Hospital. The deceased was identified as Mitesh Nandshankar Prajapati, a resident of Girnar Society in Varachha area."Primary details suggest that Mitesh was a diamond polisher and was suffering from economic crisis after diamond units were closed due to lockdown in the city. However, we are probing the case to find out the exact cause of his extreme step,'' said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-polisher-jumps-off-bridge-into-river-dies/articleshow/76791293.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Allahabad||8 dead, 9 injured during lightning strikes in Koraon, Handia||Prayagraj: At least eight people died and nine others suffered burns after a lightning strike in Koraon, Handia and Manda blocks of Trans-Yamuna area of Prayagraj district on Saturday. ADM (finance and revenue)’s missive to the state government on Saturday states six died in Koraon and another death was reported in Handia. Sources suggest a second casualty in Handia, which officials are trying to confirm. According to a letter written by ADM (finance and revenue) to the state government on Saturday, six died in Koraon while another death was reported in Handia due to lightning. According to reports, lightning struck around 3pm during heavy rain in Koraon. The deceased were identified as Keshav Ram (35) from Shastri Nagar, Leela Devi (30) from Khamariya village, Indra Bhushan (46) from Dihiya village, Bharat Lal (25) from Birha village, Sunil (43) from Geruadeeh and Chhaya Devi (24) from Ghegasahi village. Nature’s fury also left nine injured and who are undergoing treatment, officials said. As per reports, Mohammad Saleem (50) from Deva village in Manda area also died after being struck by lightning. He died while he was tending to a herd of goats in a field. In a separate case, 21 goats died after being struck lightning near Bheens village under Manda police station. However, the death has not been confirmed by district officials. ADM (revenue) MP Singh said, “Six persons have lost their lives in Koraon block of Prayagraj district, while two deaths have been reported from Handia of which one is due to lightning.” District officials were yet to ascertain the identity of the man who died in Handia till the time this story went to press. Singh also said that a seer died in Handia, but not from lightning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/8-dead-9-injured-during-lightning-strikes-in-koraon-handia/articleshow/76789526.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Surat||CM: Decision on textile, diamond units tomorrow||Surat: The fate of the famed diamond and textile industries of Surat will be decided on Monday, said Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday during his day-long visit, amidst concern over rising coronovirus cases in the Diamond City.Rupani stated that the decision will be taken after a detailed discussion with the senior officials. Surat has seen spurt in Covid-19 cases over the last few days, with several persons testing positive at Katargam, Varachha and Sarthana localities, which are home to diamond polishing units and textile workers.Rupani visited the city along with deputy CM Nitin Patel who also holds the health portfolio and other senior government officials including chief principal secretary K Kailashnathan. “Our focus is on Surat. Covid-19 cases are on the rise from diamond and textile sectors. Decision on whether to allow the industries to operate will be taken after detailed meeting with officials and elected representatives on Monday,” the CM told mediapersons in Surat. “We will have to take a decision on how to operate. If they (diamond and textile) are ready to operate their units and shops following stricter norms, we are ready. Otherwise, we will have to shut the industries. We can’t risk the lives of people in the city,” said CM. Rupani said that the state government has made immediate allocation Rs 100 crore for conversion of the stem cell and kidney hospitals in the New Civil Hospital (NCH) campus as dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. “In the coming eight days, we will commission stem cell hospital for Covid-19 patients and within a month’s time we will develop kidney hospital as well. In case, the Covid-19 cases rises in Surat, there will be extra facility at the stem cell and kidney hospital for the Covid-19 patients,” he added. CM announced that 200 ventilators were allotted for Surat and they reach hospitals by Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cm-decision-on-textile-diamond-units-tomorrow/articleshow/76791233.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Surat||Gujarat workers pose a challenge for Daman admn||Surat: Until the first week of June, the union territory of Daman was coronavirus-free. During the same time, cases were on the rise in the neighbouring Vapi town of Gujarat. However, the decision to open its borders for the workers from Vapi and Valsad to restart the industrial activity has become a major cause of concern for the UT administration. At least eight industrial untis have been shut down after its employees tested positive of Covid-19. If the Daman administration is to be believed, the majority of the Covid-19 cases reported in Daman starting from June 8, are linked to the workers from Vapi and Valsad town employed in the industrial units in Daman. In the last fortnight or so, about eight industrial units in Daman have been shut after the workers from Vapi and Valsad working there tested positive for Covid-19. In the last one month, Daman has recorded 153 Covid-19 cases and in about 95% of the cases they are linked to workers from Vapi and Valsad. A senior officer of Daman administration told TOI, “Most of the Covid-19 cases are detected from the workers from Gujarat’s Vapi and Valsad towns, who are employed in the industries in Daman. We have issued passes to all the workers, employees, industry owners etc. who are crossing the border from Gujarat to enter Daman.” He added, “We have started shutting down the industrial units from where more cases have been detected among the workers as per the guidelines of the MHA. Till now, eight units have been shut as per the guidelines.” On Saturday, Daman recorded the biggest single-day spike of 23 Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 153. There are about 90 active patients in Daman and 63 have recovered so far. Official sources said that the workers entering into the territory for the first time are put under the government quarantine facility for 14 days. If any of the workers develop symptoms, they are further tested for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujarat-workers-pose-a-challenge-for-daman-admn/articleshow/76791250.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal board plans to reduce syllabus load||KOLKATA: The state government has advised the Syllabus Reforms Committee to start discussions on reducing the curriculum load by holding talks with both the Madhyamik and Higher Secondary Council. Sources said the committee has suggested retaining the conceptual and class-specific relevant topics while eliminating any repetition and time-consuming chapters. The removed chapters will be added to the higher classes. The CISCE-affiliated schools have also started to re-frame the class schedule based on the new syllabus. “Majority of the children who study in state-board schools live in distant corners that have no or limited internet connection. So, the syllabus is likely to be reduced by 35%-50% as four months have already been lost,” said a school education department official. TimesViewGiving relief to students, who are already under so much of stress, is essential. But boards will also have to ensure that students do not miss out on learning important topics of the syllabus in a particular class. Giving short-term relief is essential but long-term requirements, too, will have to be kept in mind.Among the ways that are being explored to make up for the loss of classes is to add an hour of instructions to the school timings or even holding classes on Saturdays. A Madhyamik Board official, however, pointed out that the “actual” loss of instruction time is around two months at the moment. “The summer holidays were extended. The quantity of a syllabus which has to be removed depends on the reopening of the classes,” said the Madhyamik Board official. He denied that the boards will omit chapters based on the content and not merely remove any significant “percentage” of the syllabus. The CISCE-affiliated schools on Saturday started a subject-wise detailed analysis of the proposed syllabus as the curtailed curriculum was released by the Council a day earlier. The schools are now reworking at their structure of imparting online training, based on the suggested new syllabus and teaching according to priority. The schools are following the sequence in which the curtailed syllabus has been uploaded by the Council. “Since there is a further possibility of reducing the chapters, we are following the sequence of topics,” said Nabarun De, principal of Central Modern School. For CBSE schools, NCERT is on the way to reduce the syllabus load.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-board-plans-to-reduce-syllabus-load/articleshow/76791263.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||A first: Man, his 2 sons step forward to donate plasma in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Atul Shah, a businessman from Prahladnagar, tested Covid positive on May 29. The next day, his wife got the disease. And on June 1, his two sons — Samkit and Rushabh — also contracted the infection. “Fortunately, my parents were staying with my brother and the daughters-in-law were not around either,” said Shah. “The illness started with a fever and in my case I had to stay for a few days in hospital. But the other members of my family had relatively milder symptoms.” After a month of recuperation, Shah along with his wife and sons approached the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) to donate blood plasma. “We are indebted to all Covid warriors and it’s the least we can do,” said Shah on Saturday. While his wife was requested not to donate plasma, he and his sons were deemed fit for the donation. Shah donated plasma on Saturday evening and his sons will donate on Sunday. Dr Vishwas Amin, the medical director of IRCS Ahmedabad, said it’s for the first time that two or more persons from a family have come forward to donate plasma after recovering from Covid. “Convalescent plasma treatment is effective for critical patients as the recovered patients develop antibodies,” said Dr Amin. “So far, we have recorded 59 plasma donations through the IRCS in Ahmedabad.” Shah said: “I was afraid of going to a hospital setting to donate plasma. But when I learnt that it could be done in a non-medical setting like the IRCS, it was a huge relief.” He went on to say: “I also did not know that one can donate plasma multiple times. As the epidemic is here to stay for long, I appeal to Amdavadis to come forward and donate plasma.” Civil nurse, 56, recovers and ready to donate Ahmedabad: Sarla Modi, 56, the head nurse at the Covid facility in Civil Hospital, contracted the infection and was admitted to the same hospital in mid-June. After a 12-day quarantine, Modi returned to duty on Saturday. “It was a difficult period. I was given oxygen for a few days,” she said. “But with the support of my colleagues of three decades, I am back on my feet. I will donate plasma for patients in need.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/a-first-man-his-2-sons-step-forward-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/76791890.cms||Parth Shastri
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman loses fetus after assault, 3 held||AHMEDABAD: A 35-year-old pregnant woman from Odhav, Seema Yadav, accused four persons of assaulting her near the LIC building on Relief Road, in full public view. She said that because of their kicks to her stomach, her three-month fetus got aborted. Karanj Police have registered a case of attempted murder and have detained three persons — Ahmedhusain Gutuje, Ruksanabanu Mohammed Asif and Mohammed Hussain Badshah — and sent them for pre-arrest Covid-19 tests. Inspector M K Talpade of Karanj police station said that they hunting for one more person, Mohsin Shaikh, in this case. The woman, who lodged her complaint from the labour ward of Civil Hospital, said that on Friday when she was returning from work at 3pm and was near the LIC building, Gutuje and one of the others asked her why she was standing there and told her to go away. When she told them she was there for some work, they started abusing her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-loses-fetus-after-assault-3-held/articleshow/76791284.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Vadodara||Mystery shrouds death of Gotri property broker||VADODARA: Body of a real-estate broker living in Gotri was found in mysterious condition in his residential building on Saturday morning. Dilip Desai (53) is believed to have committed suicide by first slitting his wrists and then jumping off the terrace on the fifth floor of the building sometime before 7.30 am on Saturday. Police said that Desai’s son and daughter-in-law found blood stains and two kitchen knives in the living room following which they checked outside in the building’s lobby. They found blood-stained handprint in the corridor also and some blood stains in the elevator and on terrace too. “The way the person has died, things seem to be suspicious. However, our primary investigation including forensic probe and interrogation of family members and others did not reveal anything suspicious,” said assistant commissioner of police A V Rajgor. Police said that there were no signs of somebody intruding into the house, so they questioned Desai’s son and daughter-in-law. “We interrogated husband and wife separately but there was no iota of doubt. The deceased’s wife is quite ill so there is no possibility that she would have taken him on the terrace and pushed him off,” Rajgor added. Desai’s son told police that he was mentally trouble for a past couple of days. “The son said that the deceased had suspicion that he was suffering from coronavirus and because of him other members of the family will also be affected. They had also met two doctors and we checked the prescription too,” Rajgor said. He added that as of now a case of accidental death has been registered and investigation of call detail records is still on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mystery-shrouds-death-of-gotri-property-broker/articleshow/76790224.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||Schools go virtual to recognize students’ talents, distribute prizes||Kolkata: After online classes, tests and extra-curricular activities, the latest normal is the virtual prize-giving ceremony. The difference between the physical events in auditoriums and the ones held in the cloud was that there were many more audience with whole families joining in online. Of course, the thunderous claps and shouts weren’t there but the encouragement the students got via comments and emoticons in the chat box were no mean achievements. The lockdown prize-giving ceremonies, in fact, are extra special with celebrities and well-known personalities taking part and giving motivational speeches to help students out of quarantine blues. All eyes were online when Amish Tripathi, author and director, London’s Nehru Centre, joined the annual prize distribution ceremony of South Point School live from London. It was webcast live on the school’s Facebook pages. Addressing the students of South Point who “have had very high quality alumnus like Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee”, Tripathy said: “Never has world totally shut down like this… I think not many countries are as resilient as ours…those are the qualities we must have in our students. Be tough, be resilient.” Krishna Damani, trustee, South Point Education Society, said: “It was our duty to make the students feel that all they had achieved in the last academic year have not gone to waste.” Pratik Gupta, Class XII student of South Point, said: “I got a special talent award, but what was most rewarding was the inspiring speeches we heard.” Eminent cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar, who presided over the senior prize day of St Augustine’s Day School, Barrackpore, reminisced his fun days at St Xavier’s School and had the students glued to their computers at their homes. Nearly 200 students were recognized for their academic and other achievements. Said actor Riddhi Sen, who was the chief guest for the annual prize distribution ceremony of St Augustine’s Day School, Shyamnagar in early June, “Events like these are keeping the students connected and giving them a feeling of belonging even as this pandemic is keeping them away from their schools.” For St Augustine, Barrackpore’s junior school programme, Debiprasad Duari, director of MP Birla Institute of Fundamental Research, was the chief guest. He advised the students to remain united to combat the pandemic. “The flow of the programme was exactly how it would have been if conducted physically, with an opening prayer, welcome song by students, principal’s report, announcement of winners, chief guest’s speech and vote of thanks,” principal Jhuma Biswas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-go-virtual-to-recognize-students-talents-distribute-prizes/articleshow/76791323.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||33 more contract virus, district tally nears 1k-mark||Ludhiana: Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana district inched towards 1,000-mark as 33 persons tested positive for the virus on Saturday.Till now, 993 patients belonging to Ludhiana and 214 from other districts and states have tested positive for coronavirus in the district.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said of the 1026 samples sent to GMC Patiala for testing on Friday, report of 889 samples came as negative, two were rejected whereas report of 135 samples is pending.Health officials said of the 140 pending samples, reports of 125 samples came out negative, whereas 15 persons tested positive. All these patients belong to Ludhiana district.They said three patients each are from Talwara, Janakpuri and Tandhari Kalan; one case each is from Ashok Nagar, Civil Lines, Mullanpur, Islam Ganj, Sargodha colony and Gurdev Nagar.Of the 26 reports received from private hospitals, 18 are from Ludhiana district, whereas two cases are from Sangrur district, one case each is from Gurdaspur, Moga and Amritsar and one case is from Himachal Pradesh.The civil surgeon said Ludhiana cases reported from private hospital include two patients each from Haibowal, BRS Nagar, Miller Gunj, Baba Than Singh Nagar; and one case each from Ayali Kalan, Mohan Singh Nagar, Aggar Nagar, Model Town, Village Lamma, Doraha, Pakhowal road, Omaxe, Gill village and Sham Nagar.He said on Saturday, 33 cases were reported from Ludhiana district whereas eight cases are from other districts and states.The civil surgeon said that the number of deaths of the other district/states in Ludhiana Hospitals is 25 whereas those of Ludhiana district residents in Ludhiana stand at 24.Health officials said 1,012 samples were sent for testing on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/33-more-contract-virus-district-tally-nears-1k-mark/articleshow/76790696.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Patna||Colleges open but pupils miss campus life||PATNA: The universities and colleges in Bihar have officially reopened after summer vacation, but an eerie silence prevails on the campuses as students, the most vibrant components of higher education, are missing for more than three and a half months. Students, who remain confined to their homes due to coronavirus, are also missing the college life badly. “I miss the Ashoka trees standing tall in front of our botany department and the beautiful lawns inside our college premises where I used to sit with my friends for hours every day,” said Rohit, an honours students of Patna Science College. A Magadh Mahila College sociology honours student echoed similar feeling from the prolonged closure of the college and frequent changes in the examination schedule. “I should have been promoted to the final year honours class after declaration of my Degree Part II examination results by now. But even the examination dates have not been announced so far,” she said. Although preparing for final semester examinations should have been their priority as postgraduate students, the lockdown and the consequent home confinement even thereafter have kept them away from the books. “We had planned a schedule, began studying on our own, but soon gave up because of all the confusion about reopening of the university and commencement of examinations. Moreover, we did not get a chance to visit our departmental library or contact our seniors or teachers for clearing our doubts on some topics,” said Debanshu, an MA economics student of PU. A majority of the students this reporter talked to did not seem satisfied with the mode of online education being imparted to undergraduate and postgraduate students. “The quality of study materials being uploaded by the subject teachers is not quite satisfactory. Materials of much better quality are already available on the sites of some premier universities and the same can be easily downloaded by students,” said a postgraduate student of PU chemistry department on the condition of anonymity. Some postgraduate students of PU social science faculty expressed their reservations with the conduct of online classes as a substitute to regular classroom teaching. Some of them observed that online teaching would increase the disparity among students as many students cannot afford the means to receive online education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/colleges-open-but-pupils-miss-campus-life/articleshow/76790760.cms||B K Mishra
July 5, 2020||Patna||Rise in corona cases worries Saran people||CHHAPRA: People of the town are scared following 33 fresh positive cases of Covid-19 on Friday, including 27 from the Chhapra Municipal Corporation area. The remaining six cases were reported from a single family in Dariapur block of Saran district. Saran civil surgeon Dr M Jha said all those found infected had been admitted to the isolation ward at Chhapra Sadar hospital and samples of their close relatives were being collected for the test. Saran district public relations officer (DPRO) G Prakash said Lokmanya High school, Raja Patti (Mashrakh), Chandpura (Ishuapur), Tahal Tola (Garkha), Middle School, Mirzapur (Lahladpur), Yamuna Chari High School (Dariapur), Shobhe Parsa (Parsa) and Harihar Pur (Baniapur block) were no more the containment zones as no fresh Covid cases were reported from those areas in the last 28 days. Saran DM Subrat Kumar Sen said people above 65 years of age must avoid going out and others should use mask. “The district administration has decided to conduct frequent checking and will impose fine on the defaulters. Besides, samples of at least two persons from each family will be collected for Covid testing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rise-in-corona-cases-worries-saran-people/articleshow/76790751.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Hindu panchayat in Pak capital stops work on temple after boundary wall razed by mob||Omer Farooq Khan | TNN Islamabad: The Islamabad Hindu Panchayat announced on Saturday that it would discontinue the construction of a boundary wall of Shri Krishna Mandir (temple) in the capital city after part of the wall was demolished by a mob of extremist and fundamentalist forces. Earlier, Pakistan’s government had given in to pressure from religious circles and stopped construction work on the temple in Islamabad. The temple had been a long-standing demand of the minority Hindu community. "Islamabad Hindu Panchayat, in an emergency meeting held today (Saturday), has announced to discontinue #Krishhna #Temple construction work for a time being following some unpleasant incidents at the site (sic)," Lal Chand Malhi, a PTI National Assembly member, posted on Twitter. "So far the boundary wall was being erected with panchayat resources," he added. Speaking to DLP, the Hindu lawmaker said community members avoided visiting the place given the tense situation. The Capital Development Authority (CDA), a body responsible for providing municipal services in Islamabad, had stopped work on Friday on the boundary wall of the Shri Krishna Mandir complex citing legal reasons. According to Hindu Panchayat Islamabad, a joint team of the CDA’s enforcement and building control departments reached the site in H-9/2 sector and halted construction of the temple’s boundary wall. The plan was originally approved by former Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in 2017. PM Imran Khan had last month sanctioned $1.32 million for the construction of the temple and had directed federal minister for religious affairs Noor-ul-Haq Qadri to release the funds. The plan, however, was not welcomed by the country’s extremists and fundamentalist forces. Even the government’s coalition partner, Pakistan Muslim League Quaid-i-Azam (PML-Q), had opposed the construction of a Hindu temple, saying it was against the spirit of Islam. "Pakistan was created in the name of Islam. Construction of a new temple in its capital is not only against the spirit of Islam but also an insult to Riayasat-e-Medina (state of Medina)," said Chaudhary Pervez Ilahi, Speaker of the Punjab Assembly and senior PML-Q leader. Amid growing pressure, PM Khan’s government stopped construction work, saying it would seek advice from the Council of Islamic Ideology (CII), a constitutional body mandated to give advice to the government and parliament on religious matters. Meanwhile, the religious affairs ministry said it does not release funds for construction of minority places of worship but only repairs and renovates existing ones. The Hindu Panchayat Islamabad told TOI it would approach the CDA on Monday to seek permission to restart construction. "The land was allotted to us by CDA, the government has sanctioned the grant but the money has yet to be released. Work on the boundary wall was started by the panchayat itself," said Lal Chand Malhi, a lawmaker from the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI). "The boundary wall was necessary as some people, with the support of seminary students, had set up tents on the plot in 2018. It took months for us to get the place cleared," Malhi said. The temple complex, according to Malhi, will include a crematorium, accommodation for visitors, a community hall and a parking area spread across four kanals of land. Pritam Das Rathi, an Islamabad-based retired civil servant, said some 3,000 Hindus — working in government and non-government organisations — were living in the capital city and on its periphery, but there was no temple or cremation ground for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hindu-panchayat-in-pak-capital-stops-work-on-temple-after-boundary-wall-razed-by-mob/articleshow/76791877.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||University students seek West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee help over exam confusion||KOLKATA: A large section of intermediate-semester students from several colleges and universities have written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee and vice-chancellors of state-run universities to resolve the issue of examinations and to bring clarity about the evaluation method. The state’s decision to promote students of the intermediate semester without an exam has worried students because they have to take two exams together as and when they are held. In their letter, students pointed out that in the UGC guidelines, there is no mention about merging of the two semesters. “The second- and fourth-semester students have to study two major portions of the syllabus and take the exams simultaneously. Also, if the 80-20 weightage pattern could be allotted for the terminal semester students, then why should a similar decision not be implemented for the intermediate semester students as well?” questioned the letter. Fearing a setback due to the excessive pressure over appearing in the examinations for both semesters, either successively or together, the students sought intervention of the state. Rabindra Bharati University VC Sabyasachi Basu Raychaudhuri confirmed receiving the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/univ-students-seek-cm-help-over-exam-confusion/articleshow/76791302.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Surat||Surat city records highest 201 new Covid cases in one day||SURAT: The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Surat city reached 5,475 on Saturday with the addition of a record 201 highest ever cases in a single day. The spike in positive cases in the Diamond City also prompted chief minister Vijay Rupani and other state functionaries to visit the city on Saturday to take stock of the pandemic situation. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), Covid-19 hotspot Katargam continues to report the highest number of cases every day, with 60 reported on Saturday from the zone alone. Rander followed with 34 cases, 28 from Varachha (A) and 22 each from Central and Varachha (B) zones in the city. Total nine patients succumbed to the infections in Surat city on Saturday, of whom four were from Katargam, two each from central zone and Rander, while one was from the Limbayat zone. SMC officials said that all the deceased also had co-morbid conditions. SMC on Saturday declared 3,828 houses in Varachha area having 18,000 people as ‘cluster zone’ after Covid-19 cases reported from this area. This cluster zone includes Ayodhya Society, Puna gam, Shivnagar, Samrat Society, Vikramnagar, Sainath, Shaktiniketan society, Yogeshwar Park society, Hari Ram Bapanagar society and Kodiyarnagar society among others. Meanwhile, 122 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the total number of discharged patients to 3,395 in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-city-records-highest-201-new-cases-in-one-day/articleshow/76791381.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Surat||Cyclonic circulation may bring rain in Tapi, Damanganga basins in 48 hrs||SURAT: Moderate to heavy rainfall warning has been issued for Tapi, Narmada and Damangang river basins in the next 48 hours. An advisory issued by the Flood Situation Report cum Advisories of the Rivers under Hydrological Observation Circle, Central Water Commission (CWC), Gandhinagar, said that the cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat and neighbourhood persists. Lower Narmada, Tapi and independent basins are expected to receive moderate rainfall at isolated places while Damanganga basin is expected to get very heavy rainfall in next 48 hours, the report said. Meanwhile, Vyara in Tapi district received 57 mm rainfall on Saturday, while Umarpada in Surat district received 45 mm rainfall in the last 36 hours ending Saturday at 4 pm. Light showers have been reported from Ahwa (39 mm), Subir (20 mm) and Mangrol (17 mm) of Surat district too. Water level at CWC station in Damanganga basin will rise as such there is possibility of inflow in Madhuban Dam, said the advisory. In Tapi, level is expected to remain constant or rise slowly in the next 48 hours in lower Narmada and Independent basins, it said, adding that no flood like situation is expected in all three river basins and independent basins. A quantitative inflow forecast for Hathnur, Ukai, Madhuban and Sardar Sarovar dam will be issued if the inflow crosses the forecast criteria. Level forecast will be issued for Surat, Garudeshwar, Bharuch, Vapi and Daman if the level of river at above stations is likely to touch or cross warning level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cyclonic-circulation-may-bring-rain-in-tapi-damanganga-basins-in-48-hrs/articleshow/76791275.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Patna||Mukhiya booked for diverting Rs 46 lakh||PATNA: Ajwan panchayat mukhiya Ritu Kumari has been booked for unauthorized withdrawal of Rs46.19 lakh meant for development under CM’s seven resolve schemes. An FIR was lodged with Naubatpur police station in west Patna on Friday night . “Naubatpur block development officer (BDO) Neeraj Anand had submitted a written complaint in connection with the unauthorized withdrawal on Friday after which an FIR was lodged against the mukhiya,” Naubatpur police station SHO Samrat Deepak Kumar said. He said Ritu had transferred the money from the panchayat’s bank account into another account. “The amount was much beyond the limit which she was authorized to transact,” he said. Kumar said raids were conducted at Ritu’s residence on Friday as well as on Saturday to arrest her, but she was not found. Meanwhile, district panchayati raj officer (DPRO) Sushma Kumari, when asked, told TOI over phone that mukhiyas in state are authorized to make transaction of maximum Rs13 lakh under pakki nali-gali scheme for a ward whereas more amount could be withdrawn under nal-jal yojana under the CM’s seven resolves schemes. “The amount of Rs46.19 lakh was transferred under nali-gali construction scheme into the bank account of ward implementation management committee (WIMC) of ward number 7 in Naubatpur block. A report had been sought from the BDO if the amount had been finally withdrawn from WIMC bank account,” she said. “Altogether Rs62.62 lakh was transferred by the mukhiya of which Rs16.42 lakh under the mukhyamantri gramin peyjal nishchay yojana while the rest amount of Rs46.19 lakh was unauthorisedly transacted,” she said. Kumari said an FIR against Ajwan panchayat secretary Rajdeo Prasad had been lodged a week back as it is a joint account of the secretary and mukhiya to transact through cheques. The DPRO said process had been initiated to remove the mukhiya under the provisions of Bihar Panchayati Raj Act, 2006. “It’s a cumbersome process which takes time. Opinion of district magistrate has been sought. However, we have received a report from Danapur SDO in which the mukhiya had been held guilty. The secretary had already been suspended. Report had been sought from the BDO against the secretary for initiating process to remove him from the post, too,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mukhiya-booked-for-diverting-rs-46-lakh/articleshow/76790719.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||48-yr-old man killed in hit-&-run||Ludhiana: A 48-year-old man was killed and his wife was injured in a head-on collision between a motorcycle and a car on Tibba Canal bridge on Friday evening. The car driver sped away after the accident. The victim, identified as Surjit Singh, 48, hails from Roopnagar, but had been staying in Ahluwalia Colony, Jamalpur, with his family for the past some years. In her statement to police, Surjit’s wife Jasbir Kaur, 45, said that they were going to pay obeisance at a shrine on Friday evening. When they reached near Tibba canal bridge, a speeding Hyundai Creta car hit the motorcycle. Her husband suffered severe injuries and lost his consciousness, while she escaped with minor injuries. The woman raised an alarm, however the car driver sped away. With the help of passersby, she rushed her husband to the hospital, where Surjit succumbed to his injuries during treatment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/48-yr-old-man-killed-in-hit-run/articleshow/76790706.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||Parents offered extra discounts on fees to coax them to pay arrears||Kolkata: A number of parents across city schools not happy with waiver of portions of bus/transportation fees and many are still withholding payments for the first quarter. To encourage parents to start paying off arrears, many schools have started rolling out other waivers. Non-payment of fees by more than 70% parents in many schools has landed the institutions in a fix. They hope to expedite payments with these waivers since otherwise it would be difficult to pay salaries of teachers. “We hope to weather this storm together and come out stronger,” read a notice sent to parents by Modern High School for Girls. In the second quarter, the school has not only given a 100% waiver on bus fees but has also reduced the session fees by 50%. It has waived fees charged for club activities, special classes and before- and after-school activities too. The notice stresses on the constraints of the school in paying salaries and the rising maintenance costs and on late payment fine for both quarters. A similar letter has reached parents of Heritage School that promises a 100% waiver of fees for computers and academics, sports, extra- and co-curricular activities, development and laboratory. Additionally, there is a 50% waiver on the sessions fee. A notice from the Mahadevi Birla World Academy urges parents not to participate in protests and requests them to bring their concerns to the management so they can be resolved mutually. This request has been made after announcing 100% waiver in fees for activity, karate, project and assessment, asset/Olympiad and laboratory, 61% waiver on session fees and 60% waiver on ECA fees in the second quarter. A letter from Gems Akademia says it has tried to help parents, students and other stakeholders during the lockdown by waiving 100% on meal, laboratory and security deposit charges, giving books, stationery and uniforms for free, giving a 60% breather on transportation fees and a 50% waiver on admission fees. While the Archdiocese of Kolkata, under the leadership of archbishop Thomas D Souza, had waived 50% of the annual charges in schools run by it, some Catholic schools, like Our Lady Queen of the Missions, is charging just tuition fees during the lockdown. Others, like St Teresa at Kidderpore, has also given reductions in the annual charges. In the DPS chain, most schools have extended waivers in transportation fees in the first quarter and have promised to extend it to those months in the second quarter that the school remains closed. “After charging 33% less in bus fees, we have told parents that if they wish to stop using transport facilities they are free to do that,” said Vijay Agarwal, chairman of DPS Megacity. The school has given a late fee relaxation up to July 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/parents-offered-extra-discounts-on-fees-to-coax-them-to-pay-arrears/articleshow/76791320.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 5, 2020||Patna||PM thanks Bihar BJP, people for effectively handling corona crisis||PATNA: In his address to the BJP rank and file across eight states through videoconferencing from Delhi, PM Narendra Modi on Saturday stressed on the inculcation of “sewa bhao” (service attitude) by the party workers. He also established connection both with his party unit and the people in Bihar by thanking them in Bhojpuri language. Coming three months ahead of the scheduled October-November assembly elections in the state, the PM not only pleasantly surprised his listeners, but also reminded them of his oratorial style that he had displayed during the 2014 parliamentary and 2015 assembly elections, when he would very briefly pick up local languages (Bhojpuri, Maithili, Magahi and Angika) to start the address, depending on the area he would be placed in. On Saturday, the PM gave the BJP workers heartfelt thanks for responding positively and with manifest humane concerns to the humanitarian crisis that had been created by Covid-19 pandemic in the country, including in Bihar. He made the special thanksgiving gesture in two lines rendered in Bhojpuri language. “Saathi log kahat rahe ki poorvi Bharat mein garibi ba, oija corona jyada faili (Friends were saying that there is poverty in eastern India and, therefore, coronavirus would spread fast among them),” the PM said. “Lekin rauwa logan sab log ke galat sabit kar deni (But you have proved all of them wrong),” the PM also said, adding that the BJP workers in the state deserved to be welcomed and thanked -- “abhinandan ke patra bani”. The state BJP top brass, along with the party’s other functionaries, heard both PM Modi and BJP national president J P Nadda at the party’s state headquarters. They included party’s state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh, ministers Nand Kishore Yadav, Prem Kumar and Mangal Pandey, as well as MLA Sanjeev Chaurasia, BJP national vice-president Renu Kumari and party’s state general secretary Dewesh Kumar, among several others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-thanks-bihar-bjp-people-for-effectively-handling-corona-crisis/articleshow/76790756.cms||Abhay Singh
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC aims to construct 3,000 public toilets in Hyderabad; 140 finished||HYDERABAD: In the run-up to the elections, GHMC will be constructing 3,000 public toilets in Hyderabad. In each zone, 500 toilets will be built, GHMC officials said. GHMC has six zones. “The target is to complete the construction of 500 public toilets by August 15. The washrooms are being built on build–operate–transfer (BOT) basis,” said mayor Bonthu Rammohan. In all, 2,729 places have been identified for construction of the toilets. Construction of 140 units has been completed and 237 washrooms are under construction. “In Secunderabad zone, we have identified 229 places. In other zones, identification of locations to construct the toilets is under way. I have instructed the zonal commissioners to monitor the progress in order to meet the deadline (August 15),” said GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-aims-to-construct-3000-public-toilets-in-hyd-140-finished/articleshow/76791290.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta high court defers ayurvedic exam till July 31||KOLKATA: The Calcutta high court on Saturday stayed the commencement of the 4th Professional Ayurvedic Examination till July 31. The examination, to be conducted by West Bengal University of Health Science, was scheduled to start on July 6. The university had issued the exam notification on June 10, following which students of J B Roy State Ayurvedic Medical College & Hospital moved a writ petition challenging the schedule notice. The petitioners, numbering over 100, pleaded that since they were staying in different parts of eastern India due to the lockdown and were not in a position to physically appear for the test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cal-hc-defers-ayurvedic-exam-till-july-31/articleshow/76791338.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Hubballi||Suicide bid claims lives of three children; mother critical||Hubballi: In a heart-wrenching incident reported from a Bagalkot village on Saturday, a mother who decided to end her life, along with those of her three children, survived the suicide attempt, while her kids died. The reasons that prompted Bhagyashri Chikkayya Mathad of Bandigani village to take the drastic step remain unclear. Bhagyashri had lost her husband Chikkayya Mathad, who was murdered by miscreants two years ago. On Saturday, Bhagyashri reportedly left home informing her in-laws, with whom she had been staying since the death of her husband, that she was visiting a temple. There were reportedly some differences between Bhagyashri and her in-laws. It has been learnt that she fed all her three children poison before consuming it herself. Her in-laws said that they were unaware of the reason. Bhagyashri is currently critical and receiving treatment at a private hospital in Banhatti. Banhatti circle police inspector Karuneshgouda said that a case had been registered in connection with the incident, and an investigation was under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/suicide-bid-claims-lives-of-three-children-mother-critical/articleshow/76790588.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Surat||Call on diamond, textile units operations tomorrow: CM Vijay Rupani||SURAT: The fate of the famed diamond and textile industries of Surat will be decided on Monday, said Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday during his day-long visit to the Diamond City. He said the decision will be taken after a detailed discussion with the senior officials. Surat has seen a spurt in Covid-19 cases over the last few days, with several persons testing positive in Katargam, Varachha and Sarthana localities, which are home to diamond polishing units and textile workers. The CM visited the city along with deputy CM Nitin Patel, who also holds the health portfolio, and other senior government officials including chief principal secretary K Kailashnathan. “Our focus is on Surat. Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the diamond and textile sectors. The decision on whether to allow the industries to operate will be taken after a detailed meeting with officials and elected representatives on Monday,” Rupani told media persons in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/call-on-diamond-textile-units-operations-tomorrow-cm/articleshow/76791479.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Surat||Surat to get 200 ventilators, Rs 100 cr for Covid facilities||SURAT: Expressing concerned over rising Covid-19 cases in Surat over the past fortnight, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday said that 200 ventilators will be provided for covid care in the city. He also announced allocation of Rs 100 crore for conversion of two hospitals into covid care centres. CM, who was on a day-long visit to the Diamond City amidst rising coronvirus cases said that decision on allowing the diamond and textile units to operate following spurt in infection among workers will be taken on Monday after discussion with senior officials and elected representatives. “We will have to take a decision on how to operate. If they (diamond and textile) are ready to operate their units and shops following stricter norms, we are ready. Otherwise, we will have to shut the industries. We can’t risk the lives of people in the city,” Rupani told media persons. Rupani said that the state government has made immediate allocation Rs 100 crore for conversion of the stem cell and kidney hospitals in the New Civil Hospital (NCH) campus as dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. “In the coming eight days, we will commission stem cell hospital for Covid-19 patients and within a month’s time we will develop kidney hospital as well. In case, the Covid-19 cases rises in Surat, there will be extra facility at the stem cell and kidney hospital for the Covid-19 patients,” he added. CM announced that 200 ventilators were allotted for Surat and they reach hospitals by Monday. About 42 hospitals have been designated for Covid-19 and 50% beds have been reserved for the patients. The 100 Dhanvantri Raths, according to Rupani, have been deployed at 500 locations across the city and about 15,000 people have been tested by the mobile OPDs. Rupani said that the Covid-19 patients admitted in the hospitals will be allowed to use mobile phones to keep in touch with their family and relatives. In case, the patients do not have mobile phones, they can use the phones of the health staff and get in touch with their near and dear ones. The CM also appealed to citizens ‘with folded hands’ to wear masks when they move out from their homes. Quote: CM Speak We were able to control Covid-19 spread in Ahmedabad through detailed strategy including door-to-door survey, Dhanvantri Raths etc. Now, our focus is shifted from Ahmedabad to Surat. Same strategy will be followed in Surat to stop the spread of infection||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-to-get-200-ventilators-rs100-cr-for-covid-facilities/articleshow/76791341.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Surat||64 new cases, 3 deaths in Surat rural||SURAT: Surat rural areas recorded 64 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 757, even as three persons succumbed to the virus in the district on Saturday. Out of the 64 new cases, highest number were reported from Olpad and Kamrej taluka with 15 cases each. Palsana, Choryasi and Mangrol talukas reported eight cases each. “On Saturday, 22 Covid-19 patients were discharged from various facilities in the district,” said a health official. In other parts of South Gujarat, Bharuch reported 18 fresh cases, Navsari 13 and Valsad 19 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/64-new-cases-3-deaths-in-surat-rural/articleshow/76791398.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Allahabad||In Maoist-style ambush, Vikas Dubey’s men cut CO’s head, toes: Autopsy||LUCKNOW: Twenty-four hours after one of the bloodiest encounters in UP left eight policemen dead in Kanpur, the autopsy report revealed that the guerrilla-style attack on cops bore the Maoist signature of beheading and extreme brutality, which is not the hallmark of even the iron-fisted mafiosi operating in UP’s badlands. While circle officer of DSP rank Devendra Mishra’s head and toes were severed with an axe and his body mutilated, a sub-inspector was riddled with bullets fired from point-blank range and a constable was gunned down with an AK-47, snatched from the police party. Investigators, forensic experts and STF units probing the encounter suggest that manner in which at least 60 men of gangster Vikas Dubey ambushed the police team matched the modus operandi of Maoists in the red corridor. Read AlsoPhotos: Cops bulldoze don's den, bust secret bunker in KanpurGangster Vikas Dubey, who enacted the midnight bloodbath in Kanpur, remained elusive on Saturday, but police exacted their revenge for the brutal killings of eight their colleagues by bulldozing the don’s plush, fortified house in Chaubeypur’s Bikru village with the same earthmover used to trap,Doctors on the autopsy table took out seven bullets lodged in sub-Inspector Anup Singh’s body and the body of Shivrajpur station officer Mahesh Yadav bore gunshot injuries on his face, chest and shoulder. Constable Jitendra Pal’s body was torn apart by a barrage of gunfire from an AK-47 and constables Rahul, Bablu and Sultan died of gunshot wounds from .315 bore rifle, said forensic experts. Investigators were shocked by the pattern of injuries, particularly on head and shoulders, which suggest an ambush by assailants enjoying altitudinal advantage. During the midnight encounter, gangster Vikas Dubey had positioned snipers on rooftops to lay siege to the police team. Read AlsoGangster Vikas Dubey's rise and fallGangster Vikas Dubey was killed in an encounter on Friday, a day after he was arrested, while trying to flee from the custody of Uttar Pradesh police after the Special Task Force (STF) convoy met with an accident on their way back from Madhya Pradesh to Kanpur.Talking to TOI, inspector general of police, Kanpur Range, Mohit Agarwal said, “Such a guerrilla-style ambush is unprecedented in Uttar Pradesh. First a trap was laid by placing a JCB machine on the dirt road and then the gang members sprung a surprise by firing from rooftops. This is the normal strategy adopted by Maoists. A blackout was enforced on the stretch as part of the tactics.” The officer said, accounts by injured cops suggest at least 60 men of the Dubey gang charged at the policemen, which was double the police strength of 30, including reinforcements mobilized after an SOS from Shivrajpur station officer, Mahesh Yadav, when the team was waylaid. Read AlsoDay after eight cops killed, over 25 UP Police teams formed to nab Vikas DubeyLUCKNOW: More than 25 teams have been formed by the UP Police to nab history-sheeter Vikas Dubey who was yet to be apprehended 36 hours after eight police personnel were gunned down by criminals during an attempt to arrest him. Inspector General of Police, Kanpur, Mohit Agarwal on Saturday told PTI,Watch Kanpur encounter: Autopsy reveals horrific Maoist-style ambush, torture||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/kanpur-ambush-bears-maoist-stamp-of-beheading-brutality/articleshow/76789545.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bad agriculture loans grow in unseasonal rains in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat farmers, already facing heavy debt burdens over the past three years, are struggling to repay their bank loans. The gross non-performing assets (NPAs) in agriculture loans grew 10.4% in a year — from Rs 5,690 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 6,282 crore in 2019-2020. The figures were revealed in the latest report of the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC). The report was released in June-end. Farmers say that their incomes took a hit from unseasonal rains around last Diwali and early this year. Agriculture loan advances, in the period, barely grew 6.7% — from Rs 83,157 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 88,806 crore in 2019-20. “Farmers have been reeling from extreme stress for the past three years. First, there was a drought-like situation and the crop yield was affected,” said Sagar Rabari, president, Khedut Ekta Manch. “Then, last year, the monsoon was good but it was prolonged. That destroyed several crops such as rice, wheat, and pulses. Moreover, two spells of unseasonal rainfall further affected farmers’ incomes.” Rabari said input costs went up significantly in the period. Seeds, fertilizers, and pesticides became more expensive. “Even diesel prices rose. Diesel is used to operate all farm equipment,” Rabari said. “On the other hand, incomes were dwindling. As a result, farmers could not replay their debts in time.” According to the SLBC report, the NPAs-to-outstanding ratio stood at 7.07% for 2019-20, which grew against 2018-19’s 6.84%. Money is disbursed for crop loans as well as for agriculture term loans, which are used to buy farm equipment. Bad agri term loans grew from Rs 3,417 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 3,987 crore in 2019-20, the report says. Furthermore, NPAs in crop loans also went up marginally from Rs 2,273 crore to Rs 2,295 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bad-agriculture-loans-grow-in-unseasonal-rains/articleshow/76791315.cms||Niyati Parikh
July 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Residents attack dog sterilisation team, case filed||NEW DELHI: Volunteers of an NGO who had reached Rani Bagh on Friday day to sterilise stray dogs were involved in a scuffle with some residents. There were injuries in both the groups. NGO Neighbourhood Woof is empanelled with the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and its volunteers were requested by a care giver to visit Rani Bagh to sterilise the street canines there. According to NGO head Ayesha Christina, who was injured in the melee, a resident walking his unleashed dog questioned the group about what they were doing around 9.30pm. “After finishing the sterilising work, we explained our actions to the person outside his house, but he misbehaved with us and was joined by others,” claimed Christina. “An argument broke out despite telling them that we are doing the work on behalf of the municipal corporation. We even offered to show them our documents.” She added that the group was leaving the area having resolved the argument when more people stopped their cars, started banging the mirrors and even damaged the windshield. “I was injured during this,” said Christina. “The mob pulled a colleague out of the car window and beat him. We phoned the police helpline for help and somehow fled from the spot. Our car might have injured some people who had surrounded it.” According to the cops, three calls were made to the police control room on Friday around 10.30pm. A Koan, DCP(Outer), said, “In view of late hour at which the NGO people were working, the residents enquired about their identities and an argument broke out that resulted in a scuffle. When the NGO members tried to leave the spot, three residents were hit by their car, resulting in minor injuries to them. On Friday night, medico legal cases of four NGO members, identified as Ayesha Christina, Vipin, Abhishek and Deepak, with simple injuries were prepared at the hospital. The three residents injured are Manjeet Singh Walia, Harmender Singh and Gurpreet, and their MLCs were prepared at Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital in Pitampura.” The volunteers claimed to have gone to Adarsh Nagar police station, where they were told the site of the incident wasn’t under its jurisdiction. However, a police officer claimed, “When the team reached the Adarsh Nagar police station, the injured woman was immediately rushed to Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospital. Simultaneously, we informed Rani Bagh police station and an officer arrived to take over the matter.” On Saturday, the NGO members spoke to Koan and filed a complaint. A north corporation official said, “Our staff joined the NGO on Saturday in filing the police complaint. The NGO has been working with us to control the dog population as directed by Delhi high court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/residents-attack-dog-sterilisation-team-case-filed/articleshow/76791898.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Door-to-door drive to raise virus awareness||Ludhiana: Under the Punjab government’s Mission Fateh, a special contact programme has been launched in the city to prevent the spread of the deadly coronavirus. Under this programme, mass education and media wing teams of the city administration went door-to-door to raise awareness about the prevention of coronavirus infection.Civil surgeon, Ludhiana, Rajesh Kumar Bagga said that Punjab’s Mission Fateh was aimed at eradicating coronavirus. He added that everyone’s cooperation was imperative in this fight. Bagga said that his teams were going door-to-door to inform people that anyone with a fever, cough or a cold needed to visit the nearest health centre for a medical check-up. The teams also sensitized people to use masks, frequently wash hands with soap for at least 20 seconds and maintain social distance. The teams also distributed awareness pamphlets on Mission Fateh and provided information regarding the ‘COVA’ app. The teams also gave necessary health lessons to quarantined persons and their family members. “Mission Fateh is an attempt to defeat the pandemic in Punjab. This campaign is for the people, by the people and of the people. I urge people to be cautious and help us in our endeavour,” Bagga said.Meanwhile, the chairman of Punjab Youth Development Board, Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, on Saturday held a meeting with members of District Bar Association, Ludhiana, to implement door-to-door contact programme under Mission Fateh.Bindra said that he wanted to make the mission successful to make Punjab a Corona-free state. He also encouraged the members of the board to propagate the mission by dividing each district into more than four zones. Meanwhile, members of the association pledged their support to the Punjab Youth Development Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/door-to-door-drive-to-raise-virus-awareness/articleshow/76790715.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||Govt to seek ICMR nod to start plasma therapy in Goa||PANAJI: The state government has decided to introduce plasma therapy in Goa and set up a plasma collection bank. “Plasma will be collected from persons who have recovered from Covid-19 and will be used for the treatment of critical Covid-19 patients,” health minister Vishwajit Rane told reporters on Saturday. After meeting senior health officials, including Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital dean Dr S M Bandekar, Rane said that an approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will be obtained for the state to kickstart the process. “We will be writing to ICMR with our proposal to conduct plasma banking and plasma therapy,” he said. “We will also hire an MD and trained technicians on a contractual basis to run the plasma transfusion department.” The proposal to recruit the required personnel will shortly be placed before the cabinet, he said, and added that an institutional expert committee will be formed to look into the technicality of procedures and to keep track of records at the Covid hospital. Rane said that the initial plan is to store 1,000 packets of plasma, for which two blood plasma freezers will be procured. He said that patients in the age group of 18-60 can donate their plasma for Covid-19 patients. “In our efforts to reduce Covid-19 casualties, we are working persistently to ensure we leave no stone unturned in fighting this menace,” he said. Meanwhile, health secretary Nila Mohanan said that a detailed protocol from ICMR has been obtained. Once an expert committee’s report is received, the ICMR will be approached for permission. As of Saturday, six people have died due to Covid-19 in the state, with two deaths recorded on Friday. Though a majority of Covid-19 cases reported in the state so far have been asymptomatic, there are a few who have been admitted in the Covid hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU) and even needed ventilator support. While Goa’s mortality rate is among the lowest in the country, it is hoped that the state will benefit with the introduction of plasma therapy for critical Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-seek-icmr-nod-to-start-plasma-therapy-in-state/articleshow/76791885.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Allahabad||Holagarh family murder: No criminal gang behind the killing, say police||Prayagraj: Even after 48 hours of the sensational gruesome killing of four members of a family in Holagarh village, the cops are finding it difficult to get clues. Four members of a family including Lallan Prasad Pandey alias Vimlesh Pandey (50), his son Prince Pandey (18) and daughters — Shibu (19) and Somo (22) were found brutally murdered at their home in Barai Harak Shukul Ka Pura village under the limits of Holagarh police station on Friday. The four were found dead in separate rooms of the house. ASP (Soraon) Ashok Venket K told TOI that, “After a series of investigations, we found that it was not a handiwork of any criminal tribe or ghumantu gang behind the incident but seems to be an action of insiders (well known to the family) in the family”. He added that over 200 mobile phones are under scanner to get clues. ASP further added,“Five special teams are working on a specific line after finding that the slain family members had neither enmity with anyone nor had property dispute”. The police have failed to find out the exact motive behind killing and claimed that assailants had entered the house with only motive of murder. “The economic condition of the family was not so strong that they could be targeted for loot purpose”, said the official adding that the family head was running a private clinic after obtaining a certificate from a medical practitioner to earn livelihood. The police are also waiting to take statement of the injured Pandey’s wife Usha Devi (45) who is undergoing treatment at Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital for treatment. Her condition is now stated to be out of danger. While Pandey and Prince’s bodies were found in a room, Shibu and Somo were found dead in another room. Usha was found injured in the verandah of the house.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/holagarh-family-murder-no-criminal-gang-behind-the-killing-say-police/articleshow/76801110.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Tiger still in search of home||Hyderabad: An adult male tiger, who was sighted in the tiger corridor between Maharashtra’s Tadoba tiger reserve and Telangana’s Kawal near Asifabad, is still in search of a territory. Forest department officials, who have named the three-year-old tiger A2, say that the big cat is lurking in the tiger corridor between Kumrambheem Asifabad and Mancherial districts. “A2 is still in Kagaznagar area in Asifabad. It hasn’t found a territory yet but it looks like it will form a territory in our state soon. It may not go back to Maharashtra,” a forest official informed. Monitoring the movement of the tiger, officials informed that the sightings in these districts are not unusual. “It is not an unusual sighting as this is a tiger corridor. Forest department has been constantly monitoring the tigers while creating awareness among villagers to maintain a safe distance,” Mancherial district forest officer Shivani Dogra told TOI. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tiger-still-in-search-of-home/articleshow/76791317.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Amritsar||Death toll in Pak van-train accident rise to 23||Amritsar: An 11-year-old Sikh girl, who was injured in a van-train accident in Pakistan on Friday, succumbed on Saturday morning, taking the toll of those killed in the accident to 23. The girl was identified as Jasleen Kaur. Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) spokesperson Aamir Hashmi informed TOI over phone from Lahore that total 27 persons were travelling in the fateful Coaster van, which was rammed by a speeding train while crossing an unmanned railway crossing near Sacha Sauda, Farooqabad, Sheikhupura. Relatives of Raghubir Singh, a resident of Nankana Sahib, who had died of Covid-19, had arrived at Nankana Sahib from Peshawar to attend his “antim ardas” on Thursday. But, on their way back to Peshawar on Friday, the van in which they were travelling was hit by a train after the van’s driver attempted to hastily cross the railway crossing. A total of 22 persons, including 20 members of a Sikh family, a Muslim driver of the van and his helper, had died on the spot. Five injured persons were admitted in the hospital and are stable, said Hashmi. He informed that ETPB chairman Dr Aamer Ahamd arranged to airlift the 20 bodies to Peshawar for cremation as per Sikh religious rituals and also announced to give Rs 1 lakh each to the next of the kin of victims of accident for cremation. The driver’s body was sent to Nankana Sahib. Meanwhile, cremation of 20 bodies of Sikh men, women and children was done in three separate cremation grounds near Peshawar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/death-toll-in-pak-van-train-accident-rise-to-23/articleshow/76791893.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 5, 2020||India||Modi leverages soft power of Buddhism to woo allies||NEW DELHI: Projecting India’s centrality to Buddhist thought and reaching out to pilgrims and tourists seeking to connect with Buddhist heritage sites in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi deployed a ‘soft power’ political exercise on Saturday while addressing a virtual gathering on “Dhamma Chakra Diwas” to mark Buddha’s first sermon at Sarnath. The International Buddhist Confederation’s event saw Modi making an outreach, as he has before on occasions like Vesak Day, to the Buddhist world — one more area where China and India compete for influence. The event was hosted by the culture ministry at Rashtrapati Bhavan and saw virtual participation of leaders from major Buddhist countries, including Japan, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Sri Lanka, and Nepal, barring China. Apart from Tibetan Buddhists who participated in the celebrations, the Dalai Lama also made a video address at the Dhammachakra Pravartan celebration. On the one hand, while China has invested extensively in infrastructure to cultivate Buddhist leaders, Modi has also relied on regular references to the Buddhist tradition and sites in India and Sri Lanka, apart from participating in the culture ministry’s Buddha Jayanti event earlier this year. Organisations like IBC have helped develop, in a more formalised fashion, India’s connections with leading Buddhist leaders in east Asia and other parts of the world. Inviting Buddhist pilgrims and tourists to India, the PM highlighted the government’s efforts to provide better connectivity of Buddhist sites. “We in India have many such (Buddhist) sites. You know how people also know my parliamentary constituency of Varanasi — as home to Sarnath. We want to focus on connectivity to Buddhist sites. A few days back, the Indian cabinet announced that Kushinagar airport will be an international one. This would bring so many people, pilgrims and tourists. It would also generate economic opportunities,” he said. Modi joined President Ram Nath Kovind in emphasising the continued relevance of Lord Buddha. “Today the world fights extraordinary challenges. To these challenges, lasting solutions can come from the ideals of Lord Buddha. They were relevant in the past. They are relevant in the present. And, they will remain relevant in the future,” he said. Tourism and culture minister Prahlad Patel also presented five volumes of the ‘Mongolian Kanjur’, a Buddhist canonical text in 108 volumes which is regarded as the most important religious text in Mongolia, to President Kovind and the Ambassador of Mongolia Gonching Ganboid. Patel said the ministry will endeavour to print all 108 volumes to all monasteries across Mongolia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-leverages-soft-power-of-buddhism-to-woo-allies/articleshow/76792202.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh now open for tourists, but with e-passes||Shimla: With the Himachal Pradesh government allowing entry of outsiders and tourists into the state, tourism activity is likely to take-off soon. But, the government has made it mandatory for people wanting to travel to the state to get registered first and to ensure they plan a few days’ stay. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said, "It has been decided to open the state for tourists and the tourism department of the state government will issue standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the functioning of the tourism industry." All inter-state movement will be monitored through registration in Covid e-pass software to monitor compliance with quarantine requirements and facilitate contract tracing of persons in the event detection of Covid-19 positive cases. The notification issued by chief secretary-cum-chairperson state executive committee stated that religious places and places of worship will be opened only as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be issued by the department of language, art and culture after ensuring full readiness to comply with SOPs. Tourism units will be opened and operated as per the SOPs issued by the department of tourism from time to time. Inter-state movement of public transport buses will remain prohibited while taxis have been allowed to ply with the permission of deputy commissioners. Pass free inter-district movement of public transport buses, private vehicles, taxis and autos has been allowed. In the state, government offices will function as per the SOPs issued by the department of personnel from time to time. Restaurant and dhabas can serve food by operating at 60% of their seating capacity and in accordance with the SOPs issued by department of tourism from time to time. The medical colleges of state have been opened for final-year students to strengthen the health system in coming days along with the health training institutions from July 15 subject to the SOPs issued by department of health and family welfare. It has been made mandatory for the orchardists, agriculturists, contractors and project proponents to ensure the registration of all labourers brought to state from outside in Covid-e-pass software. Persons travelling to the state or entering the state through rail and air route will do so on the basis of their ticket or boarding pass while they will also be encouraged to register on Covid e-pass software. Members of armed forces and central paramilitary forces coming to the state or passing through to join duty need official identity card and don’t need to register on Covid e-pass software.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-now-open-for-tourists-but-with-e-passes/articleshow/76791901.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC announces Doctor Mitra scheme||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) announced its ‘Doctor Mitra’ scheme, which will be implemented at 21 urban health centres (UHCs) in the city. Doctors appointed under the scheme will be available at these UHCs 5pm to 9pm.Thus, medical services will be provided at these 21 UHCs from 9am to 9pm. Regular doctors will be available from 9am to 5pm, after which these doctor mitras will take over.Of these 21 UHCS, those in the western part of the city are Thaltej, Bodakdev and Ghatlodia UHCs in the North West Zone, Sarkhej and Jodhpur in the South West Zone, and the UHCs of Ranip, Ambawadi, Vasna and Stadium in the West Zone.Under the scheme, doctors will treat citizens for fever, cough, cold and will also conduct basic lab tests and prescribe medicines. Each Doctor Mitra team will have a physician, a medical officer, a laboratory technician and a paramedical staffer. They will be appointed on contract for three months. The physician and medical officer will get Rs 30,000 per month, while the other members will get Rs 10,000 per month.Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Suspendisse sit amet nulla feugiat, luctus ligula a, scelerisque lorem. Orci varius natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Ut molestie ac leo at vehicula. Mauris vel lacinia ipsum, dictum auctor nibh. Class aptent taciti sociosqu ad litora torquent per conubia nostra, per inceptos himenaeos. Nunc imperdiet tempus felis, et ultrices mauris condimentum eget. Nunc risus risus, aliquam id erat ultrices, lacinia efficitur nisl. Aliquam erat volutpat. Integer dapibus viverra gravida. Curabitur hendrerit ipsum eu mi tristique, non convallis magna aliquet.Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam nisi eros, tincidunt ac magna at, fringilla elementum est. Etiam vitae metus efficitur, vulputate orci non, fringilla felis. Duis tincidunt eros et lectus laoreet, vehicula consequat metus ultricies. In eu semper nisi, quis varius urna. Phasellus consequat metus a ultricies semper. Nunc scelerisque neque ac magna tempus auctor. Fusce ut nunc at nisl sodales porta. Pellentesque gravida quam ac sapien porta consequat. Integer tincidunt arcu at urna rutrum, non vehicula eros ornare. Sed lobortis commodo neque eget faucibus. Morbi consequat feugiat erat, sit amet posuere massa convallis ac. Pellentesque placerat eros sed eros faucibus, vel egestas eros accumsan. Integer pellentesque, ligula ut blandit ultricies, velit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-announces-doctor-mitra-scheme/articleshow/76791327.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Chennai||Curbs off Chennai from Monday, to continue in Madurai till July 12||CHENNAI: With the intensive lockdown coming to an end on Sunday, the government has announced some relaxations from Monday for business establishments. Vegetable, grocery and tea shops (only parcel) in Greater Chennai Police limits can operate between 6am and 6pm. As regards Madurai corporation and neighbouring areas, intensive lockdown has been extended till July 12. In a statement, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Saturday that all showrooms and large format shops in Chennai and surrounding areas (including jewellery and textiles), except in shopping malls, would be allowed to function between 10am and 6pm. Restaurants will be permitted with only takeaway service between 6am and 9pm. Food delivery services will be allowed till 9pm and delivery staff will have to wear identity cards. “With respect to other activities, the restrictions and relaxations that existed prior to June 19 will be applicable. I urge the public to extend full support to the government’s efforts,” Palaniswami said. Certain restrictions and relaxations have also been announced for Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpet from July 6. Small temples in rural areas with annual income of less than Rs 10,000, small mosques, darghas and churches for public worship are allowed. EASE OF MOVEMENTRental vehicles, taxis can ply with restrictions All industries and export-oriented units, IT/ITES and all private offices are permitted to function with 100% strength. Tasmac shops are allowed from 10am to 8pm, while tea shops, restaurants, vegetable shops and grocery shops from 6am to 8pm. The CM called on governor Banwarilal Purohit to brief him about the steps the state government was taking to contain the pandemic. He handed over a report on Covid-19 control measures to Purohit. It was the fourth meeting between the two since the lockdown started on March 24. The state government had announced intense lockdown in Greater Chennai Police limits and in areas falling in Tiruvallur, Chengalpet and Kancheepuram districts between June 19 and June 31 and it was later extended till July 5. In an earlier order, the government said IT/ITES companies can operate with company-provided transport at 50% strength, subject to a maximum of 80 people in such offices from July 6. All private offices, industrial establishments and export-oriented units have been permitted to function at 50% strength. Rental vehicles and taxis, including cab aggregators are permitted, but they cannot carry more than three passengers. Autorickshaws can carry only two passengers. Cycle rickshaws are also permitted. Barber shops, salons, spas and beauty parlours shall function as per standard operating procedure issued earlier. Fish stalls, chicken and other meat stalls and egg shops are permitted, provided they maintain physical distancing norms. There is no need for pass for movement of vehicles within a district, however, for inter-district movement, e-pass is compulsory. Industries and other establishments can use the e-passes issued by the district collectors before June 19 for inter-district movement of vehicles. Hence, people who already have passes, need not apply for new e-passes, the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/curbs-off-city-from-monday-to-continue-in-madurai-till-july-12/articleshow/76791899.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Runaway girl got trapped in sex trade, 4 arrested||LUDHIANA: The Ludhiana police on Saturday arrested four accused, including two women, for forcing a 14-year-old girl, who had run away from her house, into prostitution. One of the accused also raped the girl for three days. In her statement to the police, the 14-year-old girl said she along with her mother and younger brother had been living with maternal grandparents in Fazilka district. On September 10, 2019, she escaped from the house as her mother scolded her over some issue. She boarded a train and reached Ludhiana railway station. She spent two days at the railway platform, after which one of the women accused saw her and took her to her house on pretext of sending her back to her mother. Additional deputy commissioner of police (City-II) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the accused had kept the girl at her house for over a month, where she forced her to take drugs. The girl was not allowed to go out of the house. In the absence of the woman, her male friend raped her for three days. In October, the duo sent her to the house of a woman to another place in the city. There, the woman and her accomplice pushed her into prostitution. She would send her with different men after giving her drugs. The ADCP said the girl was exploited for months. In January 2020, the girl somehow managed to escape from the woman’s house. She reached Ludhiana railway station where members of child helpline found her. They Further traced her family in Fazilka and after counselling, the girl was handed over to her family in February. Thereafter, the girl revealed everything to her mother. A zero FIR was lodged by Fazilka police which was later transferred to Ludhiana in February under Sections 370 (buying or disposing of any person as a slave), 370-A (exploitation of a trafficked child), 372 (selling minor for purposes of prostitution, etc), 373 (buying minor for purposes of prostitution, etc) and 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and Section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the PocsoAct. The official said the police had produced the accused before the court on Saturday, which sent all of them to 3-day police custody. The police are further checking if the accused have been running any child trafficking racket or not. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/runaway-girl-got-trapped-in-sex-trade-4-arrested/articleshow/76790738.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops take to sky to keep close watch on containment zones||Ludhiana: Using technology to their advantage in the times of Covid-19, police have taken to camera-fitted drones for surveillance at containment zones. The violators who are caught on the camera are being issued warning SMSs.So far, the zone-1 of Ludhiana police commissionerate has issued more than 150 warning SMSs to residents of three containment zones — Islamgunj, Prem Nagar and Ashok Nagar.The brain behind the initiative, additional deputy commissioner of police-I Deepak Pareek said this technology has been helping them in keeping cops away from the crowd and simultaneously keep a check on violators too.The zone-1 area of Ludhiana commissionerate has three containment zones. In each zone, three different sized drones are being used. The smaller drones are used for the inside narrow lanes.ADCP Deepak Pareek said, “In the first-of-its-kind move in the state, the police are using drones to monitor the containment zones and curb violations using less manpower. This way, police personnel don’t have to go inside each lane of the locality to check violations.”“The footage captured by drones is further analysed by IT teams. Thereafter, we identified those defying rules related to Covid-19. If that violator is on a particular vehicle, then we trace his details using vehicle registration number and send a warning SMS. Otherwise, with the help of other residents and volunteers from that locality, we identified violators, get their mobile details and issue them warning,” he explained.“Thus, the cops don’t have to physically go to each violator and ask to follow norms. By issuing warning, we are also letting residents know that the police are keeping an eye on them,” he added.When asked about action on frequent violators, ADCP Pareek said, “The messages sent to people clearly mention that this is a warning message and further violation will result in penalties and legal action. The record of such violators is being prepared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-take-to-sky-to-keep-close-watch-on-containment-zones/articleshow/76790724.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Children with disabilities get e-classes in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Om Patel, 15, a teen with Down Syndrome, was anxious for being away from school for such a long time. His queries on when the school will resume and when will he be able to see his friends remained unanswered as the last straw was start of his younger brother’s online classes. “It was mid-June when we got connected to the Blind People’s Association (BPA)’s ‘Teach Special Child’ initiative. Parents of children with disabilities had uploaded several videos of activities that they carried out at home,” said Om’s mother Minal Patel. “The initiative not only provided a template for activities but also gave a space to expand scope of what all activities could be done while not stepping out of home or society. Covid-19 epidemic and subsequent lockdown not only affected the normal schools – the special schools were worst hit. “It was not possible for us to resume teaching through online classes where the teachers connect with students through camera or send pre-recorded videos,” said Bhushan Punani, executive secretary, BPA. “Children with disabilities require special attention and thus we initiated ‘Learning Studio’ for parents to turn educators under guidance of our teachers. Focus was to develop motor and sensory skills, social skills and conventional education.” Today through their Facebook page and WhatsApp groups, the 350-plus videos are reaching to more than 5,000 persons across the state and beyond, said BPA officials, adding that the initiative had just started for their 400 students. But with better connectivity and enthusiasm of the parents, the learning from home initiative could work. Mahesh Parmar, father of a child with multiple disabilities, said that for these kids, schools are not just places to learn new skills but also to connect with students facing the same issues. “Thus, such initiatives cannot replace schools but on positive side, we could learn a lot about educating the special children and techniques to engage them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/children-with-disabilities-get-e-classes/articleshow/76791370.cms||Parth Shastri
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Diabetic man dies, state toll now 9||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh on Saturday reported its ninth Covid-19 death as a 70-year-old man from Hamirpur succumbed to the virus at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College and Hospital at Ner Chowk in Mandi, where he had been admitted since June 28. The patient had diabetes mellitus. The state also reported 13 fresh cases of the virus, while 25 patients recovered from it. The total number of cases reported in the state has now increased to 1,046. Of these, 326 cases are active, 696 patients have recovered, 13 have migrated out of state, nine have died of Covid-19, and two patients died of reasons other than coronavirus. Ten of the new cases were from Hamirpur district, seven from Kangra, five from Shimla and one each from Sirmaur, Bilaspur and Una. Among the patients who recovered, five were from Solan district, two from Kangra, and one each from Bilaspur and Mandi. Details of the rest were yet to be confirmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/diabetic-man-dies-state-toll-now-9/articleshow/76791904.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Tilted overhead storage tank razed||HYDERABAD: The tilted overhead storage tank in Nagarkurnool’s Vanguru mandal was pulled down on Saturday as officials were worried it could pose danger to people if it remained in the same position. Following reports in the media on the tilted tank in Dindichintapalli village, officials visited the place on Friday and by Saturday morning, it was brought down. According to officials, construction of a new tank would be taken up immediately. Action is likely to be taken against officials concerned and also the contractor after a report is submitted on the reasons behind the newly-constructed tank tilting by almost 30 degrees. The Mission Bhagiratha tank was built to supply water to the village. “There is negligence on the part of the contractor. The quality of construction of the tank was also poor. We demand a probe on how the storage tank tilted,” said Nagarkurnool district Congress president Chikkudu Vamsi Krishna. He asked the authorities to take stock of other overhead storage tanks in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tilted-overhead-storage-tank-razed/articleshow/76791334.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Sister-in-law held for woman’s murder||Ludhiana: Two days after a 23-year-old woman was found murdered at her home in Akalgarh area of Sudhar in Ludhiana, the police on Saturday arrested her sister-in-law and her alleged lover for her murder.The accused were identified as Charanjit Kaur, wife of Jatinder Singh — step-brother of the deceased — of Hissowal in Sudhar, currently residing at Mullanpur, and her paramour Harjit Singh of Jassowal in Sudhar.On July 2, Balvir Kaur was found murdered at her home when her parents had gone out.Giving details, Ludhiana Rural SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said during the investigation into the blind murder case, they arrested Charanjit on suspicion. On interrogation, she said the mother of the deceased is also the step-mother of her husband and she would discriminate between her and her husband. As a result, the accused claimed, they had to shift to Mullanpur three years ago.The police officer said the accused had an extra marital affair with Harjit. “She knew that her in-laws had good quantity of gold ornaments and huge money kept at home. So, she planned the killing, along with her friend Harjit. When she came to know that the deceased was alone at home, she went there with her paramour and murdered her sister-in-law and stole gold and silver ornaments,” he said.The police said both accused have been arrested and stolen gold ornaments worth Rs 7,71,000 recovered from them. Charanjit has an eight-year-old son and her husband works in a food delivery company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sister-in-law-held-for-womans-murder/articleshow/76790746.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||QMC dips into staff gratuity fund to pay salaries of 3 months||Quepem: Quepem Municipal Council (QMC) on Friday decided to clear the three-month backlog of staff wages by utilising Rs 40 lakh from the employees’ gratuity and pension fund. During the council meeting, the councillors suggested that some money should be deposited every month in the gratuity fund. QMC may be the first civic body to utilise money from gratuity and pension fund to pay staff salaries. The council had not paid wages from April to June to nearly 70 staffers, including daily wage workers, and remuneration to councillors. After TOI highlighted the issue of unpaid salaries in April, the director of municipal administration released Rs 25 lakh to clear the salary dues of February and March. Councillors said that B and C grade municipalities are unable to pay their workers due to the loss of income. QMC needs around Rs 20 lakh per month to pay staff wages and Rs 5 lakh for maintenance and fuel for vehicles, chairperson Dayesh Naik said. Naik said that even if people pay their taxes regularly, the council will able to pay their staff only for 6-7 months. “It is difficult to generate revenue only on house and trade taxes,” he said. Councillor Raul Pereira suggested that the council file a case against the government for withdrawing the octroi grant to municipalities across the state. QMC used to get nearly Rs 1 crore every year as octroi from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/qmc-dips-into-staff-gratuity-fund-to-pay-salaries-of-3-months/articleshow/76792119.cms||Johnny M
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Chinese imports threaten Surat’s nylon yarn spinners||More than the coronavirus pandemic, the local nylon spinning industry is facing a severe threat from China. Along with the sharp fall in demand and with powerloom units still to restart, the existence of Surat’s nylon yarn spinning industry is being threatened by yarn imported from China. In Surat, the nylon yarn manufacturing units employ about 10,000 workers and give indirect employment to over 50,000 people. Of the 16 nylon spinning factories in the country, 10 units are in and around Surat, contributing about 90% of India’s nylon yarn production. However, despite strong sentiments in favour of ‘vocal for local’ and ‘boycott China’ campaigns, manufacturing in the Rs 3,500 crore nylon yarn industry in Surat has dropped from 12,000 metric tonnes per month to 2,000 metric tonnes post-lockdown. The annual imports of nylon yarn in India is about 25,000 metric tonnes and 60% of that comes from China alone. If this year too, Chinese nylon yarn of the same quantity comes to India, then the local industry will be severely affected. "Chinese imports are severely damaging the existence of nylon yarn spinners in India," said senior vice-president of Century Enka, Sanjay Mehrotra, who is also the secretary of Surat Nylon Yarn Spinners Association (SNYSA). Mehrotra added, "Against less than 1% of India’s imports of nylon yarn being from China in 2016-17, the share of Chinese yarn increased to 60% of the imports in 2019-20. The industry needs protection from China to become ‘Atma-nirbhar’. Not just anti-dumping duty, but there is a need to review customs duty and the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with Asian countries to protect domestic yarn spinners." In the domestic man-made fibre (MMF) basket, nylon yarn has less than 4% manufacturing share, with 90% consisting of the polyester consumed by domestic powerloom weavers. Around 10% of the powerloom weaving units use nylon yarn for manufacturing dupatta, high-value jacquard saris and square net fabric. Nylon yarn imports in India stood at 18,000 metric tonnes in 2016-17 and China accounted for just 180 metric tonne or 1% of total imports. Now, the nylon imports surged to 25,000 metric tonnes in 2019-20 and China contributed 15,000 metric tonne or 60% . In volume terms, the imports from China have jumped 83 times in four years. Industry experts say that during the pre-Covid period, the local industry had already shrunk to 70% of its installed capacity, being edged out by Chinese imports. Against the annual 1.98 lakh metric tonnes manufacturing capacity, the nylon spinning mills produced less than 1.20 lakh metric tonnes. The Chinese exporters, according to the industry players, are dumping nylon yarn with heavy under-invoicing. The imported nylon yarn is about 10% cheaper compared to the yarn from Surat. Vinay Agarwal, director, Aglon industries private limited said, "We invested Rs 100 crore in 2016, but due to increased imports from China, we are facing a huge challenge ahead. Our monthly production has reduced from 650 tonnes to less than 100 tonnes. If Chinese imports continue we will have to close." Narain Aggrawal, president of Surat Nylon Yarn Spinners Association said, "If Chinese yarn continues to be dumped here, yarn spinners will have to shut units." Anti-dumping dutyThree years ago, the nylon spinners had approached the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) against the dumping of imported nylon yarn from China. After detailed investigation and due diligence, DGTR authorities issued their final findings. They found severe injury to the domestic yarn spinners and recommended anti-dumping duty on March 4, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chinese-imports-threaten-surats-nylon-yarn-spinners/articleshow/76791903.cms||Melvyn Thomas
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||One held for Rs 52L burglary in Kubernagar||Ahmedabad: City crime branch sleuths on Saturday cracked the case of one of the biggest thefts in the city since the lockdown, which was carried out in the early hours of Wednesday, at the house of a retired teacher in Kubernagar. Investigators held a 27-year-old man, Prakash Salat, a resident of Bayad in Aravalli district, and recovered Rs 17,70,000 cash and jewellery worth Rs 4,65,000 from him. Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, B V Gohil, said that from Salat’s interrogation it emerged that he had an accomplice, Kailash Rajgaur, a resident of Rajasthan. Inspector N R Brahmbhatt of crime branch said that Salat confessed to having reconnoitred the house for three days. “The two of them entered from the terrace and opened a safe using its key. They stole Rs 50,00,000 cash and jewellery worth Rs 2.40 lakh. We cannot rule out their involvement in more such burglaries. They have been sent for Covid tests and will be handed over to Sardarnagar police for further investigation,” Brahmbhatt said. Police officials said they were captured on CCTV cameras of a nearby building. Both accused have criminal records. Salat was arrested by Sardarnagar and Sabarmati police in 2015 and 2018, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-held-for-rs-52l-burglary-in-kubernagar/articleshow/76791344.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bareilly||SP MP, 50 party members booked for celebrating Akhilesh Yadav’s birthday||Bareilly: Moradabad police has booked Samajwadi Party (SP) MP ST Hasan along with at least 50 other party members for allegedly violating social distancing norms on the 47th birthday celebrations of former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav on July 1. The SP MP had also made some controversial remarks on social distancing on the occasion, sources said. "Following social distancing is of no use at this time and the same has also been proved in a recent research by America. Also, maintaining physical distance under current scenario is impossible and impractical," MP Hasan reportedly said at the public gathering. Moreover, scores of party leaders and workers had gathered at the SP office in the city's Civil Lines area. An FIR has been now lodged under IPC sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life). On Saturday, Moradabad SP city said, "An event was held on July 1 to celebrate the birthday of former CM Akhilesh Yadav. A number of SP leaders had assembled even as the city is still reeling under the high risk of community transmission with multiple Covid-19 positive cases being reported every day. Besides, pictures and videos of a cake-cutting ceremony were circulated on social media platforms, in which a number of people who were a part of the celebration were spotted without face masks. Physical distancing was also ignored. It was illegal. So, FIR has been registered."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sp-mp-50-party-members-booked-forcelebrating-akhilesh-yadavs-birthday/articleshow/76789975.cms||Maria Khan
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Four drown while fishing in village lake||MAHABUBABAD: As many as four boys died after drowning in Tummala lake in Shanigaram village on Mahabubabad district on Saturday. According to witnesses, the four children had gone to the lake with fishing equipments. They were sitting on the bund and fishing when one of them fell into the lake. Due to the depth, his attempts to come up failed. The three others tried to rescue him but also drowned. Mahabubabad town police and revenue staff reached the spot and bodies retrieved with the assistance of expert swimmers. The deceased have been identified as Isklawath Lokesh (14), Rakesh (14), Bisa Jagan (14) and Dinesh (13).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-drown-while-fishing-in-village-lake/articleshow/76791348.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Armyman missing in Ladakh, ailing mother sticks to prayers||Ludhiana: An ailing mother of a Samrala-based Armyman hasn’t stopped praying for his safe return since he went missing following an accident near Drass sector in Ladakh on June 22.Palwinder Singh, 29, posted with Road Construction Company (RCC), Leh, of General Reserve Engineer Force (GREF) of Border Roads Organisation, and his officer Lieutenant Subhan Ali had gone missing after their vehicle fell into river near Drass.“A day before the accident, he had called us and talked to family members. On June 22 he was going from Mani Marg to Kargil along with the officer when their vehicle fell into the river near Drass around 4pm. The GREF came to know about two officials missing and on the same evening they informed police and Army. They started search the next day. They informed us on June 23. On June 25, they found the vehicle,” said Jagpreet Singh, elder brother of Palwinder who is a head constable in Ludhiana police.“Later I along with my father visited the spot as well. We have been asking them whether they have found them, but they claim that they are making efforts,” he said. During his last conversation with the family, Palwinder told them that he had to join at Pathankot in a week as he had spent two years in Ladakh.Family members said Palwinder’s mother Surinder Kaur, 55, who has thyroid-related disease, is in a state of shock after hearing about the accident whereas his 56-year-old father Naib Subedar Gurmail Singh is also in a state of grief.“We are praying for his return. So far, area MLA Amreek Singh Dhillon has come to meet us,” rued Palwinder’s elder brother. He said his brother was engaged to a girl from Jagraon and he was to get married but the plans got delayed due to the lockdown.Palwinder’s father who has served in the Army for 24 years has three sons. He said Palwinder had joined the Army about 10 years ago.MLA Samrala Amreek Singh Dhillon said that he has written to Prime Minister and defence Minister for necessary directions to trace the missing persons. He added that if their dead bodies are traced the families can be adequately compensated. Meanwhile, SAD president Sukhbir Badal had tweeted about Palwinder. In his tweet, he said, “Praying for the safe return of Army soldier, Palwinder Singh, who belongs to Samrala (Ludhiana). Posted in Kargil, Palwinder Singh, along with another officer are missing after their jeep fell into the river. Praying that both officers are found Safe and Sound.@adgpi”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/armyman-missing-in-ladakh-ailing-mother-sticks-to-prayers/articleshow/76790753.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 5, 2020||Delhi||‘Delhi riots accused met Zakir Naik in Malaysia, got NRI funds’||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s investigation into the case of conspiracy behind the Delhi riots has revealed that one of the prime accused, Khalid Saifi, had met controversial Islamic preacher Zakir Naik in Malaysia in the run-up to the riots. Subsequently, Saifi’s NGO, which he runs with a Meerut-based man, received funds from a Singapore-based NRI who the cops suspect was the front for several foreign-based entities to wire money to create unrest in India. Saifi’s passport and travel details apart from intelligence inputs have revealed that he travelled outside India and met fugitive Naik covertly in order to get support and funds for spreading his agenda. Police are yet to question the NGO partner as he was last informed to be in quarantine. Delhi Police’s Special Cell is now likely to send Letter Rogatory to Singapore and Malaysia seeking details of suspects and the funding, sources said. Documents reviewed by TOI also show that police have found that former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan allegedly received funds through a suspicious route via a relative in Ghaziabad and some entities in Maharashtra. Both Saifi and Ishrat have been arrested under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Saifi, a businessman, is associated with ‘United Against Hate’ which was founded by Umar Khalid and others. The investigation has disclosed that the anti-CAA/NRC protest sites were started at various places in Delhi and all of them were being managed by the members of Jamia Coordination Committee along with locals. “The JCC members, locals and celebrity speakers were called to give hate speeches and to instigate the public against other communities and the government by terming the anti-citizenship Act a law against the Muslim community. The organisers and speakers made speeches to defame another community and the country,” a police investigation report reads. The document further states that the social media handlers were spreading manipulated information and hatred. The evidence of the illegal funding to organise an unlawful assembly in the name of anti-CAA protest by the accused has been submitted in the court. “Police have analysed the footage from protest sites and the videos of speeches made there and concluded that the accused had not only conspired against the government of India but to disturb the peace, tranquility, communal harmony and the sovereignty of the country,” it reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/riot-accused-met-naik-in-malaysia-got-nri-funds/articleshow/76791908.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Mysuru||Chikkamagaluru doctor tests Covid positive, hospital staff quarantined||CHIKKAMAGALURU: After returning from Bengaluru, a Chikkamagaluru physician in a private hospital, has tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The doctor's mother who was suffering from age-related illness had to be rushed to a super-specialty hospital in Bengaluru. He returned from Bengaluru last week and fell sick a few days later. The district administration has sealed off the hospital and has put all his primary contacts including the staff at his hospital under home quarantine. His mother’s sample has been sent to the laboratory. Meanwhile, an employee of Kadur KSRTC depot too has been infected. He worked as a conductor. His primary contacts are proving to be a challenge for the district administration. Deputy commissioner Bagadi Goutham confirmed three positive cases on Saturday in Chikkamagaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/doc-tests-positive-hospital-staff-quarantined/articleshow/76790761.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Abhayam rescues teenager from online relationship||Ahmedabad: A 17-year-old girl was rescued by Abhayam 181 helpline earlier this week after her boyfriend refused to accept her after living with her for about six months.“Questioning of the girl from an eastern city part revealed that she had met the boy through an online gaming and social media application. She fell in love and eloped with him. They lived together for about six months but then he refused marriage or commitment,” said an Abhayam counsellor. “It put the girl in a fix as she had severed ties with her parents and they too were not ready to accept her.”The girl was taken to woman police station and her maternal uncle living in Ankleshwar was contacted who agreed to take care of her. “In his statement, the boy said that he had no income source and thus he wanted some more time. Both boy and girl have been counselled about various laws and were advised not to take the matter lightly,” said the counsellor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abhayam-rescues-teenager-from-online-relationship/articleshow/76791350.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Varanasi||Mukhtar-backed fish trade mafia nabbed||Varanasi: Continuing their drive against the henchmen of jailed mafia don-turned MLA Mukhtar Ansari, the cops in Jaunpur district arrested his close associate and fish trade mafia Ravindra Kumar Nishad with banned species of Thai Mangur and other fishes worth of Rs 12 lakhs. Varanasi administration also issued notice to fisheries department officials for turning a blind eye towards trade of Mangur by Mukhtar backed traders, who were arrested recently. SP Jaunpur Ashok Kumar said in a joint action of police, food safety and drug administration and fisheries department raided his establishment in Jogoyapur area under the limits of Kotwali police station. During the raid, apart from Nishad his accomplice B Narain Rao of Andhra Pradesh was also arrested. From his godown, the cops seized 25 kg of banned species of Thai Mangur, 80 quintals of Rohu and Pyasi fishes and also a truck. Kumar said that during investigation it came to light that Nishad, who is associated with Mukhtar gang, was illegally operating fish trade without any registration with fisheries department of seeking licence with food safety and drugs administration department. This fish mafia has amassed wealth with the earnings made through illegal trades of fish, he said adding, the issue of construction of his house and an under construction mall is also under investigation. On the other hand, following the arrest of Mukhtar backed fish mafia Mohd Salim and his accomplices and unearthing of a pond inside Banglow-51 of Cantonment area to keep the stock of Thai Mangur, district magistrate Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma had sought explanation from the assistant director fisheries by issuing a notice to him. The DM asked him to reply whether illegal trade of fish and extortion from fish traders by the persons involved in illegal trade was in their knowledge and it it had been in their notice what action was initiated against those illegal traders and extortionists. The DM has given seven days time to the fisheries department officials to submit his reply. The DM said that the fresh recoveries had exposed laxity by the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mukhtar-backed-fish-trade-mafia-nabbed/articleshow/76791459.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three cases of suicide in city||Ahmedabad: One Sudhir Makwana, 35, of Dariapur committed suicide by hanging himself at his house on Friday morning. According to police, Makwana used to work in a private shop but for a few days he was under depression as he had lost his job. He is survived by his wife and a son,” said a police official of Dariapur police station. In another case, Apar Mudaliyar, 43, of Naroda Road, committed suicide by consuming poison on Friday. “We have yet not got the reason behind his suicide and are probing the case,” said a police official of Shaherkotda police station. In the third case of suicide, Sahil Parmar, 22, of Odhav committed suicide by hanging himself at his house by tying a dupatta to the ceiling fan at 12 noon on Friday. “We have registered a case of accidental death and are probing the reasons behind the extreme step,” said an Odhav police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-cases-of-suicide-in-city/articleshow/76791361.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Admn gears up to take sting out of dengue, malaria this monsoon||Ludhiana: To keep dengue and malaria at bay this monsoon, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the district administration has decided to launch a mass awareness drive to motivate residents not to let water accumulate in their premises, adjoining areas and to clear out stagnant water to prevent mosquito breeding.Chairing a meeting of District Level Dengue Monitoring Committee at Bachat Bhawan, additional deputy commissioner (development) Amrit Singh issued directions to the officials to taking strict against the habitual offenders. She said in view of Covid-19 pandemic, this time this disease should be taken seriously. She also asked the local government department to submit their fogging schedule by July 7.She asked the officials to chalk out a comprehensive strategy with other departments to conduct daily inspections in high-risk areas of the district and issue challans wherever teams find dengue larvae. She also asked them to increase the number of challans. Further, intensified fogging drive would be initiated in the district in the coming days.The officials of education department were asked to make students aware of preventive steps for dengue and malaria during the online classes. The students should be encouraged to wear full sleeves clothes.The health department has already released gambusia fish in several village ponds in the district. The ADC (D) asked officials to cover all the remaining ponds. She directed the health officials to rope in labour department in this drive to check accumulation of the water in construction sites.She directed the municipal corporation officials to check all areas of Ludhiana city. The health officials informed the ADC that several teams have been formed to cover all the wards of the municipal corporation and spray anti-larva drugs where they find breeding of mosquitoes. They said Friday is being observed as a ‘dry day’ as they check desert coolers in all government offices, educational institutions and banks.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga and officials of other departments were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/admn-gears-up-to-take-sting-out-of-dengue-malaria-this-monsoon/articleshow/76790777.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||19 micro-containment zones added||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), in its third list of micro-containment zones issued in July, removed four zones from the list but added 19 others. Of the 19, ten are in the western part of the city. The city now has 99 micro-containment zones. The AMC removed the Municipal Labour Quarters (India Colony), Navkholi Street and Free Colony, both in Chharanagar; and Jagabhai Ni Chali in Sabarmati from the list on Saturday. The spots added to the list in the South West Zone are three houses in Anveshan Row Houses, Bungalows 11 to 16 in Nishant Park-II, Bungalows 21 to 30 and row houses 14 to 17 in Shivranjani Row Society. In the North West Zone, new micro-containment zones included the third floor of Block-C of Ratna Safar Flats opposite Gulab Tower (Thaltej) and Shivam Satellite Bungalows in Bodakdev. In the West Zone, new containment zones include Sardar Patel Nagar, (Naranpura), Gangaram Flats (Sabarmati), Vandematram Homes (Ranip) and A Block of Samet Apartment, Keshavnagar (Stadium ward). Only the third floor of B Block of Gagan Vihar Flats in Khanpur was added in the Central Zone. In the East Zone the areas added are Sakar Society (Nikol), Sahajanand Apartments-II (Nikol), Vaikunth Darshan (New Maninagar) and Madhav Homes (Vastral). In the South Zone, the new micro-containment zones are Houses 31 to 31 of Kailash Park, B-7 to B-26 Om Shantinagar, B-10 to B-120 and A/C 132 to 169 of Namrata Society (Isanpur) and 53 houses of Vandevi Society in Ghodasar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/19-micro-containment-zones-added/articleshow/76791309.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doc without papersacquitted||Ahmedabad: A magisterial court at the Mirzapur district court campus has acquitted one Arunpratapsinh Rajput, who was booked for practising medicine without any authorization in Lambha in 2003. Rajput was then booked under Gujarat Medical Practitioner Act and the Gujarat Medical Council Act because he claimed that he was a registered medical practitioner, but could not furnish any certificate from authority permitting him to practice medicine. The acquittal came after the prosecution could not establish its case beyond testimony of the complainant doctor, who was heading the team that raided Rajput’s clinic. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doc-without-papersacquitted/articleshow/76791358.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Varanasi||BJP zila panchayat member, brother held, released on bail||Varanasi: A zila panchayat member of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Surendra Patel and his brother Bindu Patel, who is a lawyer, were arrested from Sundarpur area under the limits of Lanka police station for allegedly misbehaving and manhandling police personnel on Friday night. They were granted bail by the sessions court on Saturday. According to reports, a high drama ensued on Saturday morning when some lawyers came face to face with the police in support of Bindu when he and his brother were taken to the court. Later, BJP leaders joined the issue form Surendra’s side, after which non-bailable sections were removed against them. The duo were given bail from the sessions court. Earlier, SSP Prabhakar Chawdhary has said that exemplary action will be taken in this connection. Giving details, the SSP said cops from Sundarpur police outpost were cordoning a locality after it was declared a containment zone by the district administration following detection of a Covid-19 case on Friday night. In the meantime, they were alerted that some miscreants were threatening a person on Khojwa-Sundarpur road. “When the cops reached there to attend this complaint, some youths including former students union officer-bearer of Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapeeth Ravindra Patel also reached there without wearing a mask. When police sought the reason for not wearing mask, they started misbehaving with the policemen. Within a few minutes some other persons also reached there in support of the youths. Following a heated argument, they attacked the policemen,” the SSP said. Later, Inspector Lanka Ashwini Chaturvedi raided the place with heavy police force and arrested Surendra Patel and Bindu Patel while others managed to escape. Lanka police lodged an FIR under sections 147, 148, 149, 323, 504, 506, 341, 307, 392, 114, 188, 269, 270, 364, 353, 332, 333 and 186 of IPC and 7 CL Act in this connection. When police took the duo to produce before the court of additional chief judicial magistrate-IV, a large number of lawyers gathered there and raised a hue and cry over the arrest of Bindu. However, the court ordered to send the duo to jail in 14 days judicial remand. Before the office-bearers and members of Central Bar Association and Banaras Bar Association could move the plea before the sessions court to seek bail for their colleague, some BJP leaders also joined the issue. BJP’s Kashi region unit president Mahesh Chandra Srivastava said that on their request, IG Varanasi range VS Mina, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma and SSP reviewed the matter. Srivastava said, “The CCTV footages produced by Sundarpur outpost cops did not show any ground for which Surendra and his family members were booked in a case registered in 19 sections of IPC and CL Act.” Srivastava said the cops had targeted Ravindra for not wearing mask and when his father Surendra and other family members intervened, the cops wanted to know why they were not wearing masks. He said that when Surendra mentioned that policemen were also not wearing masks, the latter targeted him. He claimed that after going through all these facts, the officials agreed that some sections should be removed from this case. Later, Lanka police produced other documents before the court mentioning that section 364, 392 and 307 had been removed from the case registered against Patels, admitted Inspector Lanka. The sessions court was also informed about the removal of the said sections by the prosecution, said a lawyer Anuj Yadav, mentioning that the lawyers also questioned the reasons for booking them in 19 sections. Following these developments Surendra and Bindu Patel were granted bail. Till the end of this episode, a high-voltage drama continued due to frequent arguments taking place between lawyers and policemen. In view of it, heavy police force remained deployed in and around the Kutchehri compound.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bjp-zila-panchayat-member-brother-held-released-on-bail/articleshow/76791473.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||24 more packets of charas found in sea, total 1,200||Ahmedabad: A landing party of the Indian Coast Guard recovered 24 more packets of charas on July 3, during patrol at Kadiyari Beyt near Jakhau port. The street price of the narcotics recovered on Friday is estimated to be Rs 36 lakh. Coast guard sources said that since May 20, the ICG in coordination with other agencies has recovered more than 1,200 packets of charas floating in the sea in the same area. “It seems that a boat carrying a large consignment of drugs capsized in mid-sea and now the charas packed in coffee pouches are washing up on the sea coast in Kutch,” said a state police source. Along with the local police, Gujarat ATS and national agencies such as National Investigation Agency (NIA) are camping in Kutch to find the source from where the packets of charas are floating to the coast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/24-more-packets-of-charas-found-in-sea-total-1200/articleshow/76791378.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Residents join hands to develop barren land into green space||Ludhiana: Apna Park in Labour Colony on Gill Road has become an example for others to follow as residents living around this park have made optimum use of the lockdown period by developing a barren space into a lush green one. Starting only with a cleanliness drive in the park, the group of active residents got grass sown in it with small fountains set up along with an open gym. Now, people in nearby areas have also learnt a lesson from these residents and started developing the parks in their colonies. While describing the beginning, Manmohan Singh Rupal, who works as an accountant, said, “For the last over 20 years no paint was done in our park and its condition was pitiable. When the lockdown started I had nothing to do, so I called up two three fellow residents and asked if we could clean the park in parts.” He said initially they did cleaning only and when they started enjoying working there they decided to get grass sown on the barren land. “We tried everywhere but during lockdown we could not get grass anywhere in the city, so we approached the civic officials who assured to give some grass,” he said while adding that now it was all green. Another resident Parveen Phutela, who is a businessman, said, “It was a challenge to turn this dull space into a green zone, especially in the lockdown period when things were unavailable. Even then we made up our mind that we have to do it.” He said they collected money and brought paint first and got the grills and walls painted and after that they set up an open gym. He said they got some tiles installed in the park and now every evening there is a different kind of feeling while walking around here. Gurmukh Singh, a businessman and resident of the area, said, “Before the lockdown when we used to return from our work we used to sit inside the houses but now everybody wants to go to the park. In a way, Apna Park has brought residents together who now feel closer to each other.” He said every evening children play in the park and elderly people sit and chit chat while young people walk. He claimed that after seeing their park residents in nearby areas have decided to develop two more parks in a similar manner. A senior citizen, Daljit Singh Jawanda, shared, “I remember when young boys in the locality used to be kids and I used to grow grass in this park and they used to destroy everything. I had left hope that this park can be developed in any manner, but during lockdown youngsters joined hands and developed it wonderfully.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-join-hands-to-develop-barren-land-into-green-space/articleshow/76791353.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||City’s 2nd oldest cinema hall still makes Dharmendra nostalgic||Ludhiana: Feeling nostalgic about one of the oldest cinema halls of Ludhiana, veteran actor Dharmendra on Saturday shared a very emotional post about his memories while watching movies in Raikhy Cinema, which was only the second theatre to come up in the industrial town in 1933.Located in heart of city, people have many memories attached with this cinema hall.Dharmendra through this tweet remembered the days when he used to watch movies here. Some fans also replied to his tweet and asked him about the last movie that he had watched in the theatre.Started by Lala Jagat Ram Ahluwalia, Raikhy Cinema was originally Raikhy Theatre as it was a place to stage dramas and plays initially. Over the years, it turned into a cinema hall.But it was shut down permanently almost 6 years back as its owners suffered losses in running single screen cinema hall. This theatre was so famous that the road where it is located came to be known as Raikhy Cinema Road.Vikas Raikhy, one of the proprietors of Raikhy Cinema, said, “Initially, it was started to stage dramas and plays. With time, movie screening started. There was a craze among residents to watch movies here as they did not have much options during those days.”He said they tried to keep it alive for a few years, but their profit margins dipped significantly as people moved to multiplexes to watch movies, thus ending the era of single screen theatres. He said every old cinema hall in the city met the same fate.“I remember when Dharmendra used to visit the cinema hall. He had a friend Raj who was a barber near the Clock Tower. The actor used to get a haircut from him,” he said, adding that it was good that Dharmendra still remembers this cinema hall. Vikas said he has posted a tweet tagging Dharmendra where he has offered a special screening of some movie if the actor comes to Ludhiana.Recalling his school days, former councillor Parminder Mehta said, “Earlier, schools used to take us for shows in Raikhy Cinema where mostly patriotic and religious movies were screened. At that time, we used to lie at home to enjoy late night shows.” He said those were very beautiful days, but everything faded away with the passage of time.Veteran actor’s tweet“Rikhy cinema, ludhiyana..... unginnat filmen dekhi hain yahaan....ye sannata ......dekh kar ..... dil udaas ho gaya mera..”Fans’ reactionRahi RK | “We used to come from Moga to watch movies in Raikhy, Naulakha, Deepak etc. I remember Tikky toast of Raikhy cinema which was very tasty.” He even asked Dharmendra whether he remembered this Tikky toast.Dharmendra replied to his tweet that he used to keep chawnni for Tikky samosa.Meanwhile another fan asked if he remembers last movie he watched in Raikhy, Dharmendra replied it was Deedar movie of Dilip Kumar, but he does not remember the exact date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/citys-2nd-oldest-cinema-hall-still-makes-dharmendra-nostalgic/articleshow/76790765.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong protests fuel price hike, calls it inhumane||Hyderabad: Congress on Saturday staged protests across Telangana against the fuel price hike, as part of a nationwide call made by the All India Congress Committee. Lashing out at the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government, the opposition party said that an additional burden of Rs 18 lakh crore has been imposed on consumers ever since the BJP came to power in 2014. The leaders and supporters of the Congress party organised protests at mandal headquarters, municipalities and district headquarters all over the state. State Congress chief Uttam Kumar Reddy along with former MP Konda Vishveshwar Reddy and other party members held a demonstration at Shamshabad before submitting a memorandum to the district officials and the local tehsildar. The memorandum was addressed to the President of India, Ramnath Kovind, and Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan. “At a time when the people in the country are suffering with reduced income or lack of it due to coronavirus-forced lock downs, the Centre and state government are behaving in an inhuman manner by imposing higher taxes on petrol and diesel. The fuel prices are being increased continuously for the last 20 days despite a sharp decline in the international crude oil prices,” Uttam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-protests-fuel-price-hike-calls-it-inhumane/articleshow/76791382.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Two more areas to be declared micro-containment zones||Ludhiana: Seeking to check spread of Covid-19 disease, Ludhiana district administration is set to announce at least two areas in district as micro-containment zones. The district already has nine micro-containment zones and three containment zones. Sources in the district administration said whereas the health department authorities at Khanna has recommended to make a colony as micro-containment zone, health department in Ludhiana also made recommendation for making Rajiv Gandhi colony slum area as another such zone. Senior medical officer (SMO), Khanna civil hospital, Rajinder Gulati confirmed that the recommendations were made after five members of a family tested positive with the disease in the colony. He added that there are 20-22 houses in the colony and the population is between 100 to 150. The SMO said they had already restricted the entry of people from one point and have got one picket of cops at the other entry point. He added that only essential commodities were being allowed inside and person/s would be allowed in or out in case of an emergency only. A health department officer said their team was already carrying out sanitisation of the area and house-to-house survey to identify symptomatic persons so that their samples could be taken. He added that till now 18 contacts of the family had been identified, who were mostly workers at their shops (medical and tyre shops) or their their relatives’. Health department officials said an elderly male member of the family, who is admitted in a private hospital in Ludhiana and has co-morbidity, had tested positive after which samples of his family members were taken, five of whom tested positive on Friday. They added that whereas the member of the family who tested positive for the disease is symptomatic, other family members are asymptomatic. Meanwhile, district administration sources said on June 30, a 55-year-old male, a 41-year-old female, 30-year-old male, 32-year-old male and an 18-year-old female from Rajiv Gandhi Colony slums had tested positive for the disease, following which the health department was analyzing the situation at the ground level. An officer of the health department asking not to be named confirmed that the committee had sent its recommendation for declaring Rajiv Gandhi Colony as a micro-containment zone. box: six micro containment zones On June 27, district administration had declared six micro containment zones, which include Samrat Colony in Giaspura, New Ashok Nagar (street no. 1), New Kartar Nagar in Salem Tabri, Basant Avenue, Phase 2, Dugri, Guru Harkrishan Nagar in Giaspura and Ram Nagar (street no. 21 behind Sangeet Cinema in Vishwakarma Colony). Earlier, New Model Town (street no. 1, 2 and 3 behind Dhamija Medical Hall), New Janta Nagar (street no 1, 2 and 3) opposite New Model Town and Bhamian Khurd (street no 1 to 4 in Krishna Colony) had been declared the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/two-more-areas-to-be-declared-micro-containment-zones/articleshow/76791383.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 5, 2020||Bareilly||UP pvt sugar mills struggle with Rs 3,500 crore dues||Pilibhit: Overdue payments of around Rs 3,500 crore, attributed to the subsidy on export of sugar stocks, buffer stock of sugar and electricity generated by them and sold to UP Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL), have left the state’s private sugar mills struggling. According to members of the UP Sugar Mills Association (UPSMA), the dues have been on hold for the past two years. Currently, the state has 119 functional sugar mills, of which 92 are in the private sector, with the rest 24 cooperative and three corporation mills owned by the state government. According to the general secretary of UPSMA Deepak Guptara, in order to promote sugar export, the Centre had announced a subsidy of Rs 10,448 per metric tonne (MT), which included the three-tiered subsidy. This had been categorised as marketing subsidy of Rs 4,400 per MT, to compensate for the expenses of quality upgradation, handling, debagging and re-bagging of sugar and other processing costs, Rs 3,428 per MT against internal transport and freight charges, and Rs 2,620 for ocean freight of shipment of the sugar from Indian ports to ports of destination countries, he said. Of the total dues, totaling Rs 3,546.58 crore, the share of export subsidy came to Rs 1,874 crore, while the buffer stock subsidy came to Rs 182.58, Guptara said. He said the Union cabinet had announced four million tonnes as buffer stock of sugar to stabilise price of sugar in the country. To cope with the hurdle of storing such a huge stock, provisions had been made to keep this sugar in godowns belonging to the sugar mills, for which the government had promised to bear a finance cost of 12% a year on the mill price of the sugar, worth Rs 29 per kg, and a 1.5% subsidy to compensate for insurance and storage charges, Guptara explained. These two subsidies were meant to clear arrears of sugarcane price, by transferring the amount to bank accounts of cane growers. Had this payment been cleared by the government, the sugar mills would have reduced their proportionate liabilities of farmers’ dues. He further said the outstanding amount of Rs 1,490 crore in lieu of power sold to UPPCL, could have assisted the mills in repaying their bank limits, in making investments in the mills’ annual repair work, which is carried out after the crushing session closes. “We have been regularly urging the central and state governments to expedite the payment of our dues, but in vain. Despite the state’s distance from ports, UP’s sugar mills contributed to the achievement of the Centre’s export targets, but we have subsequently been left in the lurch,” said Guptara. Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, the principal secretary of UP sugarcane and sugar industry, said the government was taking the best possible steps in the matter and was committed to safeguarding interests of sugarcane growers as well as mill owners. The Covid outbreak had placed unexpected barriers in the country this year, but the question of mills’ arrears would be addressed soon, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-pvt-sugar-mills-struggle-with-rs-3500-crore-dues/articleshow/76789989.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Visa agent cheats man of Rs 3 lakh||Ahmedabad: A 26-year-old man from New Ranip, Jaimin Patel, lodged a complaint against Mitesh Nai, also a resident of New Ranip, for cheating him of Rs 3 lakh after promising to get him a Canada visa. Sabarmati police lodged an offence under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC against the accused. According to the FIR, Patel met Nai through a friend, Vijay Patel, in 2010. “In 2018, Nai had got Patel’s mother a visa for the US and she went there and returned with no problem,” said a police official. According to the FIR, as Patel wanted a visa for Canada for himself, he called Nai and asked him about it. “On November 21, 2018, Nai went to Patel’s house and collected the required documents. Patel also paid him Rs 3 lakh in instalments. “After four months, when Patel called Nai about the visa, Nai gave him vague replies. He later told him that his visa had not been done and he would return the money. However, the cheques he gave bounced. Patel then lodged an FIR. We have registered an offence and are hunting for Nai,” said a senior Sabarmati police station official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/visa-agent-cheats-man-of-rs-3-lakh/articleshow/76791390.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||PSI remanded in custody till Tue||Ahmedabad: A special court on Saturday sent woman PSI Shweta Jadeja to police remand till Tuesday in connection with graft charges.The police officer was deployed at the Mahila Police Station (West) and she was arrested by the special operation group of the detection of crime branch on charges of accepting a bribe of Rs 20 lakh from a rape accused and his brother to spare them from being booked under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA).Police received the complaint against PSI Jadeja on June 26, that she had already extorted Rs 20 lakh in February and Rs 15 lakh recently from the complainants. They were made to pay the money through an angadia firm to one Jayubha in Jamjodhpur. After arresting Jadeja, the investigating officer produced her before a special anti-corruption judge V J Kalotara and sought her custodial interrogation for seven days. Public prosecutor Sudhir Brahmbhatt put forth nine reasons for her remand including that Rs 20 lakh paid to the accused is to be recovered and probe is required to be conducted at her native place to find out involvement of her relatives and whether she has created any asset. After hearing the submissions, the court said that it is necessary to find out whether she was involved any other case of bribery and who else are involved in this case. The court also observed that if custodial interrogation is not granted, the probe pertaining to the angadia firm and transaction would not be possible and the investigation would be stonewalled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/psi-remanded-in-custody-till-tue/articleshow/76791395.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Man, who lost Rs 20L in chit fund, found dead in canal||Ludhiana: The body of a 45-year-old auto driver, who had gone missing on June 30, was fished out of Kaind Canal in Dehlon area on Friday night. According to his relatives, Jaswinder Singh had lost Rs 20 lakh in a chit fund fraud and since then he had been under depression.He belonged to Bilga village in Sahnewal.Police said Jaswinder’s wife Poonam had lodged a missing complaint at Sahnewal police station on July 1.Quoting family members, ASI Sadhu Singh, investigating officer, Sahnewal, said, Jaswinder had invested Rs 20 lakh in a company in 2010. He was upset when he came to know that it was chit fund scam. His wife has told police that earlier too, Jaswinder had left the house twice, but returned after a few days.On June 30, Jaswinder left the house saying he was going for work, but he did not return. The police tried to trace him, but to no avail.On Friday night, people saw a body floating in the canal near the Kaind bridge. With the help of divers, police fished out the body and made an identification. Police said the deceased committed suicide due to depression.Following the statement of family members, the police have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-who-lost-rs-20l-in-chit-fund-found-dead-in-canal/articleshow/76790782.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bareilly||Rare orchid species blooms in India after 118-year hiatus||BAREILLY: A rare orchid species — Eulophia obtusa — also known as ground orchid has been rediscovered in India after forest officials and wildlife experts on a routine inspection in Dudhwa Tiger Reserve chanced upon the white flower with bright pink hues. In India, the species — listed as “critically endangered” in the IUCN Red List of endangered species — was last recorded in Pilibhit in 1902, according to documented records in Kew Herbarium in England. The species was originally described from Uttarakhand in the 19th century. It was collected by botanists from Gangetic plains but there have been no sightings in the past 100 years. In 2008, the plant species was sighted in Bangladesh for the first time. Field director Sanjay Pathak, part of the team that made the discovery in Dudhwa, told TOI, “We spotted the unusual flower on June 30 and took several pictures. We noted down the coordinates of the area. Later, we contacted Mohammed Sharif Hossain Sourav, a renowned botanist from Bangladesh who is currently pursuing his research work in Germany. He confirmed what we had thought all along — the flower was indeed Eulophia obtusa.” Pathak said studies may be initiated to learn more about the plant. The species was found at two different spots in the Dudhwa forest range, sparking hope that it may be growing in other locations too. Dr Mudit Gupta, state coordinator WWF-India, added, “We will likely conduct a detailed survey of its habitat in the reserve in coordination with the forest department.” A detailed survey would allow scientists and authorities to take steps towards conservation. A 2017 study published in Kew Bulletin, a peer-reviewed journal published by Springer, which had Mohammed Sharif as its first author had reported that Eulophia obtusa was under serious threat due to habitat loss and reduction in the number of mature individuals in Bangladesh. Watch Rare orchid species sighted in India after 118-years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rare-orchid-species-blooms-in-india-after-118-yr-hiatus/articleshow/76789995.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 5, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur Metro: Train coaches contract to Bombardier Transport||KANPUR: The Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation has awarded the contract for supply, testing and commissioning of 201 coaches/cars for 67 trains as well as train control and signalling system for Kanpur and Agra Metro projects to Bombardier Transport India Private Limited. Each Metro train (with three cars each) will have the capacity to accommodate around 980 passengers (315-350 passengers per coach/car) at a time. UPMRC informed that in the tender invited on international competitive bidding, four international firms participated. The tender was submitted to UPMRC on February 18 this year. After a detailed technical evaluation by the UPMRC team, the Chinese bidder was disqualified in the bidding process. Financial packages of three technically qualified bidders were opened in UPMRC and the tender has finally been awarded to the lowest bidder, Bombardier Transport India Private Limited on Friday, that is, July 3. TThese state-of-the-art modern stainless steel trains will be manufactured by Bombardier Transport India Pvt Ltd at the plant in Savli, Gujarat. Managing Director (UPMRC) Kumar Keshav stated that the Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) proposed in Kanpur and Agra is characterized by a short inter-station distance of about one km between stations, having a maximum design speed of 90 kmph and schedule speed of 80 kmph. “The selection of technology for UP Metro trains is governed primarily by design considerations for energy efficiency, reliability, comfort to passengers in terms of riding quality, lower-noise level, and environment friendliness. The body shell of cars made of stainless steel is lightweight,” he added. On the lines of Lucknow Metro, the state-of-the-art signalling system based on communication-based train control (CBTC) with continuous automatic train control system (CATS) has been selected, informed UPMRC MD Keshav. “After successfully restarting the civil construction at Kanpur Metro site post lockdown, the award of contract for the rolling stock and signaling system will not only boost the economy but also bring the people of Kanpur and Agra closer to their dream of having their own metro,” said MD Keshav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-metro-train-coaches-contract-to-bombardier-transport/articleshow/76791755.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
July 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Faces without masks let coronavirus thrive||NEW DELHI: If you are safely ensconced behind a mask, why should it be your business to ask others to also wear one? It is to ensure that everyone is safe and Covid-19 doesn’t find a ready host who should have known better. That person, because of either ignorance or plain defiance, can infect others or get infected by another person who finds masks a bother. If this situation is replicated across the city, the virus will thrive leading to a lot of avoidable misery. Our healthcare system will get overwhelmed and the quality of medical care – which you need all the year round – will suffer. A person may not be visibly infected with Covid-19 or may not even be aware that he is hosting the virus, but he will easily infect others. That is how the virus deceives, and it is easy to guard against this by wearing a mask. This disease has no known cure and a vaccine may take a long time coming. If things deteriorate, another lockdown could be the only solution with its devastating economic consequences. Why go there when we can collectively try to break the chain by simply wearing a mask. Covid-19 has a lower mortality rate than SARS or MERS, the two other infections spread by coronaviruses. But the disease spreads fast, and until a cure is found, preventing infection is the only way to tackle the crisis. Dr Anoop Misra, chairman of Fortis C-Doc, stresses that masks are the most important means to achieve that. Dr Misra is leading a social media campaign advocating the use of masks. "It is important to preserve the health and economy of India. We should all contribute," he says. This disease can spread from an infected person to others while coughing, sneezing or even speaking, says Dr Suneela Garg, director professor of community medicine at Lok Nayak Hospital, who also leads the Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine. Dr Garg explains that small liquid droplets may get released from the mouth or nose containing the virus, and if an uninfected person breathes it in, he or she may get infected too. "Masks can prevent that from happening. They should be tight-fitting," she adds. The market is now flooded with masks. Dr K Srinath Reddy, president of Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), says N95 masks are good, but even surgical masks or the ones made at home using three layers of cloth work fine. "The most important thing is to wear them at all times while going out. Also, one should ensure that others are wearing mask too," he adds. Wearing a mask is life-saving in the current circumstances, says Dr Naresh Trehan, chairman and managing director of Medanta–The Medicity, adding that it should be treated as a social obligation. Some people may believe that only those who are infected or have symptoms need to wear a mask. Dr N K Pandey, chairman and managing director of Asian Institute of Medical Sciences, says that’s a misconception. "The novel coronavirus can spread from pre-symptomatic or asymptomatic persons also. Therefore, one should wear a mask at all times, regardless of whether they have symptoms such as cough and fever or not," he says. Wearing a mask properly is of equal importance, points out Dr S K Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS). "A mask should be worn in such a manner that it covers the nose and mouth completely," he explains. The ILBS director, who heads the committee formed by the Delhi government for Covid-19 management in the state, says sometimes people remove the mask while speaking on the phone. "This can prove to be disastrous," he warns. "I recently went to a bank. The guard who was asking me to sanitise my hands before entering wasn’t wearing the mask properly. Inside the bank, too, people were speaking to each other casually and having tea without their masks on," remembers Dr Ashok Seth, senior cardiologist and chairman of Fortis Escorts Heart Institute (FEHI). Dr Kameshwar Prasad, professor of neurology at AIIMS, says he too has witnessed this. "This virus is not going to go away anytime soon. We have to make wearing masks a part of our daily lives, in addition to washing hands regularly and maintaining physical distance. It is important to protect yourself as well as others," he emphasises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/faces-without-masks-let-virus-thrive/articleshow/76791926.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn officials to connect to petitioners via video calls||Coimbatore: As the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing in the district, the city corporation has decided to arrange video calls to interact with the public.“Corporation officials had been conducting grievance redressal meetings every Wednesday to meet people and solve their issues. The meetings were postponed indefinitely after the lockdown was imposed. After the norms were relaxed, petitioners started to visit the office again,” said a corporation official. “Even though they were told to drop petitions in petition boxes, some people insist on meeting the corporation commissioner. So, we have decided to facilitate interaction through video call.”A similar facility was set up at the office of the superintendent of police (SP) a few days ago.The civic body has also restricted the entry of visitors to the office. Visitors are allowed on the office premises only after furnishing details including name and mobile number, sanitising hands and screening for temperature and other visible symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-officials-to-connect-to-petitioners-via-video-calls/articleshow/76791415.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Engineering admissions to begin on July 9||Ahmedabad: The government has announced that the online registration for admission in degree engineering courses will start from July 9, but the entrance tests for engineering admissions – Gujarat Common Entrance Test (GUJCET) is not yet decided. The Joint Entrance Examinations (JEE Mains) will take place only in September.Sources in the education department said the online registration process will not serve a purpose without GUJCET and JEE results. From this year, the state government changed the admission rules for engineering and carved out a quota of 5% seats in government colleges for students from states other than Gujarat. They can secure admission in the quota through JEE, which will take place in September only due to Covid-19 pandemic according to the central government’s announcement.Similarly, students who clear Class 12 from Gujarat are admitted in BE courses through their GUJCET score. The schedule for GUJCET has also not been announced yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/engineering-admissions-to-begin-on-july-9/articleshow/76791413.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s liquid heritage for royal high||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government has once again started production of heritage liquor drawing on the recipes preserved by the descendants of erstwhile royals of the state. Ganganagar Sugar Mills, a state government undertaking, has already introduced Kesar Kasturi and Chandr Hass, while Jagmohan and Saunf will be available in markets in the next couple of months. “Heritage is a key character of the state which was also recognized by UNESCO recently by declaring Jaipur’s Walled City a World Heritage Site. Our cultural heritage is as strong as the built one. When tourists come, they should be exposed to both aspects. That’s how experiential tourism could be promoted. Promoting heritage liquor is part of that strategy,” said Prithvi Raj, revenue secretary, and also the managing director of Rajasthan State Ganganagar Sugar Mills (RSGSM). The heritage liquor is made of spices, herbs and roots with alcohol content in varying degrees. For example Chandr Hass, a brew of ex-royals of Kanota, uses 78 varieties of herbs and spices. Similarly, Kesar Kasturi is made of 10-12 herbs. These are produced at RSGSM’s Jhotwara located Royal Heritage Liquor Distillery. And the prices are also not too high. “We have already made 600 cases of Chandr Hass (each case contains 12 bottles having 750ml) which are available in the market and a similar quantity is under process. Over 10,000 cases of Kesar Kasturi have been brewed. While Chandr Hass comes at a price of Rs 1,350 per 750ml bottle, the same for Kesar Kasturi is Rs 450,” said Kesar Meena, general manager of RSGSM. Meena said that while Saunf will be rolled out in two weeks, Jagmohan, the premier heritage liquor that costs around Rs 2,000, will be produced within two months. Saunf is priced at Rs 900 per bottle. After getting recipe rights from Raj Gharanas, RSGSM first experimented with the heritage liquor in 2008. It was Gaj Singh of Jodhpur who initially supported and promoted the idea heritage liquor. He shared the family recipes of Chandr Hass and Kesar Kasturi with RSGSM. Anil Kumar Singh, who retired from RSGSM as deputy general manager and now works as a consultant because of his involvement with the heritage liquor project since the beginning, said that besides the alcohol content, the heritage liquor has lot of health benefits. “In earlier times, the royals or the elite of the society used ayurvedic ingredients to remain healthy and add vigour to their physique. But the taste was not always pleasant. So, they devised a mechanism where their social drink could have the healthy ingredients. That’s how many royal gharanas of the state had different brews that we call heritage liquor today,” said Singh, who has also written a book on heritage liquor. Singh said the process of fermentation and distillation of the heritage liquors has also been kept similar to the process adopted by the then royals. The spices, dairy products, saffron, sugar and herbs are used as essential ingredients. Super-fine extra neutral alcohol is used for soaking spices in the copper utensils, he said. Earlier, the bottles were made of ceramic which were costlier, but this time RSGM has used glass. On discontinuing brands after 2008, Meena said the volume was more than the demand. But this time, he said, they will produce keeping in mind the demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajs-liquid-heritage-for-royal-high/articleshow/76791918.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Dairy units given week to form SPV to manage cow dung||Ludhiana: Dairy farmers at Tajpur Road have been given a week to form a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for the management of cow dung waste generated at the dairy units. In a meeting of task force members, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal gave clear warning to dairy farmers to either form SPV and start managing the waste or face legal action. The dairy farmers have given consent to form SPV soon. The officials claimed that the National Green Tribunal had recently issued guidelines for the management of cow dung generated at dairy units and cow sheds. To fulfill those guidelines, dairy farmers will have to form SPV which will be responsible for making suitable arrangements to manage cow dung so that it’s not dumped in Buddha Nullah or sewerage system. The commissioner asked the members of dairy complex association of Tajpur Road to form the SPV. They were given directions earlier too, but did not bother to comply with the same. The dairy farmers throw cow dung directly in Buddha Nullah which adds to its pollution. Now they will have to arrange the land where cow dung will be gathered from all units and it will be managed through vermicomposting or bracketing system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dairy-units-given-week-to-form-spv-to-manage-cow-dung/articleshow/76791414.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Suspected Covid patient’s body wrapped in PPE kit found in bus shelter||HAVERI: Close on the heels of the body of a Covid-19 patient being found lying on the roadside in Bengaluru, a similar incident came to light in Ranebennur of Haveri district on Saturday. The body of a person who died of suspected Covid 19 wrapped in plastic, was found lying in a bus shelter adjacent to the Ranebennur taluk hospital in Haveri on Saturday. Sources said that the staff involved in conducting the last rites, reportedly wrapped the body in a PPE kit in front of the public, and then kept the body in the bus shelter for more than three hours, which triggered outrage. After wrapping the body in a PPE kit, the staff abandoned it in the bus shelter and left the place. They came back after three hours, when the video of the body wrapped in a PPE kit, lying in the bus shelter, went viral on social media. According to sources, a 45-year-old resident of Maruti Nagar, who was suffering from fever for a week, went to Ranebennur taluk hospital for treatment. His swabs were sent for testing on June 28. He came to the hospital to collect his report around 11 am. As his results were yet to come, he went to the bus shelter to take rest. But, after sometime, he was found dead in the shelter. On being informed, the hospital staff rushed to the shelter, where they wrapped the body in a PPE kit, without taking the body to the mortuary, and left the place. After public outrage over this incident on social media, the staff went back to the bus shelter and took the body in an ambulance to perform the last rites. DHO Rajendra Doddamani admitted that the body of a suspected Covid patient, wrapped in a PPE kit, was found abandoned in the bus shelter. “We don’t know why the staff wrapped the body in a PPE kit and kept it at the shelter, instead of taking it to the mortuary . I have ordered for an inquiry into this incident, and stern action will be initiated against those responsible,” he said. Additional deputy commissioner S Yogishwar said that he wasn’t aware of the incident, but that he will order for a thorough inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/suspected-covid-patients-body-wrapped-in-ppe-kit-found-in-bus-shelter/articleshow/76790800.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
July 5, 2020||Bareilly||Man dies, five policemen injured as police SUV collides with car in Kheri||Bareilly: A man died while six persons, including five policemen who were on routine patrolling, were injured after the SUV they were travelling in collided with a speeding sedan coming from the opposite direction on the Kasta-Sikandrabad state highway in the Neemgaon area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Friday night. All of them were rushed to the hospital where the car driver Mohammed Aadil (25), a resident of Lucknow, was declared dead. Later, all survivors were referred to the district hospital where the condition of two policemen is said to be critical. The injured persons were identified as station house officer (SHO) of Neemgaon Amar Singh, sub-inspector (SI) Sanjeev Tomar (42), SI Vinod Kumar (38), head constable Devi Dayal and constables Pradeep Kumar and Mohammed Usman (30). After getting information about the accident, additional superintendent of police Arun Kumar Singh, along with circle officer (CO) city Vijay Anand and CO Mitauli Sheetanshu Singh visited the injured policemen at the hospital. “It was really an unfortunate incident but we are ensuring that the best possible treatment is being provided to the survivors,” Anand said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-dies-five-policemen-injured-as-police-suv-collides-with-car-in-kheri/articleshow/76790003.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Realty swindle: 3 imaginary Satellite flats offered for Rs 25L||Ahmedabad: Suresh Patel, 68, a retired teacher and Ghatlodia resident, lodged a police complaint on Friday, stating that he has been cheated of Rs 25 lakh. Patel said that he has been duped of the money by Mafatlal Patel, a resident of Santosa Greenland Bungalows in Bhadaj. According to the FIR, Mafatlal said he was a builder and claimed that he was developing a scheme in Satellite. Mafatlal then offered Patel three flats in the imaginary scheme. The FIR said that Patel met Mafatlal when the latter began staying with his daughter Hetal, in 2011, at Shivam Tenements in KK Nagar in Ghatlodia. According to the FIR, Mafatlal told Patel in one of their conversations that he was in need of Rs 25 lakh and offered the three flats in exchange. Eventually, Mafatlal could not hand over the flats and Patel wanted his money back. “One of Mafatlal’s cheques bounced and he stopped payment on the second cheque,” a police source said. According to the FIR, when Patel met Mafatlal to demand his money, Mafatlal and Hetal threatened to kill him. “We have lodged an offence against Mafatlal and his daughter, ” said a senior police official of the Sabarmati police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/realty-swindle-3-imaginary-satellite-flats-offered-for-rs-25l/articleshow/76791411.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kanpur||Daughter lights funeral pyre of DSP father as 8 policemen killed in encounter cremated with full state honours||Revised Kanpur: The daughter of DSP Devendra Mishra lit the funeral pyre of her father as he and seven other police personnel were cremated with full state honours in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, a day after they were killed in an encounter with criminals in Kanpur district. The eight men were ambushed in Chaubeypur police station area while they were going to arrest notorious local criminal Vikas Dubey and fell to a hail of bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on Friday. All the eight policemen were cremated with full state honours amid tearful scenes, police said. In Kanpur, the last rites of DSP Devendra Mishra, who was posted as Bilhaur circle officer, were performed at Bhairon Ghat. Mishra's daughter Vaishnavi lit the funeral pyre. An emotional Vaishnavi could not control her tears and had to be consoled by family members and police officials. Kanpur Additional Director General of Police J N Singh, IG Mohit Agarwal and SSP Dinesh Prabhu were present along with other officers of the police and district administration. "The martyrdom of Mishra will not be allowed to go in vain," Prabhu said. The mortal remains of Sub-Inspector Mahesh Kumar Yadav (42) were consigned to flames at Van Purwa village in Rae Bareli district. Yadav was posted as Shivrajpur police station's Station House Officer (SHO). Unchahar MLA Manoj Kumar Pandey and MLC Dinesh Pratap Singh, besides Rae Bareli DM Subhra Saxena and SP Swapnil Mamgain were present. In Pratapgarh, the mortal remains of Sub-Inspector Anoop Kumar Singh (32) were consigned to flames at Belkhari village. The last rites of Sub-Inspector Nebu Lal (48) were performed in Bhadohi district. Constable Sultan Singh(34) was cremated at his village Boorha Bhojla in Jhansi. Sultan Singh's body was brought to Jhansi Police Lines late on Friday night and a guard of honour was given. Police officials and district administration officers paid tributes. Jhansi Range Inspector General of Police Subhash Baghel, District Magistrate A Vamsi and Senior Superintendent of Police D Pradeep Kumar were present. The last rites of constable Rahul Kumar (24) were performed in Rurukala in Auraiyya in the presence of UP Minister of State for Agriculture Lakhan Singh Rajput. Constable Bablu Kumar (23) was cremated in Agra while Jitendra Pal(26), also a constable, was cremated in Mathura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/daughter-lights-funeral-pyre-of-dsp-father-as-8-policemen-killed-in-encounter-cremated-with-full-state-honours/articleshow/76791770.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||Five pups rescued in Jaipur, animal lovers say pet cruelty surged during lockdown||JAIPUR: Even as the outrage over a pregnant elephant’s killing continues, a shocking incident of cruelty to animals was reported in Jaipur. A youth tied his puppy in the balcony, with its hind legs hanging in the air for hours. After a video of the man subjecting a beagle to physical abuse in Pratap Nagar of Jaipur went viral on social media, various local and national animal rights NGOs came forward to the dog’s rescue and condemned the violence. The video was recorded by a girl in the neighbourhood. The animal rights activists confronted the boy and rescued the beagle on Monday. During this stint, it became known that the couple at the flat were also housing other pedigree pups. It was also found that they had some nine pups of which four died during lockdown. “It didn’t seem right that a young boy of his age would house so many expensive breeds of dogs at his small place, especially during lockdown when incomes are hit hard. They were pups, which pointed to the fact that they were either born during or right before the lockdown,” said Laj Jain, founder of Arth Foundation. Activists claimed that the man was either a breeder or trader of the pups. Moreover, he claimed that he was hitting the beagle after doctor asked him. "Mariam Abuhaideri, digital manager at FIAPO (Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisations) who spearheaded the rescue operation said apart from the beagle, four pups -- a St Bernard, a Rottweiler, a Labrador and a Golden Retriever -- were rescued on Friday. " Activists further claimed that during lockdown the rate of cases of animal cruelty has gone up exponentially. “Every day we are receiving three reports of animals being abused. Many owners have also abandoned their pets. This is mostly because owners are monetarily unstable,” Mariam said. It was further demanded that the PCA Act should be revisited so that people can think twice before hurting an animal. “The laws are outdated and inadequate. While the offender shall be punishable, the penalty for a first offense is a maximum of fifty rupees. This is not enough to deter anyone from committing a crime against animals. It is also imperative that the police become well versed with the PCA Act and help animal activists respond to such situations where the safety of an animal is concerned. Fortunately, the Pratap Nagar SHO was quite supportive,” added Mariam. This is not the first instance when cruelty against animals especially with dogs has been reported in Rajasthan. Recently Excise department staff in Bharatpur severely beat up two stray dogs due to which one died. They later dumped the body of the deceased animal in a garbage dump. According to the locals, the Excise department staff locked the gate of their office and attacked the dogs. When they tried to rescue the animals, the attackers refused to open the gates and although one dog managed to escape with injuries, the other one died. The department officials claimed they are looking into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-pups-rescued-animal-lovers-say-pet-cruelty-surged-during-lockdown/articleshow/76791928.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Idea of virtual polls fails to click with most DBA candidates||Ludhiana: At a time when 15 candidates contesting Ludhiana’s District Bar Association (DBA) elections have already opposed the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana’s proposal to conduct online elections for bar associations, a nominee for president’s post for DBA is planning to file a petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court against the move. On June 27, 15 candidates for DBA elections had passed a resolution “opposing the proposal” of the Bar Council to hold online election. Harjot Singh Harikay, who had been vice-president of DBA twice and is now in the fray for the post of president, said, “We don’t trust the online system, so 90% of contesting candidates of Ludhiana DBA have opposed bar council’s move. They have already sent the resolution to the Bar Council of India.” He said in view of the pandemic, the elections should not be held as of now and instead the bar council should spend the money to provide monetary help to needy advocates. Harjot said he was planning to move the high court in the next few days. Bar council chairman advocate Karanjit Singh had earlier sought updated list of voters from the bar associations of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to conduct the poll online. He had earlier claimed that a majority of the associations have provided the updated list of their members. Meanwhile, local election authorities said that they don’t have information on when elections will be held. Assistant returning officer (ARO) Lalita Jain said they have already sent the resolution to bar council. She said the bar council had asked for complete list of voters with phone numbers which they have already sent. Members of the bar said the bar council has mooted the idea in view of social distancing norms due to Covid-19 related threat but the online system has both merits and demerits. Box: Polls were deferred The elections of office-bearers — president, vice-president, secretary, joint secretary, finance secretary and executive members — of the District Bar Association (DBA) were to be held on April 3, but were first postponed to April 17 and later indefinitely following lockdown. Box: Candidates in fray President’s post | Harjot Singh Harikay, Gurkirpal Singh Gill, AnkurGhai Vice-president | Karan Verma, Parvinder Singh, Rajnesh Mahajan Secretary | Gagandeep Singh Saini, Gurmukh Singh, Sukhwinder Bhatia Joint secretary | Davinder Singh Grewal, Sachin Bawa Finance secretary | Gautam Rishi, Yadwinder Singh Sadiora Executive members | Amit Gupta, Dinesh Kumar, Gagandeep Bhatia, Karan Singh Thakur, Sagar Lakshya, Sanal, Suman Kumari, Sunita||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/idea-of-virtual-polls-fails-to-click-with-most-dba-candidates/articleshow/76791423.cms||---
July 5, 2020||India||HC lets rape survivor, 12, abort 23-week fetus||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Friday permitted a 12-year-old alleged rape survivor to terminate her 23-week pregnancy. The court had on June 26 sought a report from a medical board and on its recommendation allowed her plea, reports Swati Deshpande. On July 3, an HC bench, while allowing the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) to take place on July 6 in Sangli, directed that a DNA sample of the fetus be preserved for forensic tests as evidence for a trial. The minor had told her mother that she was “repeatedly raped by some persons in the neighbourhood,” noted the HC order. At her first examination, she had already crossed the legal bar of 20 weeks for termination. The medical board said given her tender age, allowing the pregnancy to continue would “have serious repercussions on her general and mental health’’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-lets-rape-survivor-12-abort-23-week-fetus/articleshow/76792205.cms||Swati Deshpande
July 5, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly vyapar mandal seeks closure of markets for 15 days||Bareilly: The vyapar mandal members in Bareilly submitted a memorandum to Bareilly district magistrate Nitish Kumar seeking closure of shops for 15 days starting July 7 after witnessing consistent rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district. Several members have requested the district administration to consider the request for the well-being of the people. They also alleged that local residents have been defying social distancing norms. UP Udyog Vyapar Mandal district president Shobhit Saxena told TOI, “We have submitted a memorandum to Bareilly DM requesting him to close all the shops in the city for 15 days from July 7. This decision aims at protecting fellow businessmen and shopkeepers who are exposed to the infection with shops and markets operational. Over the past two weeks, there has been a significant rise in Covid-19 positive cases across the district. Shutting down market places will help in reducing the number of cases. However, the ration shops and medical stores can still operate.” However, a few vyapar mandal members are against the move. They said seeking such an action is against the unlock guidelines which have been imposed by the central government. Another Vyapar Mandal member Rajendra Gupta said, “Shutting down markets will only aggravate financial crisis in such troubled times.” Bareilly district magistrate said, “The markets shall continue to operate as per the roster that was previously set by the district administration in the city. For those who want to close their shops can do so but others who are not willing can’t be pressurized considering the financial crisis being faced by everyone.” The imposition of section 144 of CrPC has further been extended in the district till July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-vyapar-mandal-seeks-closure-of-markets-for-15-days/articleshow/76790014.cms||Maria Khan
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||Many houses lack rainwater harvesting facilities in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Even after a decade, the Jaipur Development Authority’s (JDA) guidelines on rainwater harvesting facilities in houses seem to be only on paper. With residents refusing to follow norms, the objective of tapping rainwater during this monsoon will be a distant dream. JDA had made it mandatory to construct rainwater harvesting facilities in houses built on plot sizes of 300 square metre or above. But majority of residents have not constructed such structures. The JDA was authorised to penalise houseowners who fail to comply, but officials are turning a blind eye. The JDA enforcement wing had announced to impose a penalty of Rs 25,000 in 2011. In nine years, neither a single inspection was carried out nor any notices issued to defaulters. There was also a provision of seven days’ imprisonment. The punitive provisions, however, have remained on paper. “No notice has been issued to anybody for failing to set up a rainwater harvesting system during my tenure,” admitted a senior enforcement officer. The town planning department approves layout plans for group housing societies and multi-storey buildings after ensuring that these would have rainwater harvesting systems. However, no inspections have been made to ensure that the structure actually comply their undertaking. The excess use of water in posh colonies, despite rules and regulations, and no serious measures being taken to recharge groundwater may pose a serious threat to the city in future. Areas such as Raja Park, Jawahar Nagar, Jhotwara, Adarsh Nagar and Janata Colony are already in the dark zone for overexploitation of groundwater.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/many-houses-lack-rainwater-harvesting-facilities-in-city/articleshow/76791930.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Meerut||Infant dies 2 hours after being brought back from burial ground||Meerut: In a series of twists and turns, a premature baby died soon after he was brought home from the hospital in Baghpat’s Prahladpur village. The baby, however, regained consciousness at the burial ground, but only for two more hours. According to family members, Bharati Devi gave birth to a baby boy at a private hospital in Meerut on Friday. The delivery was premature and the newborn was kept under observation. The family, however, got Bharati and the newborn discharged. On Saturday morning, the family took the baby to a local doctor after he showed no signs of life. The doctor declared him brought dead. The grief-stricken family took the body of the newborn to a nearby ground for burial. The newborn who was declared dead by the doctor breathed ‘new life’ moments before his burial. Surprised family members took the baby back home. However, fate took another turn and the premature baby died two hours later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/infant-dies-2-hours-after-being-brought-back-from-burial-ground/articleshow/76790823.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Hosp offers free corrective surgery for people with burn injuries||Coimbatore: People with facial disfigurement or physical handicap due to burn injuries can approach Ganga Hospital for corrective surgery and rehabilitation. The hospital, which has been caring for burn and acid attack victims, has received a 3 crore grant to provide free surgery to people affected by fire accidents. The grant is expected to benefit as many as 500 people.Ganga Hospital, which has been running Hope After Fire programme since 2012, has performed surgeries on 550 people so far. “We have performed 905 surgeries at a cost of Rs 5.04 crore over the last eight years,” said chairman of the plastic, hand and microsurgery unit Dr S Rajasabapathy. Data shows that 70 lakh people in the country are affected every year due to fire and fire-related accidents.The Rotary Club of Metropolis, which has been funding the programme since 2012, had recently sanctioned the grant. “People who have suffered burn injuries and as a result suffer disabilities, handicaps and deformities can approach us for corrective surgery,” said Rajasabapathy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hosp-offers-free-corrective-surgery-for-people-with-burn-injuries/articleshow/76791438.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Meet discusses Buddha Nullah pollution||Ludhiana: A meeting of special task force members took place in Chandigarh to discuss pollution level in Buddha Nullah on Saturday. The members of STF are again in a dilemma whether dairy units should be shifted from Tajpur Road or remain at the same place. To take a final decision the next meeting has been scheduled for July 20 and to understand the situation in a better manner those MLAs will participate whose constituency falls around the drain area. Namdhari sect head Thakur Uday Singh, chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar was also in the meeting. From the city DC Varinder Kumar Sharma, MC Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and Mayor Balkar Sandhu along with other officials from Punjab pollution control board took part in the meeting. The STF members had recommended long back that dairy units should be shifted from Tajpur Road so that waste coming out of dairy units should not go down in the drain. In between a proposal to install a bio-CNG plant at Tajpur Road through PEDA was also made but the members claimed when dairy units were to be shifted, then why this plant should be installed at the spot. However, the meeting could not reach any conclusion, so whether the dairy units will be shifted or not will be decided in the next meeting on July 20 and MLAs will also attend the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/meet-discusses-buddha-nullah-pollution/articleshow/76791437.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||32 Covid cases in Barmer in 12 hours||Jaisalmer: With 32 Covid cases reported in Barmer in the last 12 hours and 64 in the last two days, two new recovery centres were set up on Saturday. On Friday, a seven-day lockdown was announced in Barmer city with zero mobility curfew. On Saturday, people moving on roads were stopped and asked to go home and strict action was being taken against people violating curfew rules.Collector Vishram Meena said the number of hotspots has increased in the past week. He said two new Covid centres at Rajkiya Ambedkar Chatrawas (Chauhtan Road) and Nakoda Bhairav Sarmangal Sonari Bohra Foundation Building (Gadra Road) have been identified looking at the spike in the number of cases. “I have visited two Covid centres and directed them how to improve their services,” he said.The collector said curfew was imposed to prevent the spread of the virus in residential colonies of Barmer municipal council area. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said the decision taken by the collector at an all-party meeting will be completely implemented by forming vigilance committee in each ward and their help will be taken along with help of police mitras, scouts and councillors.He said action will be taken against those violating the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/32-covid-cases-in-barmer-in-12-hours/articleshow/76791929.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Hubballi||Escapee from Covid hosp who tested +ve nabbed in Gadag||Hubballi: A man who tested positive for the novel coronavirus, who escaped from KIMS Covid hospital on Friday, was nabbed by the police at Gadag-Betgeri on Saturday. Police commissioner R Dileep said that the accused was traced in Gadag-Betgeri, which is his native place, with the help of Gadag police. “He was arrested on charges of theft last Tuesday, and subsequently tested positive for the novel coronavirus. He was admitted to KIMS. Now, we are initiating action against two constables who were deployed at KIMS Covid hospital when the accused escaped,” he added. Meanwhile, KIMS director Dr Ramalingappa Atnaratani confirmed that the patient has been re-admitted to the isolation ward. “We have instructed our staff to keep a strict vigil on such patients. We have also sought cooperation from the police in this regard,” he added. It’s learnt that the accused patient travelled by a private vehicle from Hubballi to Gadag, and wandered there till Saturday morning. His escape caused panic among citizens in both cities. The district administration is said to be struggling to get details of his travel history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/escapee-from-covid-hosp-who-tested-ve-nabbed-in-gadag/articleshow/76790831.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Riot convict ex-MLA dies in jail of Covid||NEW DELHI: A former MLA who was convicted in a 1984 riots case died of coronavirus at Mandoli Jail late on Saturday. Mahender Yadav (70) was serving a 10-year sentence for his role during the riots and was denied interim bail by the Supreme Court last week. Jail officials said he had contracted the virus from the ward in which another elderly prisoner had died earlier. He was admitted to LNJP and later shifted to a private hospital where he died. This is the second Covid-19 death reported from Delhi prisons. Yadav was an ex-MLA from Palam constituency and was lodged in Jail no.14, Mandoli complex. On June 15, an inmate, Kanwar Singh, had died in his sleep in the same jail. On June 19, result of his Covid-19 test conducted during inquest proceedings came out as positive. All the 29 inmates, mostly senior citizens, who shared the barrack with Singh were tested and 17 of them were found positive for coronavirus. Those who tested negative were again tested after five days and three more, including Yadav, tested positive. On June 26, Yadav complained of uneasiness and was referred to LNJP and admitted for treatment. On his family’s request, Yadav was allowed to be shifted to a private hospital in Dwarka on June 30. On Wednesday, Yadav had moved SC seeking interim bail. “Everything possible is being done for the treatment of the petitioner. The family has no grievance related to the treatment. The application cannot be entertained,” SC had said while dismissing his plea. Watch Delhi: Riot convict ex-MLA dies in jail of Covid||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/riot-convict-ex-mla-dies-in-jail-of-covid/articleshow/76804133.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bareilly||22, including two shopkeepers, booked for violating Covid-19 protocol||PILIBHIT: Police on Saturday booked 22 people, including two shopkeepers, for violation of Covid-19 protocol, relating to the adoption of protective measures against the epidemic. A written complaint in the matter has been filed by the officer in-charge of Kamalle crossing outpost of Pilibhit Kotwali police station Dile Rampal. According to Rampal, during inspection he found that in shops RK General Store and Laxmi Bangle Store – both in ‘Choodiyon Wali Gali’ – neither shopkeepers nor customers were using face masks or gloves. While customers were found violating the social distancing norms, hand sanitisers were also absent in both the shops. “On being asked about the lapse, the defaulters could not provide any satisfactory explanation,” said Rampal. Station house officer (SHO) Shrikant Dwivedi said that the two named shop owners and 20 unidentified people were booked under sections 147 (rioting), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection or disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and sections 3 and 4 of the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/22-including-two-shopkeepers-booked-for-violating-covid-19-protocol/articleshow/76790019.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Insurance scheme not mandatory for loanee farmers||JAIPUR: Under PM Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), for the first time this year it is not mandatory for farmers, who have taken crop loans, to apply for the insurance, as per the notification issued by the state government recently. Earlier, the insurance scheme was compulsory for loanee farmers availing crop loan. As per the notification issued by the state’s agriculture department, the farmers can apply for insurance till July 15. In Jaipur, there are around 8 lakh farmers. However, for non-loanee farmers the scheme was not compulsory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/insurance-scheme-not-mandatory-for-loanee-farmers/articleshow/76791935.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Use santisers only when necessary’||Luudhiana: The hand wash hygiene plays the most important role in protecting us from infections but frequent washing of hands is taking a toll on our skin. There has been an increase in the allergies because of frequent use of hand wash and sanitsers, which leads to dryness of hands and also irritation caused by the chemicals. City dermatologists state that people should use a moisturiser frequently. Dermatologist from Lord Mahavira Civil Hospital Rohit Rampal said, “Post-Covid scenario incidence of face dermatitis is due to allergic reaction to mask and hand and also due to increase in use of sanitisers. It can lead to feeling of dryness, chapping and peeling of skin associated with itching and burning sensations.” He further said, “Hand allergies increasesd when we combine gloves with sanitisers because majority of gloves are powdered and many people sanitise their hands before wearing gloves and they put on gloves on wet hands and without drying these. This is catastrophic for skin of hands due to increased penetration of allergens. The easiest method to prevent this is to moisturise skin frequently.” Another noted dermatologist Dr Alka Dogra, former head of department, DMCH, said, “A case is coming every day with redness, itching and dryness. Also there is pus discharge in case of sensitive skin. The best thing for such people is to use mild soaps and soap-free hand cleansers available with chemists and we are not suggesting this for people with normal skin.” Dr Jastinder K Gill, senior dermatologist and cosmetologist, SPS Hospital, suggests being gentle while washing your hands. She said , “Do rub but don’t scrub and also don’t be over zealous with hand wash. Don’t overdo the hand wash routine and don’t be obsessed about it.” She said, “Use gentle soaps or liquid hand wash, which have well balanced pH. Sanitizers are to be used when you don’t have access to soap and water. Soap and water is the best way to get rid of the virus, the virus has an outer layer of lipid and fat, which gets dissolved on washing with soap and the virus becomes inactive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/use-santisers-only-when-necessary/articleshow/76791445.cms||Mehak Jain
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||All college, university exams cancelled in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday announced the cancellation of college and university examinations in view of the Covid-19 situation in the state. The order is applicable to undergraduate and master’s degree programmes/courses in all types of institutes, including engineering. The decision was taken in a high-level meeting held at the CM’s residence in the evening. “All students would be promoted to the next level without exams,” said Gehlot. It was also decided that the assessment of the students will be made after examining the rules and guidelines to be issued by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD). During the meeting, it came to light that not all institutions can follow norms like social distancing. Higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati said the decision was taken giving supreme priority to students’ health. “The possibility of holding exams was reviewed repeatedly and finally we decided that holding exams can jeopardise the health of our children,” said Bhati. The decision is applicable to both private and public institutes. As per MHRD survey report - All India Survey on Higher Education 2019, the decision would affect 14.97 lakh students enrolled in higher educational institutes including 4.29 lakh in government ones. The announcement came after a weeklong protest by student groups demanding cancellation of exams. Student groups, including NSUI and ABVP, had taken to the social media demanding cancellation of college/university exams and promotion to next classes along with fee waiver for upcoming academic session. #Jitega Chatra, Jitega Rajasthan initiated by Rajasthan NSUI was trending on Twitter jointly contributed by students, NSUI and ABVP activists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/all-college-varsity-exams-cancelled/articleshow/76791934.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Retired govt officer booked in DA case||VADODARA: A retired additional assistant engineer of the irrigation department, who was already facing graft charges, was booked again for owning disproportionate assets. During investigation of the corruption case registered against him in 2017, the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) found Girish Shah and his family members to be owning disproportionate assets worth Rs 1.26 crore. ACB sleuths investigated the Shahs’ bank transactions and other holdings for the period from the financial year 2010-11 to 2018-19. “The accused owns 67.9% assets more than his legal income. There are bank deposits, investments in share market, LIC and other sources of investment worth around Rs 29 lakh,” said an ACB official. It was also revealed that Shah’s wife and son owned two residential plots in Rajkot, a house and an apartment in Vadodara and five plots in an industrial estate. They also travelled to foreign countries thrice during this period. “We gave him ample time to prove how he could invest and own so much of real estate with the income he has been getting as a government employee. However, there was no response from him, and so we have registered a case,” the official said. In September 2017, Shah was arrested for accepting a bribe amount of Rs 43,000. He had demanded Rs 86,000 from the complainant to clear bills. Shah was penalized even earlier for irregularities. The government did not give him increment for 18 months and also deducted Rs 1,000 from his monthly pension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/retired-govt-officer-booked-in-da-case/articleshow/76790258.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Coimbatore||7-member panel to study elephant deaths in dist||Coimbatore: The state government has constituted a seven-member expert committee to study elephant deaths that have occurred in the Coimbatore forest division over the past three years. The committee has six months to submit the report. The move comes after 15 elephants were found dead in the forest division since January 2020. One of them was shot dead as recently as Thursday (July 2). Of the 15, eight of the causalities were reported in the Sirumugai forest range. The panel will study all the 57 elephant deaths that occurred in the division from January 2017 to July 02, 2020. Debasis Jana, additional principal chief conservator of forests, Coimbatore circle, said, “The committee will investigate the cause of wild elephant deaths. It will also study the elephant habitations and availability of green fodder in the division.” In its detailed report, the committee would have to provide suggestions to minimize or prevent the death of elephants. The report has to be submitted to principal chief conservator of forests and chief wildlife warden S Yuvaraj. Sheker Kumar Niraj, additional principal conservator of forests (wildlife) would head the committee that comprises experts Ajay Desai from Bengaluru, Sivaganesan from Chennai and C Arivazhagan, managing trustee of Indo-American Wildlife Society in Chennai, and veterinarians M Kalaivanan, A Pradeep and D Boominathan, world wildlife fund, Coimbatore. Debasis Jana and D Venkatesh, district forest officer (DFO), will provide elephant death related information to the committee, which would also scrutinize autopsy reports. The forest department is, meanwhile, planning to increase the green fodder inside the reserve forest in the division, the scarcity of which often force wild elephants to eat thorny trees that take a toll on their health. The department would also weed out invasive seemai karuvelam (prosopis juliflora) in the reserve forest. The DFO said, “An adult elephant needs at least 200kg to 250kg fodder daily. Elephants roaming in Sirumugai forest range is not getting enough green fodder. So, they are forced to eat seemai karuvelam. We have to remove the thorny trees and cultivate indigenous species to ensure green fodder for wild elephants.” Earlier, the forest department used to keep salt cakes and fruits with de-worming pellets near waterbodies in the reserve forest for wild elephants to help improve their health. “We plan to start the practice in two months,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/7-member-panel-to-study-elephant-deaths-in-dist/articleshow/76791449.cms||A Subburaj
July 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Health dept compiling data to identify vulnerable residents||Ludhiana: Under the Mission Fateh of Punjab government, the health department through ASHA is compiling online data of persons who are aged above 30 years and are suffering from one or more disease and residing in more than 8 lakh households of Ludhiana district. Till date, the survey has covered 3.43 lakh persons. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said that the ASHA workers are collecting this data by visiting from door to door. These workers are also educating the masses to wear a mask before leaving their houses, maintain physical distance and wash hands regularly. He said that to ensure that people do not forget these things, a sticker is also pasted outside each house, which mentions phone numbers of the Covid control room, 0161-2444193, 4622276. People can contact the authorities concerned on these numbers in case they have any Covid-like symptoms. Dr Bagga said that people were also motivated to download the COVA app and also upload their mask bearing photograph. He said that if a person uses referral code of another person to join this app, then additional points were added to their account and the person could win a gold, silver and bronze certificate, bearing the signatures of the chief minister, Punjab, Amarinder Singh. He appealed to the Ludhiana residents to assist the district administration and health department in checking the spread of Covid-19 in the district and should contact their nearest flu corner in the government hospital if they had any related symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/health-dept-compiling-data-to-identify-vulnerable-residents/articleshow/76791452.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||Stray dog attacks on rise as pack strikes priest at Baga||Calangute: A pack of stray dogs attacked a priest in Calangute on Thursday evening. Fr Gregory D’Cruz, attached to Our Lady of Piety chapel in Khobravaddo, Calangute, had gone to neighbouring Baga for an evening walk when he was attacked and bitten by some strays, causing injuries on his rear, sources said. He was rescued by some passers-by and taken to a private hospital in Candolim for treatment. There have been many other incidents of stray dogs attacking people near the beach since the lockdown began. TOI had reported that the dogs have been left with no food with the closure of all restaurants, shacks and hotels that would normally feed them with leftovers. Sauntavaddo resident John Lobo, who is also the general secretary of the Shack Owners Welfare Society (SOWS), said people who go for regular walks on the beach now take a packet of biscuits to mollify dogs that come close to them. “It’s now impossible to jog on the beach. The moment they see you running, they come after you,” he said. Calangute residents and NGO GOACAN have urged the government to take immediate steps to address the problem. In a letter to North Goa collector R Menaka, the NGO has demanded an action plan in view of rising complaints of stray dogs attacking villagers, particularly those in the Bardez coastal belt. It has sought that the directorate of health services be asked to increase availability of anti-rabies vaccines in North Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stray-dog-attacks-on-rise-as-pack-strikes-priest-at-baga/articleshow/76792129.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Udaipur||20 cops home quarantined after PITA accused tests positive in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: Around 20 police personnel, including a deputy SP rank officer and a circle inspector, were asked to stay in home quarantine after a Delhi-based woman arrested under PITA (The Immoral Traffic Prevention Act) recently turned out to be positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday in the city. The cops, led by three women DSP rank officers, had on July 1 raided highway hotels in three different locations of the city and arrested 19 people, including four women, their agents and clients. All the arrested ones were tested for corona and on Saturday one woman’s report came positive. Following which police department swung into action and alerted the team which had arrested the woman from a hotel under Sukher police station area. DSP Chetna Bhati, Sukher SHO Rameshwar Dhadeech and cops from Sukher, Ghantaghar police stations and police line were asked to quarantine themselves. “The entire team would stay home quarantined for some days and if anyone develops any symptoms, would be required to give samples for testing,” DSP Chetna told STOI. Among the team were eight women constables who had come in contact with the infected woman and the cause of concern is that if anyone of them had contracted the infection, many more, including their family members, too would be at risk of being infected further. According to sources, the arrested woman was granted bail by a local court on July 2 and she left for Delhi the same day. Police is trying to contact the woman to inform her about the report and to get her admitted to a hospital. The increasing number of positive cases among the accused being arrested is becoming a cause of concern for police. Recently, after an accused in a dacoity conspiracy case tested positive, nine cops from Goverdhan Vilas police station who arrested the gang were quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/20-cops-home-quarantined-after-pita-accused-tests-positive-in-udaipur/articleshow/76791933.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Bribery complaint against two former officials of SOG||JAIPUR: Days after the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) started investigating corruption charges against former Bharatpur DIG, the agency has received bribery complaint against former officers of the Special Operations Group (SOG) including ex-ADG (SOG and ATS) Anil Paliwal, along with another official Satpal Midha. The complainant alleged that the two officials among others had asked for a bribe of Rs 2 crore from him. The complaint was registered on Friday, on the day when both the accused officials were transferred in a bureaucratic reshuffle. “The complainant alleged that Midha had taken him to meet Paliwal and they demanded Rs 2 crore to take care of a case. He also claimed that there were other officials involved, but he only recognises them by face and does not know their names. We have started an inquiry into the matter,” said an ACB official. The case apparently involves an investigation into a credit co-operative society On Friday, Paliwal was appointed as ADG (personnel) while Midha was posted to a RAC battalion in Delhi. According to sources, the corruption charge was the reason the duo were transferred. Elaborating further, the official said, “We have the record of the conversation between the complainant and Midha in which the latter could be heard telling him on what to say to Paliwal. According to the complainant, Paliwal did not say anything but wrote a note in which he allegedly gave the amount. However, we have no record of that.” The ACB sleuths claimed that a Pandora’s box seems to have opened up and senior police officers’ names are cropping up in the bribery allegation. “The investigation into the corruption against ex-DIG of Bharatpur, Laxman Gaur, is still underway and it appears that people have faith in ACB because of which they are approaching us with corruption charges even against senior officials,” added the official. Gaur’s name had come up in the bribery case when a middleman, Pramod Sharma, was arrested for allegedly demanding money. He was said to be a close aide of Gaur and apparently resided at the former DIG’s residence from where he made the calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bribery-complaint-against-two-former-officials-of-sog/articleshow/76791932.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Attracting investments priority, says Nareshpal Gangwar||JAIPUR: Principal secretary (industries) Nareshpal Gangwar on Saturday said that coordinated efforts will be made to attract investments in the state. Besides, opening up of industrial units shut due to corona pandemic in mutual consultation and communication with industrial units will be his department’s priority. Increased industrial activities will in turn generate more employment, he said. Gangwar was holding a high-level meeting of the department of industries and related institutions at Udyog Bhawan on Saturday. He asked RIICO to explore the possibilities of developing a solar park so that investors coming to solar energy sector could get the basic facilities ready. Gangwar said due to Covid pandemic, new challenges have emerged in the economic sector especially to industrial units. Now, with the permission to start all industrial activities in the state, they have to be accelerated by catering to social distance and health advisory, he said. RIICO MD Ashutosh Pednekar gave information about the new industrial areas being developed by RIICO as well as its various schemes. Commissioner of Rajasthan Foundation Dhiraj Shrivastava informed about the efforts being made for domestic and foreign investments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/attracting-investments-priority-gangwar/articleshow/76791936.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Hotels, restaurants want refund of bar licence fees after govt relief||JAIPUR: Hotels and restaurants have appealed to the excise department to refund the bar licence fees that was reduced after the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic. In the new excise policy for 2020-21, the department had almost doubled the rates but in April, the increase was rolled back as part of the government’s relief package to the tourism industry. But hotels and restaurants said they are yet to receive the refunds even though they have applied for it. The licence fees were deposited before March which the normal government schedule for renewing licences for the new financial year. “As we look to restart our operations, we don’t have as much working capital as required. We want the government to release the funds so that it can help up,” said a restaurant owner. When TOI spoke to a senior excise official, he said that the government is working on the refund process and all those who have applied will get back whatever money is due to them. “We are in the process of calculating how much additional amount these hotels and restaurants are liable to pay the department. Because the additional duty on liquor has also been increased. After this exercise, if any hotel or restaurant has additional funds, they will be returned,” said the official. The perception that the government does not pay back has also been a reason behind some restaurants and hotels not even applying for the refund. “The government does not pay back. They will adjust the amount for the next year. That’s why we not applied for the refund. Also it is a tedious process to get back the money from the government,” said a senior executive of a leading hotel in the city. But there are others who wanted to waive off the licence fees for the current year as the business for the nine months will be washed out due to the pandemic. The government has already waived off the fees for hotels of Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation. “Like RTDC hotels were exempted from the licence fees, bar licence fees for other hotels and restaurants should be waived off. There is no business and we don’t expect it before the year ends. That’s why we urge the state government waive off the fees for this year. Hospitality sector has been the hardest hit sector in this pandemic. The government has to do its part has to revive the sector,” said a member of the Hotels and Restaurant Association of Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hotels-restos-want-refund-of-bar-licence-fees-after-govt-relief/articleshow/76791939.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Hubballi||Experts discuss the importance of agri-preneurship||Dharwad: Skill development in agriculture is the most essential aspect because it leads to development of entrepreneurship. Farm graduates should become job providers, and not job-seekers. Covid-19 has thrown several challenges even to the field of agriculture and farm graduates have to convert the challenge into opportunity and come with new ventures. These were the opinions elicited from experts during a brainstorming webinar on ‘Agri-preneurship, skilling and start up’ organised at University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS, Dharwad) recently. The programme was held under the World Bank-assisted Institutional Development Plan being implemented at UAS-D. The participants in the discussion included N R Rathod, vice-chancellor of MPUAT (Udaipur), N M Krishnakumar, former DDG, (horticulture), P G Chengappa former V-C, UAS (Bengaluru), Bangali Babu, former National Director (NATP), G K Vasant Kumar,former additional secretary, K V Ashalatha, B N Aravindkumar and P U Krishnaraj among others. The experts pointed out that while India has achieved substantial progress over the years regarding food security, accessibility and affordability, the agriculture sector is still challenged by low productivity, low profitability, increase in input costs, wastage of crops due to lack of storage and supply chain management. “These challenges present a host of opportunities for agri-entrepreneurs. Agri-entrepreneurship employs entrepreneurial skills, models and innovative ideas to economically solve problems in the agriculture sector and increase profitability of the farming business. It can play a significant role in solving challenges pertaining to dissemination of information, farm management, capital availability, mechanization of farm and agriculture supply chain,” the experts asserted. The main objective of institutional development plan is to promote entrepreneurship and startup among farm graduates. As part of the plan, UAS has organized series of training programmes and exposure visits on entrepreneurship, startup and market network. The experts said startup in agriculture has greater scope in providing quality inputs and services to farming community as agriculture is lacking both. In boosting agriculture production and enhancing export in agriculture and thereby doubling the farmers’ income, entrepreneurship and start up by agriculture graduates play a major role, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/experts-discuss-the-importance-of-agri-preneurship/articleshow/76785210.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Heritage doors set to open, with monumental changes||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s heritage buildings are being readied to welcome visitors once again. This is following the Centre’s decision to lift restrictions from July 6. But things will not be the same as before. There are several new rules – or SOPs that Archaeological Survey of India calls them – that visitors will have to be mindful of. For instance, there will be no physical ticket sales – all tickets will have to be bought online. Even the water bottles that you will buy or the parking charge that you will pay will have to be digital payments. If you show up at the monument without a face mask, you won’t be allowed inside. “New rules are needed in a world shaken by Covid. We will have to get used to them,” said an official of Union ministry of culture. Group photos will also be a strict no-no and all visitors will have to strictly adhere to timings. These new rules will be applicable on all the 171 ticketed and non-ticketed monuments in the capital that are centrally protected. “Some previous rules like timings, open days and closed days remain the same,” the official added. That means not all monuments in Delhi will open on Monday. Red Fort, for instance, remains shut on Monday. But Qutub Minar and Humayun’s Tomb, among others, will remain open. The number of visitors at the monuments will, however, be capped. “For Red Fort and Qutub Minar, the daily cap is 3,000 divided into two slots of 1,500 each. For Humayun’s Tomb and Purana Qila, it’s 2,000 divided into two slots of 1,000 each,” the official explained. For all the other ticketed monuments in the city, the cap will be 2,000 in two slots of 1,000 each. In pre-Covid days, Red Fort had a daily average footfall of 10,000. Capping it to just 3,000 will result in loss of revenue for sure. But a source said that even this figure of 3,000 could be very optimistic as people are reluctant to come out of their homes due to the pandemic peaking in the city. Restricting payment to the digital mode could be a serious discouragement for those not used to it. The ministry has also clarified that the decision to open up won’t be applicable on monuments in the containment zones. That call will be taken by the district administrations. The Agra administration has decided that Taj Mahal and other monuments will remain shut. Other measures announced include sanitisation at regular intervals, temperature checks of visitors and sale of only bottled water at cafeterias. The sound and light shows will remain suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/heritage-doors-set-to-open-with-monumental-changes/articleshow/76804162.cms||Manimugdha S Sharma
July 5, 2020||Ajmer||Farmer injures cow in Ajmer, case filed||AJMER: A case has been registered against a farmer of Badliya village after he hit a cow with an axe and injured it after it allegedly ate his crops. Police have sent the cow for treatment. Kuldeep Singh (21), a resident of Badliya village, filed a complaint in Adarsh Nagar police station on Saturday alleging that Sohan Lal (38) injured his cow’s legs with an axe. Police reached the spot and found injured cow on Sohan Lal’s field. The incident sparked tension and villagers staged a protest demanding strict action against the accused. Sohan Lal said he was facing financial problems and had worked hard with his family to grow vegetables. But cows entered his field and destroyed all crops. He claimed that his move was only to save his crops. Asub-inspector of Adarsh Nagar police station, who reached the spot, assured villagers of appropriate action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/farmer-injures-cow-in-ajmer-case-filed/articleshow/76791938.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||Monsoon revives in eastern Rajasthan but heatwave continues||JAIPUR: Despite revival of south west monsoon in some parts of eastern Rajasthan, heatwave conditions continued unabated in the state on Saturday. Jaipur Met office said that fairly widespread monsoon activity would be witnessed in eastern Rajasthan in the coming days while in western Rajasthan, only scattered rainfall would be witnessed. Sriganganagar logged its hottest day in eight years, as a maximum temperature of 46.3°C was recorded. As south west monsoon was revived in eastern Rajasthan, a rainfall of 120 mm was recorded at Bhopalsagar (Chittorgarh) which was the highest in the state. It was followed by Kapasan (Chittorgarh), where a rainfall of 80 mm was recorded. Similarly, rainfall varying from 70 mm to 10 mm was recorded at Kota, Jhalawar, Baran and in some parts of Karauli and Jaipur district. People in Jaipur woke up to a relatively pleasant morning due to scattered rainfall, as a minimum temperature of 27.4°C was recorded in the city. It was followed by a sultry afternoon with the maximum temperature being 40.5°C in the city. A humidity of 83 per cent added to the sultry weather. South west monsoon although settled in the state during last week of June, yet it was weak initially. However, Jaipur Met office said that from Sunday onwards, a widespread rainfall activity would be witnessed at many places in the state except western Rajasthan. “Hopefully, next week, from Tuesday onwards many places in Udaipur division, Kota division and Jaipur division will get mild to moderate showers,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. Intense heatwave continued in western Rajasthan districts including Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Churu, Sriganganagar and Bikaner. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office said mild to moderate showers will continue in eastern Rajasthan in next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/monsoon-revives-in-eastern-raj-but-heatwave-continues/articleshow/76791943.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Saurashtra, S Gujarat likely to get heavy rainfall from today||Ahmedabad: India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday said that for next five days, districts of South Gujarat and Saurashtra are expected to get heavy to very heavy rainfall. Ahmedabad district might get moderate rainfall, it added.According to forecast on Saturday, heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected in Navsari, Valsad, Junagadh, Amreli, Bharuch, Surat, Porbandar, Bhavnagar, Gir-Somath, along with Union territories of Diu, Daman, Dadra & Nagar Haveli on Sunday. The pounding is likely to continue for next four days, added the officials. “The phenomenon is result of two weather systems at play - there’s a cyclonic circulation over South Gujarat and neighbourhood whereas there is also an offshore trough that runs from south Gujarat to Karnataka coast,” said an official. Some parts of Ahmedabad received light drizzle on Saturday evening as the city and district expected overcast or cloudy sky. The citizens felt humidity with high temperature (maximum temperature touching 37 degrees celsius on Saturday).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/saurashtra-s-gujarat-likely-to-get-heavy-rainfall-from-today/articleshow/76791474.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Mangaluru||ILI cases cause DK’s climb up Covid chart, 3 more succumb||MANGALURU/UDUPI: A steady rise in influenza-like illness (ILI) cases – 29 for the day—- pushed Dakshina Kannada (DK) district’s march up the state’s Covid-19 chart, with 75 fresh cases being reported on Saturday. Neighbouring Udupi on the other hand, despite recording 19 fresh cases, stands third in the list of districts with total positive cases at 1,276, while DK is fifth with 1,087 cases, behind Bengaluru Urban (8,345), Kalaburagi (1,597) and Ballari (1,154). Three patients with co-morbidities, succumbed to the coronavirus in DK on Saturday, taking the fatalities to 22. All three patients were admitted to Wenlock Hospital on Thursday and Friday, in a highly critical condition. Their swab reports received on Saturday confirmed that they were infected, stated deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. Eleven out of 75 cases were those who came from Abu Dhabi, Muscat and Dubai, and six were diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). A patient who underwent surgery tested positive for the novel coronavirus, and his contacts are being traced. Another person tested positive during random sampling. A woman tested positive after giving birth, and 24 are primary contacts and one of the patients is a secondary contact, she said. In all, 13 patients were discharged in DK. Stepping up enforcement, the Mangaluru City Corporation and Mangaluru city police cracked the whip on those violating norms pertaining to Covid-19, including not using masks, violating social distancing, and breaking home quarantine rules and venturing out, said city police commissioner Vikash Kumar. “Some people on compulsory home quarantine leave their registered mobile at home and venture out. Strict action will be taken against them,” he warned. Udupi DC G Jagadeesha who said that the curfew on Sunday will be implemented strictly across the district, barring for those in essential services, said Udupi that recorded 19 positive cases, presently has 160 active cases, and 1,114 out of 1,277 positive cases have been discharged thus far. Authorities are awaiting reports of 1,712 swab samples, the DC said. As on date, 17,545 samples have been collected and reports in 15,833 cases have been received thus far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ili-cases-cause-dks-climb-up-covid-chart-3-more-succumb/articleshow/76790845.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||No word on DB Gupta’s next posting, officials say he didn’t apply for VRS||JAIPUR: Two days have passed since chief secretary DB Gupta was removed from his post in a bureaucratic reshuffle late on Thuesday night but there’s still no word on his next posting. Gupta was sheduled to retire in September. There were rumours doing the rounds that he had applied for VRS, but officials of the department of personnel (DoP) denied it. A DoP official said, “We are not privy to any information on his VRS application.” Not giving him any posting technically means he is on awaited posting orders (APO). Why the government had decided to embark on this course on the senior-most officer in the state is anybody’s guess till the government or Gupta himself discloses. In an unprecedented move, chief minister Ashok Gehlot removed Gupta as part of a major shakeup in the state bureaucracy. Gupta, a 1983-batch IAS officer, was replaced by Rajeeva Swarup, the 1985-batch officer, who has just four months left for his retirement in October. Swarup superseded another officer, Mukesh Sharma, who retires this month. Sources indicated that a section of the officials were very unhappy with the functioning of Gupta who was a stickler for rules. The growing tussle of ministers with their secretaries under the stewardship of Gupta might have also gone against him. Perhaps, it was a kind of warning by the chief minister to the officials who take on their political masters to fall in line, said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-word-on-guptas-next-posting-officials-say-he-didnt-apply-for-vrs/articleshow/76791940.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Meerut||Retired Army officer’s son rams car into petrol pump after altercation||Meerut: The son of a retired Army officer, in his mid-20s, beat up a petrol pump employee who asked him for money. Police took him away. When he was released, he went home but came right back and nearly ran over the petrol pump staff. The latter had a narrow escape. And it was all captured on video late on Friday night.“It began with a dispute over refuelling at the Kankerkhera petrol pump. Police reached the spot as soon as it was reported and took both the petrol pump staff and the accused, Utkarsh Yadav, to the police station. Soon enough, his father, a retired colonel, came to the police station, apologised and took Utkarsh away,” said SSP Ajay Sahni.No FIR was filed and the dispute was resolved. Or it seemed to have been.“After getting home, however, he got drunk and drove back to the petrol pump. He rammed his car in — the CCTV footage circulating is self-evident. Utkarsh and his friend, Rohan Jain, have been arrested. There is no criminal history,” Sahani added.They have been booked for robbery, attempt to murder and provocation with intent to break public peace, SHO Kankerkhera police station BS Rana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/retired-army-officers-son-rams-car-into-petrol-pump-after-altercation/articleshow/76790851.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||55% new cases from west city||Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad’s western part reported 55% of Covid cases in the city during the first three days of July. Of the 600 new cases reported in the city from July 1, the western part reported 329 cases. But the Central Zone, which was in containment in April and May, reported only 26 cases during these three days. The city reported 10 deaths on Friday of which six were from the western part of the city The West Zone and South West Zone reported three deaths each. The West Zone, which includes the wards of Sardar Patel Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Ranip, Paldi and Vasna, recorded the highest — 166 new cases — between July 1 and July 3. East Zone came next with 96 cases. The East Zone comprises wards like Viratnagar, Nikol, Gomtipur, Odhav, Vastral and Amraiwadi. The North West Zone which includes Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia, and Gota reported an increase of 85 cases during the same period, while the South West Zone, which includes Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Maktampura, and Sarkhej reported 78 new cases. On Friday, of the 195 fresh cases, the western part accounted for 54%. There were 107 fresh cases reported from the western part, of which the West Zone reported the highest, 43 cases, followed by 35 cases reported from North West Zone. The western part also accounted for 51% of the total active cases in the city. Till Saturday morning, the city had a total of 3,255 active cases of which 1,653 are from the western part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/55-new-cases-from-west-city/articleshow/76791486.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Mysuru||Hassan records seventh Covid fatality||HASSAN: A 32-year-old man died due to Covid-19 in Hassan on Saturday, which was the seventh fatality recorded here. The victim, a resident of Belur, died of a heart attack on Friday morning. He was found to be infected by the novel coronavirus on Saturday. The district has been witnessing deaths every day since the last four days. The victim owned a bakery in Holenarasipur town near the railway station for the last three years, and is survived by his wife. He used to travel once a week to his native village of Belur taluk, to look after his farm. On Thursday, he returned, and complained of chest pain and collapsed the next day. He was then rushed to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. Health officers collected a nasal swab sample in the afternoon, and the results came out early on Saturday. “He was asymptomatic. The youth was on medication for respiratory illness for three years. We requested the family to carry out the victim’s cremation as per Covid SOPs,” said Belur THO Dr Vijay. 25 cases recordedAs many as 25 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Hassan on Saturday, taking the tally to 479, including 217 active cases. There are seven patients in the ICU. Among the cases, four are KSRTC bus conductors, 6 civic workers, 2 women health workers, 5 ILI and 2 SARI cases, and the rest are primary contacts and those having a travel history. “A public notice will be issued to alert passengers who had travelled in the buses in which the conductors who tested positive were working recently, so that people can voluntarily come forward to get tested,” said DHO Dr Sathish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hassan-records-seventh-covid-fatality/articleshow/76790854.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bareilly||Door-to-door drive for Covid-19 to begin on July 5||Bareilly: After Meerut division, the special surveillance to trace any symptomatic case of Covid-19 and collect samples will begin in Bareilly division from July 5. Health officials said as Bareilly division has reported an outbreak of malaria, the teams during special surveillance will also trace and test suspected malaria cases. Director (health) Dr Rakesh Dubey told TOI, “The teams will be equipped with rapid diagnostic test (RDT) kits. During door-to-door survey for Covid-19, if they find any suspected case of malaria, they will test the patient with RDT on spot.” In Bareilly division, Bareilly and Budaun districts have reported an outbreak of malaria. Bareilly district reported 46,717 malaria cases in 2019 and 37,382 cases in 2018 while Budaun reported 20,339 cases in 2019 and 20,289 malaria cases in 2018. The door-to-door special surveillance will be done from July 5 to 15. Chief medical officer, Bareilly, Dr Vineet Shukla said, “On the lines of polio campaign, nearly 1600 teams in Bareilly district will conduct door-to-door surveillance. Teams will check if any member of a house has symptoms related to Covid-19 including fever, cold and cough. The samples of suspected cases will be collected and tested for Covid-19. After a house will be covered in the drive, the team will paste a sticker outside it. Even the contact number of health department will be mentioned on the stickers so that locals can alert health staff if they develop symptoms later.” The door-to-door surveillance for Covid-19 is currently being done in containment zones after a positive patient is detected in an area. However, it will be first time when entire population will be covered in the drive. Officials said the teams have been given training for the special surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/door-to-door-drive-for-covid-19-to-begin-on-july-5/articleshow/76790082.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 5, 2020||Meerut||Gram pradhan's nephew found hanging from tree||Bijnor: Atul Tyagi (27), nephew of pradhan of Paijaniya village, was allegedly murdered and his body was found hanged from a tree in the latter’s orchard. Onlookers alerted the pradhan in the morning, following which local police were alerted. An investigation in the case has been initiated. The deceased used to work at a private bank at Ghaziabad and had come back to his native place recently. According to the family members, Atul went missing late on Friday and his body was found hanged in the orchard on Saturday morning.The incident came to fore when villagers found his body hanging from a tree. After getting wind of the incident, circle officer Kuldeep Agarwal and Haldaur station house officer (SHO) Rajesh Solanki rushed to the scene and inspected the place where the incident had taken place. Family members alleged that Atul might have been murdered and then hanged from the tree. "Police have sent the deceased’s body to the district hospital for an autopsy. Probe is on,” Solanki said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/gram-pradhans-nephew-found-hanging-from-tree/articleshow/76790862.cms||Harveer Dabas
July 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||In Andhra Pradesh, more Covid-19 cases seen among 16-45 age group||VISAKHAPATNAM: The 16-45 years age group in Andhra Pradesh is the most affected by novel coronavirus as they comprise at least 62% (10,500 cases) of all cases in the state. The 46-60 years age group comes second, accounting for 20% (3,450 cases) of all infections. Further, in an indication that no age group is immune to the novel coronavirus, at least 1,200 children aged 15 and below have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state till Friday. Sources treating the patients, however, said the children show very mild symptoms and are responding well to treatment. Only 10% of all patients are above the age of 60, but this group has recorded a majority of Covid-related deaths. Several patients in this category who have succumbed to the disease have had chronic health conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and cardiac trouble. According to state authorities, comorbidities may have made patients more susceptible to Covid-related complications. The state health department had earlier set up a committee for clinical audit of Covid-related deaths. The committee is examining all case records to ascertain the cause of death. Dr R Ramana Rao, a general physician, said the transmission pattern of the virus in the state may be understood in view of the fact that a majority of patients belong to the 16-45 years age group. “Being the most productive age, these people might have contracted the disease due to varied reasons. But once back at their homes, they take care of their little ones without the knowledge that they already acquired the virus and are spreading the disease to them. However, as per my colleagues who are involved in the care of Covid-19 patientggs, the children are mostly asymptomatic or have mild symptoms compared to adults,” said Dr Rao. Among patients who have recovered in the state are those as young as two-months or three-months-old, as well as several above the age of 80.Several patients who had recovered from the disease and that STOI spoke to said adhering to doctors’ instructions will lead to a complete recovery within a couple of weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-60-of-all-cases-in-16-45-years-age-group/articleshow/76790865.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 5, 2020||Vadodara||61 more positive cases, total at 2,520||VADODARA: Sixty-one persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the city and district since Friday evening including cadets of the Police Training School (PTS). With the fresh cases, the total number of cases stood at 2,520. The details come as a surprise as the positive cases included 19 from the PTS. If one were to exclude these cases detected in a lot, the number of new cases in a day would stand at only 42. The 61 fresh cases include 27 from the north zone, eight each from the west and south zone and five from the east zone. Thirteen cases were reported from the rural areas of the district. Persons who tested positive in these areas include those from Bhayli, Valan, Laxmipura and Sangma villages as well as Dabhoi and Padra towns. As many as 53 persons were discharged from various hospitals and home isolation taking the total number of discharged patients to 1,843 leaving 620 under treatment. These include 33 who are on ventilators or BIPAP machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/61-more-positive-cases-total-at-2520/articleshow/76790275.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Ernakulam in a spot as positive cases rise steadily||KOCHI: Over the past few days Ernakulam is witnessing an increase in the number of cases and hotspots. This has prompted district administration and health department to increase infrastructure and testing to combat the pandemic. Also, authorities are facing a problem in the form of people assembling in places like markets without following covid-19 protocol. On Saturday, 13 new cases were reported in the district while seven patients recovered. Ernakulam reported 69 cases in the past five day. While 10 districts in state have a higher recovery rate, Ernakulam is one among the four districts where active cases are more than recovery figures. Of the 289 cases till date, only 117 patients recovered by July 3. Though increased patient load is a concern, authorities say only a few active cases require intensive care. “We have already prepared a surge plan to provide treatment on the basis of increasing cases. We are taking measures based on the plan. We will be opening Covid first-level treatment centres (FLTC) at Cochin international airport (Cial) in a couple of days with 160 beds. Government has allotted 15,000 antigen test kits to test expatriates at Cial,” said Ernakulam DMO Dr N K Kuttappan. RT-PCR testing facilities will be opened at Government Medical College, Ernakulam and regional public health lab soon. Intensifying testing, especially sentinel tests to diagnose the spread among the public, is one of the key factor in curbing community spread. Though government had instructed district authorities to set up facilities to collect swabs at block/PHC level on July 2, authorities are yet to arrange the same. “We have placed orders for procuring 10 walk-in sample kiosks for starting facilities at block-level. Once we get it, we will give orders for more. We have already started collection of swabs at all taluk hospitals,” Dr Kuttappan said. A couple of days ago, collector S Suhas issued an order entrusting local bodies to prepare quarantine facilities for those who lack adequate facilities at home. “Most local bodies have identified auditoriums, other structures. Moreover, local bodies were asked to ensure power and water connections at FLTC that will be opened at taluk level,” said a district administration official. One of the main public concerns is shortage of government facilities, especially specialty centres for treatment of non-Covid disease. A section felt that the medical college should be made a non-Covid hospital by transferring Covid treatment to taluk hospitals and FLTCs. But, health department and district administration said that proximity of Cial and subsequent flow of expatriates were the reasons why it is still a Covid hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ernakulam-in-a-spot-as-positive-cases-rise-steadily/articleshow/76790875.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
July 5, 2020||Mysuru||DC withdraws notice issued to 3 doctors over swab collection||MYSURU: The district administration on Friday withdrew the show cause notice issued to three doctors here for not complying with the directives on swab collection. The notice was withdrawn after the doctors explained the technical challenges in swab collection which resulted in the issues. Deputy commissioner MR Ravi had issued notices to three doctors from Gundlupet taluk for failing to achieve swab collection target. “These three doctors were given three different targets and they were supposed to collect the swab samples of the vulnerable groups. Due to the technical difficulties, they were unable to achieve the target. Hence, the notice was issued,” said sources in the health department. District health officer L Ravi said the issue is resolved. “Due to the technical issues, there was confusion. All resolved now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dc-withdraws-notice-issued-to-3-docs-over-swab-collection/articleshow/76790871.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Government to move polluting industries outside city limits||GANDHINAGAR: In a long-term measure to reduce air, water and land pollution in cities, the state government has proposed to shift polluting industries out of congested city limits. By amending provisions of the town planning act, the government aims to convert industrial zones within city limits to non-industrial areas. All major cities of Gujarat witnessed a marked reduction in air, water and land pollution during the lockdown period. However, pollution levels have soared again after the government gradually eased provisions of the lockdown. A top source in the government said that with city limits getting expanded, a large number of polluting and toxic industries have been operating right in the middle of cities, which adversely affects pollution control measures and overall public health. “Under the proposed amendment in the town planning act, the department aims to give lucrative incentives to polluting industries to shift outside cities. Availability of land in city limits will also help government agencies, as lesser expenditure will be incurred. These plots of land can also be used profitably for making affordable housing and commercial complexes in key areas,” the source said. Sources added that the government intends not to permit any new industrial venture within city limits in a bid to control pollution. “Draft development plans will not have any polluting industry zone within city limits. Government is also considering the option and strategy to amend existing draft development plans to change industrial zones to non-industrial zones so that no new industry can stake claim for starting industry in cities as proposed in the original draft development plans.’’ Top officials in the urban development department, meanwhile, said, “The concept of Green Floor Space Index (GFSI) could be introduced shortly to incentivise energy-efficient projects and a mechanism will be evolved for availing benefits of silver, gold and platinum rated categories. This may help further in reducing pollution in all major cities of the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/government-to-move-polluting-industries-outside-city-limits/articleshow/76791500.cms||Kapil Dave
July 5, 2020||Goa||Heavy rain unsettles normal life||Panaji: Heavy rainfall lashed the state on Saturday throwing normal life out of gear. The incessant rains resulted in trees uprooting causing disruption of power supply in some parts of the state. The department of fire services’ control room was flooded with rescue calls throughout the day. A total of 26 calls were received from 7am to 7pm of tree falls. The India meteorological department (IMD) has issued an orange alert for the state from July 2 to 4. With the southwest monsoon active over the Goa coast, Pernem received the highest amount of rainfall at 12 cms. “The probability of heavy rainfall continues for 24 hours because there is a circulation over the north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coast. This system along with the strengthening of monsoon along with the western coast keeps the probability of heavy rainfall over Goa,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. The intensity of rainfall is likely to decrease from July 7 onwards. Residents of Calangute were inconvenienced as there was no electricity for nearly six hours. Sources at the electricity department said that the issues with a feeder at Saligao resulted in the disruption of power supply in Calangute. Around four wards namely Gauravaddo, Naikavaddo Tivaivaddo and Madavaddo were totally without electricity for nearly six hours. “Electricity outage is a recurring problem in this village, especially during the monsoons. I also could not use most of my electrical appliances due to the power failure,” Especiosa D’souza, a resident of Calangute said. In Siolim, the busy Sodiem road leading to Mapusa was blocked after a mango tree uprooted and brought down electricity lines in Gaunsavaddo. The Mapusa fire station cleared the road within less than two hours, while electricity lines were fixed and power was restored an hour later. In Canacona, heavy rains that lashed taluka since Thursday evening led to rise in Talpona river by about 4 mts thus flooding the fields situated along the river banks causing partial damage to the nurseries being raised for replantation. Some of the opening of small culverts along the service interior roads have been blocked thereby flooding the roads, which inconvenienced the pedestrians in particular. The teachers and some private office-goers and some staff employed at small and medium private establishments were highly inconvenienced as there were no Kadamba buses going to interior routes. They had to hire motorbikes to reach to their work destinations. In Vasco, a huge tree fell on seven vehicles including four parked buses opposite KTC bus stand. Though nobody was injured in the accident, the owner of the busses claimed that he must have suffered a loss of around Rs 10 lakh while the fire department is yet to ascertain the loss. The Vasco fire station took the help of Goa Shipyard Limited’s crane to chop the branches of the tree. Owner of Javid Travels, Javid Shaikh said, “I had gone to the mamlatdar’s office on two occasions alerting them that this tree had become old and could collapse at any time but they told me that they couldn’t do anything unless any incident occurs as cutting the tree required permissions.” Vasco fire station personnel were seen clearing the tree till late Saturday afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heavy-rain-unsettles-normal-life/articleshow/76792131.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Meerut||UP govt’s Ayush minister tests positive for Covid-19, 53 new cases in Meerut||MEERUT/AGRA/BAREILLY: UP government’s Ayush minister Dharam Singh Saini tested positive for Covid-19 in Saharanpur, according to Dr BS Sodhi, Saharanpur's chief medical officer (CMO). Singh has been admitted to Pilkhani Medical College. Samples of at least 27 members of his family and relatives were taken for corona testing. Moreover, Meerut witnessed another highest single day jump of Covid-19 cases with as many as 53 new cases reported in the district on Saturday, taking the total tally to 1,117, including one found in Kanpur, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO. The positive cases included a medical store owner, jeweller, farmers and a housewife. Also, at least 15 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,282. These included four patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, two from severe acute respiratory syndrome and a patient with diabetes. Thirteen Covid-19 patients were also discharged on Saturday. Of the 1,282 cases, 84% have been declared cured and discharged. There are now 139 active cases in the district. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,053 people have recovered.” In Bareilly, 14 people, including a woman and her two minor children, were found positive for Covid-19. Three people were tested positive in Budaun, taking the number of active cases to 39. Seven positive cases were found in Pilibhit, with 150 active patients still under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-govts-ayush-minister-tests-vefor-covid-53-new-cases-in-meerut/articleshow/76790876.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Faridabad||Three-year long wait for HSVP industrial plot applicants||CHANDIGARH: Advertised as a Start-up India campaign initiative, non-allotment of 59 industrial plots advertised by Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran in various urban estates for the past three years has left hundreds of applicants in the lurch. Cities where plots were advertised include Gurugram, Faridabad, Panipat, Bahadurgarh, Sonipat and Rewari, among others. Sources in HSVP said authorities decided to transfer plots to HSIIDC, which is already dealing with industrial estates. Initially, the problem was attributed to procedural and technical delays on the part of HSVP estate offices across the state. Now, HSVP authorities have decided to transfer all the plots to Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure development Corproation (HSIIDC). HSVP also claimed to have handed over files of applicants for further action. The plots were advertised in June 2017 and over 300 applicants applied by September 25. Allotment was supposed to be done on the basis of draw of lots. Applicants deposited 10% of the total value of the plot, which translated to earnings of Rs 100 crore for HSVP as earnest money. However, the applicants have been waiting for draw of lots or other ways of allotment since 2017. “On seeing the advertisement, we felt it was a great opportunity for our IITian son. He put in all his savings for earnest money and submitted the project report related to auto components. But now, this looks like the biggest mistake. Initially, they gave technical reasons for the delay. Now, they say the plots have been handed over to HSIIDC,’’ said an aggrieved applicant from NCR. Anil Mann, an entrepreneur from Panipat who invested in a plot said, “Had the decision been taken on time, we would have made the unit operational by now. As on date, we have no clue whether a draw will be held or if we have to apply afresh. The project cost has also gone up,’’ he said. HSVP chief administrator Pankaj Yadav confirmed that the plots, along with details of applicants, have been shifted to HSIIDC. “All the applicants were updated by us from time to time. Transfer of plots and process was a policy decision. Some of the applicants have even given the refund as per rules,’’ said Yadav. HSIIDC officials confirmed that they have received files related to plots but refused to divulge more information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/three-year-long-wait-for-hsvp-industrial-plot-applicants/articleshow/76795568.cms||Manvir Saini
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cars pip two-wheelers in sales in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The sale of vehicles picked up in Ahmedabad during Unlock 1.0 in June as compared to April-May 2020. Even though the sales were around 25% of June 2019, the RTO figures revealed that there were more registration of four-wheelers as compared to two-wheelers. According to officials at the Ahmedabad RTO (GJ-01), in June this year, 1,059 cars were sold against 1,008 two-wheelers. The officials said at other places in the state, the ratio was sale of one car against three two-wheelers. At Vastral, only 358 cars were sold against registration of 1,505 two-wheelers. A senior officer at RTO Ahmedabad said that the sales figures had zoomed on Ashadi Beej. “The sale in Ahmedabad will go up further once the Covid-19 spread is contained. Many areas of the city are still marked as mirco-containment zones,” the official said. In June this year 4,924 vehicles were sold against 19,433 in June last year. The sale in rural areas has not taken much of hit. “The overall sale as compared to 2019 was 54% less this year in June. In areas like Mehsana and Bavla, the sale was 35-40% less as compared to 2019,” the official added. He said in the first four days of July, 3,803 vehicles have been registered. Pranav Shah, director, Federation Automobile Dealers Association Gujarat, said, “The sale in Ahmedabad and other places was mainly mahurat sale on the auspicious day of Rath Yatra. There was a drop of 40% in the Rath Yatra sales as compared to last year. Those who went out to purchase were those customers who had pre-planned the purchase and were in need of a vehicle, especially cars.” He said there was no sentiment-driven purchase as seen in the past. “The sale of two-wheelers has been hit as the income of the people has gone down. We don’t expect things to stabilize in the next couple of months,” Shah said. An official said that usually car purchases are financed and people have been expecting the Covid situation to normalize in the next three-four months. “But in case of two-wheelers, almost 70% of purchases are in cash, which explains the bad scenario in this segment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cars-pip-two-wheelers-in-sales-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/76791518.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
July 5, 2020||Meerut||UP set to break own record by planting 25 crore saplings today; CM to give event a miss||Meerut: The UP government is all set to break its own record by planting 25 crore saplings in a day, though chief minister Yogi Adityanath who was scheduled to launch the drive in Meerut’s Hastinapur on July 5 would give it a miss reportedly in the wake of the Kanpur ambush that claimed lives of eight policemen and left scores injured. In his absence, UP power minister and minister in charge for Meerut Srikant Sharma will kick off the event. The state holds a record of planting 22 crore saplings in a day in 2019. Muzaffarnagar divisional forest officer, who also holds additional charge of Meerut division, Suraj (goes by his first name) told TOI, “The CM’s visit has been cancelled, but the programme is intact with the power minister presiding over the function in Hastinapur.” Meerut alone is likely to witness the plantation 24 lakh saplings during the event. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ajay Sahani, however, downplayed the reason behind the cancellation of Yogi’s plan, saying, “We never received the itinerary and there was no confirmation, too. So, saying that his visit was cancelled would be a little inappropriate.” This is the second time when the CM’s proposed visit to Hastinapur was cancelled this year, even as massive preparations were going on in Hastinapur for his visit. Earlier, he had to attend a Ganga Yatra event on January 28, but his visit was cancelled and deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma presided over the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-set-to-break-own-record-by-planting-25-crore-saplings-today-cm-to-give-event-a-miss/articleshow/76790882.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Three-year long wait for HSVP industrial plot applicants||CHANDIGARH: Advertised as a Start-up India campaign initiative, non-allotment of 59 industrial plots advertised by Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran in various urban estates for the past three years has left hundreds of applicants in the lurch. Cities where plots were advertised include Gurugram, Faridabad, Panipat, Bahadurgarh, Sonipat and Rewari, among others. Sources in HSVP said authorities decided to transfer plots to HSIIDC, which is already dealing with industrial estates. Initially, the problem was attributed to procedural and technical delays on the part of HSVP estate offices across the state. Now, HSVP authorities have decided to transfer all the plots to Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure development Corproation (HSIIDC). HSVP also claimed to have handed over files of applicants for further action. The plots were advertised in June 2017 and over 300 applicants applied by September 25. Allotment was supposed to be done on the basis of draw of lots. Applicants deposited 10% of the total value of the plot, which translated to earnings of Rs 100 crore for HSVP as earnest money. However, the applicants have been waiting for draw of lots or other ways of allotment since 2017. “On seeing the advertisement, we felt it was a great opportunity for our IITian son. He put in all his savings for earnest money and submitted the project report related to auto components. But now, this looks like the biggest mistake. Initially, they gave technical reasons for the delay. Now, they say the plots have been handed over to HSIIDC,’’ said an aggrieved applicant from NCR. Anil Mann, an entrepreneur from Panipat who invested in a plot said, “Had the decision been taken on time, we would have made the unit operational by now. As on date, we have no clue whether a draw will be held or if we have to apply afresh. The project cost has also gone up,’’ he said. HSVP chief administrator Pankaj Yadav confirmed that the plots, along with details of applicants, have been shifted to HSIIDC. “All the applicants were updated by us from time to time. Transfer of plots and process was a policy decision. Some of the applicants have even given the refund as per rules,’’ said Yadav. HSIIDC officials confirmed that they have received files related to plots but refused to divulge more information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/three-year-long-wait-for-hsvp-industrial-plot-applicants/articleshow/76791946.cms||Manvir Saini
July 5, 2020||Mysuru||Land identified in Kodagu taluks for burial||MADIKERI: Plots of land have been identified in Kodagu for the burial of Covid-19 victims. The district has not reported as coronavirus casualty, the spurt in positive cases notwithstanding. The district administration has identified 1acre land in each of the three taluks for the purpose. DC Annies K Joy convened a meeting of different religious heads at Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences on Saturday. “The number of Covid-19 cases is rising by the day across the country. We have to be prepared for the worst, including the burial of victims as per SOPs. We have identified 1acre in each of the three taluks of the district. Workers will be employed and trained in the process. The relatives (a maximum of five) of the victims can perform rituals of the final rites from 4m distance,” the DC explained. Madikeri Kodava Samaj, heads of Christian community , Wakf Board, Gowda Samaj and Seva Bharathi (Kodagu) members expressed support to the administration in this regard. Ameen Mohisin of an association said that a team of 30 volunteers from the community are ready to carry out the burial process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/land-identified-in-kodagu-taluks-for-burial/articleshow/76790881.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||International travel policies add caveats for Covid||VISAKHAPATNAM: Though international flights are yet to resume, several travel insurance companies have designed packages that cover medical and hospitalisation costs if a traveller tests positive for Covid-19. Insurance experts and travel agents, however, point to a clause in most of these policies that states “insurance will be covered for medical expenses that arise from contracting the disease overseas”, thus making ineligible travellers from India who test positive upon reaching another country. Many countries, such as the UAE, Thailand, Sri Lanka and Malaysia, offer Covid-19 tests upon arrival at the airport. If a flier tests positive, he or she is admitted to a local hospital. In such a situation, the travel insurance should cover cost of hospitalisation. “However, the clause states insurance will be covered for medical expenses that arise from contracting the disease overseas. But in such cases it would be presumed the flier contracted the virus while in India and the service provider will not give the claim,” K Vijay Mohan, president of Tours and Travels Association of Andhra Pradesh told STOI. Travel associations are now in talks with service providers to change the clause so that fliers are insured even if they test positive upon arrival in another country. Meanwhile, insurance companies have raised attention to the need to carry out rapid tests for travellers once international flights resume. “For us, a Covid-19 negative certificate is a prerequisite. Only then will our product cover emergency hospitalisation expenses on being tested Covid-19 positive on foreign soil,” said Dev Karvat, founder and CEO of India & Emerging Markets, TrawellTag Cover-More.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/intl-travel-policies-add-caveats-for-covid/articleshow/76790880.cms||Arpit Basu
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Akalis sold Punjab’s interests by supporting anti-farmer ordinances: Amarinder||Chandigarh: Accusing the Akalis of “selling” Punjab’s interests by agreeing to the “anti-farm ordinances”, chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday asserted that he would take the fight to the Centre. Capt Amarinder said he would be writing soon to the Prime Minister for appointment for the all-party delegation which all Punjab parties, except the BJP, had unanimously decided upon. “No matter what Sukhbir Badal or BJP say, once these ordinances are passed, the Centre’s next step would be to end the MSP regime and dismantle the FCI,” warned Amarinder, pointing to the recommendations of the Shanta Kumar committee. “You can imagine what will happen to Punjab farmers if this becomes a reality,” he said, adding that the procurement process would come to an end and mandis would be finished. The Akalis were only interested in protecting their political interests, with Harsimrat Kaur Badal focused on safeguarding her position in the Union Cabinet, allaged Amarinder, adding that the Badals were appeasing BJP to save their alliance in Punjab at any cost. “They are just bothered about their political interests. Sukhbir wants his wife to stay in the Union cabinet while he remains the Pradhan here. They are thinking about themselves and not of Punjab,” he claimed, adding that history was witness to this. Underlining the need to save Punjab and protect its interests, Amarinder said the ordinances were “100% against Punjab and anti-farmers”, as agreed by all political parties, except BJP and the Akalis. All the farmers’ unions, who he had recently met, also wanted immediate scrapping of these ordinances, he added. Responding to questions during his Facebook Live edition of #AskCaptain, Amarinder said “the Akalis had earlier ruined the state with their Punjabi Suba movement” and were now hell bent on destroying the farming sector by supporting these ordinances, which were a “blatant attack on the country’s federal structure”. “History is witness to the fact that the Akalis divided Punjab and gave away bulk of the state’s resources to Himachal Pradesh and Haryana due to their sheer shortsighted focus on their petty political interests,” he addded. Had the state not been divided, its representation in Parliament would have been many times over and its writ would have worked in Delhi, with no question of its interests being ignored, said Amarinder, lamenting that with just 13 MPs, Punjab’s voice was going unheard, especially since other states were also now producing wheat and the central government felt it no longer needed Punjab to sustain its food security. “They (governments at the Centre) squeezed us and have now discarded us,” he said, urging the people of Punjab to extend their full support to the fight against the ordinances and not be misled by the Akalis and BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/akalis-sold-punjabs-interests-by-supporting-anti-farmer-ordinances-amarinder/articleshow/76791947.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Gurgaon||Three-year long wait for HSVP industrial plot applicants||CHANDIGARH: Advertised as a Start-up India campaign initiative, non-allotment of 59 industrial plots advertised by Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran in various urban estates for the past three years has left hundreds of applicants in the lurch. Cities where plots were advertised include Gurugram, Faridabad, Panipat, Bahadurgarh, Sonipat and Rewari, among others. Sources in HSVP said authorities decided to transfer plots to HSIIDC, which is already dealing with industrial estates. Initially, the problem was attributed to procedural and technical delays on the part of HSVP estate offices across the state. Now, HSVP authorities have decided to transfer all the plots to Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure development Corproation (HSIIDC). HSVP also claimed to have handed over files of applicants for further action. The plots were advertised in June 2017 and over 300 applicants applied by September 25. Allotment was supposed to be done on the basis of draw of lots. Applicants deposited 10% of the total value of the plot, which translated to earnings of Rs 100 crore for HSVP as earnest money. However, the applicants have been waiting for draw of lots or other ways of allotment since 2017. “On seeing the advertisement, we felt it was a great opportunity for our IITian son. He put in all his savings for earnest money and submitted the project report related to auto components. But now, this looks like the biggest mistake. Initially, they gave technical reasons for the delay. Now, they say the plots have been handed over to HSIIDC,’’ said an aggrieved applicant from NCR. Anil Mann, an entrepreneur from Panipat who invested in a plot said, “Had the decision been taken on time, we would have made the unit operational by now. As on date, we have no clue whether a draw will be held or if we have to apply afresh. The project cost has also gone up,’’ he said. HSVP chief administrator Pankaj Yadav confirmed that the plots, along with details of applicants, have been shifted to HSIIDC. “All the applicants were updated by us from time to time. Transfer of plots and process was a policy decision. Some of the applicants have even given the refund as per rules,’’ said Yadav. HSIIDC officials confirmed that they have received files related to plots but refused to divulge more information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/three-year-long-wait-for-hsvp-industrial-plot-applicants/articleshow/76795567.cms||Manvir Saini
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: School board to hear cheating cases online||CHANDIGARH: Candidates against whom ‘unfair means cases’ (UMC) were registered during examination of senior secondary (academic or open school) conducted by the Haryana School Education Board (HSEB) in March 2020 are required to submit an online ‘UMC performa’ by July 8. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is not possible to call such candidates to board headquarters in Bhiwani for personal hearing. An official spokesperson said a list of regular candidates against whom UMC was registered and the performa has been sent to heads of schools. He said heads of schools concerned should inform authorities about UMC candidates of their school and ensure that they fill the performa. It is to be e-mailed to asumc@bseh.org.in or sent on the board’s WhatsApp number: 88168-40349 by July 8, he added. The spokesperson said the UMC performa and list of candidates have also been made available on the board’s website and candidates can send e-mail or WhatsApp message after confirming their names from the list. Information regarding this has also been given to candidates of self-study/open schools through SMS on the numbers provided by them at the time of submission of application forms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/school-board-to-hear-cheating-cases-online/articleshow/76791948.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bhopal||PM praises BJP Madhya Pradesh unit in Covid-19 fight||BHOPAL: Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Saturday reviewed the work done by party workers across the country to combat the Covid-19 crisis under the ‘Seva hi Sangathan’ online meeting and heaped praised on the service done by the Madhya Pradesh unit. BJP state president V D Sharma said that PM Modi's timely decisions taken during the coronavirus crisis were appreciated all over the world. “PM Modi took timely decisions to provide relief to the people in the critical time of Covid outbreak. He is being appreciated all over the world today. The WHO also lauded Modi’s timely decisions,” said Sharma. The PM in his address to BJP workers of seven states, including MP, lauded the welfare works undertaken by them. The state unit also gave a presentation of works done during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. PM Modi said despite knowing that they were taking risks, BJP workers continued their relief work with full dedication to serve the nation. “The nationwide welfare work undertaken by BJP members at such scale for so long amid the Covid-19 crisis is the biggest ‘seva yagya’ in history. For BJP, power is a medium to serve the people. For us, the organisation is not just a machine to win elections but, it means service” said PM Modi. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan joined the meeting at Vallabh Bhavan while Sharma participated at the BJP state HQ..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pm-praises-bjp-state-unit-in-covid-19-fight/articleshow/76791511.cms||Rajendra Sharma
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab private schools ready to give relief to affected parents||CHANDIGARH: Claiming that nearly 30% of the private schools in Punjab face closure if parents do not pay fees, the Federation of Private Schools and Associations of Punjab on Saturday said it is willing to give concessions to the parents genuinely affected financially by the Covid-19 pandemic. Jagjit Singh, president of the federation, told media persons, “Even during the crisis, children are being constantly engaged in the syllabus via online education by teachers. It is also true that income of a lot of parents has been affected. But, the state government and other political parties have started playing game over the issue of school fees and parents are being misguided. Due to this, five lakh families associated with the private schools may have to face the consequences. The state government has not provided any financial help to the schools.” He said the recent decision of the high court allowing them to collect tuition fees is as much in favour of the parents as the school managements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-pvt-schools-ready-to-give-relief-to-affected-parents/articleshow/76791499.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Three booked for duping former MLA, kin of Rs 7.20 crore||KARNAL: The police have booked three persons for allegedly duping former Assandh MLA Bakshish Singh Virk and his son and brother of Rs 7.20 crore. Based on the complaint of MLA’s son Harpreet Singh, the Karnal police have registered an FIR against one Kapoor Singh and his sons Lakhwinder Singh and Vikram Singh. In the police complaint, Harpreet Singh, who runs a trading firm, along with his father Bakshish Singh and uncle Narender Singh in Taraori of Karnal, has accused the three owners of trading company Gurunanak Agro Industries of committing fraud on them. Harpreet alleged that the accused had purchased paddy worth around Rs 11.12 crore in 2018 and paid Rs 4.49 crore only. Although they had promised to pay the balance amount later, they never did so despite repeated requests. Taraori police station SHO Sachin Kumar said a case has been registered against Kapoor Singh and his two sons Lakhwinder and Vikram of Rasulpur village in Kaithal district on charges of cheating, breach of trust, intimidation and for criminal conspiracy, among others. The case has been handed over to the detective branch for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/3-booked-for-duping-former-mla-kin-of-rs-7-20cr/articleshow/76791504.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Two arrested for raping minors||KURUKSHETRA: Police arrested two persons in two separate rape incidents of minors. The accused were presented in the district court on Saturday and remanded in 14-day judicial custody. In the first case, police arrested a man after a woman lodged a complaint alleging that her 15-year-old daughter was raped on June 28 by two accused. In the second case, a 15-year-old girl of a village told the police that she had gone to stay at her paternal aunt’s house for vacations and while she was alone at house a man broke into the house and raped her. (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2-arrested-for-raping-minors/articleshow/76791507.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Trash from cured man’s house taken after 10 days||Patiala: The district administration in Sangrur collected garbage from the house of a recovered Covid-19 patient after 10 days. The action came after journalists rang up officials regarding the matter, highlighted by in the WhatsApp group of Sangrur administration for press. The 57-year-old man from Kishan Bagh in Sangrur returned home two days ago. He had tested positive on June 22, a week after he returned from the engagement of a relative in Jind. Later his son, 24, and 29-year-old daughter and 1.5-year-old grandson also tested positive and are expected to be discharge from isolation ward within three days. “My wife, 54, and mother, 80, were home. We were asked not to hand over garbage to MC vans and were provided garbage bags, but no ne visited our house for more than 10 days. Civic body officials also did not provide us any contact where we could inform and take help in this matter. We requested local officials of the civic body and the health department, but in vain, following which we requested some local journalists on Saturday morning and the action was taken within a few hours,” said 57-year-old Kishan Bagh resident. Ramesh Kumar, executive officer of Sangrur, refuted the allegations. “We provide bags having a capacity of 25kg and provide contacts to all those who are isolated or quarantined at home according to guidelines. Their garbage is collected by different team that dispose of their gloves along with the garbage beneath the earth’s surface. The resident didn’t inform us after his bag was filled with garbage. We have now collected his bag,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/trash-from-cured-mans-house-taken-after-10-days/articleshow/76791952.cms||Bharat Khanna
July 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Telugu NRIs rally behind farmers on 200th day of Amaravati protests||VIJAYAWADA: Solidarity poured in from across the globe as the protests by the farmers who gave away their lands for the construction of the capital in Amaravati entered 200th day on Saturday. On social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram the hashtag #200DaysOfAmaravatiProtests trended. Responding to a call given by the Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti Joint Action Committee, the Telugu diaspora in more than 330 cities across the world held rallies. They held candlelight marches and demonstrations holding placards demanding that Amaravati be continued as the capital of Andhra Pradesh. Although the idea was to get support from 200 cities across the world, but the call received overwhelming response from people. In USA, alone, protests were observed at more than 230 cities, said Komati Jayaram, former president of Telugu Association of North America (TANA). Besides, protests were held at major cities in countries like Germany, United Kingdom, Australia, Ireland, France, Bahrain, Kuwait, South Africa, Canada, Dubai, Saudi Arabia and New Zealand. Meanwhile, protests and demonstrations were held at all major cities, towns and villages across the state on Saturday. Groups of 15 to 20 people protested while maintaining physical distancing. The Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti launched ‘Maha Deeksha’ on the 200 day of the protests and demanded that the state government roll back its decision to trifurcate the capital. All political parties extended support to the farmers’ protest. The Joint Action Committee also conducted a virtual rally in zoom app with representatives of political parties from various places and supporters of Amaravati from other countries. Former chief minister and TDP chief N Chandrababu said the present government’s decision will hamper the development of the state and it cannot do away with the capital project, which has all advantages to emerge as a world-class city. He demanded the Union government to intervene. The general secretary of Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti, Gadde Tirupati Rao, said the protest for Amaravati will continue till the state government rolls back its decision to shift the capital. YSRC MP from Narasapuram Raghurama Krishnam Raju, who has been in the news for his ‘anti-party’ activities, extended his support to the farmers terming their demand legitimate. He suggested that if the state government were to trifurcate the capital then Amaravati should be made the executive capital as the infrastructure development has already been done to a large extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/telugu-nris-rally-behind-farmers-on-200th-day-of-amaravati-protests/articleshow/76790888.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Gurgaon||‘PM Narendra Modi didn’t mention China even once’||JIND: Attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress national media incharge Randeep Singh Surjewala said the PM did not mention China even once while addressing Army jawans, or in his address to the nation or his radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’. It showed that the PM was scared, Surjewala claimed. Surjewala was in Jind on Saturday to extend his support to PTI teachers who were dismissed by an SC order and have been staging a dharna near mini-secretariat here for 20 days. He announced that if the Congress was voted to power, PTIs would be reinstated. He also presented a draft of bill advising Haryana government to reinstate them and issue an ordinance under article 213 of Constitution of India by passing it in the assembly. A copy was sent to the CM as well. Surjewala asked the Prime Minister to explain his weakness. He also asked when land occupied by China in Galwan valley and Pangog Tso area in Ladakh would be taken back and the martyrdom of 20 soldiers avenged. He said the Army is giving a befitting reply to China but the PM fears to give a reply even in his addresses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/surjewala-takes-on-modi-over-china/articleshow/76791949.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: 472 signals, smart cameras for Karnal||KARNAL: To monitor the city traffic, Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL), will install 472 more closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras and traffic lights at various locations in the city under the integrated command and control centre (ICCC) project of the smart city. Madras Security Printer private Limited has won the contract and will soon start work. Under this project, 42 cameras will be installed on all chowks located on national highway-44, which will include 360-degree rotator cameras, which will keep a vigil on all activities. Footage of CCTV cameras will be monitored by a team at integrated command and control centre (ICCC), which is under construction at Sector 12. “Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL) is installing 472 CCTV cameras and traffic lights at 29 locations (major chowks). The work is expected to be completed by November. The ICCC project, which include smart water supply system and smart street light system, is estimated to cost Rs 158 crore,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, deputy commissioner-cum-CEO, Karnal smart city project. He said an adaptive traffic control system will be installed to regulate traffic in different areas. This system will calibrate itself on the basis of the coming traffic and adjust signals accordingly. “For example, if a large volume of vehicles are arriving from a particular side, traffic lights can be adjusted to clear the rush. The system can also adjust itself for any emergency vehicle such as ambulances by providing green corridor kind of system,” said Yadav. He said through red light violation detection and automatic number plate reader (ANPR) cameras, e-challans will be generated in case of a traffic rule violation. Already 127 cameras, including 12 pan-tilt-zoom security cameras, have been installed at 35 locations in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/472-smart-cameras-and-traffic-lights-to-be-installed-in-the-city/articleshow/76791951.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||Goa: New sewerage chambers in Navelim, Calconda overflow||COLVA: Incessant rain over the last couple of days has exposed the inefficiency of the Sewerage and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd and Margao Municipal Council (MMC). In Navelim and Calconda, sewage chambers recently completed under National Highway 66, have started overflowing. Chief officer of MMC, Ajit Panchwadkar, said he is unaware of the situation. It is the duty of the PWD to maintain the chambers, he said. However, Panchwadkar said that he would immediately apprise the PWD about the water that is flowing out of the sewage chambers. Shadow Council convener and former MMC chairperson, Savio Coutinho, alleged that “a scam has been exposed”. “Crores of rupees have been spent on this sewerage project and this is the result of sub-standard and cheap quality work. At the time of connecting residences to the pipeline, instead of using the core-cutting method, the contractor resorted to hammer drilling, which vibration weakened the chambers and caused them to develop cracks. Now rain water enters the chambers through these cracks and then eventually overflows,” he said. The PWD’s junior engineer Ajay Patel told TOI that “since it is a low-lying area, this happens during every monsoon”. Stating that the MMC has not cleaned the storm water drains this season, which has compounded the situation, Patel said that he will be able to study the exact cause only after the water subsides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-sewerage-chambers-in-navelim-calconda-overflow/articleshow/76792133.cms||Nisser Dias
July 5, 2020||Amaravati||Telugu NRIs rally behind farmers on 200th day of Amaravati protests||VIJAYAWADA: Solidarity poured in from across the globe as the protests by the farmers who gave away their lands for the construction of the capital in Amaravati entered 200th day on Saturday. On social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram the hashtag #200DaysOfAmaravatiProtests trended. Responding to a call given by the Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti Joint Action Committee, the Telugu diaspora in more than 330 cities across the world held rallies. They held candlelight marches and demonstrations holding placards demanding that Amaravati be continued as the capital of Andhra Pradesh. Although the idea was to get support from 200 cities across the world, but the call received overwhelming response from people. In USA, alone, protests were observed at more than 230 cities, said Komati Jayaram, former president of Telugu Association of North America (TANA). Besides, protests were held at major cities in countries like Germany, United Kingdom, Australia, Ireland, France, Bahrain, Kuwait, South Africa, Canada, Dubai, Saudi Arabia and New Zealand. Meanwhile, protests and demonstrations were held at all major cities, towns and villages across the state on Saturday. Groups of 15 to 20 people protested while maintaining physical distancing. The Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti launched ‘Maha Deeksha’ on the 200 day of the protests and demanded that the state government roll back its decision to trifurcate the capital. All political parties extended support to the farmers’ protest. The Joint Action Committee also conducted a virtual rally in zoom app with representatives of political parties from various places and supporters of Amaravati from other countries. Former chief minister and TDP chief N Chandrababu said the present government’s decision will hamper the development of the state and it cannot do away with the capital project, which has all advantages to emerge as a world-class city. He demanded the Union government to intervene. The general secretary of Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti, Gadde Tirupati Rao, said the protest for Amaravati will continue till the state government rolls back its decision to shift the capital. YSRC MP from Narasapuram Raghurama Krishnam Raju, who has been in the news for his ‘anti-party’ activities, extended his support to the farmers terming their demand legitimate. He suggested that if the state government were to trifurcate the capital then Amaravati should be made the executive capital as the infrastructure development has already been done to a large extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/telugu-nris-rally-behind-farmers-on-200th-day-of-amaravati-protests/articleshow/76792915.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||Every 4th Covid-19 patient in Rajasthan is a migrant worker||JAIPUR: Every fourth Covid patient in Rajasthan is a migrant who has either returned from another state or flown in from abroad. The number of positive cases is likely to surge further as those arriving from other states no longer need to be home quarantined. Out of 19,532 positive cases till Saturday, 5,429 are migrants. With thousands of Rajasthanis returning to the state from Kuwait, Kazakhstan and Russia through Vande Bharat flights, the districts are under tremendous pressure. Out of 1,821 passengers who returned from Kazakhstan recently, 1,075 underwent Covid tests and 151 were found infected. Rajasthanis from West Asian nations are arriving in Jaipur, Udaipur, Ahmedabad and Delhi. Those landing in Delhi and Ahmedabad are being quarantined at the respective cities, while those reaching Jaipur and Udaipur are being ferried in government buses to their respective cities before they are put under institutional quarantine. Additional chief secretary (department of mines and petroleum and in-charge of migrant movement) Subodh Agarwal said a high incidence of Covid cases have surfaced from Kazakhstan. “Those coming from abroad are sent to institutional quarantine for a week. If they test positive, they are sent to Covid ward for recovery,” Agarwal said. The state government is expecting to see a wave of migrants reaching Sikar, Jaipur, Nagaur, Dungarpur and Banswara districts from West Asian countries in the coming days. “So far, 900 migrants from these countries have arrived and served the quarantine period before they were allowed to go home. The number is increasing with every passing day,” said Banswara SDM Parwat Singh. Objecting to the suspension of home quarantine rule for those returning from other states, an official in Sikar said migrants, especially those coming from hotspots like Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Chennai, need to be home quarantined for a week. “Migrants arriving in Sikar from these cities are testing positive and suspending the quarantine rule could be a disaster. I hope the state will revise its guidelines,” said an official. Sikar-based social activist Ashfaq Kaimkhany told TOI that thousands of persons from Shekhawati region (Sikar, Churu and Jhunjhunu) are waiting to return from West Asian countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/every-4th-covid-patient-in-state-is-a-migrant-worker/articleshow/76791950.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Agra||In 11 months, UPPCB slapped Rs 14 cr fine on 'polluters' NHAI & Jal Nigam, but made zero recovery||AGRA: The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) in the past 11 months has imposed a penalty of Rs 14 crore on "major polluters", mainly the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam, but failed to make any recovery so far. Initially, NHAI and Jal Nigam were given 15 days of time to deposit the amount and later there were repeated reminders. Now, after several months, the Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ) authority has issued show cause notices. According to the board, the penalty on NHAI was imposed allegedly for lack of arrangement for dust mitigation during the six-lane expansion of the Delhi-Agra national highway. Blowing of dust has caused pollution, it stated. Following the TTZ authority's orders, the UPPCB in August 2019 imposed a fine of Rs 6.84 crore on NHAI for "causing damage to the environment". But, NHAI has not paid the penalty in the last 11 months. The penalty on the UP Jal Nigam was imposed for the alleged non-functioning of the sewage treatment plants. Sewage was directly discharged into the Yamuna through the Kolhai drainage. UPPCB first imposed a penalty of Rs 15 lakh and then Rs 7 crore penalty was imposed on the Yamuna pollution unit of Jal Nigam six months ago. So far, Jal Nigam has not paid the penalty. On Saturday, UPPCB regional officer Bhuwan Yadav said, “Time is running out for NHAI and Jal Nigam to pay the penalty of around Rs 14 crore for causing pollution. Even after repeated notices, neither of them have paid the amount. The matter has been brought to the notice of the state government. Further action will be taken on the basis of the orders received from the higher authorities." Meanwhile, Jal Nigam chief engineer RK Garg said, “UPPCB has wrongly imposed this penalty. The matter is under consideration at the level of state government." While NHAI project manager Mohammad Safi said, “NHAI has not caused any damage to the environment. The six-lane work on NH-2 is being done by a private firm. Penalty notice should have been sent to them. We have responded to the UPPCB's notice."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/in-11-months-uppcb-slapped-rs-14-cr-fine-on-polluters-nhai-jal-nigam-but-made-zero-recovery/articleshow/76790146.cms||Deepak Lavania
July 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Swiss firm HESS AG was all set to sign MoU with Kerala government in April||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The minutes of the meeting convened at the highest level of the government between the government representatives, e-mobility project consultant PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) and Swiss electric bus manufacturer HESS AG throws up several questions on whether a due process of law was followed in finalizing the technology partner for the e-mobility project. Even though the government claims that the final MoU with the Swiss automobile major has not been inked yet, the minutes of the meeting (accessed by TOI) held on February 17 this year shows that the government was all set to ink an MoU with the Swiss company. The meeting was convened by the then chief secretary Tom Jose in which the transport secretary, five representatives of PwC, representatives of HESS led by chief executive officer Alex Nadef and cantonal councillor of Switzerland Susan Von Sury participated. “It was also proposed to sign an MoU by the end of April 2020 after following all the required formalities,” the minutes said. The minutes also says that Nadef said that the company wants to maintain a cordial relationship with the government throughout the project and that concrete steps should be taken before entering into an agreement. Principal secretary (transport) K R Jyothilal had on Friday clarified on behalf of the government that the government has not entered into an agreement with HESS, and the company had only submitted a draft MoU to the Kerala Automobiles Ltd (KAL), with which the company was expected to partner for manufacturing the electric buses. However, the minutes of the meeting shows that the final decision had been taken to sign the MoU with HESS and signing was only a formality. Interestingly, as per the minutes, no one representing KAL or the industries department was present in the meeting. As per standard bidding process, the government engages a consultant having a techno-managerial ability to go through the whole process for finalizing the technology partner. The consultant then prepares the detailed project report and request for proposals. Further, the consultant will advise the government in choosing the right partner through a transparent bidding process by examining the technical and financial parameters on the basis of the bids placed. In the case of e-bus project, part of e-mobility project, the government is claiming that no other company had evinced interest in the project except HESS. Meanwhile, government sources said that representatives of the Swiss company held discussions with the chief minister’s delegation during his visit to Switzerland in May 2019. The transport secretary’s clarification note on Friday also says that after the Swiss company expressed interest to invest in the state, KAL had invited a tender under Swiss challenge method. Sources cited that choosing Swiss challenge method over transparent bidding process raises several concerns regarding transparency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/swiss-firm-hess-ag-was-all-set-to-sign-mou-with-govt-in-april/articleshow/76790886.cms||KP Saikiran
July 5, 2020||Vijayawada||No deaths, but 70 new cases in Krishna dist||Vijayawada: Krishna district registered 70 Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,670. No deaths were reported and the death toll remained at 68, the second-highest in the state after Kurnool, with 76 deaths. The district administration has decided to establish five more Covid-19 hospitals, in addition to the existing three hospitals in Vijayawada. In the last three days, Vijayawada recorded 220 cases. Till date, Vijayawada West has registered 550 Covid-19 cases. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) and city police are focusing on containment in densely-populated One Town and Bhavanipuram. New cases have emerged at Madhuranagar, Ayyappa Nagar, Gollapudi and Gannavaram over the last three days. Two employees at the ACB court have tested positive and entry of visitors to government offices have been restricted. The health wing is focusing on home isolation and treatment for asymptomatic patients. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz has released guidelines on home isolation. Any person, upon developing mild symptoms of Covid-19, can opt for home isolation and receive treatment at home. Asha workers and doctors will provide medication and assistance, the collector said. Imtiaz chaired a meeting with the district unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA) and requested doctors’ support in establishing more Covid-19 hospitals in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-deaths-but-70-new-cases-in-krishna-dist/articleshow/76790891.cms||Venu Lanka
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Hry govt against quota benefits in promotion’||Chandigarh: Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief and former Union minister Kumari Selja on Saturday questioned the intention of the state government over giving reservation benefits in promotion to officials from SC, ST and BC categories. Interacting virtually with media persons, the HPCC president claimed that the officials from reserved categories would be denied quota benefits in promotion, as the Haryana government has nullified the 2018 order of roaster system for employees from these categories. She also cast aspersions on the intentions of the BJP government at the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-govt-against-quota-benefits-in-promotion/articleshow/76791513.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Srinagar||Punjab govt allows two international flights a day at Mohali, Amritsar||CHANDIGARH: To facilitate return of Indians stranded abroad, the Punjab government has allowed two flights to land in a day at Mohali and Amritsar international airports during Unlock 2.0. Punjab director of civil aviation department Girish Dayalan said on Saturday that the final policy for the landing of flights carrying Indians stranded abroad at Mohali and Amritsar international airports has been finalised. He said the state civil aviation department had been receiving requests from various airlines — charter and other operators — to land flights at Mohali and Amritsar airports. He added that the state government would grant permissions to these flights to land in Mohali and Amritsar, subject to fulfilment of certain conditions. All international passengers arriving in the state must undergo institutional quarantine for seven days followed by home quarantine for seven days, according to the guidelines of the Union ministry of home affairs as well as the Punjab government. According to the guidelines, the airlines may ensure that the flights carrying the passengers of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and UT Chandigarh may land at Mohali airport while passengers from Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh may land at Amritsar airport. Dayalan said after consultation with the district administration, looking into the capacity of handling incoming passengers and to ensure proper institutional quarantine, arrival of flights has been staggered to permit only two flights a day, at either of the airports. However, he added that under exceptional circumstances, more flights can be considered. According to the guidelines, respective state governments may designate their nodal officers from whom no objection certification or permission is to be sought and who will be responsible for making arrangements to collect or transport their passengers to their respective states. If all the passengers are from Punjab, the airlines or charter flights have to apply for permission to the office of the director civil aviation, Punjab. For passengers from other states, before applying to director civil aviation, they will have to seek permission or NOC from the nodal officer of the state concerned. Airlines or charter flights will also have to supply an undertaking from the nodal officer. Such airlines or charter flights are also required to give a soft copy of the flight manifest in the specified format clearly mentioning destination states and districts while applying for the permission. Airlines or charter flights are required to apply for the permission at least two days before the intended date of arrival at Mohali or Amritsar. Those travelling to Punjab need to download Cova app and should make bookings in advance in hotels for their institutional quarantine through the app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/pb-allows-2-intl-flights-a-day-at-mohali-amritsar/articleshow/76795206.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Reference book on military pensions||Chandigarh: A reference book with details of important decisions of the Supreme Court, the high courts and Armed Forces Tribunal (AFT) on different facets of military pensions by Major Navdeep Singh, an advocate in the Punjab & Haryana high court and the founder president of the AFT Bar Association, was released on Saturday. The book, ‘Military Pensions: Commentary, Case Law & Provisions,’ gives details of various types of pension — service pension, invalid pension, special pension, reservist pension — and the policies and provisions governing them. Rare provisions dealing with pensions in defence services with relevant rules from 1940 to the Seventh Pay Commission, including some promulgated in 2020, are included in the book. The chapters also include details on disability and operational benefits with various provisions governing them in India and abroad. It also covers concepts such as recovery from pension and one rank one pension (OROP).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/reference-book-on-military-pensions/articleshow/76791955.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC defers work, more employees test +ve||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has deferred its full judicial functioning till Tuesday with six of its staff members testing Covid-19 positive on Saturday, sources said. A Covid-19 testing drive has been underway on the HC campus in Sola. As many as 231 staff members have so far been tested. Earlier on June 28, one staff member in HC’s judicial department was tested Covid-19 positive and the HC restricted its judicial work to only urgent cases. The HC has been hearing cases through video conferencing. Four days later, the HC decided to normalize its judicial functioning with all 23 benches and the cases , which could not be heard for three days, were listed for hearing on Monday. But, on Saturday evening, the HC announced that all adjourned matters that were to be heard on Monday will not be heard on Tuesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-defers-work-more-employees-test-ve/articleshow/76791521.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Board toppers credit school dropout parents||BHOPAL: Students of the Class 10 passed with flying colours in the MP board exams and their parents are twice as happy. Interestingly, many toppers who have scored 100 per cent marks belong to poor families and their parents had to drop out of school due to various reasons. Chatur Kumar Tripathi, who scored 400/400, becoming one of the 15 state toppers, hails from Badagaon village in Panna district. His father Ramanand Tripathi couldn’t complete his school education and earns his livelihood by farming on a small piece of land. Obviously thrilled over his son's success, Ramanand said, "I am so happy as my son's hard work has paid off. He worked really hard to score well, and I am beaming with pride as he has become a state topper." Chatur, who studied 7-8 hours every day after attending school, said, he wants to be an engineer. "I will opt for PCM (physics, chemistry and maths) stream as I wish to pursue engineering. Both my sisters are pursuing B.Sc and my father is extremely focused on providing us with good education, so that we can have a bright future." Another topper, Kavita Lodhi, who scored 300/300 hails from Indore. Her father has studied till class 8 and her mother could not even attend school, but both of them keep encouraging her to pursue her dream of becoming a doctor. Despite having a bigfamily and a small income, the parents sent her for coaching to help her get the guidance she needed. Her father, Chandan Lodhi, said, "I have four daughters. The eldest is in class 11 and Kavita has now passed class 10. She aspires to become a doctor and wants to treat Covid-19 patients. Weare very proud of her and will support her dreams even if it means working twice as hard." Karnika Mishra of Bhopal who also scored 100% marks in class 10, wants to be a civil servant. "I plan to take both mathematics and biology in class 11. It will be a little difficult, but it will be good for me in the long run. My dream is to join civil services ," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/board-toppers-credit-school-dropout-parents/articleshow/76791524.cms||Shuchita Jha
July 5, 2020||Jammu||Punjab govt allows two international flights a day at Mohali, Amritsar||CHANDIGARH: To facilitate return of Indians stranded abroad, the Punjab government has allowed two flights to land in a day at Mohali and Amritsar international airports during Unlock 2.0. Punjab director of civil aviation department Girish Dayalan said on Saturday that the final policy for the landing of flights carrying Indians stranded abroad at Mohali and Amritsar international airports has been finalised. He said the state civil aviation department had been receiving requests from various airlines — charter and other operators — to land flights at Mohali and Amritsar airports. He added that the state government would grant permissions to these flights to land in Mohali and Amritsar, subject to fulfilment of certain conditions. All international passengers arriving in the state must undergo institutional quarantine for seven days followed by home quarantine for seven days, according to the guidelines of the Union ministry of home affairs as well as the Punjab government. According to the guidelines, the airlines may ensure that the flights carrying the passengers of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and UT Chandigarh may land at Mohali airport while passengers from Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh may land at Amritsar airport. Dayalan said after consultation with the district administration, looking into the capacity of handling incoming passengers and to ensure proper institutional quarantine, arrival of flights has been staggered to permit only two flights a day, at either of the airports. However, he added that under exceptional circumstances, more flights can be considered. According to the guidelines, respective state governments may designate their nodal officers from whom no objection certification or permission is to be sought and who will be responsible for making arrangements to collect or transport their passengers to their respective states. If all the passengers are from Punjab, the airlines or charter flights have to apply for permission to the office of the director civil aviation, Punjab. For passengers from other states, before applying to director civil aviation, they will have to seek permission or NOC from the nodal officer of the state concerned. Airlines or charter flights will also have to supply an undertaking from the nodal officer. Such airlines or charter flights are also required to give a soft copy of the flight manifest in the specified format clearly mentioning destination states and districts while applying for the permission. Airlines or charter flights are required to apply for the permission at least two days before the intended date of arrival at Mohali or Amritsar. Those travelling to Punjab need to download Cova app and should make bookings in advance in hotels for their institutional quarantine through the app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/pb-allows-2-intl-flights-a-day-at-mohali-amritsar/articleshow/76795205.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||32kg gold seized from Vande Bharat passengers in Jaipur||JAIPUR: In the largest seizure of gold in Rajasthan in the past nearly 20 years, customs sleuths on Friday seized 31.998kg of the yellow metal worth Rs 15.67 crore from 14 Indian passengers at the Jaipur airport and arrested all of them. These passengers had landed at Jaipur airport on two different Vande Bharat (VB) flights from UAE and Saudi Arabia. They had concealed the gold bars in the battery slots of emergency lights they were carrying. The sleuths made the seizure after getting specific inputs about smuggling of gold by some passengers on the two flights meant to bring back Indians stranded in UAE and Saudi Arabia due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “It was surprising for us as these flights were meant to bring back stranded Indians and smuggling in the times of Covid pandemic using VB flights is very strange,” said a senior customs officer on Saturday. Customs officials first arrested three passengers, who came from Ras-Ul-Khema (UAE), and then held 11 passengers, who flew in from Riyadh (Saudi Arabia). “The three passengers brought 12 gold bars weighing 9.339kg concealed in the emergency light battery slots, while the 11others brought in 22.659kg in a similar fashion,” the officer said. He claimed that this is the biggest ever seizure of gold in the state in the last nearly 20 years. “In 2000, we had seized a bigger amount of gold from the India-Pakistan border in western Rajasthan,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/32kg-gold-seized-from-vandebharat-passengers-in-jaipur/articleshow/76791956.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Human rights commission seeks report on ‘Sonali Phogat ’s slap’||CHANDIGARH: Taking cognisance of BJP leader and Tik-Tok star Sonali Phogat allegedly slapping and manhandling mandi secretary Sultan Singh, Haryana Human Rights Commission has sought a report from SP, Hisar. He has been asked to submit a report on the incident in six weeks. The State Human Rights Commission passed these orders on Friday after receiving a reference from the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). “It has been alleged in the complaint that a woman named Sonali Phogat assaulted one Sultan Singh publicly and beat him with a chappal. It has been alleged that human rights of the victim have been violated. Videos of the said incident have been circulated through social media. The complaint was originally sent by an NGO, Human Rights Forum, Bahadurgarh. In view of this, let a report be requisitioned from the superintendent of police, Hisar through the director of investigation within a period of six weeks,” observed Deep Bhatia, member of the state human rights commission, Haryana in his order. The matter will come up for hearing before the commission on September 9. On June 5, a video went viral on social media in which Sonali Phogat, who had unsuccessfully contested state assembly polls from Adampur seat on BJP ticket in October 2019, beat up government official Sultan Singh in full public view. The incident allegedly took place at the grain market of Balsamand village of Hisar district, where Phogat was visiting with her supporters. The matter also reached the state women’s commission, Haryana. An FIR was registered by Hisar police against Phogat and her supporters. She was also arrested and produced before court, which granted her bail. Police have submitted a chargesheet against her. At present, she is out on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/slapgate-haryana-rights-panel-seeks-report/articleshow/76791953.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Vijayawada||AP govt set to drill borewells for free||VIJAYAWADA: The state government issued an order on Saturday sanctioning a new scheme as per which free borewells will be drilled for farmers across the state. Announcing the scheme, minister for agriculture Kurasala Kanna Babu told media persons, “There are no alternative water sources for several farmers except tapping groundwater.” However, the minister said they would take steps to avoid over exploitation of groundwater while sanctioning the borewells. “The government would, from time to time, announce the list of the villages which have exploited ground water to the maximum limit,” he added. As promised in the first session of the assembly, held immediately after the 2019 general elections by chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy, the government has finally framed the guidelines for the scheme and is set to launch it. Farmers who have less than five acres and minimum of 2.5 acres of cultivable land will get a borewell drilled free of cost. If a farmer’s land falls short of 2.5 acres, he can join his neighbour and share a borewell. The land, however, should not be in the list of over exploited (ground water) revenue villages, the GO states. The government will now send borewell drilling machines to every Lok Sabha constituency attached to the district water management authority and connected through respective MPDOs at the mandal. The selection of feasible sites for drilling the borewell will be done by contractors in accordance with the AP Water, Land and Tress Act 2002.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-set-to-drill-borewells-for-free/articleshow/76790896.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Mysuru||Will hire people to dispose bodies in a dignified manner: DHO||MYSURU: After viral videos of bodies of Covid-19 victims being casually dragged and flipped into a deep pit for burial sparked outrage, Mysuru district authorities have decided to take the service of private individuals to carry bodies to the burial ground for the last rites. Officials don’t want to take any chances and be at the receiving end. So far, they have managed well by conducting funerals in a dignified manner and family members too haven’t raised any objection like in other parts of the state or country. Shortage of staff is forcing authorities to hire private services to handle bodies as some of the staff are feeling burdened with the new task. They are also not familiar with carrying bodies to the burial ground and alighting bodies into deep pits or to place bodies in a furnace at crematoriums. District health officer Dr R Venkatesh confirmed to TOI that a decision has been taken at a meeting of the committee for disposal of bodies with Covid-19 infection. “We want the individuals to transport the bodies from the hospital to the grave. They must handle bodies in a way that will not hurt the sentiments of relatives and the public in general. We need a minimum of four individuals to keep the body in the hearse van and then take it out for funeral – whether burial or cremation,” he said. District family welfare officer Mohammed Shiraz, a member of the committee, told TOI that four people including a woman have died of Covid-19 in Mysuru. “Three were cremated and one was buried in their community burial ground. We have identified a graveyard in north Mysuru to dispose of bodies in case there is opposition for burial at their places or community burial grounds,” he said. The committee headed by the DHO has members from the health department, Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute, Mysuru City Corporation and revenue department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/will-hire-people-to-dispose-bodies-in-a-dignified-manner-dho/articleshow/76790903.cms||Lawrence Milton
July 5, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab govt allows two international flights a day at Mohali, Amritsar||CHANDIGARH: To facilitate return of Indians stranded abroad, the Punjab government has allowed two flights to land in a day at Mohali and Amritsar international airports during Unlock 2.0. Punjab director of civil aviation department Girish Dayalan said on Saturday that the final policy for the landing of flights carrying Indians stranded abroad at Mohali and Amritsar international airports has been finalised. He said the state civil aviation department had been receiving requests from various airlines — charter and other operators — to land flights at Mohali and Amritsar airports. He added that the state government would grant permissions to these flights to land in Mohali and Amritsar, subject to fulfilment of certain conditions. All international passengers arriving in the state must undergo institutional quarantine for seven days followed by home quarantine for seven days, according to the guidelines of the Union ministry of home affairs as well as the Punjab government. According to the guidelines, the airlines may ensure that the flights carrying the passengers of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and UT Chandigarh may land at Mohali airport while passengers from Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh may land at Amritsar airport. Dayalan said after consultation with the district administration, looking into the capacity of handling incoming passengers and to ensure proper institutional quarantine, arrival of flights has been staggered to permit only two flights a day, at either of the airports. However, he added that under exceptional circumstances, more flights can be considered. According to the guidelines, respective state governments may designate their nodal officers from whom no objection certification or permission is to be sought and who will be responsible for making arrangements to collect or transport their passengers to their respective states. If all the passengers are from Punjab, the airlines or charter flights have to apply for permission to the office of the director civil aviation, Punjab. For passengers from other states, before applying to director civil aviation, they will have to seek permission or NOC from the nodal officer of the state concerned. Airlines or charter flights will also have to supply an undertaking from the nodal officer. Such airlines or charter flights are also required to give a soft copy of the flight manifest in the specified format clearly mentioning destination states and districts while applying for the permission. Airlines or charter flights are required to apply for the permission at least two days before the intended date of arrival at Mohali or Amritsar. Those travelling to Punjab need to download Cova app and should make bookings in advance in hotels for their institutional quarantine through the app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pb-allows-2-intl-flights-a-day-at-mohali-amritsar/articleshow/76795207.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt allows two international flights a day at Mohali, Amritsar||CHANDIGARH: To facilitate return of Indians stranded abroad, the Punjab government has allowed two flights to land in a day at Mohali and Amritsar international airports during Unlock 2.0. Punjab director of civil aviation department Girish Dayalan said on Saturday that the final policy for the landing of flights carrying Indians stranded abroad at Mohali and Amritsar international airports has been finalised. He said the state civil aviation department had been receiving requests from various airlines — charter and other operators — to land flights at Mohali and Amritsar airports. He added that the state government would grant permissions to these flights to land in Mohali and Amritsar, subject to fulfilment of certain conditions. All international passengers arriving in the state must undergo institutional quarantine for seven days followed by home quarantine for seven days, according to the guidelines of the Union ministry of home affairs as well as the Punjab government. According to the guidelines, the airlines may ensure that the flights carrying the passengers of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and UT Chandigarh may land at Mohali airport while passengers from Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh may land at Amritsar airport. Dayalan said after consultation with the district administration, looking into the capacity of handling incoming passengers and to ensure proper institutional quarantine, arrival of flights has been staggered to permit only two flights a day, at either of the airports. However, he added that under exceptional circumstances, more flights can be considered. According to the guidelines, respective state governments may designate their nodal officers from whom no objection certification or permission is to be sought and who will be responsible for making arrangements to collect or transport their passengers to their respective states. If all the passengers are from Punjab, the airlines or charter flights have to apply for permission to the office of the director civil aviation, Punjab. For passengers from other states, before applying to director civil aviation, they will have to seek permission or NOC from the nodal officer of the state concerned. Airlines or charter flights will also have to supply an undertaking from the nodal officer. Such airlines or charter flights are also required to give a soft copy of the flight manifest in the specified format clearly mentioning destination states and districts while applying for the permission. Airlines or charter flights are required to apply for the permission at least two days before the intended date of arrival at Mohali or Amritsar. Those travelling to Punjab need to download Cova app and should make bookings in advance in hotels for their institutional quarantine through the app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-allows-2-intl-flights-a-day-at-mohali-amritsar/articleshow/76791954.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bhopal||Government schools outperform private ones across MP||BHOPAL: Cynics may scoff at the quality of education imparted in the government schools, but they have done fairly well compared to private schools in the class 10 results declared on Saturday. Government schools have registered 63.64 pass percentage, while private schools got only 61.65 pass percentage. In 2019 too, the pass percentage of government schools was 62.05 while private schools’ pass percentage was 60.70. Across the districts of Madhya Pradesh, government schools have done far better than private schools. In Bhopal, pass percentage in government schools is 68.97, while it is 62,37 per cent in private schools. This difference in the results of government schools and private schools is quite high in Indore, where government schools delivered 73.79 per cent result while private schools could barely deliver 66.74 per cent. There are, however, a few exceptions where private schools did better than government schools. In Rewa, private schools pass percentage is 57.37 while government schools delivered 46.47 per cent result. In Mandla district also, 66.42 per cent students of private schools cleared the exams; in government schools, the pass result is 49.42 per cent. Even the toppers are mostly from government schools. Vikas Sharma who secured 400 out of 400, said, “Government schools are giving good results where teachers are good. My school teachers concentrated on our basics, due to which the result is better.” A teacher told TOI that in remote areas, parents still rely more on government schools. “Fee in government schools is much less compared to private schools, due to which more students study in these schools. It is wrong to say that government school teachers are not good; they are also delivering good results,” said a government teacher without quoting her name. This year 5,31,389 students appeared from government schools. Out of this, 3,37,709 passed the exams. In all 3,61,285 appeared at private schools and 2,22,265 cleared the exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-more-toppers-better-results-govt-schools-beat-private-institutions/articleshow/76791530.cms||Ramendra Singh
July 5, 2020||Shimla||Cluster scheme for Himachal Pradesh schools soon, says CM Jai Ram Thakur||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh will soon launch “Swaran Jayanti Gyanodaya Cluster Shreshtha Vidyalaya Yojna”, under which 100 schools of the state will be improved by bringing about qualitative changes in them. Addressing a review meeting of budget assurances for the year 2020-21 here on Saturday, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said Rs 15 crore would be spent under this scheme to improve schools. He said Bachelor of Vocational Courses has been introduced in 12 colleges of the state and this year, such courses would also be started in six more colleges. Thakur directed officers to give topmost priority to time-bound fulfilment of budget assurances, so that benefits of the schemes percolate down to the target groups. He said efforts should be made to increase enrolment of students in government schools particularly at pre-primary and primary levels. Greater stress should be laid on qualitative improvement in education, so that students get best education close to their homes. He said Medha Protshan Yojna launched by the state government has proved a boon to the students, as they are getting incentive of Rs 1 lakh for pursuing coaching for various exams such NEET, IIT etc. He said this year under Swaran Jayanti Super 100 scheme, 100 toppers of Class X would be provided assistance of Rs 1 lakh each for undergoing training to compete in various entrance examinations. He said that Krishi Utpaad Sarankshan Yojna has been launched in the state, under which 50% subsidy is being provided to the farmers for erecting structure to support anti-hail nets. Similarly, Mehak Yojna has been launched for promotion and cultivation of aromatic plants. He that controlled atmosphere stores are being upgraded under the World Bank-aided Horticulture Development Project at Gumma, Jarol-Tikkar and Rohru, which would facilitate the horticulturists and farmers of the state in getting remunerative prices of their produces. Thakur said that under Jal Jeevan Mission, the government is ensuring that all households get tapped water by the year 2022. He said the state government also received an incentive of Rs 57 crore from the Union government for an effective implementation of the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/cluster-scheme-for-himachal-schools-soon-says-cm/articleshow/76791958.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kochi||Shelter home inmate alleges sexual abuse||Kottayam: An inmate of a women’s shelter home has complained that she was sexually abused by the husband of the founder of the shelter home. The 21-year-old also wrote a detailed letter to the chief minister about her experiences at the home. Police have charged a case against Babu Varghese, husband of Annie Babu, who is the director of Santhwanam Charitable Trust, under IPC section 354 for assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty. Meanwhile, the child welfare committee (CWC) shifted 17 minor girls from the home to another shelter. The complainant, hailing from Idukki, had been staying at Santhwanam for 12 years. In the letter written to the chief minister, she says that she used to go to the director’s house as a helper. She also she used to go there to give company to the director’s bedridden mother-in-law. It was during such a visit that she was abused on October 23, 2019, she said. A complaint to the director fell on deaf ears. The director’s husband used to visit the shelter home regularly even after the complaint. The complainant in her letter said that a minor girl from the shelter was made to stay at the director’s house. She had raised concerns about the safety of that girl, following which she wrote to the chief minister on June 23, 2020. She had also complained to the district child protection officer. The officer visited the place and filed a detailed report to CWC. The CWC in turn informed Kottayam SP and decided to shift the minor girls from there considering their safety. Kottayam SP G Jayadev said that a complaint has been received from CWC and it has been forwarded to the women’s cell. This complaint was later shifted to the women’s police station and a case was charged. The complainant has also been shifted to another shelter home. Meanwhile, the child protection officer has been asked to find whether the minor girls had undergone any sexual abuse at the home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/shelter-home-inmate-alleges-sexual-abuse/articleshow/76790897.cms||---
July 5, 2020||India||Mice hold key in Covid vaccine rat race||MUMBAI: Even as experts have questioned ICMR’s "hurried decision on fast tracking" a potential Covid-19 vaccine being co-developed with Bharat Biotech, the fact remains that humble mice hold the key in the complicated and lengthy development process. The role of mice has gained prominence because of a specialised protocol for testing — “animal challenge model” involving mice and/or monkeys, created recently to test the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccine before it’s tested on humans. The “animal challenge model” is part of something called a “preclinical toxicology protocol”, which is an important part of vaccine development. For this, “specialised” mice (Ace2 mice/ infrastructure) are required. The mouse is injected with a gene, which makes it susceptible to the virus infection. (Lab mice induced with adenoviruses encoding human ACE2 are permissive for SARS- Cov-2 and develop pneumonia. Passive transfer of a monoclonal antibody (drug/treatment) reduces lung infection, inflammation and disease. Source: Hassan et al, 2020, Cell 182, 1–10 )A validated animal-challenge model in mice and monkeys gives an additional assurance towards establishing efficacy in a vaccine, before it is tested on humans. Experts say it is an important step in developing a vaccine before it enters human trials and does not seem to have been done in this case. Details of the pre-clinical toxicology of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine could not be verified. “The infrastructure for the animal-challenge model is not available with scientists for research and development in the country,’’ a vaccine player who is developing a Covid-19 vaccine told TOI, adding it’s important to check if it’s effective in lab animals, before putting human volunteers at potential risk. Further, scientists say the most important goal for a vaccine is efficacy. In fact, the US Food and Drug Administration emphasized efficacy in its first pathway on vaccines released recently, saying that for any approval in US, the vaccine must be at least 50% effective in preventing coronavirus. Dr Anant Bhan, researcher and former president of International Association of Bioethics, said, “We need to do quality vaccine research at this time and it's important for India to take a leadership role. But we also need to ensure proper standards and due attention to safety and efficacy issues, and the need for ethics’ safeguards. We can conduct research expeditiously, but not at the cost of minimum standards. Getting all phases of the clinical trial done and having the efficacy data available by August 15 is pretty much impossible’’. Also, it’s not only the scientific process which has attracted outrage. There are major discrepancies in the clinical trial registered. Under the proposed Phase 1 study, participants are in the age group of 18 to 55 years, while in Phase 2, it is 12 to 65 years. Experts question the rationale of selection, asking how results would be co-related in this case, and stressing that the trial has no mention of “efficacy:. Others have pointed out ICMR’s conflict of interest, as it is the source of vaccine strain (through its National Institute of Virology, Pune), the regulator, government agency, and co-developer of the vaccine. When the established protocol of a majority of vaccines being developed globally is expected to take around 12-18 months, how can this be curtailed to just over a month, experts asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/key-animal-testing-not-being-done-during-vaccine-devpt/articleshow/76791965.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
July 5, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD to stick to 12,000 devotees per day till July 31||TIRUPATI: The TirumalaTirupati Devasthanams trust board has decided to restrict pilgrim footfall at Lord Venketeswara temple to 12,000 devotees per day till the end of July in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country. TTD chairman Y V Subba Reddy, addressing reporters after Saturday’s trust board meeting, said the temple body has decided to appeal to devotees from containment or red zone areas to avoid visiting Tirumala till the condition in their respective areas improves. “We are more concerned about the safety of visiting devotees, not revenue or hundi collections, in these critical times. We will continue to ensure that the best of safety measures are in place for pilgrims coming to Tirumala. Since the reopening of the temple for pilgrim worship, not a single devotee has tested positive,” Subba Reddy said. He, however, informed that around 17 employees from different TTD departments in Tirumala have tested positive for Covid-19. “The temple administration has moved them all to quarantine facilities where they are now being administered treatment. Protection of employees is our primary responsibility. They seem to have contracted the virus because of inter-state travel. We will ensure the best of medical care for our employees,” he asserted. Subba Reddy further said that the TTD will execute Karnataka government’s development works in Tirumala. The Rs 200 crore project include the construction of a pilgrim amenities complex and a kalyana mandapam. “Karnataka CM (BS Yediyurappa) will lay the foundation stone for the development works in Tirumala soon. Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy is likely to attend the event,” he said. Meanwhile, the untiring efforts of the TTD health department have ensured that Tirumala has remained untouched from Covid-19 so far, despite a spike in the number of cases in Tirupati. No cases have been recorded in the hill town so far, despite a daily influx of about 12,000 devotees to the Lord Venkateswara temple. The temple body health officials have ensured that all devotees are properly screened, right from the entry point at Alipiri, and again while entering the temple. TTD has also been collecting 200 random samples of devotees daily. Hundreds of sanitation workers working in three shifts have been rendering selfless service by keeping the hill town sanitised and clean. Th e highest number of cases in Chittoor district has been recorded in the temple city of Tirupati. Efforts are underway to keep Tirumala a green zone. The temple body will appeal to devotees from containment and red zones to avoid visiting Tirumala till the situation in their respective areas improves||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-to-stick-to-12000-devotees-per-day-till-july-31/articleshow/76790905.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 5, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Too many industries, too few monitoring staff||VISAKHAPATNAM: The department of factories has a sanctioned strength of 22 inspectors, out of which over 10 posts have been lying vacant. The Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) has a staff strength of 124, while the number of polluting industries in the state is over 9,000, of which over 3,000 come under the ‘red’ category. These dismal facts have come to light after the recent industrial mishaps in the state, particularly in Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City (JNPC). The critical components in any industry are reactors, compressors, condensers, boilers and pipelines, and their maintenance is a key factor in mitigating accidents. The other important factor, which can mitigate human loss, is the holding of mock drills. It is the inspection of these factors, identifying the lapses and communicating them to the management of the factory, which is the job of an inspector, said joint chief inspector of factories D Chandra Sekhar Varma. It is alleged that the skewed ratio between the number of inspectors and the number of industries has allowed the latter to flout norms with impunity. However, deputy chief inspector of factories, KBS Prasad, said JNPC is a specialised cluster where over 70 pharma companies have been operating. “JNPC, being a sector-specific cluster, has been designed to make hazard risk minimal. It is incorrect to say that safety guidelines were not followed and hence mishaps are being reported in pharma companies. Human error while handling mother-liquid (bulk drugs) is also responsible for the accidents,” he said. Moreover, in an attempt to sustain themselves, some companies are manufacturing new products as required by clients. “Whenever any industry manufactures new products, it will lead to new chemical reactions and sometimes the employees are not properly trained to understand the reaction,” Prasad added. Meanwhile, collector V Vinay Chand said they have identified over 20 industries (hazardous) and have asked them to conduct mock drills on periodical basis. “We are also collecting data of previous accidents to ensure safety of employees, and people living in the surrounding areas of the industries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/too-many-industries-too-few-monitoring-staff/articleshow/76790906.cms||Nalla.Babu
July 5, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Hisar MP too tests positive||HISAR: Hisar MP Brijendra Singh was among the 13 people who tested positive for coronavirus infection in the district on Saturday. The BJP MP had attended a public grievances meeting in Hisar town on Wednesday. He had met about 100 persons, including the Hisar mayor and a former minister. The bureaucrat-turned-politician released a video on Saturday to share the information. In his video message, he said he had been suffering from fever for two-three days, due to which he decided to get tested for Covid-19 on Friday. The first-time MP said all those who had met him in Hisar on Wednesday should contact their nearest doctor, and if they detect any symptoms of Covid-19, they should get their test done too. MP was listening to public grievances at his home on Wednesday and among those who visited him were mayor Gautam Sardana, former minister Hari Singh Saini, some councillors and BJP functionaries. Sardana, who is in home quarantine, said they kept social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hisar-mp-too-tests-positive/articleshow/76791961.cms||Kumar Mukesh
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||24-year-old man shot dead||Jind: A 24-year-old man was allegedly shot dead in Silla Kheri village of Safidon town in Jind district. Reportedly, a dead body was found lying in the village’s stadium. Assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Ajit Shekhawat reached the spot with a police team. Deceased Ankit’s father lodged a police complaint that a person named Deepak, a resident of the same village, took him along on Friday night but Ankit did not return. According to the father, Deepak is involved in liquor business and the death may be the outcome of a fight over money. Safidon police have booked the accused under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/24-year-old-man-shot-dead/articleshow/76791960.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Make earnest efforts to ensure a fair trial, CM urges PM||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make “earnest efforts” to build international pressure to ensure that a fair trial is held in Italy against the two Italian marines of vessel Enrica Lexie, who shot and killed two fishermen off the Kerala coast in 2012. In a letter to the PM written on Saturday, Vijayan said, “It is quite shocking that such a grave crime committed against our citizens is not being brought to justice in our country. The matter definitely deserved a more sensitive and cautious handling from the beginning and during the proceedings in the ITLOS (International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea), as it involved the loss of life of two innocent Indians.” The Hague-headquartered Permanent Court of Arbitration Tribunal had on Thursday upheld the conduct of the Indian authorities in the Enrica Lexie case in which the marines were accused of killing two Indian fishermen. While stating that India was entitled to get compensation in the case, the tribunal had held that the marines cannot be prosecuted due to the official immunity enjoyed by them. Vijayan also sought Modi’s intervention in getting adequate compensation to the families of the fishermen,who had lost their lives while they had put out to sea to earn their livelihood. Whatever be the technicalities of the International conventions, the decision has “resulted in added grief to the bereaved families and people of Kerala,” Vijayan said and conveyed the state’s “strong feelings” on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/make-earnest-efforts-to-ensure-a-fair-trial-cm-urges-pm/articleshow/76790913.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||CM chairs review meet in Rohtak||Chandigarh: Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday directed officers to take all steps to prevent transmission of Covid-19 infection and provide as many pulse oxymeters as possuble to monitor the health of quarantined persons, for quick-time monitoring of oxygen. He directed other OPD services to be started in medical colleges and hospitals. The CM said this while presiding over a Covid review meeting with officers of the district administration and Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, and the health department at Rohtak circuit house . Khattar also took stock of the COVID-19 arrangements from vice-chancellor, PGIMS, OP Kalra and Covid-19 state nodal officer Dhruv Chaudhary. He also asked them to undertake pool testing in least affected areas. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cm-chairs-review-meet-in-rohtak/articleshow/76791963.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Hurdles aplenty before 3-capital plan becomes a reality||VIJAYAWADA: Although the state government is unfazed by the protests and firm on its decision, the farmers’ protest will not be its last battle before establishing three capitals, according to legal experts. The state government has to get through the legislative hurdles by getting the assent from both the Houses of the assembly for the Bills proposed for trifurcation of the capital. With the lack of numbers in the Upper House and the chairman of legislative council having referred the Bills to select committees, the process to getting legislative backing for the YSRC government’s decision is likely to get delayed, unless the government comes up with some unprecedented action plan. But then even if the Bills were to pass the legislative hurdle, the state government will next have to tackle the legal hurdle given that a batch of petitions have been filed by the farmers in the high court. The high court, on the other hand, has already passed an interim order staying the government’s move to shift offices of vigilance commissioner and commissionerate of employees to Kurnool The farmers are banking on promissory estoppel —the legal principle that a promise is enforceable by law, even if made without formal consideration when a promisor has made a promise to a promisee who then relies on it to his eventual detriment. As the land was taken by the state government with the promise of building a world-class capital on it that would create wealth in the long run, the farmers argue that the new government’s move to trifurcate the capital will cause them enormous losses. Senior counsel Ashok Bhan while arguing on behalf of the farmers in the high court said they have given their land in return of the promises made by the state government. It was an agreement between the farmers and the state government and it has to be honoured in letter and spirit; the government cannot renegade on the promises made to the farmers, he said. Galla Satish, a Supreme Court lawyer, observed that in the first place the state government has to justify the legality of the two Bills moved in the assembly for trifurcation of capital. Then comes the question of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectations of the farmers that need to be fulfilled. These are aspects of law which are to be decided by the courts, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hurdles-aplenty-before-3-capital-plan-becomes-a-reality/articleshow/76790915.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: 100 recovered from Covid at Ayush hospital, says doctors||BHOPAL: Diagnosed with Covid-19, more than 100 people have recovered after undergoing treatment at a government-run Ayurveda college in Bhopal. Since the first week of June, several Covid-19 diagnosed patients have opted for treatment of the infection through the Indian system of medicine and about 65% of them have recovered. The rest are under treatment. “It is well understood that Ayush medications increase immunity. The success in treatment of Covid-19 has once again made the case of Ayush to be treated on par with the modern system of medication. More research and development and funding is needed to meet the potential which Ayush offers,” said Bhopal-based Ayush Doctors’ Association national spokesperson Dr Rakesh Pandey. Ninety-three patients who tested positive for Covid-19 have sought treatment in our hospital, said Dr Umesh Shukla, principal of the Bhopal-based Pt. Khushilal Sharma government (autonomous) Ayurveda college and institute. “The district administration has developed a system wherein some of the Covid-19 cases have been admitted in the Ayush hospital. So far, 62 patients have recovered,” said Dr Shukla. In two instances, Covid-19 patients were referred to another facility. In once instance, the patients had developed severe symptoms of SARI and in another, a woman was pregnant. As per protocol, pregnant patients are not admitted in the COVID-19 facility of Ayush. While there is no medicine for Covid-19 as of now, it will be good to take preventive measures which boost our immunity in these times. Ayurveda, being the science of life, propagates the gifts of nature in maintaining healthy and happy living. Ayurveda’s extensive knowledge base on preventive care derives from the concepts of “Dinacharya” (daily regimes) and “Ritucharya” (seasonal regimes) to maintain a healthy life, he added. As of Saturday, 31 patients were under treatment at the Ayush hospital. No deaths have been reported at the hospital. However, severe Covid-19 cases are not suggested treatment at the ayurveda hospital. A number of patients who were given treatment in the hospital are from the security services. According to doctors at the hospital, the line of treatment is as per the Union government guidelines. It is a combination of Ayurveda and some allopathic interventions. Oxygen therapy has also been supported by the new protocol. The hospital is located in a remote area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/100-beat-covid-the-ayurveda-way/articleshow/76790920.cms||Jamal Ayub
July 5, 2020||Chennai||Sexual abuse of children may rise during lockdown, say activists||Chennai: Early June, in Kanyakumari district, four men and two minor boys were arrested after they sexually assaulted an eight-year-old girl. Later that month in Coimbatore, three minor boys were booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for molesting a 11-year-old girl. The lockdown has seen a spike in the instances of domestic violence as women are trapped indoors with their abusers. And many children too are at high risk of facing abuse within their homes, say activists. Considering the severely underreported category of crimes that constitute child sexual abuse (CSA) inside families, they fear the lockdown has made both reporting and intervention next to impossible. “When we get a case of a child facing abuse from a family member, we first move them to a safe space, which is not possible now,” says Sherin Bosko, founder of rape crisis centre and NGO Nakshatra. “With lockdown, the scope for incest crimes has gone up because both the perpetrator and the victim are forced to stay indoors.” Also, the usual allies that the child may find in friends or teachers at school, are now inaccessible. Activists say often sexual crimes inside homes reach the police only after they’ve become medical emergencies. “In the last three months, in case of minors coming to doctors with physical complications or pregnancies, the perpetrator has always been an immediate family member,” says Sherin. Sakshi, an NGO educating youth to prevent CSA in their families and communities, has trained around 10,000 National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers across the country and 1,249 in Tamil Nadu since the lockdown began. The 18 to 22 year olds are educated to identify symptoms of abuse in children within their families and neighbourhoods. “The programme offers resolution mechanisms to the students to converse about this with two family or community members – one younger, one older. The older member becomes their ally to identify symptoms of CSA, break the silence, and call out the perpetrator, so that the young adult can stay out of harm’s way themselves,” says Smita Bharti, president and executive director, Sakshi. “The signs to look out for include sudden behavioural changes in children -- if they have become unusually quiet, become scared of the dark, or started having nightmares. While these may seem innocuous, they do reveal that the child is troubled,” says Dr Aditi Kishore, south India head, Sakshi. However, officials at Child Line Tamil Nadu as well as the Chennai police say they haven't seen an increase in the number of CSA cases during the lockdown. A Child Line India data revealed that more than 6 lakh calls were received between March 20 and April 20, of which 18,217 calls required on-ground intervention and 19% of these accounted for cases requiring protection from abuse, including sexual abuse, trafficking, abandonment and neglect. “While lockdown has limited the opportunities for the child to disclose the abuse – should they choose to –- we must remember that all family members are constantly around now, so chances of getting abused could become slim,” says Vidya Reddy, founder of Tulir - Centre for the Prevention and Healing of Child Sexual Abuse. Pointing out the power dynamics at play inside an abusive household, some activists believe the exploitation may not necessarily be a secret, but silenced. “When the abuser is the breadwinner or head of the family, they tend to suppress everyone else in the house. And that’s why building allies is critical,” says Smita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sexual-abuse-of-children-may-rise-during-lockdown-say-activists/articleshow/76786107.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||Goa: Jackal spotting in Chicalim foxes locals||PANAJI: Sighting an Indian jackal in Goa, often erroneously referred to as fox, is almost akin to spotting the extinct dodo. So, when a resident of a Vasco suburb recently posted on social media about seeing one in her compound, the group members went into a tizzy. “The jackal visits our house daily for the last five days. He even has the guts to come all around the house into the backyard, too,” Chicalim resident Wanda Viegas posted. About five decades ago, there may have been almost as many jackals as there are stray dogs now. They were mostly quiet during the day, but cacophonously advertised their presence, howling in packs at night. This jackal’s visit rewound the clock back to the days of their raids – even in daytime – on hen coops and pigsties. “He (jackal) has already made a meal of one and is trying to eat my remaining three hens. Can you suggest some ways to stop him?” Viegas posted online. The posts drew different reactions. “Have you ever seen a fox (jackal) before? Here is a live one in Chicalim having a feast,” Cyril Fernandes, a human rights activist reacted. Others suggested measures to keep it away. “Impose a lockdown for hens,” Fr Bolmax Pereira, Chicalim parish priest and botanist said. Another member, Gauri Amonkar suggested, “Attack its powerful sense of smell. There are (some) smells (chilli, peppers, garlic) that they really dislike.” While securing the coop is more effective in blocking the prowlers, Viegas had another concern, “I have a big, secure coop for them (hens), but they are so used to being free in our backyard that they let me know with loud clucking that they aren’t happy with the lockdown,” she posted. Interestingly, despite claims of their near-disappearance, a few individual jackals can be seen in parts of Salcete even today. In a study three years ago, researchers Malaika Mathew Chawla, Jyotsna Desai and others from a Nuvem college reported seeing jackal scats and paw prints. They even spotted a pack of five jackals in Bondorim, Sirlim. “They were not visible nor heard for many years in our area,” Chicalim biodiversity management committee chairman Rui M Costa Araujo said. Now they have re-emerged, Araujo said, and they even react with low sounds when the siren goes off at a nearby shipyard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/jackal-spotting-in-chicalim-foxes-locals/articleshow/76792136.cms||Paul Fernandes
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||Constable found hanging in Rajasthan's Tonk, kin seek probe||JAIPUR: A 40-year-old police constable stationed at Tonk sessions court was found hanging from a tree on Saturday morning. Police said Premlal Gujjar allegedly committed suicide, though no note was found on him. The time of his death is between 2am and 5am, claimed officials. The cop, who hailed from Barwas village in Tonk district, had been on guard duty at the court for the past seven months. He is survived by wife and two sons. Sources said the constable, who was suffering from high blood pressure, was undergoing treatment for a mental ailment for the past two years. His family, however, alleged that he probably was facing issues at work due to which he took his life. Tonk ASP Vipin Sharma said, “It appears that the constable who was on night duty committed suicide, though the reasons are not known. We found no suicide note and are trying to find the reason why he took this extreme step. His family has not been able to give us any reasons for the act.” Gujjar’s relative Dharam Raj said, “He had visited his home just a couple of days ago and there were no personal issues which were bothering him. We are unable to understand why he took the step. Since there were no problems on the home front, professional issues could have forced him to take his life. He had undergone treatment for mental issues and was absolutely fine.” The family demanded an investigation to bring out the truth. “Around 7am, we called Premlal on his mobile phone but he did not receive. By then, the authorities would have found his body, but no one bothered to inform us,” added Dharam Raj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/constable-found-hanging-in-tonk-kin-seek-probe/articleshow/76791967.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 5, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Centre allocates Rs 5,585cr worth foodgrains in TN and Puducherry||Chennai: The Centre has allocated food grains worth Rs5,585 crore for free distribution under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) and Atma Nirbhar Bharat Package, in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, since April. Following an announcement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi extending the PMGKAY, a crucial scheme to benefit the poor during the pandemic, up to November, the Food Corporation of India is all set to issue 9.1 lakh tonne of rice free of cost to Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for the next five months. “As against the capacity of 14.16 lakh tonne, we have 90% capacity utilisation now. This stock is enough to meet the needs for the next five months,” FCI (Tamil Nadu) general manager J S Syju told TOI. PMGKAY entitles each family to get a free ration of five kg rice per person a month for the next five months. At least 35,734 tonnes of free rice were provided to the state for supply among migrant workers and non-card holders in May and June under Atma Nirbhar Scheme. After the scheme was rolled out in April, the FCI had supplied 5.44 lakh tonnes to 3.63 crore beneficiaries in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The entire operation starting from the price of the grain paid to farmers till payment of commission to the fair price shops is borne by the Union government, without any fiscal burden on the state exchequer. Syju said the FCI achieved the targeted supply by inducting 442 train loads of rice from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha during the lockdown period. With government agencies in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry recording an all- time record in procurement of paddy – the Central pool touched 24.79 lakh tonne this season surpassing the earlier record of 23.87 lakh tonne in 2011-12. “This procurement will give us 20 lakh tonnes of rice locally, of which five lakh has already come into the distribution system. We also expect another four lakh tonnes of paddy to be procured in the remaining season which would be another achievement. We ensure that every farmer is remunerated properly for the produce,” Syju said. While the FCI normally handles 3 lakh to 3.5 lakh tonnes of foodgrains a month, it managed the substantial movement of goods during lockdown with all safety protocols in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-19-centre-allocates-rs-5585cr-worth-foodgrains-in-tn-and-puducherry/articleshow/76786129.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bhopal||15,000 tests per day in Madhya Pradesh from Sunday||BHOPAL: In a major move to prop up Covid-19 testing capacity in Madhya Pradesh, the state government said that capacity will nearly double by Monday. “15,000 Covid-19 tests per day would be possible from Monday. We have an option to scale up this testing and nearly double it within 10 days,” said Madhya Pradesh public health services corporation limited, MD, Dr Vijay Kumar., here on Saturday. Current testing capacity of the state government is about 8,000 per day. MPPHSCL has empaneled three service providers for Covid-19 test outsourcing. Together, the three service providers will provide same day test reports for districts which have an airport. For the remainder the test report would be made available within 48-hours. The measure is also likely to improve transparency and reduce the stress on medical colleges. “Main criteria is a focus on quality of testing. We would carry out random tests,” said Dr Kumar. According to the norms, the lab should be NABL accredited with ICMR authorised approval and BSL 2 compliance for doing the tests for Real Time-PCR assays for RNA virus as per ICMR guidelines. The lab should follow and fulfil the compliance to all the guidelines issued by ICMR regarding Covid-19 testing. Only real time basis assays is recommended for Covid-19 testing. The commercial kits used for Real Time -PCR Testing should be USFDA Approved or EUROPEAN CE certified or both with ICMR authorised approval for in-vitro diagnosis for Covid-19. According to empanelment norms, identified labs will collect samples from listed/identified district facilities within 8-12 hours from intimation or once a day. Covid-19 test results, will be made available within 24-48 hours, or the service provider would be subjected to penalties. Routine samples drawn and obtained from identified Covid-19 location pick up points, as per the guidelines are to be collected between 11 am to 1 pm. It can also vary upon location.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/15k-tests-per-day-in-mp-from-today/articleshow/76790934.cms||Jamal Ayub
July 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Udyam registration to boost MSMEs||Thiruvananthapuram: As part of facilitating the ease of doing business initiative and reduce the transaction time and costs, the Centre has come up with Udyam registration for the micro, small and medium enterprises. The Centre’s new portal is expected to give more fillip to the entrepreneurs in the state as majority of the business initiatives in the state come under the category of MSMEs. The ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises has clarified that except the portal no other private online or offline system, service, agency or person is authorized to do MSME registration. Along with the online portal registration, the government has also revised the conditions for categorisation for micro, small and medium enterprises. As per the new definition, the micro enterprises are those in which the investment in plant, machinery and equipment does not exceed Rs 1 crore and the annual turnover is not more than Rs 5 crore. Small enterprises are those in which the investment in plant, machinery and equipment does not exceed Rs 10 crore and the annual turnover is not more than Rs 50 crore. Also, medium enterprises are those in which the investment in plant, machinery and equipment and the annual turnover does not exceed Rs 50 crore and Rs 250 crore, respectively. Those interested in coming up with a business initiative falling under the category can register in the Udayam portal using his self-attested documents and Aadhaar number. Once the registration is completed, the applicant will receive Udyam registration number and registration certificate. almost 70% of the industries functioning in the state are under the category of MSMEs. The state government is already in the process of rolling out several packages for the MSME sector. The state government has also decided to set up a special cell in the secretariat exclusively for coordinating the various projects and concessions announced for the MSMEs. The major sectors coming under the MSME sector in the state include handicrafts, handloom, Khadi, food processing industries, garment making and textile industries, industries related to coir, wood, bamboo, plastic, rubber, leather, clay, and electronic/electric components.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/udyam-registration-to-boost-msmes/articleshow/76790942.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||PM Narendra Modi lauds Rajasthan BJP for relief work||JAIPUR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday lauded the relief work carried out by Rajasthan BJP during lockdown. During an online meeting ‘Seva Hi Sangathan’ on Saturday, seven BJP state units including Rajasthan presented their reports on relief work carried out by party leaders and workers since the lockdown was imposed. “How to help people in times of crisis needs to be learned from Rajasthan BJP. They have done exemplary work. There are several things which came to my notice and which I was not aware of. I liked it and would like to congratulate Rajasthan BJP team,” said Modi. He termed the relief work as ‘exemplary and motivating’. The words of praise only for Rajasthan acknowledged the series of efforts initiated by the state BJP unit, feel party leaders. 2.65 lakh from state donated to PM CaresThe words of praise only for Rajasthan acknowledged the series of efforts initiated by the state BJP unit, feel party leaders. BJP state president Satish Poonia said the credit goes to the boothlevel workers who tirelessly and fearlessly accomplished all tasks given to them. The presentation highlighted that 615 community kitchens provided 1.90-crore food packets, distributed 91 lakh masks and 2.65 lakh people from the state donated to the PM Cares Fund. “From running 615 kitchens to distributing food packets/ration and from providing all possible assistance to migrants as they crossed over Rajasthan to reach their destinations, reaching out to the most vulnerable and through video conferencing with people from diverse fields to consistently highlighting the misgovernance of the state government in relief work have been done with dedication by the entire state unit,” said Poonia. He said the state government did its best to deter BJP workers from carrying out relief work by filing at least 200 cases against them. The virtual meeting was attended by party leaders including leader of opposition Gulabchand Kataria, deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore, Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and state general secretary (organization) Chandrashekhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pm-modi-lauds-rajasthan-bjp-for-relief-work/articleshow/76791968.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bhopal||67 fresh cases take Bhopal Covid count to 3,207||BHOPAL: As many as 33 people tested positive for Covid-19 in a locality in Ibrahimganj and a private hospital went on a lockdown after a doctor tested positive here on Saturday. A total 67 people were diagnosed with the infection, taking the total number of cases in the city to 3,207. So far, 104 people have died in Bhopal due to Covid-19. Two days after a warning to lock down Ibrahimganj and surrounding area, 33 people tested positive in the locality near Dawa Bazaar in the state capital. Ibrahimganj emerged as new hotspot in Bhopal with 50 active cases, according to district health officials. Seven people in a family have tested positive in the area. The area, next to the main retail commercial zone, has for the second time become an active zone. Meanwhile, a private hospital in front of Taj-ul-Masajid is to be placed on lockdown. A senior doctor in the hospital tested positive. All those who came in contact with him, along with entire staff of the hospital, would be tested for the infection, said a health department official. The hospital caters to large number of patients. A DIG’s driver has tested positive while one more positive has been reported from Mantralaya on Saturday. Among others who were diagnosed includes a 72-year-old man, who is the brother in-law of a BJP corporator. Earlier in the same family, two others had tested positive. The location of this spurt is Baghsewania area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/67-fresh-cases-take-city-covid-count-to-3207/articleshow/76790953.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Chennai||Amid pandemic, EPS speeds up projects||Chennai: Amid pandemic and opposition charges of misgovernance, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami seems to be keen on speeding up his flagship programmes like kudimaramath, and sanctioning funds for construction of four collectorates at Tirupattur, Ranipet, Chengalpet and Kallakurichi. He is also scheduled to lay a foundation stone for Kallakurichi Government Medical College and Hospital on Saturday for which the state and central governments share a financial component of Rs382 crore this fiscal. The chief minister is also likely to lay the foundation for medical colleges and hospitals in Ariyalur and the Nilgiris next week, the last leg of 11 new medical colleges and hospitals sanctioned by the Centre this year. Similarly, the revenue department is expected to issue an order to build Tenkasi district collectorate, sources said. After his announcement to trifurcate Vellore district into Ranipet and Tirupattur during his Independence Day speech, the public works department, the portfolio held by him, has chosen a site for Tirupattur collectorate in the town, Institute of Veterinary and Preventive Medicine campus for Ranipet collectorate and 40.18 acres in Veeracholapuram East for Kallakurichi collectorate. The public works department estimated the construction of collectorates at Rs1,305 crore, and allocation has been made for Rs451.76 crore this fiscal. “Tenders will be floated shortly, and the foundation stone will be laid in August. Since much of the precious time is lost due to Covid, the chief minister is expediting the ambitious projects,” said an official. Instructing the official machinery to complete Kudimaramath, his flagship programme, by this month end to reap the benefits of monsoons for which Rs499 crore has been allotted this year and monitoring officers posted, Palaniswami also made it a point to visit and speed up the other multi-crore projects last week. This includes the Rs1,652 crore Athikadavu-Avinashi ground water recharge and drinking water scheme to realise the six-decade old dream of Coimbatore, Tirupur and Erode districts. The plan is to feed 32 PWD tanks, 42 panchayat union tanks and 970 percolation ponds in the three districts to benefit 24,468 acres. “The CM instructed the officials to complete a portion of the scheme by December or January to reach the beneficiaries. Work on six pump houses has been speeded up,” another official said. Palaniswami visited Mukkombu last week, his third visit since its partial collapse in 2018 floods and oversaw the construction of a new regulator at Rs 387.6 crore. “If 40% works completed, the PWD has been told to expedite the major structural works even as the original schedule is March next year,” the source said. On his return to Chennai, Palaniswami visited the construction site of Rs 564 crore Advanced Institute for Integrated Research on Livestock and Animal Sciences in 1,102 acres at Thalaivasal Koot Road in Salem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/amid-pandemic-eps-speeds-up-projects/articleshow/76786143.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kochi||Tale of Thanku & Meetu cat now in tribal dialect||Idukki: “Chundaneli mariyavethu poonakunju vuneya. Kunchikkalu nonthavethu poonakunju kuthari aekane myavu myavu (The kitty fell down as the mouse tricked it, the kitty mewed in pain as it hurt its legs),” the words sounded quite peculiar and distinct. This is a lesson for Class I students from the Mannan tribal community in the state. Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) announced a version of “Thanku Poocha and Meetu Poocha”, the online class by Sai Swetha teacher for Class I, in the local Mannan dialect. Rajimol Rajesh, hailing from the Mannan community, held the cutouts of two kittens and introduced their tales to the children of the community who understand only their tribal dialect. “Rajimol, a volunteer at the local talent centre in Mannakkudy in Anchuruli, presented the Mannan version of the online class. The recording is complete and it will be telecast through Victers channel from next week,” said Dhanya T Vasu, programme officer, SSK. “However, Rajimol teacher will not be able to watch her online class since she does not have access to a mobile phone,” she added. “Mannan community is one of the main tribal communities in the district. The children of the community are attending school for the first time and they don’t understand Malayalam. Hence, we thought of classes in their own dialect. About 300 students from the community will benefit from the classes,” Dhanya said. “We have recorded online classes in other tribal dialects for communities from Malappuram and Palakkad districts. We hope to attract them and provide initial education in their own dialects,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tale-of-thanku-meetu-cat-now-in-tribal-dialect/articleshow/76790954.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Tamil medium students to get their due||KOCHI: Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE), which is spearheading online classes as part of the ‘First Bell’ project of the state education department, will produce more sessions in the Tamil medium to benefit students mostly residing along the state’s border with Tamil Nadu. Thousands of students study in Kerala’s Tamil medium schools, spread largely over Wayanad, Palakkad, Idukki, Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram districts. KITE’s regional resource centres (RRCs) in Ernakulam and Palakkad are driving the production of Tamil medium classes, each lasting 30 minutes. Malayali teachers working in Tamil medium schools are leading the sessions. Besides television telecasts through Victers, the videos are also available on the YouTube channels of KITE. Officials said the initiative is helping minimize the linguistic divide among students. “Even though Malayalam and English medium lessons were launched on June 1, thousands of students with Tamil as the mother tongue were unable to comprehend them. So, Tamil medium classes became inevitable. KITE began producing online sessions with the help of qualified teachers. Ernakulam RRC provides facilities for shooting and editing of videos for classes VI to VII. Palakkad RRC produces sessions for classes VIII, IX, IX and XII, while Idukki RRC develops sessions for class V,” said P N Sajimon, KITE Ernakulam coordinator. Teachers working in Tamil medium schools in Idukki have been travelling to the Ernakulam RRC to shoot the videos. “I travel to Ernakulam from Idukki and stay there for two days to get my sessions shot. As the editing team lacks proficiency in Tamil, I have to sit with them to get the videos edited to avoid mistakes. More than 70% of students in my school follow Tamil medium and they were worried about the online classes. Their fears have now been dispelled,” said S Sebastian, a Tamil medium teacher at GHS Vanhivayal near Peerumedu. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had inaugurated the telecast of Tamil and Kannada medium classes on June 17. Kannada classes are being produced by RRC Kasaragod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tamil-medium-students-to-get-their-due/articleshow/76794930.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Cuttack shutdown till July 8 midnight for contact tracing||Cuttack/Bhubaneswar: The Cuttack Municipal Corporation (CMC) on Saturday imposed shutdown till July 8 midnight and continue with the weekend shutdown after 11 fresh cases were reported while another locality in capital city was made containment zone after 10 Covid-19 positive cases were reported from the area on Friday. “We declared four days of shutdown due to the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases in the city. It will help us launch contact tracing and active surveillance,” said CMC commissioner Ananya Das. A health official and sanitation teams have been deployed to monitor the situation. A team has been engaged to carry out contact tracing, she added. However, shops selling essential items like grocery, vegetables and milk shops have been allowed to remain open from 5 am to 6 pm during the shutdown period with proper adherence to social distancing norms and use of masks. Emergency services like medicine stores and online delivery of essential commodities will be allowed during the shutdown period too. Other services like water and electricity supply will function too. With 11 new cases, Cuttack city’s total positive count stood at 116 out of which 92 are active cases. The CMC has disallowed all non-essential travel. “People shouldn’t come out of their homes if it is not urgent. In case of necessity, they must produce sufficient proof and reason before the enforcement teams,” the CMC said. Police personnel have been deployed at vantage points in Cuttack and all entry and exit points in the city have been sealed, said an officer. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) brought Nuagaon village that is under its jurisdiction under containment. The area coming within the boundary of revenue village Nuagaon near Samantrapur also comes under containment. “No resident will be allowed to come out during the containment period,” the BMC order said. Currently, there are two containment zones in the city - Laxmi Bazar basti and Nuagaon - besides an apartment that is under the control of Khurda district administration. Containment zone status has been lifted from Subash Nagar slum. On Saturday, the capital city reported 45 Covid-19 positive cases out of which 37 were in quarantine and eight are local contact cases. Satyanagar locality, which was under containment in April reported one positive case. Five new localities have reported cases. The city saw 31 patients recovering on Saturday taking the total number of recoveries to 247. With 45 new cases, the capital city’s total touched 414. There are 161 active cases with six deaths and 247 recoveries. In the last four days since July 1, the city has added 94 Covid-19 positive cases. On Saturday, BMC commissioner Prem Chansdra Chaudhury led a Covid awareness programme and sensitized senior citizens to download Sachetak App, which will help monitor health of people having comorbid conditions. Box Bhubaneswar has 414 poitive cases and Cuttack 116 There are currently 161 active cases in Bhubaneswar and 92 in Cuttack Bhubaneswar reported 45 fresh cases and Cuttack 11 on Saturday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cuttack-shutdown-till-july-8-midnight-for-contact-tracing/articleshow/76790949.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Triple-digit rain lashes 13 locations in Konkan||PUNE: At least 13 locations in Konkan recorded triple-digit rain in 24 hours till Saturday morning, followed by more showers during the day, while double-digit showers was recorded in other spots in Konkan as well as in some locations in Madhya Maharashtra and Marathwada. The rainfall intensity in Pune began increasing from the evening. Shivajinagar recorded 3mm rain from 8.30am to 5.30pm on Saturday, while Lohegaon received 0.4mm. According to the scientists of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune’s ghat regions received heavy rainfall on Saturday. Heavy rain was also recorded in Mumbai, Malvan, Harnai and Dapoli till Saturday morning, and in several other locations thereafter. Though data for rain recorded in ghat regions of the state (on Saturday) would only be available by Sunday morning, heavy showers were recorded there from 8.30am on Friday till 8.30am on Saturday. Tamhini ghat recorded 90mm rain during this period, while Koyna and Dungadwadi received 70mm each. In Konkan, Malvan, followed by Colaba in Mumbai, were the wettest spots in the state with 190mm and 170mm rain, respectively, from Friday morning to Saturday morning. After 8.30am on Saturday till 5.30pm, Santacruz in Mumbai recorded triple-digit rain at 111mm, Colaba got 66mm and Mahabaleshwar 82mm. Ratnagiri recorded moderate showers at 54mm during the period. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, said the rainfall would start reducing in Madhya Maharashtra, Vidarbha and Marathwada after Sunday forenoon, while Konkan-Goa was likely to receive widespread rain next few days. “Our radars were showing how the cloud masses were slowly approaching Pune from Mumbai on Saturday evening, around 4.56pm, when the rainfall activity began increasing in the city. But rain remained light in Pune on Saturday and may continue on-and-off with light to moderate intensity. From Sunday, rain in Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha are likely to be fairly widespread to scattered, light to moderate in nature. Rain may not exceed moderate volume in Pune next few days, though ghat areas of the district may get heavy rain at isolated places on July 5-6,” said Kashyapi. According to the IMD’s Regional Meteorological Centre in Mumbai, heavy rain in isolated places are likely even on July 5 in ghat areas of Nashik, Pune, Kolhapur and Satara. The current rainy spell has been the result of the trough from south Gujarat to Karnataka coast and a mid-tropospheric cyclonic circulation over Gujarat. “This mid-tropospheric cyclonic circulation is likely to gradually shift to the Saurashtra-Kutch area, which is why the rainfall intensity in Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha is likely to decrease after Sunday,” Kashyapi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/triple-digit-rain-lashes-13-locations-in-konkan/articleshow/76791544.cms||Neha Madaan
July 5, 2020||Chennai||Free ration for July as well: TN govtTimes News Network||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu government on Friday announced free ration in July in view of the extended lockdown. All ration cardholders can get goods from July 10 from respective PDS outlets. Each cardholder is entitled to get 5kg rice, 1 kg of sugar, tur dal and a litre of edible oil. “Tokens will be distributed to all cardholders at doorstep between June 6 and July 9. The token will bear the details of time and day to get the goods from the PDS outlets,” an official release said. Arrangements will be made to supply the monthly free ration to the cardholders residing in the containment zones at doorstep. The government has been extending free ration for the last three months. The cardholders are requested to wear masks and maintain social distancing norms while getting the goods from PDS outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/free-ration-for-july-as-well-tn-govttimes-news-network/articleshow/76786156.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Tamil medium students to get their due||KOCHI: Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE), which is spearheading online classes as part of the ‘First Bell’ project of the state education department, will produce more sessions in the Tamil medium to benefit students mostly residing along the state’s border with Tamil Nadu. Thousands of students study in Kerala’s Tamil medium schools, spread largely over Wayanad, Palakkad, Idukki, Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram districts. KITE’s regional resource centres (RRCs) in Ernakulam and Palakkad are driving the production of Tamil medium classes, each lasting 30 minutes. Malayali teachers working in Tamil medium schools are leading the sessions. Besides television telecasts through Victers, the videos are also available on the YouTube channels of KITE. Officials said the initiative is helping minimize the linguistic divide among students. “Even though Malayalam and English medium lessons were launched on June 1, thousands of students with Tamil as the mother tongue were unable to comprehend them. So, Tamil medium classes became inevitable. KITE began producing online sessions with the help of qualified teachers. Ernakulam RRC provides facilities for shooting and editing of videos for classes VI to VII. Palakkad RRC produces sessions for classes VIII, IX, IX and XII, while Idukki RRC develops sessions for class V,” said P N Sajimon, KITE Ernakulam coordinator. Teachers working in Tamil medium schools in Idukki have been travelling to the Ernakulam RRC to shoot the videos. “I travel to Ernakulam from Idukki and stay there for two days to get my sessions shot. As the editing team lacks proficiency in Tamil, I have to sit with them to get the videos edited to avoid mistakes. More than 70% of students in my school follow Tamil medium and they were worried about the online classes. Their fears have now been dispelled,” said S Sebastian, a Tamil medium teacher at GHS Vanhivayal near Peerumedu. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had inaugurated the telecast of Tamil and Kannada medium classes on June 17. Kannada classes are being produced by RRC Kasaragod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tamil-medium-students-to-get-their-due/articleshow/76790962.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bhopal||300+ new cases in MP, most from Morena||BHOPAL: For the fourth time in past seven days—maximum number of positive cases in a single day were not reported from Indore or Bhopal—but Morena. A whopping 78 positive cases were reported from Morena district on Sunday which was highest in the state. Earlier on July 1 also, 73 positive cases were reported in Morena and on June 30 also 59 cases were reported from Morena which were the highest in the state. On June 28, Morena had reported 47 positive cases which was highest in the state on that day. Overall, 307 positive cases were reported in the state on Sunday. With these new positive cases, tally of positive patients in Madhya Pradesh reached 14,604. Apart from the new cases, five casualties were also reported in the state. The districts where these casualties were reported includes Indore (3 deaths) and 1 death each in Dhar and Katni districts says the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, death toll due to covid-19 in the state reached 598. Of the 52 districts where infections have been reported new cases were reported from 32 districts. The districts where new cases were reported in double figures—as per the state health bulletin released on Saturday—includes Morena (78 new cases), Indore (34 cases), Bhopal (51 new cases), Gwalior (28 new cases), Dewas (11 new cases), Panna (11 new cases) and Sagar (10 new cases) districts. On the brighter side 185 people who were admitted at different hospitals in the state also recovered from the disease and were discharged. With these new patients recovering, total number of patients who have recovered so far in the state reached 11234. Thus, 76.9% of the total people who have been tested positive so far, have recovered from the disease. The number of people who have recovered in the state is little less than four times of the active patients in the state as on July 4. There are only 2772 active patients in the state, while 11234 people have so far recovered from the disease. Reports of more than 3.98 lakh samples have been received in the state so far and of those 14604 have tested positive. Meanwhile administration has announced 1039 localities across these 52 districts as containment zones and any kind of movement in these containment zones is strictly prohibited. As of now Madhya Pradesh government has established 851 fever clinics in the state, where primary treatment is being provided and samples on the basis of the symptoms are being taken, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-corona-wrap-july-4/articleshow/76790974.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Indore||300+ new cases in MP, most from Morena||BHOPAL: For the fourth time in past seven days—maximum number of positive cases in a single day were not reported from Indore or Bhopal—but Morena. A whopping 78 positive cases were reported from Morena district on Sunday which was highest in the state. Earlier on July 1 also, 73 positive cases were reported in Morena and on June 30 also 59 cases were reported from Morena which were the highest in the state. On June 28, Morena had reported 47 positive cases which was highest in the state on that day. Overall, 307 positive cases were reported in the state on Sunday. With these new positive cases, tally of positive patients in Madhya Pradesh reached 14,604. Apart from the new cases, five casualties were also reported in the state. The districts where these casualties were reported includes Indore (3 deaths) and 1 death each in Dhar and Katni districts says the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, death toll due to covid-19 in the state reached 598. Of the 52 districts where infections have been reported new cases were reported from 32 districts. The districts where new cases were reported in double figures—as per the state health bulletin released on Saturday—includes Morena (78 new cases), Indore (34 cases), Bhopal (51 new cases), Gwalior (28 new cases), Dewas (11 new cases), Panna (11 new cases) and Sagar (10 new cases) districts. On the brighter side 185 people who were admitted at different hospitals in the state also recovered from the disease and were discharged. With these new patients recovering, total number of patients who have recovered so far in the state reached 11234. Thus, 76.9% of the total people who have been tested positive so far, have recovered from the disease. The number of people who have recovered in the state is little less than four times of the active patients in the state as on July 4. There are only 2772 active patients in the state, while 11234 people have so far recovered from the disease. Reports of more than 3.98 lakh samples have been received in the state so far and of those 14604 have tested positive. Meanwhile administration has announced 1039 localities across these 52 districts as containment zones and any kind of movement in these containment zones is strictly prohibited. As of now Madhya Pradesh government has established 851 fever clinics in the state, where primary treatment is being provided and samples on the basis of the symptoms are being taken, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/state-corona-wrap-july-4/articleshow/76795903.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KSUM chat series on coconut-based ventures soon||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) has joined hands with the Agri Business Incubator of the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI) to launch an online chat series on leveraging technology to tap agribusiness opportunities in coconut sector. The programme, called YAWA (You Ask We Answer), is part of the ongoing Kalpa Green Chat that focuses on technologies developed by CPCRI. The chat series will continue for the next three Saturdays. K Muraleedharan, head, social science department, CPCRI, will hold a class on entrepreneurship and technology-based enterprises. A panel comprising Anitha Kumari P, M R Manikantan, Murali Gopal and Shamna Beegum P P will respond to queries from the participants. K Kannan, lead bank manager, will join the panel to reply to questions regarding the availability of credit for the entrepreneurs. Food technologist and business consultant Jayaraj Nair and Sree Yoga Narasimha International founder Pavithra S will share their experiences. For more details, visit www.cpcriagribiz.in or call at 8129182004. KSUM is the nodal agency of Kerala government for entrepreneurship development and incubation activities in the state. CPCRI has developed several entrepreneurship researches in agriculture sector, and has incubation facility to study about their marketing possibilities. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksum-chat-series-on-coconut-based-ventures-soon/articleshow/76790966.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Virus infects four medical staff at AIIMS Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar: Four medical staff, including a junior resident doctor, of the pulmonary medicine department at AIIMS Bhubaneswar tested positive for Covid-19. “One junior resident and three nursing and technical staff others tested positive for Covid-19. They don’t have symptoms. They are doing fine,” said director of the institution, Gitanjali Batmanabane, while urging people to take the help of telemedicine and avoid coming to the hospital. “AIIMS Bhubaneswar offers telemedicine services. People can dial a number and take the help of a doctor. If it is necessary or if the doctor feels that the patient should visit a hospital, they can come. But by and large, people should not visit hospitals at this point of time,” she said. As many as 11 patients of the pulmonary medicine ward at the hospital tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Following this, the hospital has quarantined 31 medical staff, mostly nurses. Three days ago, a TB patient admitted in the respiratory ICU in the department died. Later, he tested positive for Covid-19. The hospital has moved infected persons to an isolation ward for treatment. It has also conducted sanitization of the pulmonary medicine ward and respiratory ICU. These two sections have been sealed for three days, said official sources. Seven doctors of the institution tested positive for Covid-19 last month. All have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/virus-infects-four-medical-staff-at-aiims-bhubaneswar/articleshow/76790960.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Meerut||2 ATM card thieves arrested in Muzaffarnagar||Muzaffarnagar: Two members of an inter-state gang involved in stealing ATM cards were arrested from an ATM booth on Meerut road in the Civil Lines police station area in Muzaffarnagar. A third member managed to flee, police said.The arrested duo was identified as Anuj Kumar of Haridwar in Uttarakhand and Nitu of Muzaffarnagar. They were operating in both UP and Uttarakhand for the past five years. They would befriend elderly people unsure about how to use ATM cards. On the pretext of helping them, learn about their pin number and switch the cards. Later, they would withdraw money.Police seized 27 ATM cards, two motorcycles, Rs 21,000 cash and illegal arms from them.With their arrest, seven cases across various cities were worked out, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-atm-card-thieves-arrested-in-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/76790981.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 5, 2020||Mumbai||52% of aspiring managers at IIM Kozhikode this year are women||MUMBAI: IIM Kozhikode has achieved a big milestone in the path to gender parity. In its lecture halls will soon be seated a total of 492 aspiring managers, of which 256 or 52% will be women, thus outnumbering men who max out most B-school classes. Interestingly, 60 supernumerary seats were reserved for women in 2019. With the astounding response from female applicants, reservation was not needed this year. The last time IIMK announced it had attained gender parity, that sought after but elusive goal in graduate business education, was in 2013 when 54.3% of the class comprised women. This time around too, it has leapfrogged several top B-schools that have been slowly inching through the 30% range to enroll 52% women in an incoming MBA class. Welcoming the new class, IIMK director Debashis Chatterjee, said, “IIMK began its unsurpassed journey of significantly contributing to the growing trend of women leaders from 2010. There has been a steady rise in our commitment to ensure gender diversity in this past decade and the journey towards creating equal opportunities in society and business.” “Uncertainties and complexities of managing in the current business world require a working manager to be able to approach a problem from multiple perspectives and by nurturing diversity of thought in its classrooms by consciously choosing to create a diverse learning environment, IIMK aims to equip its students with the knowledge and experience that will be essential in sustaining them throughout their professional career,” added Chatterjee. With 40% of the PGP batch coming from non-engineering disciplines such as architecture, arts and sciences, commerce, management and medicine, the class will be an academically eclectic mix. Students with professional degrees and certifications such as CA, CS and CFA constitute 10% of the incoming students. The class of 2022 is culturally diverse, with representations from northern India (35%), southern India (28.4%), western India (14.8%), eastern India (13.41%), central India (5.69%) and north-eastern India (2.03%). IIMK has taken the decision to begin classes for the new academic year (2020-21) online from August 12. The institute will also be conducting a virtual orientation session for the new inductees of its flagship programme. As the situation improves, there are plans being chalked out for bringing in students in a phased manner maintaining social distancing and quarantine norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/52-of-aspiring-managers-at-iimk-this-year-are-women/articleshow/76791972.cms||Hemali Chhapia
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 13 private labs flouting Covid test norms served notice||HYDERABAD: Reiterating its stance against private laboratories which were found flouting norms in conducting and reporting Covid-19 tests, state health authorities on Saturday said that 13 errant labs have been served notices. “If they do not fall in line and fail to adhere to guidelines, we will take serious action against them including shutting down the facilities,” said Dr G Srinivas Rao, director of public health, Telangana. Meanwhile, health authorities appealed to the general public not to do rounds of private hospitals and waste money. Currently, only 800 beds are occupied in government hospitals and Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) Gachibowli will begin taking in-patients from Monday, Srinivas Rao said. “If there are Covid-19 symptoms, you should come to King Koti Hospital or Osmania General Hospital. Only serious cases who have tested positive should go to Gandhi Hospital,” he said. Speaking about streamlining the process of identifying and handing over dead bodies of Covid-19 patients, the official said a photograph of the patient is being pasted on the body bag for easy identification. “We are making best efforts to save them and no government hospital will deny beds to patients,” he said. “In some cases people are coming and returning on their own if they don’t like the facilities,” Srinivas Rao added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/13-pvt-labs-flouting-covid-test-norms-served-notice/articleshow/76791970.cms||---
July 5, 2020||India||UP encounter: Deserter SHO seen as ‘mole’||KANPUR: Gangster Vikas Dubey managed to remain elusive on Saturday, but police exacted their revenge for the brutal killings of eight of their colleagues by bulldozing the don’s fortified house in Chaubeypur’s Bikru village with the same earthmover that was used to trap and ambush the cops. Meanwhile, Chaubeypur SHO Vinay Tiwari was suspended for fleeing the site when the encounter was on and bodies of his colleagues were falling in the midnight massacre. Tiwari is also under scanner for being the ‘mole’ in the police machinery “who tipped off” Dubey about the impending raid. He was detained and interrogated for several hours by the Special Task Force. The air over Bikru village was laden with dust and flying concrete particles as the bulldozer pulled down boundary walls and razed the structure built on two bighas of land grabbed by the don. During the two-hour exercise, civic officials busted a secret underground bunker hemmed in a 12-foot-high boundary ringed with barbed wire. These and four palatial rooms furbished with luxuries, including a modular kitchen and designer washroom, were turned to rubble. Two white SUVs and two tractors of the gangster were also destroyed. Investigating officials accompanying the demolition team also found 16 CCTV cameras installed at different angles with a master control room to track suspicious movement around the house. A battery of experts manned the control room, said police. But, what baffled cops was the missing digital video recorder, which could hold the key to the probe. “We are examining CCTV footage at junctions en route his house to collect evidence. Also, we are searching neighbouring houses to track the DVR,” said a police officer. Police sources said, a friend of Vikas from Chaubeypur, Manu, had lent the bulldozer which was later used in the ambush. Manu too has been named in the FIR and is on the run. “Officials evacuated Dubey’s father, his maid, her husband and their two children before letting the bulldozer in. A surveillance team is scanning CDR of more than 800 mobile phones to trace Dubey’s whereabouts. (With inputs from Pathikrit Chakraborty)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-encounter-deserter-sho-seen-as-mole/articleshow/76792212.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: NRI man murdered by help and her kin, one held||NEW DELHI: An NRI was murdered by his help and her relatives when he accompanied her to Sonipat in Haryana to get back the money he had loaned the woman three years earlier. Police said the man went missing on June 23 and his body was recovered on June 24, but it was later cremated in Sonipat after the cops there could not establish his identity. The husband of the woman has been arrested for murder, and police are pursuing Hema, her brother and his wife and another relative. The NRI, who was staying in Paharganj, was identified as Rajendra Kumar, 65. His brother approached the cops on June 29, stating that Kumar’s mobile phone was switched off and his house was locked. “A missing person’s complaint was filed,” revealed Sanjay Bhatia, DCP (Central). “Through technical surveillance, we located Kumar to Sonipat. A team was sent there where the local police informed us that Kumar’s body had been cremated on June 29 after nobody claimed the unidentified body. The body had been found in a drain and a case of murder registered in the police station at Sonipat.” Sonipat police disclosed that after Kumar’s identity was established, they learnt that his domestic help was married to Sonipat resident Ashok and that Hema had visited him around the same time that Kumar went missing from Delhi. They arrested Ashok, but Hema, her brother, his wife and a relative evaded capture. Inspector Jai Shankar of Sadar Gohana police station in Sonipat revealed that Hema and her family planned the murder because they had to return a loan of Rs 6 lakh to Kumar. “Ashok told police that Hema, who had left him, had requested his help in the murder, promising to return to him. On June 23, Hema asked Kumar to accompany her to Sonipat to get the money, which she told him was with a relative. The group drove in Kumar’s car to Sonipat. There they strangled him and threw his body in the drain,” claimed Jai Shankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nri-man-murdered-by-help-her-kin-1-held/articleshow/76791557.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Pune||Seven days after ex-fiancée’s suicide, man hangs self in Pune||PUNE: A resident of Parwadi village in Bhor was found hanging from the ceiling of his house early on Friday morning, barely a week after the woman he was engaged to committed suicide on June 27. The Bhor police said the deceased man (28) was alone in the house when he committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling with a rope. The police said the reason behind his suicide was not known. The man was earlier summoned by the Sinhagad Road police for recording his statement in connection with the suicide of the woman he was engaged to in 2019. The woman (25) from Dhayari was found hanging in her residence on June 27. An accountant with a college in Vadgaon Budruk, she was found hanging from the ceiling fan by her mother. The Sinhagad police said they did not find a suicide note in the flat. Both the deceased — the woman and the man — were supposed to get married in the summer of 2020. But the woman decided not to proceed any further with the engagement for personal reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-hangs-self-a-week-after-fiance-died-of-suicide/articleshow/76791549.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Baby hit by dad out of hospital||KOCHI: Caregivers and officials of child welfare council breathed a sigh of relief on Saturday after a two-month-old infant who was admitted in a critical stage at Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church Medical College Hospital, Kolencherry, after being assaulted by her father was discharged. Hospital sources said though the infant has recovered following a surgical procedure, further tests would be needed to assess how the trauma would affect the brain development of the infant. Doctors have also recommended continued treatment for epleptic seizures which might manifest as a result of the injury. The ability of the child to engage a social smile while seeing her mother, is a good sign, said doctors who attended . Both the infant, Josita, and her mother Sanja Maya, who hails from Nepal, are currently under the protection of child welfare council. “We have moved both the mother and child to Sneha Bhavan in Pulluvazhy which has the facility to take care of infants and women. We would continue to provide them with medical aid and shelter until the infant recovers fully,” said Bitty Joseph, chairperson of child welfare committee, Ernakulam. Sanja Maya has expressed her desire to go back to Nepal and CWC would take steps to trace her relatives in Nepal and repatriate them, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/baby-hit-by-dad-out-of-hospital/articleshow/76790988.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bhopal||In a first, 15 students secure 100% marks in Madhya Pradesh board class 10 exams||BHOPAL: Results of the class 10 higher secondary certificate exams, which were declared on Saturday, reflected the effect of the cancellation of a few question papers due to the Covid 19 pandemic. Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education (MPBSE) declared 360 students in the top 10 merit list, including 15 students securing 100%, never seen in the history of school education in the state. A total 62.84% students have been declared passed, which is 1.52% better than 2019. Last year, 61.32% students were declared passed. Students were marked out of 300 and even 400, creating confusion among several students. During normal conditions, class 10 students appear in six subjects for exams. Calculation of percentage was on the basis of the best five subjects in which the student has scored highest marks. This year, however, due to the COVID 19 pandemic, exams of Hindi, Urdu and English subjects had to be cancelled. The board decided to give general promotion to the students in these three subjects. Students — depending upon the medium of education — could take the exams for five subjects while the others took only four before lockdown was imposed. So keeping with the 'best of 5' scheme, the board declared the result calculating best of 3 out of 4 and best of 4 out of 5 subjects. MPBSE’s secretary Anil Suchari said, "English medium students had appeared in 5 subjects while Hindi medium students appeared in 4 subjects’ exams before lockdown was imposed. English medium students were waiting for 1 subject (Hindi paper), while Hindi medium students were waiting for two subjects (Hindi/Urdu and English).” Suchari added, “As government cancelled a paper of English medium students and two papers of Hindi medium students, the percentage was calculated accordingly. English medium students’ percentage was calculated on the basis of best 4 as they had appeared in five subjects while Hindi medium students’ percentage was calculated on the basis of best of 3 as they gave exams of 4 subjects.” Extending his wishes to the students, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted, “I congratulate both students and their teachers for their results.” Around 11.03 lakh students, including 8,91,866 regular students, had appeared in the exams conducted in the month of March. In all, 5,60,474 students were declared passed. In the Class 10 board exam for regular students, 60.09% boys and 65.87 girls were declared passed. Students who scored 100% are Abhinav Sharma, Lakshdeep Dhakad, Priyansh Raghuvanshi, Pawan Bhargava, Chatur Kumar Tripathi, Hariom Patidar, Rajnandini Saxena, Siddharth Singh Shekhawat, Harsh Pratap Singh, Kavita Lodhi, Muskan Malviya, Devanshi Raghuvanshi, Karnika Mishra, Prashant Vishwakarma and Vedika Vishwakarma. In all, 3,42,390 students were declared passed in first division out of 8,91,866 regular students who cleared the exam. In the second division, 2,15,162 students cleared the exam while 2,922 qualified in third division. A total 1,08,448 were declared eligible for supplementary exams. Unlike regular students, the pass percentage among non-regular students was very low. Only 16.95% non-regular students were declared passed. In all, 16.97% boys and 16.92% girls were declared passed in the non-regular category. This year, only 366 mass copying cases were registered. Results of 1,444 regular and 235 non-regular students have been put on hold by the board as their results could not be verified. The board also declared results of the physically challenged category students. In all, 68.77% students in this category were declared passed that included 67.12% boys and 73.20% girls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-a-first-15-students-secure-100-marks-in-state-board-class-10-exams/articleshow/76791001.cms||Ramendra Singh
July 5, 2020||Pune||Remove obesity operation from elective list: Surgeons||PUNE: Bariatric surgeons nationwide are now calling for the removal of obesity surgery from the list of ‘elective procedures’. Their demands follow a June 23 announcement by the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (ASMBS) that declared metabolic and bariatric surgery as “medically necessary and time-sensitive”. Elective surgeries are procedures that can be scheduled in advance because they do not involve a medical emergency. Since bariatric surgeries were placed in this category, they were largely postponed during the three months of the Covid-19 lockdown. The procedures resumed on June 8. Doctors warned that suspension of bariatric surgeries for such long periods will impact those who are morbidly obese. They added the procedures can, in fact, help patients get rid of obesity, which can cause respiratory complications if a person contracts Covid-19. Ahmedabad-based bariatric surgeon Manish Khaitan, who is also the president of the Obesity Surgery Society of India (OSSI), said: “We are gathering data on the life-saving aspects of obesity surgery. The information will substantiate the fact that obesity surgery is not an elective, but a medically essential procedure.” Nearly, 1,200 obesity surgeries are performed every year in India. But that number has seen a drastic dip since the pandemic began in March. “We want to remove the 'elective tag' from obesity surgery so that these procedures are not deferred again if lockdowns are re-imposed," said Pune-based bariatric surgeon Shashank Shah. He added, “Members of the OSSI held a webinar recently in which every participant agreed that obesity surgeries are essential medical procedures that cannot be postponed for too long. People with severe conditions often prepare for surgeries over a few months. Such patients will find it difficult to continue their preparations if surgeries keep getting deferred.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/remove-obesity-op-from-elective-list-surgeons/articleshow/76791560.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 5, 2020||Pune||Farmers eye GI tag for Wada Kolam rice||PUNE: The farmers from the tribal belt of Palghar came together and filed an application to secure the geographical identification (GI) tag for Wada Kolam rice as it possesses all the qualities — aroma and other specification — restricted to the geographical limits of Palghar. The rice has its origin in the district. The city-based GI expert, Ganesh Hingmire of Great Mission Group Consultancy (GMCC), had submitted the application seeking the tag in June this year. GI sign is used on products having a specific geographical origin and possess qualities or a reputation that are due to that origin. In India, GI registration is administered by the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act, 1999. The Wada Kolam rice, also known as “zini”, is grown in the Wada taluka of Palghar district. A group of farmers — Wada Kolam Va Bahu-Uddeshiy Sheti Utpadan Sahakari Sanstha Maryadit — came together and approached Hingmire with their application. Hingmire said, “Wada Kolam, an aromatic non-basmati variety of rice, is produced in Wada taluka and the farmers there have been growing this rice for many generations. The GI tag will help them get a premium price and it will also cut down the sale of hybrid varieties.” He said, “One of the most striking feature of the rice is that it is gluten-free and easy to digest. It is high in micro-nutrients because of the quality of the soil and other geographical conditions of where it is grown.” Hingmire said the local farmers did not use fertilizers for the cultivation of the rice. “They only use cow dung manure for its cultivation. The farmers also use the seeds produced locally,” he added. The farmers claimed that they had stopped cultivating the rice as it did not fetch good price for the produce when compared to other varieties of the rice. They stated that other low quality rice was often wrongly passed off as Wada Kolam rice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/farmers-eye-gi-tag-for-wada-kolam-rice/articleshow/76791559.cms||Gitesh Shelke
July 5, 2020||Nagpur||How Covid-19 deaths are increasing post reconciliation||Nagpur: Mortality rate and hiding of Covid-19 deaths is one of the most controversial issues raised during the pandemic in Maharashtra. While the number of deaths has gone up significantly in Mumbai after reconciliation, many deaths are now being reported from other parts of the state as Covid-19 deaths. At least 50 of the deaths reported everyday are outcomes of reconciliation. For instance, a total of 506 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the first three days of July in Maharashtra. Out of these, 329 deaths occurred during the reporting period (24-48 hours after death), while 177 happened sometime in the past but got added to the Covid-19 deaths tally post reconciliation. TOI spoke to Dr Manish Shrigiriwar, a forensic science expert and professor at AIIMS Nagpur. He explained the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10) Codes for Covid-19 provided by the World Health Organization (WHO), and why several deaths are not being reported. “The reason behind alleged non-reporting or wrong reporting of Covid-19 deaths is a poor understanding of the ICD-10 codes. The manner of death due to Covid-19 infection will most often be ‘natural’, but it is the disease that led to the death,” said Dr Shrigiriwar. He added that the ICD-10 code had been specially revised for Covid-19 deaths, so that the authorities get accurate information and can frame policies to curb deaths. “Medical Certification of Cause of Death (MCCD) is an important document for administrative as well as statistical purposes. Once it is concluded that the person is dead, a ‘Death Report’ is forwarded to the Death Registry Authority, along with the MCCD. Medical officers who fill this document must have complete knowledge of ICD-10 codes as misreporting of Covid-19 deaths could be a major problem for us,” Dr Shrigiriwar said. As per the ICD-10 codes, the death will be considered as a ‘clinically diagnosed Covid-19 death’ even if the test of a deceased person is negative, inconclusive or awaited, but symptoms of Covid-19 are present in the deceased at the time of death. According to Dr Shrigiriwar, it is possible to avoid such mistakes if hospitals and administration follow e-Mortality (e-Mor) software application made by ICMR-National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (NCDIR). “This software can be implemented by hospitals and local registrar offices in a district to record deaths. It is available free of cost for use by hospitals, health facilities, private practitioners, administrative units concerned with recording the cause of death,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/how-covid-19-deaths-are-increasing-post-reconciliation/articleshow/76791564.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 5, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: 74-year-old woman clubbed to death, looted||RAJKOT: A 74-year-old woman was bludgeoned to death before she was robbed of gold jewellery and cash worth Rs 2.25 lakh in Meghaninagar on Bilkha Road in Junagadh on Friday. Police said the robbers whose identities could not be ascertained had barged into the house of Lata Mehta and had committed the crime. “Mehta has two sons who live in Rajkot. While her elder son Kamlessh Mehta works as a teacher, the younger one, Jasmin Mehta, works in a private firm. Mehta used to live alone in her house after her husband Bhanuprasad Mehta’s death,” said an official from Junagadh A division police station. Junagadh deputy superintendent of police Pradeepsinh Jadeja said they have launched the investigation into the case. “We have started the investigation on the basis of the footages of the crime caught on the CCTV cameras installed along the route leading to the crime spot,” said Jadeja. “We are rounding up those involved in loot and robbery cases in the past. We will be cross checking their presence at the time of the crime on Friday afternoon,” Jadeja added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/74-year-old-woman-clubbed-to-death-looted/articleshow/76790239.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Agra||Rs 3 crore to be recovered from 163 teachers with fake BEds in Firozabad||AGRA: After Etah, Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA) office in Firozabad kick-started the process of recovering salary from the sacked assistant teachers who had obtained jobs based on "fake BEd degrees". According to BSA Firozabad Arvind Kumar Pathak, a total of 163 fake BEd degree holders were found by the special investigation team in the district following which 60 FIRs were lodged and disbursement of salary were withheld. Following the state education secretary’s directives, the education department has kick-started the recovery of the sum paid to the teachers as salary over a decade. “Initially, we had issued notice to 14 teachers to deposit the amount in one week. The total amount is around Rs 3 crore. If they fail to pay the sum within the given period of time, the revenue department may attach their properties to recover the money,” BSA Firozabad said. The majority of fake BEd degree holders are 2004-05 pass outs (graduates). On January 22, 2020, a probe report on Agra university BEd degree scam submitted by a special investigation team traced a total of 3,637 fake BEd degree holders. Out of these, 1,084 had tampered marksheets, while 45 had duplicate roll numbers. According to the BSA department, 2,823 fake BEd degree holders never presented themselves to the university and SIT authorities with their academic documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rs-3-crore-to-be-recovered-from-163-teachers-with-fake-beds-in-firozabad/articleshow/76790235.cms||Arvind Chauhan
July 5, 2020||Rajkot||Four including three collegians held with ganja||RAJKOT: Three collegians along with a drug trafficker were caught with 44 gram ganja (marijuana) worth Rs 266 near Parna Kutir police chowky of Amin Marg locality in Rajkot on Friday night. Police said the accused drug dealer, identified as Virendra Desai alias Chandu (56), sold drugs to the three young cousins, Mayur (18), Jishaan (22) and Yatin (23), (all names changed) studying in different colleges in the city. “Our personnel spotted them moving around in a suspicious manner during patrolling. When we frisked them, the contraband was found from their possession. We arrested them,” said R Y Rawal, inspector with Rajkot special operation group (SOG). While Mayur is a first year BCom student, Jishaan is in his third year of diploma in mechanical engineering and Yatin is in BSc first year. The kingpin runs a snacks cart outside a city college, where he established contact with the students, said police. “We are probing whether Chandu used to sell the contraband to students while running his snacks cart outside the college prior to the lockdown,” said Rawal. The police confiscated two two-wheelers, Rs 10,380 cash and three cellphones from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-including-three-collegians-held-with-ganja/articleshow/76790264.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Nagpur||Chandrapur corona cases reach 118||Chandrapur: Eight new patients were added to the tally of Chandrapur on Saturday apart from 8 on Friday, taking the Covid-19 tally to 118. So far, 57 patients have recovered, while active patients under treatment are 61. Officials claimed that three positive results came in the wee hours of Saturday. They included a Nashik returnee from Urjanagar, a foreign return youth from Babupeth locality in Chandrapur city and a Telangana return youth from Karanji village in Gondpipri tehsil. Later, five more tested positive. They included two Telangana returnee women from the same family in Rayyawari Collieries in Chandrapur city, a woman contact of a Nashik return positive family of Urjanagar, a Thane returnee from Hindustan Lalpeth collieries in the city and an Assam returnee from Gadchandur. Health officials claimed that these five persons were either in institutional quarantine or home quarantine. The condition of all the positive patients is stable, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chandrapur-corona-cases-reach-118/articleshow/76791573.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Pune||Balbharati revamps Class XII English book||PUNE: Balbharati or the Maharashtra State Bureau of Textbook Production and Curriculum Research has introduced changes to its Class XII English textbook to enable students with the necessary skills while applying to foreign universities for further studies or while taking up jobs. From ‘mind mapping’, how to write a statement of purpose (SoP), to how to take efficient notes, group discussions, how to write brief yet meaningful virtual messages, the committee that designed the English textbook aims to cater to a “techno-savvy generation”. Last year, the state made changes to the Class XI English textbooks and students were taught email writing, blog writing and report writing. Now, the same set of students will learn to summarize big articles, data, note-making and note-taking in detail, among others. The book also explains that while group discussion is a speaking skill, it has been introduced in the writing skills section as students are also expected to learn dialogue writing, while virtual messages teach expressions in brief. Vivek Gosavi, the director of Balbharati, said, “It doesn’t matter which field you take up for higher students, there’s always an element of group discussion, sometimes in the admission process itself and sometimes during job interviews. We want students from Maharashtra to not feel new to these concepts. So, the English textbook has been changed in such a way that rote learning will not help and students have to learn by activity.” Gosavi also added that skills were also introduced via the writing section. “Note-making, note-taking or the virtual message will help students when they get jobs. Students who wish to go abroad need to write convincing SoPs, which is why we introduced it this time. Our aim is to make sure the state board students are well equipped to face the new-age world,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/balbharati-revamps-class-xii-english-book/articleshow/76791567.cms||Ardhra Nair
July 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Malisahi declared a containment zone||Cuttack: After CDA Sector-9, Malisahi in Cuttack’s Ranihat area was declared a containment zone by the Cuttack Municipal Corporation on Saturday after it was found that several Covid-19 positive cases at Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Center were from Ranihat. “The containment zone has been barricaded and police personnel have been deployed at all entry and exit points,” said CMC commissioner Ananya Das. According to guidelines, no person will be allowed to enter the containment zone and inhabitants will be under home quarantine until further orders, added Das. A team has been enaged to survey for suspected patients and collect the swab of patients’ family members for testing. All government and private institutions located in the containment zone have been shut. All shopping establishments have been shut and supply of medicines and essentials will be ensured by CMC teams. Earlier CDA Sector -9 was declared as containment zone after detection of Covid-19 patients on June 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/malisahi-declared-a-containment-zone/articleshow/76791003.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Ardhanarishvara’ dragonfly spotted in Kole wetlands||KOCHI: Researchers working on dragonflies (Odonates) have discovered a rare dragonfly — an ardhanarishvara — part male, part female from the Kole wetlands of Thrissur. The study details were recently published in the Journal of Threatened Taxa. Dragonflies are ubiquitous predatory insects that frequent ponds and wetlands. In these, the males are vibrantly coloured while females are sober. “The discovery was made when a team of dragonfly enthusiasts visited the Puzhakkal region of Kole wetlands when we spotted this dragonfly that looked part male and part female. It belongs to the species Crocothemis servilia, commonly known as ruddy marsh skimmer and is a common inhabitant of our paddyfields,” said Renjith RV who photographed the insect, adding, “Its thorax was half red like that of a male, but the other half and rest of the body resembled a female.” The insect was discovered during ‘Kole Odonata Survey 2019’, an effort to document the diversity of dragonflies and damselflies of the wetlands and was spearheaded by the Society for Odonate Studies (SOS) with the support of Kole Birders, Kerala Agricultural University and Kerala forest and wildlife department. “The phenomenon is called gynandromorphism and has been documented in a variety of organisms, ranging from butterflies to mammals. However, it is rare in odonates and this has been recorded only in about 30 individuals worldwide till date,” said Vivek Chandran, a researcher and part of the team. “It is believed to be primarily a genetic aberration, but the causes could be many, including environmental factors about which we know little. The finding calls for detailed ecological studies of odonates,” he said. The ruddy marsh skimmer, is a common dragonfly associated with marshes, ponds, rivers and tanks. It is widely distributed in the Oriental and Australian region. The male has prominent blood red colouration in almost all body parts, including the head, thorax, abdomen and legs. The wings are transparent with the base marked with rich amber. The female is pale yellow with dark brown thorax and legs. The specimen could not be collected but the survey location was recorded. “It started raining and the dragonfly moved into the deep marshes. We tried to follow it but heavy rains for the next few days inundated the location,” said Chandran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ardhanarishvara-dragonfly-spotted-in-kole-wetlands/articleshow/76791006.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Citizen services hit as govt offices remain closed||HYDERABAD: An unofficial lockdown in city’s government offices is on. With several officers and employees contracting the coronavirus, government wings and departments have shut their offices for visitors. As a result of this, citizen services have been paralysed, forcing people either to send their representations through mail or online or wait for some more months. A couple of weeks ago when the number of positive cases started rising, the government issued instructions to the departments to function with only 50% of the staff or on a rotation basis. “In the last three months, work in the government offices has been hit badly. After the lockdown norms were eased, the situation has remained the same as there has been a sudden spike in the cases,” Rajesh Konkara, who applied for an occupancy certificate of his building, said. With some GHMC staffers testing positive for Covid, GHMC officially suspended the grievances programme and asked people to send online applications or accept complaints through Google Meet. Similarly, HMDA has also closed the doors for visitors. Following a director-cadre officer getting infected, the Telangana Southern Power Distribution Company Ltd is not allowing visitors. The entire building was sanitised. Mandal revenue offices have now stopped works like pension processing and revenue matters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/citizenservices-hit-asgovt-officesremain-closed/articleshow/76791974.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 5, 2020||Bhopal||Govt targets 1.3 lakh more hectares for kharif sowing||BHOPAL: After a record wheat yield in this rabi season, the state has decided to go ahead with 1.3 lakh hectare more sowing in the kharif season. So far, sowing has been done in over 80 lakh hectares against a target of 146 lakh hectares across the state. Agriculture minister Kamal Patel told TOI, “Except in some parts, good rains have occurred in the rest of Madhya Pradesh, leading to more than 55 % of sowing. Oil seeds continue to dominate with 47.8 lakh hectares of land sowing completed, including 45 % lakh hectares of soyabean.” However, this year, the soyabean target fixed in the state is little less than that of last year’s area. Soyabean was sown over 61.94 lakh hectares of land in kharif 2019 while, this year, the area fixed for its sowing is 57.70 lakh hectares. Though for the past few years, a large number of farmers have not shown interest and the area of sowing continues to decline, it still continus to be the major kharif crop in the state. This year, farmers are showing more interest in pulses, including tur, urad and moong, among others. Area sown with pulses is expected to go up by almost 4 lakh hectares from 20.57 lakh hectares to 24.60 lakh hectares, Patel said. The state government considers 118 lakh hectares of kharif sowing as normal, but for the past two years, it is going up from 145.72 lakh hectares to 146.31 lakh hectares. This year, the record procurement of 1.29 crore metric tonnes of wheat at support price was done in the state, surpassing the state of Punjab, the government claimed. Except in the Gwalior and Chambal regions, good rainfall has taken place in the state. Maximum rainfall has occurred in eastern parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-targets-1-3l-more-hectares-for-kharif-sowing/articleshow/76791011.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Lucknow||UP Ayush minister struck by Covid-19, GB Nagar CMO, SDM quarantined||LUCKNOW: The list of VIPs being struck by novel coronavirus in the state has been growing. Uttar Pradesh Ayush minister Dharm Singh Saini is the latest to join the list after testing positive. Saini, who is minister of state (independent charge) Ayush, food security and drug administration, is the second UP minister to have contracted the infection. On Friday, cabinet minister for rural development Rajendra Pratap Singh (Moti Singh) and his wife tested positive and are being treated at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences. In another development, the chief medical officer (CMO) of Gautam Budh Nagar, Deepak Ohri was quarantined after he showed flu-like symptoms. Sub divisional magistrate, Sadar Tehsil, GB Nagar has also been quarantined. CMO Saharanpur Dr B S Sodhi said, “Minister Dharm Singh Saini complained of cough and was tested for Covid-19. He has been admitted to Pilakhni Medical College after confirmation of infection. Samples of 27 persons who came in contact with him have been sent for testing.” In Lucknow, five family members of minister Moti Singh also tested positive. “Among the contacts of the minister, five tested positive. All necessary protocols are being followed,” said Dr Narendra Agarwal, CMO Lucknow. Sources said Moti Singh’s son, daughter-in-law, two grandchildren and a close aide had tested positive. The CMO office has turned their Gautam Palli residence into containment zone. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition and Samajwadi Party veteran Ram Govind Chaudhary, who is undergoing treatment at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, was put on oxygen support on Saturday. Govind was admitted on June 23 and was reported to be stable. However, there were rumours that his condition had deteriorated. SGPGI medical superintendent Dr R K Singh said, “The patient is on oxygen support, but he is stable and all his co-morbidities are under control as of now.” Sources said the 67-year-old politician complained of breathing difficulty after which he was shifted to ICU. Doctors said he was put on oxygen support to limit chance of complications. So far, at least six politicians in the state and their 12 contacts have been infected .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayush-minister-struck-by-covid-19-gb-nagar-cmo-sdm-quarantined/articleshow/76791975.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 5, 2020||Pune||FTII launches film review course||PUNE: The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) has announced a "niche" course in film criticism and the art of reviewing films. The course will be conducted over 20 days, starting August 3, on online classroom platforms. The institute is allowing both Indian and foreign nationals to join the course to be conducted by filmmaker Rajula Shah, an FTII alumna. The course, titled Alochana, which translates into criticism or discussion, will cover a number of aspects of the history and evolution of cinema, including its status as the youngest of all the visual art forms. The material will also focus on the interface of cinema with science and technology, which has enabled new production techniques over the years, as well as cinema’s brush with politics across the world. According to a release, the chronologically directed course will also focus on some of the auteurs- masters and icons- of cinema globally. According to a release, the chronologically directed course will also focus on some of the auteurs of cinema globally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-launches-film-review-course/articleshow/76791575.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Pune||Gym trainer hacked to death in Pune||PUNE: A gym instructor was hacked to death by eight armed men in Chinchwad late on Friday night, police said. Police have identified the 21-year-old deceased as Prem Sayabu Lingdale (21) of Chinchwad. Lingdale’s friend, Shivanand Shankar Helve (23), who was with the deceased at the time of the incident, had filed a complaint against the eight men on Saturday. “We have arrested three men — Kiran Chavan, Deepak Kolhe and Anant Sathe — in connection to the incident,” an officer from the Chinchwad police said. The officer said the suspects attacked Lingdale while he was out on a walk on Friday night. “The suspects attacked Lingdale with sharp weapons,” the officer said. The officer said the probe revealed that the attack on Lingdale was a result of old enmity between him and the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gym-trainer-hacked-to-death/articleshow/76791571.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Pup with snout ‘chopped’ off found on tracks||MUMBAI: A three-month old female puppy was found with her snout cut off near the railway tracks in Sion-Koliwada on Tuesday. She was taken in by Andheri-based World for All Animal Care and Adoptions, who are now facilitating surgery and treatment for the pup. A local, Sharanya Thangavel, found the puppy. Thangavel, who works at a veterinary clinic, called the vet she works with, Dr Pooja Thakur, who then guided her with first-aid. Thakur got in touch with animal rescuers, who in turn informed co-founder of World For All, Taronish Bulsara. After examination, in-house vet Dr Akshi Gulvady said the pup’s injuries seemed to have been caused by a sharp object, intentionally inflicted. She said that if there had been an accident, the pup would have turned its head away. While Gulvady has been treating the pup on a daily basis, the foundation is consulting with several specialist vets for reconstructive surgery for the pup. Pari, as those at the foundation fondly call the pup, has a strong spirit, said founder Bulsara. “Her nostrils and dentures were damaged too, she’s finding it difficult to breathe. The bones in her jaw were broken. We have been giving her wet food.” Bulsara said her surgery would be done in around two weeks and that they were raising funds for the same. “She’s very friendly, loves to meet new people. She has been playful, jumping around,” said Bulsara, adding that we could learn something from these animals. “One small injury, and us humans can’t handle it. But look at her, even after she was hurt so badly, her spirit has not dampened. They don’t give up, and we can’t give up on them,” he said. Bulsara said that around three weeks ago, they had received a similar call. A five-month-old pup was found near the Goregaon railway station, with one of its limbs cut off. Tommy was operated and treated by the foundation, and will be for adoption soon, said Bulsara. Bulsara said the foundation receives several calls about animals who need help every day. Once in their care, they reach out to citizens via social media, asking for donations or any other kind of assistance, to get the animal required treatment. Bulsara encouraged citizens to get in touch with them or other organisations such as the SPCA, if an animal in need is found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/three-month-old-pup-with-snout-chopped-off-found-near-railway-tracks/articleshow/76791980.cms||Shaileyi Singhania
July 5, 2020||Rajkot||Lightning kills man as rain pounds Devbhoomi Dwarka||RAJKOT: A man was killed by lightning in Shiva village of Bhanwad taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district on Saturday. The district recorded heavy rain with thundershowers leading to flooding in several villages. The man who died after he was hit by lightning was identified as Hamir Kanala (40). Kanala was working in his farm at Shiva village when the tragedy befell him. Two buffaloes were also killed by lightning Mewasa village of Lalpur taluka in Jamnagar district. The heavy rains lashed Devbhoomi Dwarka, Gir Somnath, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Porbandar and Amreli Saturday afternoon. The heavy pounding continued for 2-3 hours in most parts. A total of 94mm of rainfall drenched Kalyanpur of Devbhoomi Dwarka in a short span of just two hours from 2 pm to 4 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lightning-kills-man-as-rain-pounds-devbhoomi-dwarka/articleshow/76790279.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Pune||Six held for attacking three men at Hadapsar||PUNE: The Hadapsar police have arrested six people on charges of rioting and brutally assaulting three men with sharp weapons over a petty dispute at Mirekarnagar here on the night of June 27. "We have arrested the assailants on Friday and Saturday after investigations established their involvement in assaulting complainant Amit Mirekar (28) and two others," said assistant inspector Sanjay Chavan from Hadapsar police. Police said Mirekar, his cousin Chetan Ekbote and their friend were chatting outside their house when the suspects reached there and picked up a quarrel with them. A heated dispute broke out between the two groups over the issue of passing comments. The suspects, in a fit of anger, attacked Mirekar and two others with sharp weapons and took to heels, police said. Mirekar obtained medical treatment and registered an FIR against the assailants after an inordinate delay on July 1. Chavan said, "There is an old dispute between the two groups over petty issues. We have recovered two sharp weapons and stick from the possession of suspects." The suspects were produced before the Pune Cantonment Court and sent to magisterial custody remand for a fortnight, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/six-held-for-attacking-three-men-at-hadapsar/articleshow/76791585.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Delhi||Serological survey comes to a close; 20,000 samples taken in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The sample collection for the serological survey in Delhi was completed on Saturday, with all districts submitting the samples on time. The survey is a key aspect of the Covid-19 management strategy and its outcome will reveal insights on immunity among people against the novel coronavirus. The survey teams collected over 20,000 samples from across the capital. Depending on their size and population density, 1,400 to 2,000 samples were collected from different districts by teams of local health workers, including ASHA (accredited social health activist) staffers. The survey began on June 27 by the state government, with support from National Centre for Disease Control. Authorities attached maximum importance to the survey — directions for which were issued in a meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah on June 14 — and put the manpower to complete it before time. Serological test is done to identify antibodies in people and check if a person has immunity to specific diseases. It is largely used for surveillance among the community. “The survey teams visited different areas and collected blood samples of random residents across all all age groups. The teams wore PPE kits and took all precautions to ensure that they did not get infected,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/serological-survey-comes-to-a-close-20k-samples-taken/articleshow/76791568.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kochi||CPM keen on roping in Jose, uniting Kerala Cong||Kottayam: The CPM is going all out to bring Kerala Congress (Jose) to their camp at the earliest as part of its plan to strengthen its base in central Kerala. Once Jose arrives, the CPM is keen to have a unified Kerala Congress on LDF side. In such a case, Skaria Thomas faction and Janadhipatya Kerala Congress in the LDF will merge with Jose to form a unified Kerala Congress. Talks are being held with the CPM offering around 13 seats to the proposed unified Kerala Congress. Jose has been offered 10 while two for Janadhipatya Kerala Congress and the remaining to Skaria Thomas. However, it will be the Kanjirappally seat which will create a stalemate. N Jayaraj is representing the constituency currently and it is his second continuous term from there. In the LDF, the seat has been contested by the CPI. Jose will be adamant to get that seat for Jayaraj while the CPM will have a task cut out to keep both Jose and CPI in good humour. CPM will also have to work out a plan to keep the NCP happy. They may offer Rajya Sabha seat to Mani C Kappen when Jose K Mani quits his Rajya Sabha seat. CPM is keen to bring Jose to their camp before the local body polls as they feel they could make inroads into several UDF forts. However, Jose is maintaining that his group will not join any front and will remain independent till the local body polls. The group will hold its steering committee on July 8 where the CPM offer will be discussed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-keen-on-roping-in-jose-uniting-kerala-cong/articleshow/76791024.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||First time in India, helicopter used to kill locusts in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: For the first time in India, a helicopter was used to destroy locusts in the border areas in Jaisalmer district on Saturday. The chopper, belonging to a private company, took off from police line and neutralised the insects in Bandha area. An MI-17 helicopter of Indian Air Force (IAF) will also be used to kill the pests. Locust control department officer in Jaisalmer Dr Rajesh Kumar said that the chopper reached here from Uttarlai in Barmer and was sent to locust-affected areas with 250 litres of pesticide. The chopper can spray 250 litres of pesticides in a 50-hectare area. It can spray from both sides and as per the agreement with the company, it is compulsory for 100 hours of flying in 60 days, he said. Kumar said on Saturday, locusts were destroyed over 50 hectares in 65RD in Bandha area. The villagers were directed to stay away from the pesticide spraying areas. They were also told to keep cattle in safe places. On Sunday, locusts will be destroyed in other areas by the helicopter, he said. Kumar also said that to destroy locusts, the IAF and Union agriculture ministry have inked an agreement. The IAF is modifying three MI-17 helicopters for the purpose. One of the helicopters will reach Jaisalmer. This helicopter can spray 800 litres of pesticides over 750 hectares in just 40 minutes, he said. Kumar said, 55 new vehicles with sprayer pump have reached Jaisalmer and 15 out of 60 machines from London too have reached Rajasthan of which many have reached Jaisalmer through which locusts are being controlled. On Saturday, there were reports about locust attacks in Chandan, Dhaisar, Bandha, etc., on which immediate action was taken to destroy them. Watch Rajasthan: Helicopter deployed in Jaisalmer for locust control operation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/first-time-in-india-helicopter-used-to-kill-locusts-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/76791599.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Lucknow||Too late, our method is different: Colleges averse to LU’s centralised admission move||Lucknow: Top colleges associated with Lucknow University are not likely to admit students under the centralized admission process this year as they had started their own admission process much earlier. For most of these colleges, admission form fees helps shore up revenue that enables them to maintain their infrastructure that has maintained their brand name. “The decision of centralized admission should have been taken much earlier, in February and March, and communicated to us. We had started our admission process in March and have received over 7,000 applications, so, for us, going for centralized admission is quite impossible,” said National PG College’s admission coordinator Prof Rakesh Jain. Principal Isabella Thoburn College Vinita Prakash said, “We have our own selection criteria for upholding our brand. Our institution is the first choice of girls, and we test their knowledge by conducting our own entrance test.” Former president of Lucknow University Associated College Teachers’ Association Maulindo Mishra said, “The admission process of colleges begins before that of the university. Changign things now will delay their academic session.” “Each college is known for some special attributes for which students like to take admission. Similarly, these colleges select students through entrance tests or interviews to maintain their standard,” he added. The colleges, which are older than Lucknow University, like Lucknow Christian College, do not require any support for branding or filling up seats, Mishra said. Besides, if for any reason, a candidate misses the centralized entrance test, the individual tests of colleges can provide a chance. The principal of Avadh Girl’s Degree College Upma Chaturvedi said, “We admit students on merit basis, while LU does it on the entrance test result basis, hence it won’t be possible for us to change our admission process which has been devised to keep the standard of our institution up. Also, the admission form fee helps every college to maintain its infrastructure and bear other expenses of the institution.” “We had already started the admission process and over 500 candidates had bought forms so far. Every year, all our seats get filled by our own admission process,” she added. The principal of Shri Jai Narain PG College Prof. Nageshwar Pandey said, “We will go by our own admission process as we get meritorious students through it. Our institution is preferred most by students since it has an ‘A’ grade from National Assessment Accreditation Council and is older than Lucknow University.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/too-late-our-method-is-different-colleges-averse-to-lus-centralised-admission-move/articleshow/76791987.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Nagpur||No pact, yet NMC releases Rs73cr to OCW under OTS||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has returned penalty and disbursed amount towards escalation cost, total around Rs73 crore, under One Time Settlement (OTS) scheme to private operator Orange City Water Private Limited (OCW) even before execution of mandatory revised agreement. TOI had on January 31 reported that NMC has started disbursing the amount. As per data available from the NMC, around Rs73 crore has been disbursed in the last 10 months. Only Rs20 crore is pending to be released as paucity of funds halted the payment. The NMC and OCW were supposed to execute revised agreement for implementation of OTS. The draft is ready and tabled before NMC’s special purpose vehicle Nagpur Environmental Services Limited (NESL) board of directors (BoD) for approval. NMC standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke, who is chairman of NMC Water Works Consultative Committee and director in NESL, told TOI, “The draft is approved and will be cleared in the BoD soon. Pending amount will be disbursed after agreement,” he said. Terming it a major irregularity, Congress corporator Sanjay Mahakalkar said, “Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe should conduct an inquiry and take stringent action against officials concerned. Despite financial crisis, ruling party BJP approved OTS in a big favour to OCW. Original agreement too was meant to benefit OCW only,” he said. NMC had engaged OCW on March 1, 2012 for execution of Rs387.86 crore 24X7 water supply project in five years and operation of city’s drinking water supply costing over Rs200 crore per annum for 25 years. NMC failed to get 24X7 water supply project completed from OCW by March 1, 2019, leading to cost escalation of Rs52 crore. For violation of agreement and other reasons, the NMC deducted penalty of Rs41 crore from OCW’s payment between March 1, 2012 and March 31, 2018. The OCW demanded disbursal of these two amounts which NMC couldn’t under the original agreement executed in 2011. Despite strong opposition, the NMC general body approved the OTS in March 2019. Under OTS, the NMC extended deadline of 24X7 water supply project by 18 months and granted few more relaxations to OCW. Despite passage of 16 months, the project is yet not complete. Against target of 3.20 lakh houses, less than 60,000 houses have been covered under 24X7 water supply. Mahakalkar said, “Forget round-the-clock supply, I am yet to get water for one hour in my ward for the last six months. Also, issue of contaminated water supply is yet to be resolved in many parts of city,” he said. OCW did not respond to TOI’s mail and messages. NMC superintending engineer (water works) Shweta Banerjee also did not respond to TOI calls and messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-pact-yet-nmc-releases-rs73cr-to-ocw-under-ots/articleshow/76791595.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 5, 2020||Pune||Family to hold memorial at Prabhat pioneer’s old studio||PUNE: Descendants of pioneering sound recordist, filmmaker and entrepreneur Vishnupant Damle will hold a low-key commemoration ceremony on Sunday at his former workplace the Prabhat Studio, now part of the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) campus. Damle was one of five founding partners of the Prabhat Film Company, along with filmmaker V Shantaram, and some of his other associates at his former employers, the Maharashtra Film Company. He headed the sound department at Prabhat Film Company and introduced new sound recording techniques, enabling regular production of talkies. The studio built by Prabhat Film Company is still used by FTII students to shoot and produce their exercise and diploma films. “He was the sound recordist of Ayodhyecha Raja, which is now the earliest available talkie film in India. It used to be Alam Ara, but that film isn’t available. And he also directed films, including one that was the first ever to be awarded overseas,” said Anil Damle, grandson of Vishnupant Damle. Anil will be present at the ceremony at Prabhat Studio. Part of the studio floor is now a museum, which also has a bust modelled on the elder Damle. The ceremony will be held at the museum. He added that due to the restriction on gatherings, the ceremony will be attended only by some family members. The 1936 film Sant Tukaram, which Damle co-directed with Sheikh Fattelal, also one of the partners at Prabhat Film Company, won a special recommendation award at the Venice Film Festival. Damle, besides his role as a sound recordist, became known for his directorial partnership with Fattelal, as well as the films they made, including mythological works, as well as features about saints in Maharashtra, such as Sakhubai and Dnyaneshwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/family-to-hold-memorial-at-prabhat-pioneers-old-studio/articleshow/76791591.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
July 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Five more Covid-19 cases detected in AHRCC||Cuttack: Five more Covid-19 positive cases have been detected from Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre (AHRCC) on Saturday. With this, the total number of infected cases in the hospital went up to 62. The hospital was sealed on Friday and the premises sanitised on Saturday. “A team collected swab samples from people after active contact tracing of the infected persons was undertaken. A team is also tracing the attendants who had come to AHRCC from different districts,” said collector (Cuttack) Bhabani Shankar Chayani. Once traced, the attendants will be asked to stay in quarantine. “After contact tracing most of the people have been kept in the isolation ward of AHRCC and swab samples were collected for testing,” he added. On Thursday, 55 people who tested positive have been shifted to Covid hospitals in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. Those who were negative are in quarantine in the isolation ward. Official sources said 13 fresh Covid-19 cases have been detected in Cuttack in the past 24 hours taking the number of infected in the district to 715 on Saturday. Out of the 13, five are from AHRCC, six from a private nursing home in Chauliaganj, one each from the Badamba and Athagarh localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/five-more-covid-19-cases-detected-in-ahrcc/articleshow/76791018.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||RTC launches cargo service to aid farmers||SECUNDERABAD: In a move that would benefit thousands of farmers, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) has decided to use it cargo services to ferry vegetables and fruits from the fields to markets. On Saturday, the TSRTC launched the first service from Bowenpally Agriculture Market Yard. “It has been observed that all farmers are spending a lot of money to bring their produce to the markets. They are paying a lot to transport vehicles. Now they can use RTC services by paying 40 paise per kilo. Each cargo bus will have a capacity of 10 tonnes,” said Bowenpally agriculture market committee chairman, TN Srinivasan. “Today (Saturday), 10 cargo buses were launched. The number of buses will increase with demand. We can transport the products within the state and even to neighbouring states like Andhra Pradesh,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rtc-launches-cargo-service-to-aid-farmers/articleshow/76791720.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Can DK Shivakumar turn around Congress’ fortunes in Karnataka?||BENGALURU: Several videos portraying KPCC chief DK Shivakumar as a superhero, ready to vanquish his rivals BJP and JD(S), are doing the rounds on social media. Their makers are none other than grassroots party workers, who believe he’s capable of reviving Congress’ flagging fortunes in Karnataka. But can he? With the party weakened by a spate of desertions by its MLAs, factionalism and a series of electoral debacles, Shivakumar has his task cut out and certainly needs superhero powers to achieve it. The Congress organisation needs a major overhaul. The party has been on a downward spiral following the drubbing it received at the hands of BJP in the 2018 assembly elections and 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Bypolls to 15 assembly seats last December made the situation worse, and uncertainty over appointment of a new president had left the party rudderless. With BJP breathing down Congress’ neck in many parts of the state, Shivakumar will need to quickly devise a plan to prevent erosion of its vote bank. Revisiting the tried and tested policy of community appeasement can’t be the only strategy. Many people, especially youngsters, have lately been voting on the basis of issues. For Shivakumar, the key is balancing the perception of JD (S) as a fierce opponent at the state level and the ‘all-weather’ friend at the Centre. There is a lot of confusion among people over the two parties’ ties. The new chief will also have to put the party’s house in order. Talk of camaraderie and unity notwithstanding, there are too many elephants in the room. Shivakumar’s major challenge would be handling power groups in the party. Though he seems to be doing his best to take Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah into confidence, the wily politician is not the one to get easily get carried away. Time will tell if Shivakumar can usher in an era of unity and reposition the party as the only alternative in state politics. There will be multiple tests before the 2023 assembly polls, the immediate being the gram panchayat elections later this year. Congress is aware that if it wants to be a real contender, it must fare well in the panchayat polls and make the best use of anti-incumbency against BJP rule. Shivakumar has to shore up the party’s fortunes in north, central and coastal Karnataka, which used to be Congress strongholds. According to analysts, his first challenge includes consolidating Vokkaliga support, which has now got divided between the three major parties. The task isn’t easy, considering that the Gowda family will be fighting to protect its turf and BJP is working on its strategy to make further inroads in Old Mysuru. With his image having been dented in the money-laundering case, Shivakumar also has to regain public confidence. Watch Can DK Shivakumar put the Congress on winning track in Karnataka?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/can-dks-turn-around-congress-fortunes-in-karnataka/articleshow/76791384.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Vadodara||Domestic violence cases rise by 11% during lockdown in Vadodara||VADODARA: In April, a 24-year-old woman living in Vemali in Vadodara suffered severe spine injuries as her husband thrashed her after she defeated him in online ludo game. This was just one of the many such cases of domestic violence that 181 Abhayam helpline dealt during lockdown. While the lockdown ideally could have improved couple relationship, families almost came apart during March, April, May and June with 17,113 cases of domestic violence registered across the state. What’s more concerning is that compared to pre-lockdown days, cases spiked during lockdown and post-lockdown period by over 11%. In pre-lockdown times, domestic violence-related cases used to be 33.37% of the total calls made on the helpline. Among the four major cities, Ahmedabad reported highest calls followed by Rajkot. Again, calls related to addiction issues including alcohol, drug or any other addictive substances were the highest after domestic violence during lockdown. Abhayam officials said that many women also called them only to get general information. Dr Thomas Vadaya, practising psycho-therapist in Vadodara said that the higher number of domestic violence cases reflects on people not knowing how to handle themselves because they cannot go out and they do not have any outlet for their energy. “People were living in survival mode and with other challenges too, they would be instigated so those around them especially women would be the target,” he said. Abhayam project head Narendrasinh Gohil said, “We did telephonic counselling wherever it was possible. But when cases related to domestic violence or any other severity were reported, our teams visited the victim and counselled her along with other family members.” The helpline gave women choice of further action. “If she would prefer to register a criminal case, we would take her to the police station,” said Gohil, adding that during the lockdown too the teams worked 24 hours and visited containment zones with precautions to rescue victims. Data shared by Abhayam helpline revealed that in most cases during lockdown, distressed women preferred approaching the police for help. There were also many who decided to go to their relatives home rather than staying with the abusive husband or in-laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/domestic-violence-cases-rise-by-11-during-lockdown/articleshow/76790308.cms||Jay Pachchigar
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops still on the lookout for PVP||Hyderabad: City police are still on the lookout for financier-cum-YSRC functionary Potluri Vara Prasad (PVP) who has been untraceable since a few cases were booked against him. A city team suspecting that PVP may be in Vijayawada visited the city but it turned out to be a dead-end. A few days back, when officials from Banjara Hills police went to PVP’s house in Jubilee Hills Road Number 82, his workers allegedly let loose a pack of dogs to prevent cops from entering the residence. A case has been registered against PVP and few others by Jubilee Hills police. Similarly, Banjara Hills police registered a criminal case against PVP and his associates for allegedly trespassing into the residence of businessman K Vikram and threatening him. In this case, police called PVP to police station, where he was questioned before being issued a notice and let off. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, PVP had contested as a YSRCP candidate from Vijayawada but lost the poll.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-still-on-the-lookout-for-pvp/articleshow/76791753.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Housing society develops app to avoid overcrowding||HYDERABAD: Residents of My Home Vihanga, Nanakramguda in Financial District, have formed a Covid-19 crisis management group to tide over the difficult time. The crisis management group consisting of 60 residents ensures that essentials are delivered to senior citizens in their society at their doorstep. “We created an app where people book a slot to purchase essentials like vegetables. The app was developed by one of the techies staying in our housing society. With the help of the app, crowding inside the supermarket and vegetable stalls within the housing society were avoided,” said Kalyan Reddy, general secretary of My Home Vihanga. Volunteers helped people who were unable to book slots online using the app. Stay arrangements were ensured for staffers working in the housing society. During lockdown, security guards and housekeeping staff stayed at the guestroom and the community hall which were modified to accommodate them. “Cots, bedsheets and essentials were donated by residents. We collected Rs 6.5 lakh and gave it to the staffers as an incentive,” said Praveen Rao, joint secretary of the society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/housing-society-develops-app-to-avoid-overcrowding/articleshow/76791993.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha prohibits Kanwaria Yatra amid pandemic||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Saturday prohibited religious activities and congregations as part of the Kanwaria Yatra during the Hindu month of Shravan (July-August) due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Announcing the state government’s decision, special relief commissioner P K Jena said the Kanwarias (also known as Bol Bom devotees) will not be allowed to collect water from any religious place or water bodies and pour the water in any Shiva temple on Mondays during the month. The devotees will also not be allowed to walk on any road carrying the water this year. The state government has already issued orders on June 30 directing religious places and places of worship to remain shut till July-end and prohibiting all social, political and religious functions and congregations during that period. “We have decided to prohibit the Kanwaria Yatra this year as such activities have extensive potential of spreading Covid-19,” said Jena. The SRC said the order issued by the state government to prohibit Kanwaria Yatra will be strictly implemented by all the district administrations in the interest of public health and any deviation will be dealt with strictly. Earlier, several northern states like Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana had suspended the Kanwaria Yatra. According to tradition, thousands of saffron-clad kanwarias flood major roads across the state during Shravan and walk barefoot for several miles. The Kanwarias usually start their journey on Saturday and Sunday by collecting water from specific water bodies, walk till Monday morning and pour water on a Shiva Linga, which is known as jal abhishek. Roads leading to popular Shiva shrines in the state, including the Lingaraj temple in the city, witness massive footfall of Kanwarias as large numbers of men, women, old people and also children take part in the annual religious event. Although the tradition of Kanwaria Yatra is very popular in North India, a large number of people in Odisha also participate in it. Some of the Shiva shrines witness footfall of 40,000 to 50,000 Kanwarias every Monday during Shravan. Some political leaders also participate in the annual event in Odisha. “I have been participating in the Kanwaria Yatra for the past 21 years. Since the state government has prohibited it this year, we will adhere to the government guidelines,” said former minister and Cuttack-Sadar BJD MLA Chandrasarathi Behera. Business to the tune of more than Rs 50 crore linked to Kanwaria Yatra will be affected due to the government decision, market sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-prohibits-kanwaria-yatra-amid-pandemic/articleshow/76791025.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Burglar accused in three states held in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A Bangalore-based person who has allegedly been involved in 18 house burglary cases was nabbed by Cyberabad police on Saturday. Police recovered valuables worth Rs 70 lakh, including over one kilo gold and three kilos of silver, from him. According to police, the accused, 32-year-old Baswaraju Prakash, has committed 18 burglaries in various parts of Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. “He (Baswaraju) frequently comes to Hyderabad and moves in the city and surrounding areas during day time. He identifies locked flats of apartments and residential houses and commits offences at night by breaking the lock,’’ Cyberabad police said in a statement. “After committing the offence, he would either sell the gold or mortgage it (with) a popular gold finance company or some pawn brokers in Hyderabad. He spends this money on his lavish lifestyle. Previously, he had been arrested by Karnataka police for a property offence and went to jail,’’ the police said. The accused is said to have committed offences in Bachupally, Kukatpally, Jawaharnagar, LB Nagar, Vanasthalipuram and Ameenpur in the city besides other parts of the state. Apart from the gold and silver, police have also recovered an SUV and few other vehicles from the accused’s possession. Police are expected to take him into custody once again by moving a custody petition to know more about his other offences. Officials are investigating more details before initiating further action against individuals who have received stolen property from the accused by either buying it from him or extending loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglar-accused-in-3-states-held-in-city/articleshow/76791707.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Golconda and Charminar set for cautious opening tomorrow||HYDERABAD: The historic Golconda Fort and Charminar are all set to open for torurists from Monday as per the Centre’s guidelines for Archaeological Survey of India’s (ASI) protected monuments. As these historic structures open up, officials are putting in place strict protocols to ensure safety of people as Covid-19 continues to be on the rise. There would be a cap of 2,000 people entering the monuments per day. “These monuments see an average of 3,000 to 4,000 people a day, with weekends seeing much larger crowds. But the entry of people will be restricted in the light of Covid-19,” an official, requesting anonymity, told STOI. Tickets would be sold online to reduce contact with staff. For booking tickets, tourists could log into ASI website (www.asi.nic.in). Incidentally, officials are being extra cautious as Bonalu is also celebrated at Jagadamba Temple at the Golconda Fort. “On Thursday and Sunday, we will be ensuring that those coming to the monument for religious purposes wear masks and follow protocol,” an ASI official said. Besides, the two city monuments, the Warangal Fort is also set to open. Last month, the Thousand Pillar temple and Ramappa temple were opened up after the Centre’s nod for places of worship to be opened to the public. As per the standard operating protocol, visitors have to follow social distancing and use face cover/masks, which is mandatory. Entrances would have hand hygiene and thermal scanning provisions. Only asymptomatic persons would be allowed entry. At parking and cafeteria, only digital payment would be allowed. There should be designated routes for entry and exit and movement within the monument. The route should be one way only with single line maintaining norms of social distancing. The ASI could restrict access to vulnerable and interior part of any monument. Visitors would be asked to stick to time limits inside the monument, as far as possible and no group photography inside. Guides and photographers who have valid licence would be allowed to work while no food will be allowed inside the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/golconda-and-charminar-set-for-cautious-opening-tomorrow/articleshow/76791740.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Lights out! Nightclubs see no way to open the floor for partying||NEW DELHI: Long queues at the entrance, a jostle to get a drink at the bar once inside, dancing to the beats of your favourite artiste, battling the shoulder-to-shoulder crowd and posting images of ‘night to remember’. Weekend after weekend, nightclubs in the capital had dance floors packed with revellers swooning to the beats of a DJ. The more crowded a place, the more happening it was perceived to be. While restaurants, bars and lounges might still come up with new table arrangements or try new formats, such as contactless dining, DIY kits and strict hygiene protocols to attract diners, nightclubs that purely depended on their ‘vibe’ see no future even if curfew timings are relaxed and alcohol services allowed. Most nightclub owners say social distancing and nightclubs cannot coexist and they would rather stay shut than risk people or their businesses. The majority of nightclubs in the city are usually at five-star hotels, which allow them 24 hour license to serve alcohol. Before the Covid-era, nightclubs started operations around 10pm — the curfew hour set post the lockdown — and would run till the wee hours. Ankit Khilwani of Soho at Hotel Ashok said his club was usually packed to the rafters and hosted top international artistes and was a high-energy zone that cannot operate under the current norms. “We had a mere 15% seating area with the rest devoted to the bar and dancing space. Nightclubs are high-energy zones where people come to unwind over the weekend. Only a vaccine can save our business as it does not make sense for owners to reopen their places,” he explained. Most nightclub owners concurred with Khilwani and said that they might not reopen even if the current curfew norms were relaxed and permission to serve alcohol was granted. Delhi had close to 15 nightclubs and each employ around 150 people directly. These included bartenders, chefs, serving staff, security and managers. Apart from these, there are hundreds who are indirectly employed. Musicians, DJs, singers, sound and light engineers, technicians, promotion agency, valet service to additional security men used to have their weekly employment sorted due to bustling nightclub scene in the capital. These clubs hosted top Indian and international artistes and lit the nightlife scene in Delhi. Nightclubs also generated high sales for imported liquor, adding to state’s excise coffers. All this has come to a standstill due to fear of Covid-19 with no scope of revival anytime soon. Umang Tewari, who runs nightclub Key at Hotel Samrat, said it was hard to imagine the plight of contractual workers who earned a decent amount due to the multiple events that were planned by clubs across the city. “Predicting a timeline for reopening will be futile as these spaces are all about mingling with the crowd and enjoying the lively atmosphere. A vaccine is the only way to revive nightclubs and save thousands of jobs,” Tewari claimed. Nightclubs were among the first, along with cinema halls, to be closed once the fear of coronavirus spread. Akshay Anand, vice-president of Delhi Restaurants and Club Association and owner of nightclub Toy Room, said nightclubs are all about experience. “We are a party zone where people don’t want to sit and eat. Nightclubs are places to unwind and celebrate,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lights-out-nightclubs-see-no-way-to-open-the-floor-for-partying/articleshow/76791579.cms||Amin Ali
July 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Employees adapt to new normal and safety protocols||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Employees who rejoined work are adjusting to the new normal and safety protocols, such as wearing masks and personal protection equipment (PPE) kits. "The protective suit that we have to wear throughout the day makes us feel very hot and bulgy. But we understand it’s a requirement in today’s world," said Pratiksha Jetithor, a beauty parlour employee. For those working in the kitchen, masks can be as uncomfortable. Rizwan Moidu, an executive chef who heads the kitchens in a few restaurants in the city, said that chef caps and aprons have always been a part of the uniform, but gloves and masks have been added post the pandemic. "It’s very hot in the kitchen and this makes wearing masks very uncomfortable for the employees working there. While cooking, you have to taste the dish sometimes for seasoning. I tell my staff not to take off their masks, but they pull it down to taste the seasoning in a careful manner," he said. Chaitanya Shirole, an HR executive, said, "Though it is mandatory for all employees to wear masks at all times, they often tend to pull their masks down and gather in groups since they are meeting each other after a long time. They do so even when they are talking on the intercoms or taking client calls, but we have to make sure they completely sanitise their phones." Though Mamata Menon, an IT professional, is all praise for her company for implementing the guidelines set by the government for precaution against the coronavirus, she admits to missing the camaraderie among her colleagues during breaks. "Before the lockdown, we used to go for breaks in groups, hang out at the tea stall and chat. But now less than half of the staff is coming to work, and they are bringing food from home. Tea is also served to one person at a time and we are not allowed to gather in groups for our own safety," she said. Chaitanya Shirole, an HR executive, said, "Though it is mandatory for all employees to keep masks on at all times, they often tend to pull their masks down and gather in groups since they are meeting each other after a long time. We have appointed a single point of contact on each floor to make sure that everyone follows the regulations." Shankar Nath, a salesman at a garment shop, said the mask obstructs him from connecting with customers. "We have not had many customers walk in for shopping since we reopened, but for a salesman it is important to see the expressions of customers. One cannot see the expression with mask on," he said. Shobna Das, psychologist, said, "In a business environment, face to face interactions are very important, and masks can make this difficult. Employees can't identify the facial expressions of their superiors or clients/customers and vice versa. Superiors need to be empathetic towards their subordinates and the onus of maintaining a healthy work environment lies with them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/employees-adapt-to-new-normal-and-safety-protocols/articleshow/76791605.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Delhi||New private firm to be hired to manage home isolation in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is planning to hire a private firm for management of corona-positive patients in home quarantine in the capital, and has floated a tender for it. The state government’s decision comes days after the services of another private firm were discontinued since the new guidelines mandated physical verification of each case under home isolation. The order to discontinue services of the firm, issued on June 19, stated that the company was making only telephonic contact with the individuals under home quarantine. The new company, to be hired through the tendering process, will be required to provide services for three months at an estimated cost of Rs 2.5 crore for 75,000 patients. The service period, the tender document states, can be extended for another three months if needed. The company will be required to maintain daily call logs of all calls made to patients under home quarantine, list the details of those having temperature of 101 degree Fahrenheit and above and also record the list of individuals transferred to hospitals or Covid-care centre as a result of telecounselling. A senior official in the state health department said that the tender process is on and a firm will be selected soon. The capital has more than 16,000 patients who are under home quarantine at present. Most of them are asymptomatic or have very mild symptoms. Physical verification of each case is mandatory. It is carried out by the surveillance teams of the district surveillance officers under overall supervision of the district magistrate. “Physical verification and monitoring over phone on a daily basis is needed to ensure that if a patient develops complications he or she is transferred immediately to a hospital. This is important to save lives,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-pvt-firm-to-be-hired-to-manage-home-isolation/articleshow/76791574.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||National-level police varsity in Jodhpur without V-C since 2015||Jodhpur: While the Union home ministry mooted the proposal of setting up a national police university, the Sardar Patel University of Police, Security and Criminal Justice here, one of the three police varsities in the country, continues to remain neglected with no permanent vice chancellor since 2015. Founding vice chancellor M L Kumawat had stepped down in 2015 after completion of his stint and since then the institute has been functioning with senior police officers as acting vice chancellors/pro vice chancellors. With the last acting vice chancellor, senior IPS officer NRK Reddy retiring recently, the post has fallen vacant. Today, the university neither has a vice chancellor nor a pro vice chancellor. The negligence of the state government towards the university could be gauged by the fact that since the completion of the tenure of the first vice chancellor, four search committees have been constituted by the state government for selection of a vice chancellor. Interestingly, twice the panels have suggested names, but the process did not reach the final appointment and hence the university continues to remain without a permanent vice chancellor. Member of the latest search committee, Kumawat, who happens to the member of the board of management of the university, said the names have been submitted to the governor and a selection is likely to be made soon. Though questions have been raised on his nomination in the committee for having links with the university terming it to be in contravention of the UGC regulations, but Kumawat claimed that university Act allowed him to be in search committee. In absence of a permanent vice chancellor, smooth functioning and further development of the university has been miserably hampered. Pointing to multiple lacunae, the students of the university had called for shutting down the university in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/national-level-police-varsity-in-jodhpur-without-v-c-since-2015/articleshow/76791606.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Hubballi||Bal Vikas Academy headless since two years||Hubballi: Karnataka Bal Vikas Academy (KBVA), which was set up in Dharwad in 2009 to address the regional imbalance issue, was supposed to celebrate its 10th anniversary in 2019-20. Forget the celebration, it is not even having a chairman for the past two years. The academy, set up during the first tenure of B S Yediyurappa as the chief minister, does not have a dedicated administrative officer either. The huge building, constructed on 1acre land is lying idle without holding any programmes. Though Yediyurappa is chief minister now, KBVA continues to remain dormant. Shankar Halagatti, its first chairman, said the academy was the result of two decades of struggle by writers like Sisu Sangamesh who wrote extensively for children. “But for the initial years, it has not seen a full-time project officer. There has been no accounts officer for the past eight years. The government framed bylaws, which have remained on paper. No elected representative or officer has shown interest to revive the academy which was aimed to work for the cause of children of the state,” he added. Halagatti was the only writer to have been appointed as the chairman for KBVA. His successors have all been from political background: Mahesh Tenginakai (BJP), and Dakshayani Basavaraj and Vedavyas Koulagi (both Congress). The construction of an auditorium costing Rs 7-8 crore has remained incomplete owing to lack of funds. “It’s disheartening to see the two structures, which were supposed to host activities for children, lying idle,” Halagatti rued. Halagatti’s immediate successor Tenginakai, now BJP state general secretary, hoped that academy will get a new chairman in a month. “We have requested the government to provide staff, facilities and funds for the academy. Everything will be streamlined once the chairman is appointed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bal-vikas-academy-headless-since-two-years/articleshow/76790986.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Four thieves uproot ATM with Rs 5 lakh cash, held||HYDERABAD: Four ATM thieves who decamped with a teller machine containing Rs 5 lakh at Pregnapur in Gajwel were arrested on Friday. Among the arrested were two siblings, who had been to jail earlier for other crimes, Siddipet police said on Saturday. The thieves — Bomma Swami, Bomma Ilesh, Thungapalli Naveen and Ayyaduula Naveen — were found loitering around suspiciously in an auto near an ATM kiosk in Gajwel when police intercepted them. During the questioning, the quartet confessed to uprooting the machine on Jagdevpur Road in Pregnapur on June 28. Cops found a crowbar, an iron rod, a hammer and a cutting player in the auto. Gajwel ACP P Narayana said the accused had made a vain bid to take away two other ATMs at Turkapalli and Gouraram. “At both these places, they disconnected the wires of the CCTVs but could not break open the ATMs. As they had failed twice in their attempts, they had decided to take away the ATM itself at Pregnapur on June 28,” he said. A day prior to committing the theft, they did a recce and disconnected the wires of the CCTV cameras. On June 28, they used a crow bar and the iron rod to dislodge the ATM, which was smaller in size when compared to other teller machines. They shifted the machine into their auto and fled from there. “They went to a nearby forest area, broke the ATM and distributed the cash of Rs 4,98,800 among themselves. They spent Rs 28,000 from it and the rest was recovered,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-thieves-uproot-atm-with-rs-5l-cash-held/articleshow/76791727.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 5, 2020||Hubballi||Low-key wedding could be the new normal in post-Covid world||HUBBALLI: Covid-19 pandemic has ushered in a new reality for the weddings in the district and only time will tell if they live up to the catchphrase of being fat and big in the post-coronavirus world. While elaborate weddings ceremonies and destination weddings at exotic locations taking a back seat, industry experts claim intimate weddings will be the way to go forward. Speaking to TOI, Koppal-based social worker Mahesh Angadi said a well-known family here held a low-key wedding at Malemallappa Temple in the city outskirts recently. “They acted very responsibly and took precautionary measures to prevent the spread of pandemic,” he added. Vishwanath Shivashimper, an employee at a private firm in Bagalkot, observed that the wedding invites too are upgraded. “They have now begun requesting the invitees to come at the wedding wearing masks. At the other end, the invitees too are not turning up in large numbers. For instance, say only one person from a family is attending such unavoidable social gatherings,” Dr Ravikumar Kariyappanavar, an Ayurveda doctor in Lokapur, observed that most wedding ceremonies are now being held early morning in the presence of a priest and few family members fearing police action. However, Sanjeev Kumar Kunnur, a farmer in Martur village, Kalaburagi district, said, “Though Kalaburagi is one among worst-hit districts, it appears people are not worried about holding large gatherings or attending them. I attended a grand wedding in Chittapur taluk in June last week and I could spot several people without masks. There was no arrangement for social distancing or sanitisation either,” he said. Ishwar Hakki, a railway employee from Kotumachagi village in Gadag district, said the venue of a wedding was changed after someone tested positive for Covid-19 in the village. “As the news about Covid-19 case spread, the wedding was held at fields owned by the family at a remote location away from the village,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/low-key-wedding-could-be-the-new-normal-in-post-covid-world/articleshow/76791119.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad city: 25sqkm under curbs||AURANGABAD: The civic administration has declared 10 new containment zones within the municipal limits of Aurangabad, taking the total number of active zones in the city to 23. Around 25sqkm area of Aurangabad, housing around 78,200 residents, is currently under containment. Meanwhile, the containment zones drawn up in Noor colony, Kil-e-Ark, Sanjay Naga-Mukundwadi and Bahadurpoora were lifted on Saturday. The containment zone in Husain Colony has been relegated to the status of a micro-containment zone. Additional collector Annasaheb Shinde, who has been appointed for keeping a check on spread of the viral infection, said, “The idea of containment zone is to strictly check the entry and exit of people from the notified area where the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases is more than 15. While different authorities and ground-level staff have been deployed for every containment zone to ensure compliance, it is upto citizens to follow the rules and protect themselves and their loved ones from getting infected.” With an aim to check the spread of Covid-19 in containment zones and buffer zones, the health authorities have started door-to-door testing. As a part of this, throat swab samples of as many as 62 people were collected from Kanchanwadi area, followed by 60 from Sabhaji colony, 46 from Satara area and 34 from Shivaji Nagar area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-city-25sqkm-under-curbs/articleshow/76790320.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 5, 2020||Goa||‘Very wrong of govt to restart tourism’||Panaji: Benaulim NCP MLA Churchill Alemao on Friday questioned the state government’s need to restart tourism activities in Goa. The MLA, who usually supports the government, said that this move would land Goa in “big trouble” in the coming weeks. “It is very wrong,” he said. “Many people from other states are waiting to rush to Goa. And if they come here, we are in big trouble.” Instead of being allowed to open up, hotels should have been converted into Covid care centres, Alemao said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/very-wrong-of-govt-to-restart-tourism/articleshow/76791991.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Nagpur||3 MSEDCL employees from Wardha test Covid-19 positive||Wardha: Three employees of MSEDCL, who returned from Konkan where they had gone to repair power supply lines snapped due to Nisarga cyclone, tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday. According to information, 20 workers from Wardha district had gone to Pen to restore the power lines. Out of the 20, six are from Hinganghat division, five from Arvi division and nine from Wardha division. They returned on July 1. Seven from Wardha division were admitted to the civil hospital on July 2 and their swab samples sent for testing. Out of the seven, reports of three employees (M 52, 37 and 43) came positive. These employees hail from Anji, Pipri (Meghe) and Samata Nagar in Wardha. They have been admitted to Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital in Sawangi. Others employees are in home quarantine. The district health officer informed that swab samples of all have been sent for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-msedcl-employees-from-wardha-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76791639.cms||Balwant Dhage
July 5, 2020||Nagpur||Treat +ve prisoners outside jail, track health of officials: Experts||Nagpur: The increasing number of Covid-19 infected prisoners in central jail has created a panic-like situation for the authorities as well as the health department. Till date, 42 prisoners in Nagpur and 68 in Akola have tested positive. A few prisoners in the Amravati district jail have also tested positive. “It’s difficult to control the spread of Covid-19 in jails because prisoners live in close contact, eat the same food, drink the same water and use common toilets,” said epidemiologist, Dr Swapnil Gawande. “The indoor risk of Covid-19 is 19% higher than outdoor. Imagine the smell of smoke or any bad odour indoors and the same outdoors,” he said, suggesting that keeping prisoners outdoors for more time may reduce the spread. Dr Pradeep Deshmukh, Professor and HOD of community medicines at AIIMS, Nagpur, said mass testing is not a good idea. “In the early stage of the disease, a patient may have no symptoms. The PCR test may be negative, but the patient could be contagious. Hence, selective but aggressive testing must be done,” he said. Basic preventive measures like hand hygiene, physical distancing and age-wise separation of prisoners are vital. “The only thing in our hands is to delay the infection because people are living in such a congested place,” added Dr Deshmukh. The experts are of the opinion that the authorities should take the necessary steps to reduce the risk by examining factors like outdoor and indoor activities, distancing among prisoners, reducing their contact duration, ensuring better ventilation, making use of masks mandatory, avoiding talking, shouting inside the jail and also skipping mass events. Former addl DG, prison, BK Upadhyay has appreciated the current ‘lockdown model’ implemented in jails by incumbent Addl DG, prison, Sunil Ramanand. He said this formula has worked in the state’s biggest jail (Yerwada) where Covid-19 could not make any inroads. “I, too, would have focused on avoiding crowding at any cost, for which, the lockdown would have been a probable solution. In Nagpur, a careless slip up by a jail guard led to the current spike in corona cases,” said Upadhyay, who has directed his force and officers to render maximum help and support to the jail administration, especially SP Anup Kumar Kumre. “A senior officer of DIG rank is needed in Nagpur to communicate with the government regarding various requirements pertaining to manpower or budgetary allocations. The SP (Kumre) can manage the administration at the ground level,” said Upadhyay, adding, he would have distributed thermal scanners and pulse-oxymeters to screen more personnel and prisoners. “Vitamin C tablets and immunity boosters are needed for prisoners, personnel and their families. Regular counselling by doctors is also crucial to fight Covid-19,” he said. Former Nagpur CP, PKB Chakravorthy, who visited several prisons and also investigated a crucial jailbreak case during his stint with CBI, said frequent sanitizing and disinfecting prisons is a must. “Basically, isolation is the key to fight Covid-19. At least in the central jails, isolation facilities for suspected and infected persons need to be set up,” said the retired director general of police. “It is also important to screen jail officials and monitor their health at regular intervals. A proper treatment facility, whether inside the jail or outside, is also crucial,” he said. “With adequate manpower, it is also advisable to shift prisoners outside and get them treated,” said Chakravorthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/treat-ve-prisoners-outside-jail-track-health-of-officials-experts/articleshow/76791617.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 5, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Wild elephant found dead in Attapadi||PALAKKAD: A five-year old wild tusker was found dead near Vettikundu tribal hamlet at Sholayur in Attapadi on Saturday. Forest department officials said that the preliminary postmortem report conducted on the carcass of the tusker found that there was an injury in its mouth. But the injury was not due to explosives. The elephant had not eaten for a week due to its mouth injury and was found near the tribal hamlet for the last 3 days. There was also an injury in the lower jaw which must have been caused in a fight with another wild elephant or a fall, forest department officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/wild-elephant-found-dead-in-attapadi/articleshow/76791035.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bareilly||30-year-old man found dead in sugarcane field||Pilibhit: The decomposed body of a 30-year-old man who had gone missing seven days ago was found dumped in a sugarcane field in Bithara village under Neuria police station on Saturday morning. Police identified the victim as Rajesh Kumar, a farmer of Neuria village, and sent the body for autopsy. SHO Kheem Singh Jalal said the victim had left home for some work seven days ago, but did not return. "His brother Tulsi Ram given a letter, requesting police to send the body for an autopsy, but no complaint was lodged," said the SHO. “As the body got decomposed, no injury marks could be detected. We suspect that the victim died at least a week ago. In the absence of a written complaint, police have been waiting for the autopsy report based on which further action will be taken,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/30-year-old-man-found-dead-in-sugarcane-field/articleshow/76787727.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||Dr Edwin Gomes returns home after 98 days on duty to hero’s welcome||Panaji: Dr Edwin Gomes, the doctor at the forefront leading Goa’s battle against Covid, returned home to a hero’s welcome on Saturday after 98 days of duty at the ESI hospital. His two daughters, who were meeting their father after nearly 100 days, rushed to greet him with hugs as he stepped into the housing complex at Miramar. Making the family reunion even warmer were his neighbours who had poured out of their homes to appreciate his dedication in the fight against the virus and to thank him for his work in leading his team of doctors from the front. Such a welcome should also be given to other Covid warriors, Dr Edwin said. “Patients who have recovered from Covid should also get a hero’s welcome, because they have fought Covid and came home,” he told TOI. His neighbours not only held up posters saying ‘Thank you Covid Warrior Dr Edwin’, but each one of them, including the security guard, offered ‘Goa’s superman’ — as they called him — a rose. Dr Gomes was also showered with cakes and cards as an expression of gratitude for his work. The neighbours, some thanking him and clapping for him from their balconies, taking a cue from Prime Minister’s call, also left thank you notes for their hero. “Thank you for taking care of Goa,” one neighbour Alvarinha wrote. “Most people don’t meet their heroes, but we are fortunate to live next to ours. We are proud of you,” read one note from Sameer Lad. Professor of medicine at Goa Medical College and head of the Covid hospital, Gomes treated the very first seven patients who tested positive in March as well as over a hundred who were admitted to the hospital last month. He has recommended to the government to relieve doctors at the Covid hospital after two to three weeks to prevent them from getting burnt out, he said, adding that he slept for close to 20 hours on returning home. “We would hardly sleep for 5-6 hours and were always on our toes as many admissions at the hospital were done at night. But it was all worth it as we learnt a lot. We now know that we can contain Covid in Goa,” he said, adding that he will be returning to the hospital after three weeks. Admitting that he and his team were initially scared of contracting the disease, he said, they mustered the courage overtime as they treated seven patients in the first phase, around 25 in the second phase, after which the number only kept rising. “We were then in a better position to treat the 150+ patients at the hospital,” he says. He and his team worked at the 220-bed Covid hospital treating patients not only with medicine, but also with a humane touch, ensuring they were not isolated, offering hope and keeping their spirits up at a time when several were under the impression that they were going to die.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dr-edwin-gomes-returns-home-after-98-days-on-duty-to-heros-welcome/articleshow/76791995.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Worst-hit Ganjam gets bureaucratic help||Bhubaneswar: In view of the rising number of Covid cases in Ganjam district, the state government on Saturday deputed two young IAS and six senior OAS officers to the district. Ganjam, which has emerged as the worst-hit district in the state, has reported nearly 500 fresh cases in the last two days. According to a notification issued by the general administration department, two IAS officers — Parul Patawari and Vishal Singh — have been appointed as special additional district magistrates (ADM) with specific charges. Parul, a 2015-batch IAS officer, will be in-charge of Chhatrapur sub-division while Vishal, a 2016-batch officer, will look after Bhanjanagar sub-division. The six OAS officers are Sudhakar Nayak, Padmanav Behera, Lokanath Dalabehera, Shaktikanta Ray, Chittaranjan Mohanta and Suvendu Kumar Samal. They have been asked to report to Ganjam collector Vijay Amruta Kulange. The officers will assist the district administration in contact tracing, implementing containment strategies and other Covid-related management work. The extra manpower has been given keeping in mind the situation on the ground. “The state government has been keeping a close watch on Ganjam,” a government official said. Sources said the state government might depute more senior bureaucrats and health experts to contain the spread of the virus in the most populous district of Odisha if necessary. When contacted, additional chief secretary (health department) P K Mohapatra said he has been personally monitoring the situation in the district with the help of the collector on a daily basis. A team of senior health experts had visited the district a week ago to take stock of the situation, Mohapatra said. Of the total 8,601 cases reported till Saturday, 2,066 are from Ganjam. Similarly, the southern district also account for 20 of the total 34 Covid deaths in the state. The detection of positive cases from local contacts remains a cause of concern for the district administration. Though there was no positive case in the district till April-end, the cases rose during May and June. More than 2.5 lakh migrants have returned to the district from different states. Of them, the majority returned from Surat in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/worst-hit-ganjam-gets-bureaucratic-help/articleshow/76791037.cms||---
July 5, 2020||India||Monthly wage loss from first 2 lockdowns Rs 34,000cr: Study||MUMBAI: The estimated monthly wage loss caused by job cutbacks in the country in the first two lockdowns alone would amount to Rs 33,800 crore, according to a new study published as a working paper by the Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research (IGIDR). The study also estimates that the first two lockdowns, which stretched from March 25 to April 14 and April 15 to May 3, would have resulted in 11.6 crore and 7.9 crore workers facing the risk of job loss. Assuming these workers remained jobless for a continuous six months, the total expected wage loss would amount to Rs 2 lakh crore, or three times the budget allotted for the MGNREGA scheme in the 2020-2021 union budget, said the study. Titled ‘Impact of Covid-19 Pandemic on Labour Supply and Gross Value Added in India’, the study is based on the Periodic Labour Force Survey data for 2017-18. The wage loss estimates are based on 2017-18 prices. The study found that most workers who were at risk of job loss in the first two lockdowns were from states with the highest number of Covid-19 infections. It said 40% of the workers at risk of job loss were from the top five states in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. Also, 70% of workers at risk of job loss were from the top ten states. “Given that these states will continue to follow strict social distancing measures till the epidemic curve is flattened, the labour supply disruptions would persist and more workers would be rendered jobless,” the study said. Published in June, the study is co-written by Mohit Sharma from Collaborative Research and Dissemination, Sargam Gupta of IGIDR, and Xavier Estupian and Bharti Birla of ILO. Informal workers are the worst affected, says the study. Of the 11.6 crore workers at risk of losing jobs in Lockdown 1, as many as 10.4 crore workers were informally employed. Of these, 7.9 crore workers are informally employed in the unorganised sector and faced the highest risk of job loss. Workers in urban parts have been more affected than rural, found the study. This is because restrictions were fewer, with the bulk of activities in rural parts classified as essential. In Lockdown 1, 42% of the workers in the urban parts and 16% of the workers in the rural parts were at risk of job loss. In Lockdown 2, 34% of workers in urban parts and 8% workers in rural parts were at risk of job loss, said the paper. “The most impacted sectors in Lockdown 1 and 2 were wholesale trade, the hotel industry, transport, manufacturing and the entertainment sector, including malls and movie theatres,” senior researcher Mohit Sharma said. While estimating the cost of Covid-19 on the economy, the study looks at the GVA, or gross value added, which is a measure of the total value of goods and services produced in the economy without accounting for taxes and subsidies. To examine GVA losses, the study considers Lockdown 1 to 4, which ran till May 31. During the period, it predicts a GVA loss of 3.35 lakh crore, at 2011-12 prices, owing to the labour supply shock. This will lead to around 13% reduction in GVA compared to a no-Covid-19 scenario, said the study. The GVA growth rate in April-June 2020 is expected to decline within a range of -4.6% to -8.8 % compared to 2019-20, forecast the study. It pointed out that as the pandemic persists, the job crisis will worsen. “The paper estimates job losses in the immediate short-run due to labour supply shock. However, as the pandemic spreads, it will lead to a loss in income for those who have lost jobs. This will further reduce demand for goods and services in the economy and can fuel more job losses in future,” Sargam Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/monthly-wage-loss-from-first-2-lockdowns-34000cr-study/articleshow/76792215.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
July 5, 2020||Nagpur||Collapse of a four-year-old marriage almost led to child losing out on RTE admission||Nagpur: A child’s nursery admission under the free RTE quota in a well known CBSE school almost got cancelled due the breakdown of his parents’ four year-old marriage. The lockdown had triggered an economic crisis for the Duphare family (name changed) and proved to be the final straw for a relationship which was steadily going downhill. The child’s RTE admission form was filled when the parents were undergoing counselling by the city police’s Bharosa/Damini Cell. But now that they have informally agreed to end their marriage, the father refused to part with the caste certificate documents needed for the admission. 31-year-old Sujata (name changed) told TOI that her husband refused to take responsibility of their family and mostly remained aloof. “For the last couple of years, he refused to take financial responsibility and during the lockdown, made it clear that we should not expect anything from him in the future,” said Sujata. Both of them are employed in private firms and their salaries had been put on hold due to the economic crisis forced by the lockdown. Sujata alleged that she was being pressured to move to the husband’s ancestral village. “There is no future for my son in the village because his education will get hampered. My husband knew I would refuse and that will give him a reason to blame me for the separation,” said Sujata. Though Sujata took her son and moved out of her husband’s house at the start of the year itself, their ongoing counselling sessions through the police’s special cell meant that no formal separation had been done. Sujata rented a place in the same locality and was joined by her mother to help her out. Though Sujata moved out with most of her belongings, crucial documents were still at her husband’s house. “I had filed a second RTE admission application under ‘single mother’ category but still needed the caste certificate from my husband. He kept delaying it for a long time but finally due to pressure from Damini cell officials, he parted with it,” said Sujata. With the crucial document in hand, Sujata’s son is now guaranteed a seat in the popular CBSE school under the free RTE quota. And there is clarity emerging for Sujata’s marital status as well. “Looking at the irrevocable differences, even our counsellors have advised us to go our separate ways. We all are meeting again on Monday and will formalize the timeline for the divorce proceedings,” said Sujata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collapse-of-a-four-year-old-marriage-almost-led-to-child-losing-out-on-rte-admission/articleshow/76791634.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Parents hang selves in Ganjam after losing only son to Covid||Berhampur/Kendrapada: The parents of a 27-year-old man from Ganjam district were found dead hours after their son died of Covid-19 in a Bhubaneswar-based private hospital on Friday morning. Police said Rajkishore Satpathy (56) and his wife Sulochana (50) of Narayanpursasan village under Kabisurya Nagar police limits in the district allegedly committed suicide in the evening of the same day as they were unable to bear the pain of losing their only son. “We have registered an unnatural death case in this regard. Police are investigating the exact cause of their deaths,” Pravat Sahoo, IIC of Kabisurya Nagara police station, said. With the help of local volunteers and relatives, police recovered the bodies and sent them for autopsy on Saturday. The couple’s son — who was a school teacher — was on the front line in the fight against coronavirus. His school had been transformed into an institutional quarantine centre. The man was first admitted to a hospital in Aska after he developed a fever. He was later referred to MKCG Medical College and Hospital. However, he was shifted to a private hospital in Bhubaneswar after his condition deteriorated. He was unmarried. Sources said the father committed suicide by hanging from a tree on the village’s outskirts, while the mother hung herself at home. In another incident, a 32-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide in the district headquarters hospital (DHH) of Jagatsinghpur district on Thursday night after her husband (38) died in the same isolation ward as her. The deceased has been identified as Subhadra Swain, while the husband as Nirlapta Bhoi. Before her death, Subhadra posted an audio clip on a social media channel alleging that her husband died due to gross negligence on part of the hospital’s doctors and that she was left with no choice but to die. In the clip, she said the doctors were reluctant to treat her husband as they suspected he was a Covid-19 positive patient. Sunil Nayak, brother-in-law of Nirlapta, on Saturday filed an FIR against Bijaya Panda, chief district medical officer of Jagatsinghpur, and several other doctors. “Police are investigating the case,” Rajanikanta Mishra, IIC of Jagatsinghpur police station, said. When contacted, Bijaya said, “He was under treatment. However, he died of a heart attack. Both were in the isolation centre of the hospital. The swab samples of the couple were sent to SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack and the results came out negative.” Nirlapta and his wife had returned from Hyderabad on Wednesday and were placed under quarantine at a temporary medical centre in the district. After Nirlapta developed fever, both were shifted to the DHH’s isolation ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/parents-hang-selves-in-ganjam-after-losing-only-son-to-covid/articleshow/76791043.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
July 5, 2020||Goa||Morle’s Deulwada, Kasarwada denotifed as buffer zones||Keri: The Deulwada and Kasarwada wards of Morle have been denotified as buffer zones for the Ghodemol containment zone from July 2. Barricades prohibiting entry to the two wards have been removed, but police personnel are still on duty to restrain entry into Ghodemol, which continues being a containment zone. The decision to open the buffer zone was taken after no new Covid-19 cases were detected in the containment zone and recent tests of residents of the two wards and the containment area returned negative. When contacted, Sattari deputy collector Mangaldas Gaonkar said, “Out of 19 positive cases, only one person died. The rest recovered. Since samples of all residents have come negative, the Deulwada and Kasarwada wards have been desealed, but Ghodemol continues as a containment zone.” It may be recalled that, on June 12, North Goa collector R Menaka had notified Ghodemol as a containment zone, with Deulwada and Kasarwada as buffer zones, under the Disaster Management Act 2005. The deputy sarpanch of Morle, Sushant Paste, said, “As far as screening and testing of suspected cases is concerned, the government has taken appropriate steps. Our panchayat as well as the authorities did the needful for providing essential commodities to the villagers. The containment zone and buffer areas were completely sanitised and movement of public in and around the containment zone has been restricted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/morles-deulwada-kasarwada-denotifed-as-buffer-zones/articleshow/76791998.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
July 5, 2020||Goa||Forest cover drops, Sri Lanka frogmouth nests in cashew trees||KERI: Destruction of forest cover has likely compelled the Sri Lanka frogmouth — a grey-brown nocturnal bird species that is found in the Western Ghats and Sri Lanka’s forested habitats — to now take refuge in cashew plantations. Distinguished by its wide, hooked bill with slit-like nostrils and a large head with eyes facing forward, the Sri Lanka frogmouth is related to nightjars — medium-sized birds that are active primarily during twilight. Anand Melekar, a wildlife enthusiast from Melauli in the Sattari taluka, says he has noticed the species nesting on cashew trees in his village. “Earlier, these birds would build their nests on indigenous species of trees. But with the loss of the natural habitat, they are found to be nesting on cashew trees,” he says. Similar sightings have been reported in Dharbandora, too. Ramesh Zarmekar, a local wildlifer, says he recently came across a family of Sri Lanka frogmouths in a nest atop a cashew tree. “Earlier, these birds were hard to locate because they’d nest in dense trees. Now, however, they can be easily noticed on cashew trees, which are shorter and more open,” he says. The nest of the Sri Lankan frogmouth is made largely of moss and covered on the outside with bark. A single egg is laid, following which both parents share incubation duty. During the day, the birds prefer to stay in the nest as their plumage resembles the colour of dried leaves, making them difficult to spot. They feed largely on insects that are caught during flight or picked from the ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/forest-cover-drops-sri-lanka-frogmouth-nests-in-cashew-trees/articleshow/76792034.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
July 5, 2020||Aurangabad||3,126 recover from Covid-19 till Sat||Aurangabad: The district reported 196 fresh Covid-19 patients and seven deaths due to the infection on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 6,460 and death toll to 287. As many as 3,126 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from various covid treatment centres in the district till Saturday afternoon. There are 3,047 active cases. The deceased were undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and hospital. According to the GMCH coordinator, the deceased had other health conditions. The deceased include a 78-year-old woman from Ajanta in Sillod taluka, a 78-year-old woman form Narali Bagh, a 56-year-old woman from Shahinagar, Garkheda, a 52-year-old woman from Phulenagar, Osmanpura, a 52-year-old woman from Alamgir Colony, Sohail Garden, a 55-year-old from Dalalwadi, Paithan Gate and a 55-year-old from Bajajnagar, Aurangabad. Officials said that till Saturday morning 101 Covid cases were reported in the city and 37 cases from rural areas. However, by the afternoon more 51 patients tested positive from the city areas followed by seven from rural parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3126-recover-from-covid-19-till-sat/articleshow/76790332.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bareilly||Man jumps from quarantine centre building, dies in hosp||Rampur: A drug addict who was lodged in a quarantine centre on Jauhar University campus allegedly jumped off from the building on Friday night. He was rushed to the district hospital, where he died during treatment on Saturday morning. A probe has been ordered into the matter. The man and his brother were brought to the quarantine centre on July 1, after their mother tested positive for Covid-19. Aunjaneya Kumar, Rampur DM, said after he was brought to the district hospital, the man's sample was taken for coronavirus testing and he was found to be negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-jumps-from-quarantine-centre-building-dies-in-hosp/articleshow/76787739.cms||Nazar Abbas
July 5, 2020||Kochi||Alappuzha Co aces innovation challenge||Alappuzha: Techgentsia, an IT company in the district, is among the top teams in final stage (product stage) in the Video Conferencing Innovation Challenge announced by the government of India. It is the only IT company from Kerala in the top three teams. The other two IT companies are People Link Unified Communications Pvt Ltd, Hyderabad, and Sarv Webs Pvt Ltd, Jaipur. Each company will receive Rs 20 lakh from the government. The final winner will get an award of Rs 1 crore and will be the Union government’s official video conferencing service provider. Techgentsia, an IT firm functioning in Cherthala Infopark, was shortlisted in the innovation challenge for development of a video conferencing solution under the Make in India initiative in May this year. Ministry of electronics & information technology received over 2,000 proposals, of which 30 firms from various states were allowed to present them on May 21. Based on the presentations, 12 firms including Techgentsia were shortlisted. Techgentsia chief executive officer Joy Sebastian said that their technology platform will support all the available video conferencing devices at present. According to the ministry of electronics & information technology, “Coronavirus outbreak has led to the unprecedented enforcement of lockdown throughout the country. The concept of work from home (WFH) has become a household term. With organizations having asked employees to WFH, video conferencing has become an integral part of daily life. The National Policy on Software Products-2019 has a vision to drive the rise of India as a software product nation, to make India a global player in development, production and supply of innovative and efficient software products. Hence, the ministry announced an innovation challenge for development of a video conferencing solution under the Make in India Initiative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/alappuzha-co-aces-innovation-challenge/articleshow/76791053.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University extends admission registration till July 18||NEW DELHI: Delhi University on Saturday announced that the online registration process for admission to undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil and PhD programmes has been extended till July 18. The decision to extend the deadline was taken in view of the notification of declaration of CBSE results and postponement of JEE and NEET examinations, according to a varsity official. CBSE has said it would be declaring the results by July 15. On Friday, JEE and NEET exams were postponed to September. So far over three lakh students have registered for undergraduate courses at DU, of which 2.1 lakh have even made the payment. For postgraduate courses, over 1,31,000 students have registered with over 1.02 lakh completing the payment. Meanwhile, for MPhil and PhD programmes, 23,284 applications have been received, with 13,258 already paying for the registration. The last date for registrations at DU was July 4, which has now been extended to July 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-extends-admission-registration-till-july-18/articleshow/76791610.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 10 HMWSSB employees test positive||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 pandemic has also hit one of the major utility service departments, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB). Till date, 10 Water Board employees working at HMWS&SB’s main administrative office, in Khairatabad have tested positive for Covid-19. The Board has imposed restrictions against visitors and civil contractors. “Based on emergency work, we are allowing visitors after conducting thermal screening at the main entrance of the office. Entry is being denied to those not wearing masks, either officials or visitors,” HMWS&SB chief vigilance officer, M Ravi Chandan Reddy told TOI. “We are sanitising all six floors by covering every chamber in the main office and outside of the office. We are insisting every employee follow other preventive measures like wearing masks, face shields and using sanitisers strictly, said the vigilance officer. Consumers can contact officials concerned over phones or visit the official portal: www.hyderabadwater.gov.in to resolve their issues, suggested water board officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-hmwssb-employees-test-positive/articleshow/76792000.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Revoke disciplinary action against govt employees: Union||Coimbatore: Representatives of Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Graduate Teacher Association on Saturday demanded the state to revoke disciplinary actions on government schoolteachers and employees who had taken part in protests that were organized by the Joint Action Committee of Tamil Nadu Teachers Organization-Government Employees Organisation (Jacto-Geo) last year.They said disciplinary proceedings were initiated against members of their association, as well members of other associations, under Rule 17(b) and that some members had been transferred.In January-February 2019, government employees and teachers had held state-wide protests and strikes pressing for, among other demands, scrapping of complementary pension scheme and 21-month arrear pay under the seventh pay commission.Pointing out that around 3,000 government employees had faced disciplinary action across the state, T Arulanandam, state auditor of the association, said around 300 of them were transferred, either within the district that they were working or to other districts.“Around 40 government employees were affected in the district. Six teachers were transferred to locations far away from their earlier workplaces and residences. Some government employees were transferred to other districts, away from their families,” he said.Arulanandam said employees facing disciplinary proceedings would not be eligible for transfer counselling or promotions. He said considering the work put in by government employees to fight Covid-19, the state should revoke disciplinary actions on them. “It would give them a sense of relief amid the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/revoke-disciplinary-action-against-govt-employees-union/articleshow/76791638.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||Subdued Vasco Saptah this year||Vasco: The annual Lord Damodar Saptah in Vasco will not be celebrated on a grand scale this year due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. The 121-year celebration it will be held on July 26. The President of Vasco Saptah Central Committee, Paresh Joshi, said, “The temple door will be open but no visitors will be allowed. Police personnel will be kept at the doorstep of the temple to maintain law and order.” The rituals in the temple will be screened on the cable channels and devotees can take the blessings of Lord Damodar, Joshi added. “This year’s Saptah will be different. The shreefal will be placed in the presence of few members of Joshi family and the president of the Saptah committee. There will be no 24-hour bhajans and no processions,” Santosh Khorjuvekar, secretary of the Saptah organising committee, told TOI. The next day, only a few will go to Khariawaddo to immerse the shreefal, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/subdued-vasco-saptah-this-year/articleshow/76792003.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kochi||Thushar quizzed in Maheshan’s death case||Alappuzha: The investigation team probing K K Mahesan’s suicide on Saturday interrogated NDA state convener Thushar Vellappally. He was interrogated by the police team led by Mararikulam circle inspector S Rajesh from around 4pm at his residence in Kanichukulangara. His father SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan was questioned by the investigation team on Friday. Thushar, who is also the SNDP Yogam vice-president and BDJS state president, had alleged that Mahesan conducted misappropriation of funds in Cherthala and Kanichukulangara unions. But Mahesan’s family denied Thushar’s allegations. Mahesan in his suicide note wrote, “I am sacrificing my life for the union leaders being tortured for Vellappally Sir and my friend K L Ashokan.” The investigation team on Wednesday interrogated Ashokan, a close aide of Natesan.  The police team is probing Mahesan’s suicide case as an unnatural death case. Natesan’s close aide and SNDP Yogam Kanichukulangara union secretary K K Mahesan was found dead in the union office here on June 24.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/thushar-quizzed-in-maheshans-death-case/articleshow/76791071.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 cases likely to hit 1,000 in less than a week||Coimbatore: The district, according to the state government bulletin, reported 75 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, even as 43 patients were discharged from the ESI Hospital after they recovered from the infection.District health authorities, however, said while another 74 people had tested positive on Friday and Saturday, the cases were yet to be included in the official list. The state is also yet to record three deaths in the district and one each in Tirupur and the Nilgiris.As per the state government bulletin, the district has so far recorded 712 Covid-19 cases. While health department officials had earlier said the district was likely to see 1,000 cases by July 20, which is a little more than two weeks away, going by the infection rate that is likely to happen much earlier.An official said, “We already have close to 800 cases. So, if we record an average of 40 new cases a day, we will hit 1,000 cases in less than a week.”Of the 74 new cases, 58 were from the city corporation limits. The Chetti Veedhi cluster continued to grow larger with six more people testing positive for the virus. Chetti Veedhi and surrounding areas, including Ayyappan Nagar, had earlier reported 16 cases.Two patients - an 85-year-old woman and a 68-year-old woman, who went to Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital with breathing difficulty, were also among the cases. They have been shifted to the ESI Hospital. The new cases also comprise three from areas in and around Selvapuram, four from Peelamedu, 10 from rural areas such as Pollachi, Thudiyalur and Sulthanpet, and six flyers from various destinations. There were also cases from Podanur, Nanjundapuram and Vilankurichi. Meanwhile, six people of a family in Gandhi Managar, who recently took part in a funeral ceremony in a village at Mettur in Salem, have tested positive. While 100 people who attended the funeral later tested positive, the details of the Coimbatoreans were cross-notified by the Salem health department.The neighbouring Tirupur, recorded three more new Covid-19 cases, taking its count to 198. Two cases were indigenous ones and the remaining imported one. One of the indigenous cases was a vernacular daily journalist. The public health department has collected nasal swabs from all the working journalists in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-cases-likely-to-hit-1000-in-less-than-a-week/articleshow/76791650.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit man, 35, booked for attempt to rape 15-year-old||Pilibhit: A 35-year-old man, who allegedly tried to force himself on a 15-year-old girl in a locality under Pilibhit Kotwali police station, was booked on Friday. His two wives were also booked for threatening the survivor and her mother Finding the girl alone at her father’s grocery shop, run from her home, on the afternoon of May 21, the man allegedly overpowered her with the intention to rape. Hearing her cries for help, her family rushed to her aid. The man fled. When the girl complained to the man's wives, they allegedly thrashed her. They also allegedly threatened the girl and her mother. The survivor's mother then approached police. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO, said the accused was booked under IPC section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 452 (house trespass), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke the breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-man-35-booked-for-attempt-to-rape-15-year-old/articleshow/76787751.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Aurangabad||AMC to use UV bots for sanitising quarantine centres||Aurangabad: The civic administration is planning to deploy bots emitting UV rays that will disinfect and sanitise institutional quarantine (IQ) centres and Covid care centres (CCC) in a span of 10 minutes. As per authorities, this is a first-of-its-kind initiative taken by any civic body in the state. It usually takes around 24 hours to disinfect a 20 square metre room occupied by a Covid positive patient. The latest technology will not only reduce the duration of exposure to sodium hypochlorite and isopropyl, it will also save time and money. Aurangabad municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey said, “After discharging every positive patient from IQ or CCC facilities, we have to sanitize the room and keep it vacant for 24 hours before accommodating another patient. From now on, we are going to use UV technology which will not take more than 20 minutes to sanitise a room. This will help in ensuring that a room is readily available for a patient as soon as the previos patient gets discharged.” Those privy to the initiative said that each UV bot costs around Rs 50,000 per unit.Smart city deputy CEO Pushkal Shivam said the bots could also be used for city buses which could be sanitised at the end of every trip.Pravee Tayal, who introduced the concept to the civic body, said the UV rays directly destroys DNA, RNA and proteins, causing the virus cells to die and rendering them inefficient to reproduce and replicate. “It is a non-mutating technology, and comes with a life of about 10, 000 hours,” said Tayal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-to-use-uv-bots-for-sanitising-quarantine-centres/articleshow/76790357.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 5, 2020||Delhi||85% households in Delhi-NCR battle dip in income: Survey||NEW DELHI: By the third week of June, people from 78% households in National Capital Region had started going back to their workplaces even though 85% households witnessed some reduction in income, according to a latest survey of National Council of Applied Economic Research. The Delhi-NCR Coronavirus Telephone Survey was conducted between June 15 and 23 by NCAER, an independent and non-profit economic policy research institute. The survey also reveals that people in 18% of households in Delhi-NCR have started resuming social activities, such as visiting family, friends and relatives, or attending social functions, such as marriages and birthdays, and about 12% of the households reported going to public places of worship. Amazingly, 95.3% respondents claimed they were wearing masks or other mouth covers while stepping out and 66.1% said they used hand sanitisers frequently. Only 45.4% said they maintain a distance of three feet or more and slightly less than 40% respondents said they took a bath and put away clothes for washing separately after returning home. Among the 85% respondents who reported some level of reduction in their incomes or wages in the month of May compared with the average monthly income reported before the lockdown, the most affected were households whose primary source of income was casual wage work and small businesses. About 73 % of 793 households relying on casual wage work as the main source of income reported that their income fell by a large extent and there was a similar response from 70% of business households, based on responses from 674 households. On the other hand, less than half (48 %) of the 1,220 households in which salaried workers were the main bread earners reported a large income loss. More than half (52%) small businesses in NCR had to suspend activities in April and May, while another 12% simply closed down. Nearly 44% of salaried employees were able to continue their employment during April and May and less than 5% lost their jobs during this period, according to the survey. Daily wage labourers were the hardest hit as two-thirds of them were unable to work at all during the lockdown and the rest found work only for some days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/85-households-in-ncr-battle-dip-in-income-survey/articleshow/76791624.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Textile shop customers told to self-quarantine||Coimbatore: As the Balan Nagar cluster grows larger, spreading across Peelamedu and Saravanampatti, where some of the textile shop’s customers tested positive, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani has called out to other customers who may have visited the shop in June to step forward. The collector asked customers and people who may have visited Ganesh Textiles to self-quarantine for 14 days. Those who have mild symptoms should go to the nearest primary health centre and get themselves tested.While 27 employees and an owner had first tested positive after coming in contact with a Covid-19 positive person from Ondipudur, two customers and one of their children tested positive on Thursday. At least four more people in Peelamedu tested positive on Saturday and are also believed to be linked to the Balan Nagar cluster.Meanwhile, as Covid-19 cases continue to spread across the district, crowds on the streets have begun to thin out. Though the first of the Sunday lockdowns will begin on July 5, streets across the city began to empty after 7pm though curfew is only after 9pm. Many shops, tea stalls and restaurants saw a drop in footfalls and sales over the last one week. “Business which was improving from June 8 till June middle, has again begun falling. The crowd, especially people sitting here to have tea and snacks, has thinned out in the last one week,” said the manager of a popular bakery on the Trichy Road. “This is probably because of the increasing cases from Ramanathapuram, Singanallur, Olympus and Ondipudur, which is all off the Trichy Road,” he said.The usually busy streets like the Government Arts College Road, Cross Cut Road in Gandhipuram and even the Big Bazaar Street wore an empty look after 4pm on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/textile-shop-customers-told-to-self-quarantine/articleshow/76791640.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||Mangor Hill kin attend Covid victim’s last rites||Vasco: The last rites of the two Covid victims who died late Friday took place on Saturday in accordance with the standard operating procedure (SOP) for management of dead bodies. While the body of the 75-year-old woman from Salcete was laid to rest in accordance with the Christian tradition in the presence of her daughter after priests conducted a brief prayer service inside the cemetery, the body of the 45-year-old fisherman from Vasco was consigned to flames at the Hindu crematorium at Pajifond, Margao, in the presence of family members. Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Dessai arranged a bus for six members of the deceased’s family from the Mangor Hill containment zone, including his wife and son, to attend the final rites. They were escorted to Margao by the police and were brought baack to the containment zone after the cremation. The wife and the son of the deceased had tested positive in June and were treated at the ESI hospital in Margao. A few days back, after they recovered they were sent back to their residence at the Chota Mangor area of the containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mangor-hill-kin-attend-covid-victims-last-rites/articleshow/76791999.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Five, including groom, held for defying Covid norms||Berhampur: Five persons were arrested on Saturday for organising a big wedding procession at Gopalpur-on Sea on Thursday. The vehicle used in the procession was seized by police. “Five persons, including the groom and his father, were arrested for violating Covid-19 guidelines,” Berhampur SP Pinak Mishra said. The arrested groom has been identified as Deepak Sahu, while the father as Krushna Sahu. A case has been registered with the Goplapur police station. The hotel where the marriage ceremony took place has been sealed. Sources said a well-known hotelier had taken the necessary permission from the sub-collector of Berhampur for his son’s wedding in a hotel here as per the guidelines of the district administration. The administration swung into action after a video of the marriage procession went viral on social media. A number of people were seen dancing without maintaining social distance or wearing masks. The groom was seen dancing atop the vehicle along with others. “We have lodged FIR against the organisers. The participants in the procession will be sent to institutional quarantine,” said collector (Ganjam) Vijay Amruta Kulange. On July 1, Kulange had said marriage ceremonies should be held after seeking the necessary permission from the sub-collectors. “All participants must maintain social distancing. The priest and the organizers will be punished if the norms are violated,” he added Sources said the groom’s father had assured that only 50 people would be present in the ceremony from their side while taking permission from the sub-collector for the wedding ceremony. They added that they violated the norms and invited more than the allowed count.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/five-including-groom-held-for-defying-covid-norms/articleshow/76791056.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
July 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Kandhamal dist back on Covid map||Berhampur: Kandhamal, which had become free of any active Covid-19 positive case after the recovery of three patients on Friday, is back on the corona map following the detection of eight fresh cases on Saturday. Sources said the new cases, including six males and two females, were from a temporary medical centre in Baliguda. The fresh cases have taken the total Covid count in the district to 186, of which 178 people have already been cured. While those who had tested positive for the virus earlier have been cured and discharged from the hospital, the eight new patients are undergoing treatment. Despite only eight Covid patients in Kandhamal, the administration has announced a two-day weekend shutdown on Saturday and Sunday like the other districts with more than 50 active Covid patients, as decided by the government. With vehicles off the roads, commercial establishments shut and people largely indoors, several areas of the district on Saturday wore a deserted look. Meanwhile, the district administration has decided to put those returning from Covid hotspot districts in 14-day mandatory institutional quarantine. All are requested not to move unnecessarily to the hotspot districts, district collector Brundha D appealed to the people in a tweet message. A district official said the move was prompted after many were seen going to the adjoining Ganjam and Nayagarh districts on every Saturday and returning on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/kandhamal-dist-back-on-covid-map/articleshow/76791063.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
July 5, 2020||Bareilly||Man lures eight-year-old girl with mangoes, rapes her, arrested||Bareilly: A 20-year-old man lured an eight-year-old girl with mangoes at an orchard and allegedly raped her in a locality in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Friday evening. According to police, as it was raining, the girl went to pick mangoes from orchards when the accused, resident of a neighbouring village, offered her a few mangoes and then raped her. When the girl didn’t return home along with other children, her parents started searching for her and found her writhing in pain in a field. Soon, locals informed police and launched a manhunt for the accused and nabbed him. Upon receiving information, Isanagar SHO Suneel Kumar admitted her to a primary health centre, where her condition is stated to be stable. An FIR has been registered under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against the accused, who was later arrested and sent to jail. The SHO told TOI, “The accused was arrested soon and sent to jail. The girl is stable and her medical examination has been conducted. We will soon present the girl and her parents in a court to record her statement, and then file a charge-sheet against the accused to ensure that he is punished for the crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-lures-eight-year-old-girl-with-mangoes-rapes-her-arrested/articleshow/76787772.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Take steps to construct ESI hospital: MP||Coimbatore: Tirupur MP K Subbarayan urged the central government to take steps to construct the Employees' State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) hospital in the district.Though the government had proposed to set up an ESI hospital in 2017 and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid foundation stone in 2019, construction has not commenced due to legal hurdles associated with land purchase, the MP said in a letter to the PM. “Trade unions and industry associations say that the altercation with the claimants may be settled out of court as legal procedures will be time-consuming. The hospital will serve its purpose well during the pandemic situation,” he said.Subbarayan said the district has about three lakh people working in knitwear industries, who are insured under ESI. “To provide better medical treatment to the workers, who cannot afford private hospitals, a 100-bed ESI hospital should be set up in the district,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/take-steps-to-construct-esi-hospital-mp/articleshow/76791659.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Awareness drive launched to eradicate child marriage||Coimbatore: To eradicate the evil of child marriage, volunteers of NGO Childline India created awareness at Madukkarai panchayat on Saturday.In view of reports about the rising number of child marriages during the lockdown period in Tamil Nadu, the district administration has taken stringent steps, a social welfare department official said. “We roped in Childline to educate the public,” he told TOI.The officials had managed to stop as many as 11 child marriages five in January, one in May and five in June. Most of the cases were reported from Madukkarai, Sulur and Karamadai.Apart from making public announcements about the consequences of child marriage and punishment under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, pamphlets were also distributed. Posters were stuck at government offices, taluk office, ration shops, primary health centres and police stations. “The campaign was started a couple of days ago. We will soon cover all areas in the district,” the official said.Earlier this year, the district administration had formed district task force, a 16-member committee, to check child marriages. It was a part of the adolescent empowerment programme launched with the support of the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (Unicef).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/awareness-drive-launched-to-eradicate-child-marriage/articleshow/76791656.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||Dodamarg locals request CM for travel pass option||Panaji: Unable to commute to their workplaces in different parts of Goa due to lockdown restrictions, residents of the Maharashtra-Goa border area of Dodamarg claim that their livelihoods are at stake. They said that while many of them have already been sacked, many others have been served an ultimatum to report to work or face dismissal. The residents, on Tuesday, fervently appealed to chief minister Pramod Sawant to reconsider their case for concessions to be able to travel to Goa. Earlier too these workers had petitioned Sawant, as well as ministers in the Maharashtra government, to be granted daily passes to travel. But Sawant had said that this demand could not be met as there are thousands of such people from Dodamarg and Karwar. Sawant even urged industries in Goa to employ locals instead. “Since the city areas of Maharashtra are too far off for us to travel for work everyday, we travel to urbanised areas in Goa for employment. But since the lockdown, when travel restrictions were imposed between the two states, we have been unable to report to work. Many of us have not received our salaries for three months. Our employers are calling us to rejoin. Now, even if we were to cross over, from where do we shell out the money for Goa government’s paid quarantine requirement,” one resident said. They said that if the issue is not addressed urgently, it would lead to massive unemployment in Dodamarg. “After the authorities were petitioned, there was a discussion held between officials of Goa and Maharashtra government. It was then said that Dodamarg residents would be allowed into Goa, but on condition that they take the paid test and pay for 14 days quarantine,” a local, Bhushan Sawant, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dodamarg-locals-request-cm-for-travel-pass-option/articleshow/76792006.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||Govind - Awareness meet at Moti Dongor||Times News Network Margao: The South Goa district administration on Saturday held an awareness meet inside the containment zone at Moti Dongor, Margao. At the meeting, Salcete mamlartdar Prataprao Gaonkar explained to the people the reasons for declaring the area as containment zone and how the restriction on movements of the people in the zone would help curb the spread of the infection. He urged the people to contact the volunteers and the administration officials in case of any problems and not to rely on rumours that are often spread through unverified social media messages. Addressing queries raised by the residents, Gaonkar assured them that all essential commodities will be made available to them, including cooking gas cylinders, and that sufficient stocks have been arranged for the purpose. Salcete sub divisional magistrate Vishal Kundaikar and Margao PI Sachin Narvekar were also present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govind-awareness-meet-at-moti-dongor/articleshow/76792008.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kochi||Dance party: Case against 27 more people||Idukki: Police on Saturday registered a case against 27 more people, who had attended a dance party organized at a private resort in Udumbanchola on June 28. The dance party, bordering on burlesque, was part of the inaugural function of a granite factory. Earlier, power minister M M Mani had inaugurated the factory through video conferencing. “We registered a case against 27 more people, who attended the function, under the Epidemic Diseases Act. We will book all those who had attended the event,” Shantanpara police circle inspector K S Jayan said. The police had, on Friday, registered a case against the chairman of the firm, Jose Kurien, for violating regulations put in place in the wake of Covid-19. Four women, including a Ukranian national, performed at the event, which one of the attendees captured on video and circulated among his friends in Nedumkandam. The women were brought from Perumbavoor in Ernakulam, police said. Sources in the know said around 50 people attended the event that lasted about six hours. Liquor was also served. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dance-party-case-against-27-more-people/articleshow/76791087.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Lucknow||Elusive gangster’s palatial house razed, secret bunker busted, SUVs destroyed||Kanpur: Gangster Vikas Dubey, who enacted the midnight bloodbath in Kanpur, remained elusive on Saturday, but police exacted their revenge for the brutal killings of eight their colleagues by bulldozing the don’s plush, fortified house in Chaubeypur’s Bikru village with the same earthmover used to trap, lure and ambush the cops. The air over Bikru village was laden with dust and flying concrete particles as the bulldozer pulled down boundary walls and razed the structure built on 2 bighas of land grabbed by the gangster. During the two-hour exercise in the presence of two columns of Provincial Armed Constabulary, civic officials busted a secret underground bunker hemmed in a 12-foot-high boundary ringed with barbed wire. These and four palatial rooms furbished with luxuries, including a modular kitchen and designer washroom, were turned to rubble. Two white SUVs and two tractors of the don were also destroyed. Investigating officials accompanying the demolition team also found 16 CCTV cameras installed in different angles with a master control room to track suspicious movement around the house. A battery of experts manned the control room, said police. But, what baffled cops was the missing digital video recorder (DVR), which could hold the key to the probe. “We are examining CCTV footage at junctions en route his house to collect evidence. Also, we are searching neighbouring houses to track the DVR,” said a police officer. Police sources said, a friend of Vikas from Chaubeypur, Manu, had lent the bulldozer which was later used in the ambush. Manu too has been named in the FIR and is on the run. A handful of villagers, mostly women, children and elderly, present in nearby houses were asked to leave before the demolition started. “Officials evacuated Dubey’s father, his maid, her husband and their two children before letting the bulldozer in. A surveillance team is scanning CDR of more than 800 mobile phones to trace Dubey’s whereabouts. “A cash reward of Rs 50,000 has been offered for clues with the assurance of confidentiality,” said a police official. A senior district official told TOI they are preparing a list of Dubey’s properties, which will be attached in near future. “We are also scanning his bank accounts which would be frozen soon under Gangster Act,” he added. There were inputs that some policemen had asked local power station to disconnect supply, saying a brawl had taken place in Bikru village, further hinting at moles within the police machinery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/elusive-gangsters-palatial-house-razed-secret-bunker-busted-suvs-destroyed/articleshow/76792023.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 5, 2020||Nagpur||City hosp saves cancer patient’s hand after complicated surgery||Nagpur: Doctors at Rashtra Sant Tukdoji Regional Cancer Hospital have saved 32-year-old man suffering from bone cancer from losing his left hand which was affected by a cancerous tumour. Veteran Orthopedic surgeon Dr Anil Golhar and RSTCH Director Dr Subrajit Dasgupta conducted this surgery on the man, a labourer from Bhandara. Earlier, many doctors had advised amputation of his hand from shoulder joint. “When the patient came to RSTRCH, we decided to save his limb looking at his young age,” said Dr Subhrajit Dasgupta, Director of RSTRCH who is also an accomplished surgeon. “During my residency at GMCH, I remember Dr Anil Golhar who was then Professor of Orthopedics used to operate quite a few cases of bone tumours. I requested him and he was kind enough to help,” said Dr Dasgupta. Dr Golhar opined that the limb can be salvaged and that he would operate upon the patient. A team was built up comprising of Dr Anil Golhar, Dr Rajendra Patil, Dr Prasanna Joshi, Dr Parag Ingle (Thorasic Surgeon), Dr. Suresh Chawre (Plastic Surgeon), Dr. Anjali Kolhe (Anesthetist) and Dr. Hemlata Sherke (Anesthetist). Dr Golhar also got a special prosthesis (metallic implant) made from New Delhi for the patient. The surgery lasted for 6 hours and the tumour was successfully removed. The gap was bridged by the metallic prosthesis and the limb was saved. The challenging surgery would have cost not less than Rs3 lakh in private set up. But, it was done totally free of charge at the RSTRCH. “This could be achieved due to the various schemes available at RSTRCH and due to benevolent gestures of few philanthropists. Leadership of Dr Dasgupta and expertise of Dr Golhar gave this young man his hand back for lifetime now,” said Dr B K Sharma, joint director of RSTRCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-hosp-saves-cancer-patients-hand-after-complicated-surgery/articleshow/76791670.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 5, 2020||Vadodara||470 cadets at Vadodara PTS put under quarantine||Vadodara: A day after 19 trainee cops of Police Training School (PTS) at Lalbaug tested positive for coronavirus, 25 other cadets, who are suspected to have been infected, submitted their swab samples at SSG Hospital (SSG) on Saturday. The cases in the school have raised concern as around 470 cadets are staying there. Nineteen cadets from the school had tested positive on Friday evening and they have been admitted at the SSG Hospital. Screening of the remaining students had revealed on Friday itself that some of them were having fever or upper respiratory tract infections. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) officials said that after the screening of all the cadets on the campus, 238 had been given hydroxychloroquine tablets as a prophylaxis. All those on the campus have been given homeopathic medicine that can build immunity. VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel said that seven cases of fever and nine cases of cough and cold were found during the screening on the campus. According to PTS officials, the 25 new cadets have been kept under quarantine at the state-run hospital and they will return to their barracks in the training school only after their test reports turn out to be negative. “We have already suspended training for all cadets for a week and are following all protocols to stop spread of virus within the institutions,” said inspector general of police and principal of the school H R Chaudhary. The cadets are now being sent barrack-wise for their meals to the mess. “We have three barracks so cadets are being sent one barrack after the another for food and they all sit at social distancing,” Chaudhary added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/470-cadets-at-vadodara-pts-put-under-quarantine/articleshow/76790342.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||Govind - Awareness meet at Moti Dongor||Times News Network Margao: The South Goa district administration on Saturday held an awareness meet inside the containment zone at Moti Dongor, Margao. At the meeting, Salcete mamlartdar Prataprao Gaonkar explained to the people the reasons for declaring the area as containment zone and how the restriction on movements of the people in the zone would help curb the spread of the infection. He urged the people to contact the volunteers and the administration officials in case of any problems and not to rely on rumours that are often spread through unverified social media messages. Addressing queries raised by the residents, Gaonkar assured them that all essential commodities will be made available to them, including cooking gas cylinders, and that sufficient stocks have been arranged for the purpose. Salcete sub divisional magistrate Vishal Kundaikar and Margao PI Sachin Narvekar were also present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govind-awareness-meet-at-moti-dongor/articleshow/76792012.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Cops cordon off armed reserve camp||Thiruvananthapuram: Swabs were collected from as many as 103 officers attached to City Armed Reserve Camp on Saturday after a police officer tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. The samples were collected from the officers who were in a list of suspected primary contacts of the Covid-19 patient prepared by the city police authorities. The swab collection was held at the hospital of the special armed police (SAP) unit at Peroorkada. The SAP camp authorities had cleared all personnel from the hospital wing, where swab collection was done and had disinfected the place before starting the process. The officers from the AR camp reached the SAP separately to give their swabs. After collection of the samples, the hospital was fumigated again. Meanwhile, the police on Saturday cordoned off the Armed Reserve (AR) Camp by blocking all roads surrounding it, restricting entry of people into the zone. The entry of officers into the camp was also brought under strict regulations. All gates were closed and officers were granted entry after they were subjected to thermal scan. Thermal scanning was made mandatory for those exiting the camp as well, to make sure that no officer with symptoms of the disease goes outside the camp. Fumigation activities were carried out in the camp as well on Saturday. All water taps inside the camp were also cleaned thoroughly as they were handled by the officers with their hands. Sources in the police said that efforts are still on to prepare the route map of the officer who got infected with the virus. Meanwhile, inspector general (south zone) Harshita Attaluri, was given the additional charge of the city police commissioner after IG Balramkumar Upadhyay went on leave citing physical ailment. City administration on Saturday decided to extend the restrictions imposed on containment zones identified in the city in the wake of more people from these areas turning Covid positive. Mayor K Sreekumar said that the regions declared as containment zones within the city will continue to be so for the next seven days. They are: Attukal, Kuriathi, Kalippankulam, Manacaud, Tagore Road at Thrikkannapuram and Puthanpalam at Muttathara. MLA V S Sivakumar on Saturday demanded the district administration to enforce triple lockdown laws in containment zones in the city to prevent the possible community spread of the virus. Besides the above mentioned regions, four more containment zones were identified outside the city limits. They are Chemmaruthimmukku in Nagaroor Grama Panchayath, Kuravara in Ottasekharamangalam Grama Panchayath, Vanyacode in Parassala Grama Panchayath and Injivila in Parasala Grama Panchayath. As many as 17 positive cases were reported in the district on Friday out of which source of infection of three are unknown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cops-cordon-off-armed-reserve-camp/articleshow/76791115.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||Awareness meet held at Moti Dongor||Margao: The South Goa district administration on Saturday held an awareness meet inside the containment zone at Moti Dongor, Margao. At the meeting, Salcete mamlatdar Prataprao Gaonkar explained to the people the reasons for declaring the area as containment zone and how the restriction on movements of the people in the zone would help curb the spread of the infection. He urged the people to contact the volunteers and administration officials in case of any problems, and not to rely on rumours that are often spread through unverified social media messages. Addressing queries raised by the residents, Gaonkar assured them that all essential commodities will be made available to them, including cooking gas cylinders, and that sufficient stocks have been arranged for the purpose. Salcete sub divisional magistrate Vishal Kundaikar and Margao PI Sachin Narvekar were also present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/awareness-meet-held-at-moti-dongor/articleshow/76792035.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||From foreign travellers to Covid staff, Telangana report traces virus||HYDERABAD: Over the past one month, the newest trigger for spread of coronavirus in Telangana has been staff on Covid-19 duty who have tested positive, apart from foreign evacuees. This was highlighted in a month-wise analysis of the virus’ progress, compiled by health authorities and presented before the central team — which visited Hyderabad recently — by the state government. As per the study, the first wave of the spread was triggered by foreign travellers. “The main triggers for Covid-19 infection in the state were foreign travellers and Markaz travellers. The second trigger was from the contacts of foreign travellers and contacts of Markaz travellers,” the document submitted to the central team read. These categories of people, it added, were the ones primarily testing positive during March and April. By May, there were various factors including migrant workers returning to the state and staff on Covid-19 duty. “Spread within the healthcare workers started in April and accelerated in the last two months, beginning from the Osmania Medical College to Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences and taking most government hospitals in its fold. It’s like a chain now spreading continuously,” said an official from the state health department. The latest trigger to join the list of factors — staff on Covid-19 duty including healthcare workers, GHMC staff implementing containment measures and the police, the document stated pegging the number of staff on Covid-19, from the government sector alone, at 800. “The fact that most private hospitals now have Covid-19 as well as non Covid-19 patients in the same block (building) is a reason for the spread,” said an official from a corporate hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/from-foreign-travellers-to-covid-staff-state-report-traces-virus/articleshow/76792039.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 5, 2020||Bareilly||Kanpur encounter: Pilibhit police, SSB sound high alert on Indo-Nepal border||Pilibhit: With the UP Police making all-out effort to arrest Vikas Dubey, the main accused of the Kanpur ambush in which eight policemen were killed and scores injured, Pilibhit police has sounded the high alert on the Indo-Nepal border in a bid to foil the gangster’s bid to escape to Nepal through the 46km-long perforated border with the district. According to police, they have sealed Pilibhit district borders and are conducting an intensive search of vehicles and scanning every individual. Besides the district police, the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), too, has alerted its personnel guarding the border. Deputy commandant, 49th Battalion, Raman Singh said, “For the identification of Dubey, we have circulated his photographs among our personnel.” Pilibhit superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav said police had sealed the district’s boundaries with Bareilly, Shahjahanpur and Kheri districts in UP and Udham Singh Nagar district in Uttarakhand and Nepal. “Police are keeping a tight vigil on all suspected persons and vehicles. Besides, we have also put police posts along the border on high alert. Police and the SSB are keeping a tight vigil on all activities on the border, though most of the border stretch is not conducive for travel at present due to the increased discharge in the Sharda river,” said the SP. “Police are also in touch with locals living close to the Indo-Nepal border. We have appealed to them to inform us if they come across any suspected person. Moreover, as photographs of Dubey were circulated widely on social media, most of the police force and locals can identify him,” added the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/kanpur-encounter-pilibhit-police-ssb-sound-high-alert-on-indo-nepal-border/articleshow/76790392.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Case against MLA for lockdown violation||Thiruvananthapuram: A local court in the district has directed Attingal police to register a case against Attingal MLA B Sathyan and several others for violating lockdown protocols by attending a public event. The order was issued by first class judicial magistrate at Attingal based on a petition. In the order, the magistrate has directed police to register a case invoking sections 4 and 5 of Kerala Epidemic Diseases ordinance. Besides the MLA, around 100 others who attended the event must also be booked. Attingal police authorities said they received the court order on Saturday and they were yet to initiate any steps in this regard. The case is likely to be registered on Sunday. The petition pertains to a public event held in connection with the inauguration of Karakachi Kulam renovation works under Attingal Municipality. The event was held two weeks ago. The petitioner had alleged that the people who attended the event had not maintained social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/case-against-mla-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/76791128.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Chennai||Despite Centre’s nod, Tamil Nadu disallows chartered flights||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government seems to be blocking fresh requests to operate charter flights from Malaysia and Dubai to bring home stranded passengers, though Centre has given its nod for foreign and private carriers to fly services in addition to Vande Bharat flights by Air India. A Kuala Lumpur-Chennai chartered flight that was supposed to have landed on Saturday was cancelled a few days ago. The trip was finalised by people stranded in Kuala Lumpur with a foreign airline and they had obtained permissions from the Centre and the DGCA, but could not get clearance from the state government. This is the second such cancellation as a charter which was supposed to bring in people from Colombo had to be cancelled. Similar attempts by people to charter planes from Dubai and other cities in the Middle East were also not materialised as getting permissions from the state government is proving to be difficult. Basheer Ahemed of Travel Agents Federation of India (TAFI) said, “Many companies are gathering 100 to 200 people and are ready to apply for charter flights but they are finding it difficult because the state government is worried about bring in more people here and the need to quarantine them.” Air India is flying Vande Bharat flights from the Middle East but the number of people who want to come to Chennai is higher than their capacity. SpiceJet operated two chartered flights, one from Colombo and another from Ras Al Khaimah. The state government has permitted more flights in the subsequent phases of Vande Bharat mission. An airline official said because more flights weer allowed, the state government seems to be hesitating. Two Vande Bharat flights arrived at Chennai from Kuwait two days ago and a flight from the US landed on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/despite-centres-nod-tn-disallows-chartered-flights/articleshow/76791123.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Pune||Firms not taking necessary precautions, says Ajit Pawar||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday said the industries given the permission to resume operations, like the plant in Aurangabad, were not taking necessary precautions. “After the Aurangabad unit incident, we want more stringent measures to be followed. If the units are opening, they cannot take it lightly,” the deputy chief minister told TOI. Over 100 people tested Covid-19 positive at the unit. Reports from the administration stated that two persons had succumbed to the contagion. Ajit Pawar said the industries allowed to reopen were instructed to follow the state government’s guidelines strictly. “The industries were told to provide transport to employees or else provide them with facilities to stay at the units. If these norms are not followed, the district administration will initiate action,” he said. Ajit Pawar said Pune district residents were taking the government instructions lightly. “We do not want any crowding anywhere. For this, I have told the district administration to take stringent action against those violating the norms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/firms-not-taking-necessary-precautions-says-ajit-pawar/articleshow/76791687.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 5, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur encounter: In Maoist-style ambush, Vikas Dubey’s men cut CO’s head, toes||LUCKNOW: Twenty-four hours after one of the bloodiest encounters in Uttar Pradesh left eight policemen dead, the autopsy report revealed that the guerrilla-style attack on cops bore the Maoist signature of beheading and extreme brutality, which is not the hallmark of even the iron-fisted mafiosi operating in UP’s badlands. While circle officer Devendra Mishra’s head and toes were severed with an axe and his body mutilated, a sub-inspector was riddled with bullets fired from point-blank range and a constable was gunned down with an AK-47, snatched from the police party. Investigators, forensic experts and special task force units probing the encounter suggest that manner in which at least 60 men of gangster Vikas Dubey ambushed the police team matched the modus operandi of Maoists in the red corridor. Doctors on the autopsy table took out seven bullets lodged in sub-inspector Anup Singh’s body and the body of Shivrajpur station officer Mahesh Yadav bore gunshot injuries on his face, chest and shoulder. Late Saturday, police hiked the bounty on gangster Vikas Dubey to Rs 1 lakh. ‘Local cop should have stayed put’When reinforcements arrived, it was Tiwari’s duty to guide the backup force, which was not acclimatized with the topography, he said. “Casualties would have been less and the gangster would have been hunted down if the local inspector stayed put at ground zero,” said the IG. Police officials also said, Tiwari would be booked if the probe finds him guilty of tipping off the gangster. IG Kanpur also said that Tiwari had no whiff about the massive storage of cache of arms while, a brawl had taken place between Dubey and police teams on Wednesday. Watch Kanpur encounter: Autopsy reveals horrific Maoist-style ambush, torture||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-maoist-style-ambush-dubeys-men-cut-cos-head-toes-autopsy/articleshow/76792046.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
July 5, 2020||Pune||No industry will be closed in entire district: Pune collector||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Saturday said no industry would be closed anywhere, including Khed, because of the rise in Covid-19 cases after conducting a meeting with the local authorities. “Our endeavour is to create a conducive ecosystem for industries in the district. We have categorically told them (the local authorities) to adhere to our guidelines. Most importantly, they should not allow employees from containment zones to work,” Ram told TOI. Khed’s sub-divisional officer Sanjay Teli, also the Covid-19 incident commander, issued an order to this effect on Saturday to Khed tehsildar, block division officer of Khed Panchayat Samiti and chief officers of Khed, Alandi and Chakan, after Ram held the meeting with the officials of the Khed administration, which had earlier decided to go for a complete lockdown from Sunday till July 12 because of the Covid-19 cases. The order stated, “Industrial employees from non-containment zones are permitted to go to work... Banks, hospitals and industrial establishments will remain open. Grocery shops, milk and vegetable shops should be open between 7am and 1pm.” Representatives of industries from the Chakan MIDC area had expressed concerns about the sudden lockdown. “Many industries are revamping their functioning. What they need is support from all sections, including government authorities, to come back on track. Maximum firms are following social distancing and other norms prescribed by the government,” Dilip Batwal, the secretary of the Federation of Chakan Industry, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-industry-will-be-closed-in-entire-district-collector/articleshow/76791685.cms||Sandip Dighe
July 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Spike in infection in several villages||PUNE: Rural areas in the district have recorded more than a threefold increase in Covid-19 cases in a month since June 4. According to the zilla parishad reports, 13 tehsils in Pune district now have 1,111 cases as against 316 cases on June 4. At the same time, over 529 people have also been discharged post recovery. As of now, the tehsils have 558 active cases as against 154 in June. An increase in cases has also been recorded in Haveli tehsil, which now has 498 cases as against 101 on June 4. Higher number of cases have been reported in Khed and Mulshi tehsils, particularly in its densely populated and industrial areas. Khed and Mulshi had 27 and 21 cases respectively on June 4. The tally is now 109 and 81 cases. The administration attributed the increase to reopening of businesses and frequent movement of people to the city. Collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “The spike in positive cases in rural areas is a disturbing trend. To contain the spread we have told our tehsil administrations to revise their strategy. They must include more areas in containment zones. Secondly, intensive testing will be carried out to break the chain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/spike-in-infection-in-several-villages/articleshow/76791691.cms||Sandip Dighe
July 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||War room at collectorate ensures timely decisions||Thiruvananthapuram: As case load increases and more containment zones are added in the district day by day, the district administration has been able to streamline the timely reporting and ensure trend analysis of cases with the decision to shift core groups of Covid management team to the war room at district collectorate. While the move has created murmurs of dissent within the health team over lack of proper communication between contact tracing team and top officials of district medical office, the district administration finds relief in the fact that it has been able to address some key concerns which had always hindered pandemic management in the district. The contact tracing team and data reporting and analysis team have been shifted to war room from the office of district medical officer. Former district collector K Gopalakrishnan had reportedly flagged concerns over lapses in swab collection, reporting of cases in a timely manner and prompt updation of data in the district. However, the issues were settled sooner that it was raised forcing the former collector to remain silent. With cases rising daily, the futile attempts by district health team to equip General Hospital as a reserve for medical college may also prove costly. Internal politics has ditched the attempts of district health administration to arrange back up facilities to deal with a case surge in the district. A health official recently opted out of the Covid management team owing to internal politics. District collector Navjot Khosa has stressed the need to increase testing and her two foremost initiatives were the launch of mobile swab collection units and to set up a war room at district collectorate. The health officials have maintained silence over the decision and questions were raised whether such a decision was made following discussion with district health team. However, the major impact of the move has been timely declaration of containment zones. Delay in decision making had often led to a situation where containment zones were declared 24-48 hours after samples were tested positive especially in cases without sources. The contact tracing team has also braved pressure from various corners to publish route maps in certain cases which exposed glaring lapses in testing and treatment protocol. General hospital authorities had recently prepared a report which defied the findings of the route map in the case of a 67-year-old man from Vanchiyur whose samples were tested positive after his death. “We were expecting the number of cases to rise for the last few days. We have been preparing our infrastructure accordingly to manage any surge. All the teams at the District Covid war room are working 24X7 especially the surveillance and contact tracing teams,” said Navjot Khosa. “It is a challenging task and we are monitoring the situation very closely. The decision to set up a war room at collectorate has streamlined the reporting and analysis aspect,” the collector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/war-room-at-collectorate-ensures-timely-decisions/articleshow/76791141.cms||Aswin J Kumar
July 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Rural containment zones will be larger||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram said rural areas would now have larger containment areas than urban centres, where curbs on movement are limited to small neighbourhood blocks or even individual lanes.  “Restrictions will be stricter in these rural containment zones. But they will not affect essential services or industries that have permits to operate,” the collector said on Saturday. There are now 270 active containment zones spread across 13 talukas. A wider containment net will ensure cases are isolated and monitored better, officials said. Ram said, “If there are five to 10 cases in a gram panchayat, the entire village will be sealed. Health officials can then restrict movement and launch measures such as contact tracing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-containment-zones-will-be-larger/articleshow/76791694.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 5, 2020||Nagpur||Two dead, 30 test positive in Amravati||Amravati: The novel coronavirus seems to be firing in on all cylinders as it consumed two lives and held in its grip 30 new persons on Saturday. This has taken the district’s covid death toll to 27 and its covid positive count to 680. In all, 18 patients were discharged on Saturday, taking the number of recovered patients to 447 for a percentage of 65.73%. The civil Surgeon’s office informed that a 52-year-old woman from Priya Township, admitted to the covid ward on July 1, died on Friday night while a 70-year-old man from Old City, Badnera, who tested positive at Best Hospital on June 28, breathed his last on Saturday afternoon. This is the third death from Badnera. Ashok Nagar is fast emerging as a new hotspot as 11 tested positive on Saturday, taking its count to 31 since the first case on June 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-dead-30-test-positive-in-amravati/articleshow/76791690.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Mumbai||Record fever, oxygen levels of members: BMC wards to housing societies||MUMBAI: Residents of a housing society at Raheja Vihar in Chandivli were taken aback when the L ward office told them to maintain a weekly log of their body temperature and oxygen saturation levels (SPO2) using pulse oximeters. A circular told societies to direct members showing even minor symptoms to BMC dispensaries and submit the report to officials during inspection. They were warned that non-compliance may lead to action under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Many wards are coming out with their own guidelines for housing societies to keep Covid-19 under check. M-West ward officer appealed to housing societies to keep a check on SPO2 levels of senior citizens. The circular adds a word of caution on sanitizing hands. Ward officer Prithviraj Chavan said they have only appealed to housing societies to procure thermal guns and pulse oximeters. “We also told them to ensure people with comorbidities are taking regular treatment. Maintaining a record will help health officers on surprise visits. We want to ensure all positive cases are taken to their logical end,” said Chavan. A pulmonologist and resident of Raheja Vihar, Dr VA Sajit Babu, said security personnel were not equipped to get accurate oximeter readings. “They are not trained to handle the gadgets. They will be exposed to unnecessary risks if they go for door-to-door checks. Pulse oximeter readings are also not always accurate. Some are faulty and some give incorrect readings if the battery is low or if fingers are too cold or moist. You can get incorrect readings even when you use it immediately after sanitising hands,” said the doctor. At L ward, which has over 4,000 positive cases, officer Manish Valanju said the circular was for welfare of residents. “These measures will help societies to get timely help. Many wards are releasing similar guidelines. Housing societies in Chandivli are doing it willingly. There have been no complaints from anywhere,” he said. When minister Nawab Malik recommended a similar order in L, M and N wards a month back, BMC officials told TOI it was only a discussion. At K-West ward, housing societies have been told to screen all outsiders using oximeter and thermal detector. Those reporting for essential duties should also be screened regularly, said the circular. In N ward, officials came out with directives for high-risk contacts in sealed buildings. The ward office is working on a directive to make societies responsible for strict adherence of home quarantine among high-risk contacts. Rajeev Saxena, chairman of Covid taskforce, of Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association, said finding manpower for diligent screening is not feasible. “Procuring oximeters is not a problem, but testing parameters regularly is. Managing committee members cannot go around checking all individuals. At some places, residents do not cooperate. In larger societies, it is impossible to carry out checks. These orders are not uniform,” said Saxena. Rahul Daga, chairman of Dosti Lily CHS, Wadala, which falls under F North ward, said no directives were issued there. He said it was impossible to implement such orders. “Many residents are not stepping out at all during lockdown. They will not co-operate. Many societies have elderly security guards, they cannot do these checks,” said Daga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/record-fever-oxygen-levels-of-members-bmc-wards-to-housing-societies/articleshow/76791788.cms||Yogita Rao
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: ASI monuments to reopen from Monday||KOLKATA: All nationally protected monuments in Kolkata and the rest of Bengal that are under the custody of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will again be thrown open to the public from Monday. Entry would strictly be through e-tickets and there would be a cap on the number of visitors, depending on the size of the monument, stated the notification by the ministry of culture. For example, at a huge place like, Hazar Duari in Murshidabad, around 100 people might be allowed at a time, and at a much-smaller Melcalfe Hall in Kolkata, around 30. Wearing of masks and sanitization of hands will be compulsory. In Bengal, there are 132 nationally protected monuments maintained by ASI, of which six are in Kolkata. “Besides restrictions on the number of visitors, hand-hygiene will be strictly maintained. One person at each site will video-document the ‘new normal’,” an official said.  “Apart from the cap on the number of visitors at monuments, visitors shall follow social distancing. The use of face cover/mask is mandatory. At the entrance personnel will be there to carry out thermal scanning and hand-sanitization. Only asymptomatic persons are allowed. There shall be designated routes for entry and exit and movement within the monument,” stated the standard operating procedure (SOP), issued by the ministry. The monuments will be opened in two time slots a day. At sites, where gate passes are required, e-tickets would be accepted only. Visitors would have to make e-payments at the parking lots and cafeterias. No group photography and eating of food will be allowed on the premises. In June, ASI reopened 820 of its monuments across the country where religious activities take place. “Cleaning and sanitisation of monuments and museums, including toilet blocks, benches and frequently used surfaces, will be carried out at a regular interval,” the notification stated. As many as 3,691 centrally protected monuments and archaeological sites maintained by ASI were shut from March 17 to minimize the spread of the novel coronavirus. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/asi-monuments-to-reopen-tomorrow/articleshow/76791698.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Lucknow||Cop who fled encounter site suspended||Lucknow: Station House Officer, Chaubeypur police station, Vinay Tiwari, who fled the encounter site while bodies of cops piled up and others lay bleeding, was suspended on Saturday. Tiwari is also under the scanner for being the mole in the police machinery, who tipped off the gangster, Vikas Dubey, about the impending raid. He was detained and interrogated for several hours by the Special Task Force. Inspector general of police, Kanpur range, Mohit Agarwal, said, the ambush was planned in a strategic manner and it was the duty of Inspector Tiwari to lead his men and rescue the embattled force,” he said. When reinforcements arrived, it was Tiwari’s duty to guide the back-up force, which was not acclimatized with the topography, he said. “Casualties would have been less and the gangster would have been hunted down if the local inspector stayed put at ground zero,” said the IG. Police officials also said, Tiwari would be booked if the probe finds him guilty of tipping off the gangster, Vikas Dubey, or sending messages to gang members. Testimonies of policemen who survived the ambush would help corroborate the sequence of events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cop-who-fled-encounter-site-suspended/articleshow/76792067.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Pune||Kitchen gardens blossom and grow during lockdown||For three months now, Baner-resident Abhijit Chitnis has spent close to an hour each morning in the balcony of his apartment. The hour is spent looking over, harvesting and tending to the many vegetables, herbs and medicinal plants that form his kitchen garden. “Every morning, I wake up excited about what plant would have bloomed and what can be harvested. I go to the balcony and tend to the plants. I water them, checking for pests and add organic pesticides or supplements. The little produce we get for the day is used for our meals once every few days,” he said. Tomatoes, chillies, fenugreek, spinach, capsicum, cucumber, radish, spring onion, garlic, mint, rosemary, thyme, lemon balm, celery, Thai basil and lettuce are among the plants that make up Chitnis’ kitchen garden. Like him, many citizens from the city have turned to tending a kitchen garden during the lockdown. “I always had a penchant for gardening, but due to work commitments, I never got around to indulging in it. However, the lockdown was like a reset button for all and I could start my kitchen garden. I started in March and now I have a full-fledged garden. Since nurseries were open in the first phase of lockdown, we had access to seeds, saplings and soil. With the help of online videos, I learnt how to tend to my plants and maintain the garden,” he said. Another resident, Anjali Shenoi, said her house is now overflowing with pots and plants. “I had tried gardening but never stuck to it. During the lockdown, I used the pots that I already had to set up a kitchen garden in one of the balconies of my apartment. I started with mircrogreens and then moved to other vegetables and herbs. I used kitchen scraps of coriander and other greens instead of seeds. I also had stored dried seeds which I used. It has been a learning experience for my four-year-old, who now monitors the plants and waters them. We now have plants in both balconies and within the house,” Shenoi explained. The family has stopped purchasing chillies from the market. “We also get a fair amount of cherry tomatoes. I do not have to go out to buy herbs either. I am also trying my hands at hydroponics. After the lockdown relaxed, I wanted to add a fruit plant to my kitchen garden and got home a pomegranate sapling which is now flowering,” she stated. Another resident, Priya Deshpande, said though she had a kitchen garden for the last three years, the lockdown presented her with an opportunity to connect with the plants and tend to them herself. “During the lockdown, we did not have any helping hand or gardener so I ended up connecting with my plants. I started understanding and deciding what will go into the pots and soil and what can be harvested. I got things like curry leaves, lady-finger and other vegetables which were not easily available during the lockdown. I noticed that several vegetables were growing quickly and it was a thrill to consume food cooked using produce from my own garden,” she said. Representatives from Inora -Know How Foundation, which promotes organic farming, kitchen gardens and wet waste management, said the pandemic made many turn to growing their own produce. “During the lockdown, close to 10 people approached us for help with terrace gardening. Five farmhouse projects came our way for help in growing organic fruits and vegetables. People called to get consultation about their kitchen gardens and they now come to us to buy organic cultures, bio-fertilizers and other products that can be used for organic farming and waste management,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kitchen-gardens-blossom-and-grow-during-lockdown/articleshow/76791702.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||Ind councillor shot at outside home||Barrackpore: Champa Das, an independent candidate of the north Barrackpore Municipality (Ward 2), was shot at in front of her house on Saturday evening. Das was taken to B N Bose Hospital first and then to a nursing home on E M Bypass. Her condition is critical.According to locals, Das was attending a meeting with the locals at her residence in Maya Pally. After the meeting, when her colleagues left around 8.30pm three masked youths came on a bike and opened fire on her. While the first bullet missed her, second bullet hit her leg and she fell to the ground. The assailants then fled the spot.Trinamool minister Jyotipriyo Mallik alleged BJP’s hand in the incident. “They have been trying to capture the municipalities and threaten councillors to bring them into their fold. This incident is yet another example of how they are trying to intimidate councillors,” he said.Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh, however, blamed inner conflict in Trinamool for the shooting. “Whenever there is an incident of inner clash, they pass the blame on to the BJP. It seems that the situation is going out of their control,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ind-councillor-shot-at-outside-home/articleshow/76791695.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
July 5, 2020||Pune||Sealed for 3 months, parts of Pune's Yerawada begin to open||PUNE: Decline in Covid-19 cases has prompted the civic authorities to open up parts of Yerawada, including Yerawada goathan, Mother Teresanagar, Siddharthnagar and Sheela Salvenagar, which remained sealed for almost three months, paving the way for normalcy to return to these areas. The central vegetables market in Yerawada goathan having about 80 shops is set to begin operations. Besides, other smaller local markets and shops are also gearing up to resume business. All these areas were sealed in April after the Covid-19 outbreak. Local corporators said things were opening but in a phased manner and with necessary precautions in place. “Yerawada was among the first few areas in the city that were sealed in the initial stage of the virus spread. After three months, some parts are opening up since no new cases were reported for two weeks. These areas have a population of 5,000,” Sanjay Bhosale, a local corporator, said. He said discussions were held in the last two days with the police and the civic administration on way forward. “The vegetable market started functioning on Friday on a trial basis. A proposal has been submitted to operate the market at 50% strength for a few days,” Bhosale said, adding that few people visited the market on the first day. “People are coming to the marked in a staggered manner, which is good as no crowding happens this way. On the safety aspect, we have told the sellers to use masks and abide by all the hygiene mesures,” he said. The Yerawada area has high population density and slum pockets. Vijay Landge, head of Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori ward office, attributed the decline in the number of cases to stricter lockdown measures. As per a June 30 report, Yerawada ward had 160 active cases as against 173 as recorded on June 21. Activist Danial Landge said some more localities were likely to be opened up in the next few days. “We are monitoring the situation with the authorities,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sealed-for-3-months-parts-of-yerawada-begin-to-open/articleshow/76791709.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||To mask it or not: Lake morning walkers caught in fight over exercise without ‘cover’||KOLKATA: The tranquillity of early-morning walks at Rabindra Sarobar has been marred by arguments over wearing of masks, rather taking them off, by people who walk briskly or jog. Some morning walkers have stopped going to the Lake after the first few days of its reopening to avoid the unpleasantness and have returned to walking on their terraces or balconies as they had been doing during the lockdown. “There is too much friction among people who want masks to be worn all the time and those who exercise and feel uncomfortable doing so with the mask. I have seen people gasp for breath. Whenever someone takes off the mask even momentarily, others rush over to admonish the person. Even I have felt breathless and suffocating and have had the urge to remove the mask for a gulp of fresh air. But I have had to restrain myself to avoid arguments. Now, I have stopped going to the Lake,” said Ballygunge Circular Road resident Pradip Chopra. Some morning walkers, who are diabetic and walk briskly to stay healthy, and youngsters who jog on the walkway have had face-offs with another section that felt the former group was putting others at peril by taking off their masks. Sumita Banerjee, a regular at the lake and a stickler for law, says masks and gloves need to be worn at a public place, like Lake, where many senior citizens go for walk. “Before opening Rabindra Sarobar, the CM had said social distancing rules should be maintained and everyone should wear masks. But we often find people violating the norm. If jogging or brisk walk makes you feel uncomfortable with the mask on, then why do so? That is no excuse to take the mask off during a pandemic like this,” she said. General physician S Rao, who has also resumed his walks at the Lake , says it is less of a medical debate and more of a perception issue. “If a person wears a mask and is out in the open, he or she is unlikely to contract the virus from some without a mask who simply jogs or walks by. The problem may occur if someone stops to speak, sneezes or coughs. It is riskier to get into a heated argument over whether a mask should be worn all the time or not,” he said, adding the risk was much higher in a closed environment where droplets could remain suspended or circulate in an AC room. Pulmonolgist Raja Dhar acknowledged mask led to a feeling of suffocation when one exercised as breathing rate could shoot up from 15 per minute to 25. “There is also a fear of breathing back the carbondioxide that one exhales. There is a definite discomfort and sweating. It is advisable not to wear a mask if one is in a relatively empty place outdoors. But if there are many others around, it is best to wear a mask,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/to-mask-it-or-not-lake-morning-walkers-caught-in-fight-over-exercise-without-cover/articleshow/76791699.cms||Subhro Niyogi
July 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||It is harvest time at TDB temple lands||Thiruvananthapuram: The harvest of vegetables grown on fallow lands belonging to temples under Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) started on Friday. The TDB had begun vegetable cultivation on the lands on the premises of the temples as part of a project christened Devaharitham when the Covid-19 lockdown was enforced a few months ago. The TDB kicked off the project to overcome the crisis brought about by the lockdown during which it incurred huge losses as temple festivals were cancelled and public entry was restricted. The first harvest was held on the premises of Mahadeva Temple at Sasthamangalam, where the temple authorities had grown red spinach. N Vasu, TBD president, inaugurated the harvest. Devaswom board member advocate N Vijayakumar, devaswom commissioner B S Thirumeni and devaswom board employees attended the function. A special counter has been opened at the temple for the public to purchase the farm produce. The Devaharitham project was started along with Subhiksha Keralam, an initiative for self-sufficiency in agriculture proposed by the government. They identified around 3,000 acres of fallow land on the premises of temples under its jurisdiction, which were suitable for farming. The initiative, which started with vegetable cultivation, will also include paddy farming. The project has been planned to be continued in phases. Some temples have large tracts of land, and the authorities are planning to grow banana, tapioca and yam on such lands. The project is being implemented with support from the agriculture department and Haritha Keralam Mission. “In the first phase, chillies, ladyfingers, spinaches, beans, bitter gourds and tomatoes were cultivated in the fallow lands. Harvest of vegetables cultivated on other temples lands will be held in coming days,” said a statement from TDB. The harvests at lands close to temples including Sree Krishna temple, Neyyattinkara and Parasurama Temple at Thiruvallam, will take place in the coming week. The project is being implemented in association with the respective local bodies, temple advisory committees, voluntary organisations, agriculture department and Haritha Keralam Mission. Former deputy commissioner of TDB, B Unnikrishnan is coordinating the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/it-is-harvest-time-at-tdb-temple-lands/articleshow/76791148.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Pune||PMR 24-hour tally above 1,000 for fourth straight day||PUNE: The Covid-19 cases in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) stayed above 1,000 even on Saturday, the fourth day in a row, pushing the total tally in the region up to 27,311. Besides, 31 more patients, a record high shared with June 30 toll, succumbed to the infection in PMR in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 853. Among the total 1,168 fresh cases, 816 were recorded in the Pune municipal limits, 226 in Pimpri Chinchwad areas and 126 in the rural and Cantonment parts of Pune. The Covid-19 case count in PMC has surged beyond 20,000-mark. A report released by PMC stated 399 patients were discharged in PMC limits on Saturday, after they were declared cured, taking the cured count in PMC limits to over 12,600. The active case load in PMC increased to 7,276 on Saturday and the condition of 385 patients was critical in the municipal limits, of whom 56 were on ventilator support. As many as 3,757 swabs of suspected patients were collected in PMC on Saturday and were sent for testing, a civic health official said. Among the deceased, eight patients succumbed at the Sassoon hospital. These included a 63-year-old woman from Katraj, a 67-year-old man from Padmavati, a 70-year-old man from Somwar Peth, a 58-year-old woman from Dattawadi, a 33-year-old man from Hadapsar, a 59-year-old man from Ghorpadi, a 64-year-old woman from Vishrantwadi and a 65-year-old woman from Kothrud. A 63-year-old woman died at the Naidu hospital. Those succumbed to infection at private hospital included a 73-year-old woman from Kondhwa, a 63-year-old man from Dhankawdi, a 44-year-old man from Dhayari and 44-year-old man from Shukrawar Peth, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-24-hour-tally-above-1000-for-4th-straight-day/articleshow/76791714.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Disrupted water schedule adds to residents’ worries||Aurangabad: The water supply schedule in some of the containment zones and other parts of the city has been disrupted adding to the woes of some residents, who are not allowed to move out of their houses.Disruption in electricity supply led to the problem in water supply system. Citizens from the affected areas said they could not arrange for private water tankers as the lanes were sealed with teen sheets. Krutika Waybhat, a homemaker from N-11 sector, said, “We have 10 members in our family and it is difficult to cope with water scarcity when supply schedule goes for a toss. The issue of disrupted water supply is not new so a permanent solution must be worked out.”The municipal limits of Aurangabad are currently getting water after a gap of four days and supply issues further reduces the frequency. Citizens are irked over the alleged poor management of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) as there was water scarcity despite receiving rain in June and substantial storage in Jayakwadi dam. The reservoir is currently holding 40 % live storage. When contacted, Kiran Dhande, the in-charge of the AMC’s water supply department, said disruption in electricity supply had an adverse impact on the water supply system. “The power supply at our facilities in Farola and Jayakwadi was off for almost four hours in the past couple of days. Such disruption has an effect on the water supply schedule,” he said.Dhande said areas such as Hanuman Tekdi and Shahganj were worst-hit as they were receiving water through taps after a gap of eight days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/disrupted-water-schedule-adds-to-residents-worries/articleshow/76790450.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Pune||Three staffers of Pune railway division succumb to Covid-19, 51 test positive||PUNE: The Pune railway division has recorded 51 Covid-19 cases and three deaths since April, officials said.Most o f those who tested positive have recovered fully. The latest Covid-19 casualty was a clerk with the signal and telecom section of the rail division posted in the divisional railway manager's office. "He passed away last week," said Renu Sharma, divisional railway manager, Pune railway division. Sources in the division said 51 employees and their beneficiaries tested positive for Covid-19 since April. Sources said that two to three travelling ticket examiners posted in Pune had also tested positive recently, and most of those who got infected were frontline staff like railway protection force employees and ticket checkers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-staffers-of-pune-railway-division-succumb-to-ncov-51-test-positive/articleshow/76791721.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||Hidco plans memorial centre for Covid warriors||Kolkata: The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has decided to set up a ‘Covid Memorial Centre’ in New Town in memory of Covid victims and in honour of deceased Covid warriors like doctors, health workers and others who fell prey to the virus. A half-acre plot off the main arterial road, a few metres from the Biswa Bangla Gate, in Action Area I has been earmarked by Hidco for the proposed centre. Hidco has floated expressions of interest to engage a design consulting firm for planning, designing and periodical architectural supervision of the memorial centre. The agency would be selected by August and will need to have an eligibility criteria of designing at least one similar facility, museum, gallery or exhibition space. The memorial centre will have obelisks and memorial columns, dedicated to Covid victims, officials said. Officials said that thousands of doctors, medical practitioners and healthcare workers were relentlessly putting their lives at risk for the sake of the Covid-affected people. Hence, the authorities plan to set up the memorial centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hidco-plans-memorial-centre-for-covid-warriors/articleshow/76791712.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 5, 2020||Lucknow||In debut year, UP CM Yogi Adityanath helpline solved 20 lakh plaints, helped in Covid-19 battle||LUCKNOW: Jansunwai Samadhan, the Integrated Grievance Redressal System (IGRS) of UP CM Yogi Adityanath’s office, which completed one year of service, exchanged 2.58 crore calls to redress 20 lakh complaints in the past 365 days. The call centre received 37,000 calls everyday, that makes it 1.38 inbound calls. While all the problems raised were assigned in real time for redressal, a massive 1.20 outbound calls were made for resolving the problems and taking their feed-back to ensure service delivery. The 500-seater helpline which is fully integrated with other helplines like 102, 112, 108 and 1912 was able to resolve over 95% of 21.34 lakh complaints recorded. “An exemplary tool of grievance redressal through technology, the 1076 helpline played an important role in UP’s Covid-19 control plan,” said secretary to CM, Alok Kumar. Over 8 lakh calls were received by the call centre during lockdown period. These calls related to problems as small as unavailability of milk even in non-containment areas to complaints of people stuck in high burden areas outside states. “Of the 8.34 lakh complaints received, 99% were redressed by mobilizing the district and field officials. More than four lakh feedback related calls were also made to check if the action taken was satisfactory or not,” stated Kumar. The helpline served an important role in Covid-19 surveillance as well. Follow-up calls were made to students from Kota and migrant workers to track their health status. The incoming migrants were asked to confirm if they got the monetary and food grain support assured by the government or not. Later, the helpline was also used for skill mapping of the migrants. Then, the teams called up members of the Nigrani Samiti constituted by the state government to keep an eye on the health of home quarantined migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-debut-year-cm-helpline-solved-20l-plaints-helped-in-covid-battle/articleshow/76792069.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Five more lose Covid battle in Haryana, 59 critical||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 count on Saturday reached 16,548 cases and 260 deaths as 545 people tested positive for the virus and five died of it. The new cases were reported in 15 of the total 22 districts in the state. Also, 566 patients recovered from the virus, taking the total count for those who have been cured to 12,257 and the state’s recovery rate to 74.07%. Of the 4,031 patients who are still under treatment, 59 are in a critical condition. NCR districts continued to dominate in cases and deaths. Faridabad reported 180 new cases and two deaths. The district’s coronavirus count is now 4,364 cases and 89 deaths. Gurgaon got 130 new cases and three deaths, taking the district’s count to 5,829 cases and 99 deaths. There have been 4,497 recoveries in the state. Cases continued to mount in Sonipat too as the district got 81 new patients. Here, the tally has risen to 1,466 cases and 18 deaths. Bhiwani got 41 new patients, followed by 23 in Karnal, 15 each in Jhajjar and Rohtak, 14 in Nuh, 11 in Hisar, and 10 in Ambala. Eight new patients were reported in Palwal, six in Mahindergarh, five each in Jind and Panipat, and one in Yamunanagar. The testing rate has reached 11,759 per million of population, and 2,98,094 people have been checked so far. Ambala’s total cases have now reached 358, with patients recovering in 315 of them. (Inputs from Ambala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-more-lose-covid-battle-in-haryana-59-critical/articleshow/76791716.cms||Manvir Saini
July 5, 2020||Nagpur||Kids exposed to toxic air at school: Study||Nagpur: Children’s school time is rife with toxic air, reveals a latest scientific study. Under its Schools for Clean Air Project, international non-governmental organization Clean Air Asia monitored air quality in two city schools for over a year to study the impact of air pollution on children. The study brought to the fore that there are days when children are exposed to air quality index as high as over 300 when they are outdoors. It further highlighted that children are a vulnerable group due to high air pollution dose per lung surface area. “While playing and performing other physical activities, children breathe faster and take in more air and pollutants. Not just respiratory ailments, air pollution has also been found to harm the cognitive development among schoolchildren,” it added. To monitor and analyse ambient air quality in the school environment, air quality sensors were installed in the campuses of Modern School, Koradi Road and St Ursula Girls High School in Civil Lines. Outdoor areas like playgrounds, main gate and parking lot were identified as the ideal locations to install the sensors. Having two major coal-fired power plants in its vicinity (Koradi and Khaparkheda Thermal Power Stations), Modern School had three sensors deployed in its premises. As per a survey conducted as part of the study, 85% of the students agreed that they experienced air pollution near the school. Most of them attributed the high level of pollution to power plants. The air quality data of 16 months shows that between 7am and 9am, the school premises have the highest concentration of deadly pollutants particulate matter 10 and 2.5. Apart from this, the air quality is significantly poor in winter months — from November to February. While the study ascribes the sudden rise in pollutants during morning hours to vehicular emissions, the degrading of air quality in winters is due to temperature inversion. “The increased amount of biomass burning in this season also contributes to bad air,” the study stated. Air quality at St Ursula School, which is situated in a congested area, was found to be poorer compared to that of Modern School. “The playground is near the road and transport can be attributed as a cause of air pollution. The continuous accumulation of pollutants in the breathable space of the school is making the air quality poor,” the study stated. The study recommends maintenance of vehicles, use of public transport and use of non-motorized transport for improving the air quality. “There is an ignorance associated with air pollution and sending children out to play,” said Prarthana Borah, India director of Clean Air Asia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kids-exposed-to-toxic-air-at-school-study/articleshow/76791743.cms||Manka Behl
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Old City slums adopt Dharavi model to fight coronavirus||HYDERABAD: Even as some well developed areas in the city are grappling with Covid-19, slums in the Old City are fighting the pandemic better, thanks to the Dharavi model adopted by health workers and community leaders. A group of Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) with the support of local community elders has successfully kept the Covid-19 positivity rate low in the urban slums south of the river Musi. ASHA workers took up a massive awareness campaign and door-to-door survey to control the spread of the pandemic, reveals a survey. Of the 1.5 lakh people living in 10 slums in the Old City, only 46 people have tested positive in the last 30 days. No cases were reported prior to May 31. Given the compromised sanitary conditions and lack of social distancing measures due to crowdedness of the slums, there should have been more Covid-19 cases there. Health workers and community elders in the Old City followed the model adopted in Asia’s biggest slum, Dharavi, in Mumbai. The replication seems to have paid off, given the very few positive cases from these slums. The survey was conducted by NGO Helping Hand Foundation in Jahangirabad, Ghouse Nagar, Noori Nagar, Hashimabad, Ismail Nagar, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Hussain Nagar, and Patel Nagar slums under the Chandrayangutta assembly constituency. “The idea is to understand how slums in the Old City are faring when it comes to tackling Covid-19,” said HHF managing trustee Mujtaba Hasan Askari. Thanks to stringent vigil as many as 308 people, mainly primary contacts of positive cases and neighbours, were put under home isolation and containment. Askari said that most cases had mild to moderate symptoms. Effective monitoring and treatment at the doorstep by ASHA workers on the lines of the one adopted in Dharavi has resulted in the recovery of 23 of the 46 positive cases spread across 10 slums. He said 14 ASHA workers and five community leaders were playing a vital role in reaching out to suspected and positive cases in this cluster, door-to-door surveillance, tracking the positive cases, mobilising the primary contacts for testing and isolating the ones tested positive into home quarantine. Moreover, five houses to the left and right of the positive case were being put under containment zone and banners put up to sensitize the public on the need for social distancing. All members in the zone were being checked daily for fever and other symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/old-city-slums-adopt-dharavi-model-to-fight-coronavirus/articleshow/76792071.cms||Syed Akbar
July 5, 2020||Pune||No flights to West Bengal from Pune & five other cities||PUNE: The West Bengal authorities cancelling all flight operations from six cities — including Pune — from July 6 to 19 came as a rude shock to people who were looking forward to fly out to Kolkata in this period. The Kolkata airport on Saturday afternoon posted on Twitter, “It is informed that no flights shall operate to Kolkata from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad from July 6 to 19 or till further order, whichever is earlier. The temporary restriction on arriving flights to Kolkata airport from six cities viz. Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Nagpur and Ahmedabad is on the request of the state government to restrict movement from high prevalence cities of Covid-19 cases to contain the spread.” “I was to fly from Pune to Kolkata aboard an IndiGo flight on July 11. My wife was set to fly back on July 16. The airline told me that I would be intimated soon,” Bavdhan resident Ashutosh K told TOI. Shikha Sinha, who was to fly to Kolkata on July 10, said, “My mother isn’t well and I booked my ticket just two days ago.” Two flights of IndiGo and SpiceJet fly from Pune to Kolkata. SpiceJet’s response was awaited at the time of going to the press. An IndiGo spokesperson told TOI, “Impacted customers can visit Plan B on the IndiGo website and choose alternative options. If they wish to cancel, they can claim full refund.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-flights-to-bengal-from-pune-five-other-cities/articleshow/76791724.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 5, 2020||Nagpur||Nine test positive in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: For the fourth consecutive day, there’s been no respite for Yavatmal as nine new patients tested positive on Saturday — a man from the city and four men and four women from Ner tehsil. Eight patients, who were in the isolation ward, recovered and were discharged on Saturday, taking the total number of active positive patients to 63. In the last 24 hours, GMC received 40 reports of which 30 were negative. So far, the district has recorded 314 positive cases with 239 discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nine-test-positive-in-yavatmal/articleshow/76791733.cms||T O Abraham
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Empower wards in Covid-19 fight: Petitioners in court||HYDERABAD: Stating that it is essential to involve local leaders, particularly ward members, in the fight against Covid-19, a public interest petition was filed in the Telangana high court urging it to direct the state government to rope in the ward-level leadership to help the municipal and state authorities in contact tracing. The plea was filed by advocate Surya Balu Mahendra and M Balakrishna of Secunderabad who expressed concern over the rising number of cases in Hyderabad and all over the state. Their counsel Kasibhatla Saaketh told a bench of chief justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and justice B Vijaysen Reddy that there is a lack of transparency and accountability in the ongoing Covid-19 management in the state. “There is a need to empower the ward members in the municipal corporation and specific tasks should be assigned to them,” he said. They should be given access to information and involved at the ground level, he said. The bench asked him as to which law allows the authorities to involve local ward leaders in the process. Saaketh replied that sub-section 1 (X) of section 56 of Telangana Municipalities Act and sections 122, 152 to 155 of GHMC Act allow the state government to empower the local leaders. “When the state has the power to enhance the powers of ward members, can we ask the government to enhance it,” the bench enquired. The counsel said yes and sought such a direction to the government. The bench posted the case to July 20 for further hearing. Dealing with another petition that sought quarantining of people leaving Hyderabad and returning to their villages in the state in the backdrop of a rumour about a likely lockdown again in Hyderabad, the bench declined to pass any such orders. The petitioner’s counsel was insisting that people in the villages were wary of the returnees and were having apprehensions about returnees bringing Covid-19 along with them, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/empower-wards-in-covid-19fight-petitioners-in-court/articleshow/76792072.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Pune||Cops step up vigil to arrest spread of contagion||PUNE: As the number of Covid-19 positive cases are increasing across the city, the Pune police have decided to intensify nakabandi operations as well as maintain a strict vigilance in and around containment zones. The police also reiterated that they will only allow three persons in a car, including the driver, and no more than 50 persons will be allowed to attend a wedding ceremony. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham on Saturday issued directions in this regard. According to a senior police officer, the nakabandi operation will be more strict after sundown, during the curfew hours, and people should not venture out of their houses without a valid reason. “The police will question citizens about why they have ventured out of their homes in the night,” he said. A majority of nakabandi operations are in place on arterial roads as well as in the old parts of the city, where the number of positive cases are high. Similarly, the police will monitor the movement of people in and around the containment zones. Local police stations have been ordered to create strategic points near the entry and exit points of containment zones. The police will also intensify patrolling in market areas and if a crowded situation prevails at any spot, people will be dispersed soon. Venkatesham also said the police is keeping a check on the number of passengers in autorickshaws, taxis or cabs and other passenger vehicles. The vehicles can ferry only three persons, including the driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-step-up-vigil-to-arrest-spread-of-contagion/articleshow/76791734.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Pune||Big makeshift hospitals can help: Advisor||PUNE: The principal advisor to the chief minister, Ajoy Mehta, has suggested the Pune district administration set up large makeshift hospitals, similar to the facility at Mumbai’s Bandra Kurla Complex, to monitor Covid-19 patients PMC commissioner Shekar Gaikwad told TOI that during a meeting on Friday, Mehta said the rising number of cases may call for bigger temporary treatment units. “There is a 200-bed quarantine facility at the Balewadi sports complex. We are also taking over hostels. But we will look at bigger units, which don’t require many doctors," Gaikwad said. When contacted, Mehta said he has already put his suggestions across to the district administration. The makeshift Covid-19 hospital at Mumbai’s BKC is a 2,000-bed facility that was set up by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Authority. Mehta said Pune district can use such large quarantine and isolation units. A central control room can also be set up to monitor the health of the patients, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/big-makeshift-hospitals-can-help-advisor/articleshow/76791738.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents: Pvt ambulance operators charging hefty fees||Hyderabad: Amidst the rising demand for ambulance services in the city, many say that private operators are charging hefty amounts to transport the patients as there is no fixed price slab set by the authorities. Samhith Basu, who hired the service of a private ambulance to shift his uncle to a hospital said that two ambulance services providers that he spoke to had charged them around Rs 10,000 for the service. “We had to shift my uncle from SLG Hospital in Nizampet to Gandhi Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19. We had to cancel the service of the first ambulance that we booked because they kept the patient who was under critical condition for about two hours in the hospital. They initially charged us Rs 9,000. The second ambulance that we booked charged Rs 11,000 but there was no mechanical ventilator or a trained paramedic in the vehicle,” said Basu. Similar is the case with several others who are hiring private ambulance services in the city. When contacted, A Venkatesh of Jai Sri Anjaneya ambulance services said, “If it is a 10 km distance, we charge Rs 4,000 for an ALS vehicle and if it is a BLS vehicle, we charge around Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000. If we have to go over 300 kms, then the price varies from Rs 30 per km if it is with a trained technician. If they don’t need a technician, then it is between Rs 15 to Rs 25 per km.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-pvt-ambulance-operators-charging-hefty-fees/articleshow/76792073.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||3 major dam sites receive over 50 inches of rainfall||Panaji: Goa and surrounding regions received excess rainfall during the month of June and even on Saturday, and dam sites of Selaulim and Anjunem in the state, and Tillari in Maharashtra, have already received 50-60 inch of rainfall for the season. Chief engineer of the water resources department (WRD), Shrikant Patil, told TOI that the dams in the state have been filling up faster this year. “At the dam site, 55-60 inch rainfall is over for the season. We count our season from June 1,” Patil said. Two major reservoirs in Goa, Selaulim and Anjunem are at 65% and 50% capacity already, he said. “Tillari dam, which is in Maharashtra and supplies water to Goa, is also 62% full,” Patil said. Last monsoon, when Goa and nearby regions received plentiful rainfall, a flood-like situation was experienced in parts of Pernem and Bicholim, and crops were damaged in Bardez, after excess water from Tillari was released into Goa’s rivers. Patil said that there is no need to panic as the situation is being monitored closely. “All river levels are well within control, in Sakhali the river level is 2.3m and in Bicholim it is 3.2m. Our danger level is 4m. We are monitoring levels. If it increases, we will start pumping out the water in the Sakhali. There should not be any panic,” said Patil. Meanwhile, besides the three large reservoirs in Selaulim, Anjunem and Tillari, Amthane dam is also over 70% full. Chapoli reservoir in Canacona is filled to 73% capacity. The two minor reservoirs in Gaunem and Panchwadi are currently 30% and 26% full, respectively. The Selaulim, Amthane, Chapoli and Panchwadi dams have an inbuilt mechanism to release excess water and villagers living in nearby areas are alerted before the water is released. Only in the case of Anjunem dam, the gates have to be opened manually by the water resources department. The Selaulim dam is a sight for sore eyes during the monsoon. The majestic Duck Bill spillway of the dam is a unique structure in India and the first of its kind in Asia. It attracts hundreds of tourists every day during the rainy season to watch the excess water flow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-major-dam-sites-receive-over-50-inches-of-rainfall/articleshow/76792084.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Seed companies booked for cheating||AURANGABAD: Hingoli police have registered two cases of cheating against seeds companies after the soybean seeds they sold to the farmers failed to germinate. Police said they are open to registering offences in all the complaints they receive against seeds companies. Based on the complaint lodged by agriculture development officer Pratap Ragde, the two offences have been registered at the Sengaon police station. Hingoli SP Yogesh Kumar said, “The agriculture authorities, along with experts, surveyed the fields and concluded that the farmers have been duped.” Sengaon police said that MP-based companies and their local agent in Hingoli have been booked on the charges of cheating, criminal breach of trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/seed-cos-booked-for-cheating/articleshow/76790479.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||No mechanism to check private ambulances in Telangana: Officials||HYDERABAD: Amid the growing demand for ambulances due to rise in Covid-19 cases, health and transport officials said there is no mechanism to monitor these emergency vehicles in Telangana. According to sources, private ambulances are nothing but taxis fitted with sirens transporting patients from one place to another without any infrastructure needed for out-of-hospital care while ferrying patients. Ashok Palle, president of Telangana State 108 employees’ union, said, “There is no mechanism to monitor the certification of private ambulances plying on roads in the state. No one checks if there is a paramedic, a first-aid kit or a mechanical ventilator in the ambulance. Only a few corporate hospitals in the city have a qualified paramedic and Advanced Life Support (ALS) equipment.” Palle also said there is a dire necessity for certified training of paramedics where they learn how much oxygen should be provided to the patient depending on their condition and age. “I have seen a lot of cases where patients have died after connecting the oxygen machine,” he added. A state health official said, “Private ambulances are not at all equipped with out-of-hospital care for patients. We always suggest our patients use the 108 service where there is at least a trained paramedic and basic equipment. Operating these vehicles as ‘ambulances’ is illegal as there is no standard operating procedure.”.” While there are a set of guidelines provided by the transport department, P Ravinder Kumar, Regional Transport Officer, Uppal said that operators only adhere to them at the time of vehicle inspection. “We ensure that there is a first-aid kit, the dimensions of the stretcher are in place and all safety equipment that is mandatory for an ambulance are fitted. But despite our efforts, there are a few operators who don’t use them,” he said. Worse, industry players said ambulance owners do not require any licensing. “Anyone who has money can start the service,” said NVG Raja, founder of AMBUS, an ambulance app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-mechanism-to-check-pvt-ambulances-officials/articleshow/76792077.cms||Moulika.KV
July 5, 2020||Hubballi||KIMS doctors charged with giving false Covid report||HUBBALLI: Aman Foundation has alleged that KIMS doctors have added a patient’s name in Covid-19 victims’ list without proper testing. According to the Social organisation, the report says he was tested negative. In a press release, Foundation president Naveed Mulla has said that a 62-year-old man was suffering from severe fever on June 30, and his blood test had revealed that he was lacking platelets. “As he was denied treatment at a private hospital, he was admitted in KIMS, after which the doctors treated him at ICU. Besides saying that he was not responding to treatment, the doctors said he had Covid-19 symptoms. They also declared him dead due to the infection,” he said, adding: “They did not handover the body to his relatives, saying they will perform last rites as per the direction of the district administration. They had called 4-5 relatives of the diseased for the last rites on July 1. The doctors had added his name to the list Covid-19 victims. But now his report shows him negative. KIMS doctors have tortured the family members of the patient by giving false information,” he claimed. He demanded action against doctors for the alleged lapses. Responding to the charges, KIMS director Dr Ramalingappa Antaratani said: “As per ICMR guidelines, we will treat the death of all non-Covid patients as Covid positive and perform the last rites as per SOPs. The same has happened with this patient too. His report, which came on Saturday, showed him negative for Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kims-docs-charged-with-giving-false-covid-report/articleshow/76791013.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Pune||Disposal cost doubles for Covid-19 biomedical waste in Pune||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation has increased the cost for the collection and safe disposal of Covid-19-linked biomedical waste to Rs 100/kg as against Rs47/kg for the biomedical waste of non-Covid patients. “After Mumbai, Nagpur, Nashik and Aurangabad, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) fixed the Covid-19 biomedical waste disposal charges at Rs100/kg last week,” said Sunil Dandawate, who runs the common biomedical waste treatment facility in Pune at Kailas Crematorium. At present, Pune generates up to 5,000kg of Covid-19 biomedical waste everyday, he said. A senior PMC health official said, “We are in the process of developing a mechanism for recovering the charges of treating Covid-19 waste from private hospitals.” Experts in the field of biomedical waste disposal attributed the rise in the cost to the highly contagious Covid-19 infection, which necessitated 100% incineration of the associated waste. Dandawate said they were incurring additional expenses to treat Covid-19 waste. “We have to provide fresh personal protective equipment for our staff every day,” he said. “Besides, our collection vehicles are cleaned frequently with hypochlorite sprays,” he added. “We are also providing weekly health check-ups and preventive medications to our staff members,” he added. The Central Pollution Control Board, the apex body that monitors safe collection and disposal of hazardous waste in the country, has developed a separate cellphone application to keep a track of Covid-19-associated biomedical waste. “It is mandatory for our collection vehicle attendants to have this app on their cellphones. So, we have to provide our staff with smartphones. Again, we have to maintain separate data storage units and bar code scanners,” Dandawate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/disposal-cost-doubles-for-covid-19-biomedical-waste/articleshow/76791768.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Frenchman stuck in DK village improves his Kannada during lockdown||MANGALURU: A 26-year-old Frenchman, on a one-year tourist visa to India sought out a small hamlet in Dakshina Kannada district where he had been staying when the world was gripped by the pandemic. Consequently, this compelled Baptiste Mariotte to extend his sojourn in Mundaje, a village 5km from Charmadi in Belthangdy taluk. Although Mariotte was scheduled to return home at the end of March, the lockdown prevented him from doing so, but far from being bogged down by the unexpected turn of events, he decided to use the time to enhance his knowledge of Kannada. Mariotte, an artist himself, is an alumnus of the Florence Academy of Art and teaches at an art school in Spain, learnt about Mundaje from Michel, a veteran artist of France who had been a roving resident of the village. “I came to India for the first time in 2017, and had learnt Hindi, assuming that most Indians spoke the language. It was when I reached this village that I realised I needed to learn Kannada. Sachin Bhide, my neighbour, helped teach the language. When I first heard about the lockdown, I was concerned about when I would be able to return home, but then it turned into a book, a period I could use to finetune my skills in Kannada,” said Mariotte, speaking in Kannada all the while. Expressing his gratitude to Bhide, who also helped him get food since Mariotte was reluctant to step out, the young Frenchman added, “Dhanush Rajendra, a friend of the Bhide’s, I taught him drums, while he also helped me improve my Kannada.” Mariotte is an artist in the classical mould, someone who specialises in portraits and landscapes. Bhide said that the Frenchman loved the landscape of the Western Ghats, and was not too disappointed with the frequent power outages either. “He is enjoying the monsoon,” added Bhide, a farmer and member of Sahyadri Sanchaya. In addition to Kannada, English and French, Mariotte is fluent in Italian and Spanish, and also knows a smattering of Hindi. Hailing from a family of musicians, Mariotte teaches drums to local youngsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/frenchman-stuck-in-dk-village-improves-his-kannada-during-lockdown/articleshow/76791179.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 5, 2020||Hubballi||People brace for Sunday lockdown in Dharwad||DHARWAD: With the state government announcing a complete lockdown on five Sundays beginning July 5, the people in Dharwad were seen stocking up essentials on Saturday. Being the first week of the month, many preferred to buy groceries for a fortnight or a month. Dharwad district has seen a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases and this has caused anxiety among people, particularly the senior citizens. Instead of venturing out for buying essentials, some are also opting for getting the commodities delivered at door step, although they appear sceptical about possibility of getting infected through the delivery boys. Despite intermittent heavy showers, people thronged the market and bought vegetables, fruits and other essential goods in the morning. The tipplers, who usually buy their quota of liquor in the evenings, decided not to take risk and lined up before the liquor outlets since morning. Though the sale of essential commodities like medicines, groceries, vegetable, fruits, milk and meat will be permitted during the lockdown, people opted to shop on Saturday itself. Deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil has warned people against violating the prohibitory orders and has instructed cops to act tough on violators. As per the guidelines, weddings pre-scheduled for Sunday can be held with 50 guests, while funerals can have only 20 guests. There will be no movement of public transport buses and only government vehicles on Covid-19 duty are allowed. The government has also banned holding any kind of public programmes. Parks and playgrounds too shall remain closed. The lockdown will be enforced from 8pm on Saturdays to 9am on Mondays. A senior police officer said the police will act tough on those who try to violate the norms by venturing out unnecessarily. “We won’t hesitate to seize their vehicles and file cases, ” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/people-brace-for-sunday-lockdown-in-dharwad/articleshow/76791091.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
July 5, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Reaching students in remote areas an issue||PUNE: The state education department has started compiling a database of local volunteers, who can help reach out to students in remote areas and students without access to a communication device to log onto online classes. The state will also replicate Pune Zilla Parishad’s project and urge people to donate old tablets, cell phones or laptops that are in working condition. The devices could be distributed among students in need. State education commissioner Vishal Solanki said, “Wherever possible, we will employ teachers to go to village schools and teach students. In other cases, a volunteer will be chosen to teach a group of students. Work is on to compile lists of local volunteers and a centralized database will be available in a month. Real-time data will be collected from these spots. Textbooks have already been distributed among all students in the state. Less than 5%, or around 4-5 lakh, students have not been able to access lessons shown on the TV, radio or internet.” Dattatray Jagtap, state director of primary education, said that all district officials have been told to ensure that students in their area get access to education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/reaching-students-in-remote-areas-an-issue/articleshow/76791771.cms||Ardhra Nair
July 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Mills seek govt policy on sugar cane crushing||Kolhapur: Anticipating major hurdles in providing transportation and health facilities for sugar cane cutters, the sugar mill operators have urged the government to chalk out a policy for the 2020-21 crushing season, which will begin from October 15. Deputy director (sugar) N R Nikam had convened a meeting in Kolhapur on Friday to review the the preparations. Representatives of the sugar mills said it would be difficult for them to mobilise cane cutters within the framework of the rules that have been stipulated to curb the spread of Covid-19. Sources in the sugar industry said it would be difficult for cane cutters to travel amid the current restrictions given that most of them travel from Marathwada and parts of North Maharashtra to the western part of the state. Most of the workers travel by private trucks or tractors, along with their families, and are hardly aware of the rules for travel. Sugar expert P G Medhe said the companies paid huge advances the to workers and that the mills would be in trouble if the workers did not reach the field on time. “Mills are concerned about several issues like medical checkup of the workers when they leave, formalities at the entry points of every district and other related issues,” said Medhe. He further said a majority of the cane cutters from Marathwada migrated to western Maharashtra for a period of six months. Given the current scenario, the workers may prefer to stay in Marathwada which had good cane produce this year. Sugar mill operators said that it was not possible for them to ensure enforcement among the workers like wearing masks and observing social distancing. They suggested that the government should think of issues like quarantine as far as cane workers are concerned. Sources said around 900 lakh metric tonne cane would be up for crushing, almost double to last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mills-seek-govt-policy-on-sugar-cane-crushing/articleshow/76790459.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal records 743 new cases; 18 more containment zones in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The number of new Covid cases in Bengal surpassed all previous daily records to touch 743 on Saturday and the death figure, too, was the highest so far at 19. Kolkata recorded 242 new cases, which is also the highest for a day so far, on Saturday when the health department, Kolkata Police and KMC set up 18 new containment zones over the last three days. The total number of cases stands at 6,864 in Kolkata. The new containment zones are mainly high-rises and apartment from where multiple cases have been reported. This zones are over and above the 1,872 micro units, which will be henceforth called isolation units. Most of the 18 containment zones — the Egiye Bangla government site states — are located in south Kolkata — four in Bhowanipore, two each in Alipore and Tollygunge and one in Panditiya Road, Mukundapur, Gariahat and Lake Road. In the north, Ultadanga-Kankurgachi has four containment zones and Baghbazar two. “These containment zones are a bit different from the ones created three months ago. Most of them are high-rises and apartments from where multiple cases have been reported in the past few days, beginning June 17. No slum is yet a part of the new containment zones. As a first step, we have cordoned off the entry-exit gates and placed cops. For an isolation unit, only those residing inside the unit are not allowed to come out. For such an apartment in the containment zone, we will not allow excess entry and exit, especially for outsiders. They will have a fixed time for markets and if required, we will send food to the affected zone,” said a senior IPS officer. Take the example of a containment zone at Chakraberia North. Barricades had been put up at two entry points of the lane and only one or two persons are out on the road to buy essential commodities. Four cops are guarding the building that houses 22 flats. At Sarat Bose Road, an apartment complex close to Minto Park and another five-storey located close to it had their entrances barricaded. “Besides the total number of infected, what is important is to see how many others in close proximity can get infected,” said one of the two cops on duty at one of the addresses. The civic health department is particularly worried over numerous positive cases being reported from apartment buildings and high-rises from Bhowanipore-Sarat Bose Road-Karaya-Ballygunge belt. “We are tackling an alarming situation in Bhowanipore-Sarat Bose Road belt. Here, positive cases are registering by leaps and bounds. Similar has been the Covid condition in the Karaya-Ballygunge belt. At a time when we were relieved to witness no fresh cases in large areas of Tiljala, Topsia and Beniapukur areas, the spurt in Karaya-Ballygunge has thrown before us a new challenge,” said a KMC health department official. Police said a section of salaried class and labourers desperate seeking food and refuge in the high-risk containment areas was breaking social distancing rules even in containment units like Panchanantala in Gariahat and Raja Rajendra Lal Mitra Road in the north. “We face difficulties with wage earners as with no resources left they are going out places in search of job or food. This desperation brings them closer to contamination risk,” said a police official working in Phoolbagan-Kankurgachi zone. (With inputs from Sudipto Das)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-records-743-new-cases-18-more-containment-zones-in-city/articleshow/76791183.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 5, 2020||Kolhapur||District reports 23 new Covid cases||Kolhapur: The district has reported 23 fresh Covid-19 patients on Saturday, taking the tally of Covid cases to 927. As many as 10 patients were reported from Chnagad tehsil, six from Ichalkaranji, and one from Kolhapur who was already in institutional quarantine. The officials said that the people who tested positive had mostly returned from red zone areas. District collector Daulat Desai has ordered to speed up the testing process. The officials said that sudden rise in Covid cases is due to an increase in testing. Over 50 police personnel, who were deployed for security at Pandharpur on Ashadi Ekadashi on July 1, have been quarantined after two Covid cases were reported from Pandharpur. Meanwhile, Sangli district has reported 13 Covid-19 cases on Saturday. With this, the total number of Covid patients rose to 472, of which 172 cases are active. A person from Jaisingpur, Kolhapur, who was admitted in a hospital in Miraj, died due to Covid-19. Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhari on Saturday ordered the police to take action against those spreading misinformation over social media about the lockdown. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/district-reports-23-new-covid-cases/articleshow/76790501.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Lockdown likely in Maharashtra's Solapur city||KOLHAPUR: Guardian minister for Solapur district Datta Bharne said on Saturday that a decision to impose complete or partial lockdown in Solapur city would be taken in the next week to curb the spread of Covid-19. He hinted that the lockdown may remain in force for ten days and would be imposed only for a few areas in the city where the case count was very high Solapur district had 2,975 Covid-19 patients till Saturday evening. Meanwhile, a three-member committee arrived in Solapur on Saturday. The experts will study the treatment and reasons for higher deaths in Solapur for three weeks and submit a report to the state government. Satara district reported 56 new patients and two deaths till Friday night. According to officials, maximum patients were reported from Jihe village in Satara tehsil (18), 12 patients from Phaltan city while six were traced in Khandala tehsil. The tally of positive cases in Satara district has reached 1,245 of which 413 are active patients and 53 people have succumbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/lockdown-likely-in-solapur-city/articleshow/76790464.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Mills seek govt policy on sugar cane crushing||KOLHAPUR: Anticipating major hurdles in providing transportation and health facilities for sugar cane cutters, the sugar mill operators have urged the government to chalk out a policy for the 2020-21 crushing season, which will begin from October 15. Deputy director (sugar) N R Nikam had convened a meeting in Kolhapur on Friday to review the the preparations. Representatives of the sugar mills said it would be difficult for them to mobilise cane cutters within the framework of the rules that have been stipulated to curb the spread of Covid-19. Sources in the sugar industry said it would be difficult for cane cutters to travel amid the current restrictions given that most of them travel from Marathwada and parts of North Maharashtra to the western part of the state. Most of the workers travel by private trucks or tractors, along with their families, and are hardly aware of the rules for travel. Sugar expert P G Medhe said the companies paid huge advances the to workers and that the mills would be in trouble if the workers did not reach the field on time. “Mills are concerned about several issues like medical checkup of the workers when they leave, formalities at the entry points of every district and other related issues,” said Medhe. He further said a majority of the cane cutters from Marathwada migrated to western Maharashtra for a period of six months. Given the current scenario, the workers may prefer to stay in Marathwada which had good cane produce this year. Sugar mill operators said that it was not possible for them to ensure enforcement among the workers like wearing masks and observing social distancing. They suggested that the government should think of issues like quarantine as far as cane workers are concerned. Sources said around 900 lakh metric tonne cane would be up for crushing, almost double to last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mills-seek-govt-policy-on-sugar-cane-crushing/articleshow/76790515.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Kumartuli doors closed for shutterbugs this season||KOLKATA: Kumartuli — the hub for photography enthusiasts who wander around through its alleys this time of the year to shoot clay idols in low light and cramped spaces — has banned the entry of amateur photographers and foreigners this year as a precautionary measure to prevent possible spread of Covid-19 infection. Banners declaring the directive have come up at the five-acre potters’ colony that has already taken a massive hit in terms of business with 90% dip in orders from abroad and city clubs cutting down on idol budgets. “With the way the disease is spreading, we cannot take any chance by allowing hundreds of outsiders into these dingy lanes and small spaces everyday. It poses a danger to us, as well as the visitors. Hence, it has been decided that this year, we will not allow entry of amateur photographers and foreigners who start visiting from this time till the Durga Puja to shoot idols being created,” said Babu Pal of Kumartuli Mritshilpa Sanskriti Samiti. Starting from the middle of July, photographers start crowding Kumartuli in groups or as part of study tours from various photography clubs almost every weekend, often squeezing themselves into the tiniest of spaces between idols to capture different frames. While some amateur photographers are members of photography clubs in the city who move around in groups with cameras, lenses, lights and tripods, there are some who like to visit alone. And then there are also those with mobile phones as their primary shooting equipment. “Shooting at Kumartuli is challenging for almost every photographer as it offers a chance to study lines, formations and patterns, but all in low light and extremely cramped spaces. I return to Kumartuli every year simply to challenge myself into shooting a new frame, different from what has been captured by other photographers over the past several decades. But I appreciate their concern this year and will respect their decision. I will not bother them this year,” said veteran photographer Sutirtha Basu. Potters like Mintu Pal said the fact that their business has been hit badly due to the pandemic, with almost every club cutting down their budget, is making the situation more difficult for them. “Our earnings have come down heavily and we cannot afford mass infections at this point of time. Hence, we welcome this decision of banning outsiders,” said Pal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kumartuli-doors-closed-for-shutterbugs-this-season/articleshow/76791187.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Stop vendors from other dists: Kolhapur corporators||Kolhapur: The corporators of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation ( KMC) have asked civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti to restrict vegetable and fruit vendors from Sangli and Satara districts, from entering Kolhapur city due to the rise in Covid-19 cases.A large number of vendors, mostly farmers, come every day to the city to sell their produce. The corporators said that they are not screened and many come from Covid affected areas of the district.Recently, a vegetable vendor from Karad who had come to the city, tested Covid positive after returning to his hometown. Rajaram Gaikwad, corporator from Ramanmala area, said, “Many vendors from other districts are not taking proper precautions. They do not wear masks nor are they screened at check posts as they fall under essential services.”The corporators also said the vendors arriving in vegetable and fruit vans do have a pass for essential service. There is no record of them entering the city.A senior official of KMC requesting anonymity said, “We have decided to carry out a survey of the roadside vendors. If they do not have a pass for essential services, they will not be allowed. We will ask the district authorities to carry out thermal screening at the entry posts.”Meanwhile, families with babies arriving from red zones will be home quarantined, said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/stop-vendors-from-other-dists-kolhapur-corporators/articleshow/76790494.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||Surgery patients, nurse test +ve at SSKM, NRS||Kolkata: SSKM has decided to temporarily close admissions to the neurosurgery department after a few patients tested positive. Sources said at least six patients admitted for surgery were detected with the infection during pre-op tests. None was, however, symptomatic. All have been shifted to Covid hospitals. A nurse and seven patients in NRS Medical College, too, tested positive. Hospital sources said the patients were admitted for surgeries and none was symptomatic. While the nurse has been admitted in ID Hospital, the patients have been shifted to other state-run Covid hospitals. A number of healthcare workers in both hospitals have been sent into isolation for now. “All hospitals have a facility where patients are segregated. But with the rising number of asymptomatic carriers, this is no longer possible at in a single hospital,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/surgery-patients-nurse-test-ve-at-sskm-nrs/articleshow/76791193.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Pune||Pune mayor tests +ve, to review Covid situation while under treatment||PUNE: Mayor of Pune Muralidhar Mohol on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19.Confirming the development on his official Twitter account in the evening, Mohol said he decided to undergo the Covid-19 test immediately after he started feeling feverish and its result came positive. The senior BJP leader wrote, “My health is stable, and I shall be back (in action) soon after full recovery.” The mayor said he would continue to be in touch with the authorities and review the Covid-19 situation even while under treatment. Mohol was active in the Covid-19 mitigation work ever since its outbreak in Pune. Pune mayor tests positive for coronavirus Besides attending and conducting meetings, he visited many localities to expedite the Covid-related measures. On Friday, Mohol attended a Covid-19 review meeting held by deputyCM Ajit Pawar. Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said the tests of those who attended the meeting would be conducted. Gaikwad told TOI, “We shall follow the protocol for contact tracing. The tests of people and family members who came in contact with the mayor would be conducted.” Reacting to the development, BJP state president Chandrankat Patil, on his Twitter handle, wished Mohol a speedy recovery. He said Mohol had been on the field day and night ever since the pandemic spread. Mohol pushed the administration to expedite the containment measures, Patil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mayor-of-pune-muralidhar-mohol-on-saturday-tested-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76792245.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
July 5, 2020||Nagpur||MLC Gajbhiye demands state aid for school van drivers||Nagpur: The members of School Van Drivers’ Welfare Association met district collector and regional transport authority (RTA) chairman Ravindra Thakare to demand exemption in RTO taxes. There are 7,000 van drivers ferrying schoolchildren who have been rendered jobless due to lockdown and many among them are reportedly under huge debt. NCP MLC Prakash Gajbhiye, who accompanied the drivers, demanded Rs5,000 aid from state government for each school van driver and exemption from transport tax, road tax and passing fee by the RTO. Gajbhiye said the government should also think about waiving off insurance fees for the year. He reasoned that these drivers were debt-ridden as most of them have purchased vehicles on loan. Following the current spike in Covid-19 cases in the state, van drivers said that schools will not reopen till September. According to van driver Afsar Khan, due to the state government’s new safety policy for schoolchildren, they had to buy new vehicles for which they took huge loans. “Now, neither schools nor partners are giving us any money.” Van drivers told TOI that they have exhausted all their savings and reeling under serious food scarcity. Hunger would kill us before Covid-19, they said. On the lines of Tamil Nadu and Delhi government, which had offered financial relief to autorickshaw drivers and bus operators by directly transferring money in their bank accounts, the state government should provide a similar relief package, they said. The delegation comprised Abdul Salim Qazi, Raj Wardhe, Kartik Satpute, Kavishwar Raut, Pravin Hatmode, Milind Gajbhiye, Prakash Devtade, Nilesh Khangar, Nitin Thakur, Farrukhbhai, Zameer Bhai, Sachin Tadekar, Mohammad Pathan, Vishal Uke, Ashok Gajbhiye, Akbar Khan, Lalchand Mishra and Pawan Sarve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mlc-gajbhiye-demands-state-aid-for-school-van-drivers/articleshow/76791807.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||Over 95% brave showers, answer GCET||Panaji: The two-day Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET) began on Saturday amidst heavy monsoon showers. Altogether 2,945 students had registered to appear for the test and, despite the heavy rainfall, the test saw an attendance of over 95% students, officials of the directorate of technical education (DTE) said. Held in the midst of the pandemic, the exam saw smooth conduct, as police personnel, teachers from government colleges and DTE officials were present at each of the 17 centres to ensure that social distancing was maintained as students entered and left the exam hall. In some places, personnel were seen asking parents, who had come to drop off the students, to disperse and not crowd outside the exam centre while the test was going on. The examination was held across 17 centres in the state, including a special centre for eight students from the Vasco containment zone. Thermal scanning of students was carried out before they entered the exam halls and foot-operated sanitiser dispensers were also provided for their use. “Despite the heavy rainfall on Saturday, no students were seen reporting late,” an official said. The exam began at 10am with the physics paper and later in the day the chemistry paper was held at 2pm. Students were taken in the exam centre around 40 minutes before the exam to ensure that social distancing was maintained during this process. GCET is held for admissions to engineering and pharmacy degree programmes and it will end on Sunday with the mathematics paper. The test is of objective-type questions, answers for which are marked by students on machine-readable ORS sheets. “Usually, GCET results are announced within three to four days of the exam being held. But this year, the result declaration may take time, as the team coming from outside the state to help prepare the results will have to follow the procedures of testing and possibly quarantine, if at all,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-95-brave-showers-answer-gcet/articleshow/76792091.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Lockdown likely in Solapur city||Kolhapur: Guardian minister for Solapur district Datta Bharne said on Saturday that a decision to impose complete or partial lockdown in Solapur city would be taken in the next week to curb the spread of Covid-19. He hinted that the lockdown may remain in force for ten days and would be imposed only for a few areas in the city where the case count was very high Solapur district had 2,975 Covid-19 patients till Saturday evening. Meanwhile, a three-member committee arrived in Solapur on Saturday. The experts will study the treatment and reasons for higher deaths in Solapur for three weeks and submit a report to the state government. Satara district reported 56 new patients and two deaths till Friday night. According to officials, maximum patients were reported from Jihe village in Satara tehsil (18), 12 patients from Phaltan city while six were traced in Khandala tehsil. The tally of positive cases in Satara district has reached 1,245 of which 413 are active patients and 53 people have succumbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/lockdown-likely-in-solapur-city/articleshow/76790576.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Trichy||South TN reports 936 Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths in a day||Madurai/ Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state have reported 936 Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths on Saturday, taking the tally to 10,960 cases and 115 deaths. Out of total cases, as many as 352 cases and six deaths were from Madurai. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded 156 Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the toll to 3,253. The state health department notified one more death in Pudukottai district. With this the total deaths in the region have raised to 14. Among the deaths in Madurai, three are from private hospitals and three are at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). A 74-year-old man with diabetes, chronic kidney disease and hypertension died of Covid-19 on July 1 at GRH the same day he got admitted. Another 60-year-old woman with morbid obesity died on July 3, while a 71-year-old man with diabetes and hypertension died on June 26 at GRH. Meanwhile, a 66-year-old man from Madurai with diabetes and hypertension admitted to a private hospital died on July 4. Two more deaths in Madurai were reported on July 3 from private hospitals -- a 72-year-old man with diabetes and an 83-year-old man with hypertension and coronary artery disease. The 352 cases in Madurai on Saturday included 170 influenza-like illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases with no direct contact or travel history, 104 contacts of Covid-19 patients, 35 frontline workers, 26 detected before surgeries and 11 pregnant women. The district tally has now climbed to 3,776 cases, and 57 deaths. Ramanathapuram, which has also been witnessing a rapid increase in cases during the past week, reported 149 Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Saturday. A 92-year-old man from Ramanathapuram with diabetes and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) died at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on July 1. An 80-year-old woman from Ramanathapuram with diabetes died at a private hospital on July 3. The district Covid-19 tally in Ramanathapuram has risen to 1,292, and 19 deaths. For the first time, three districts in south TN reported 100 or more Covid-19 cases in a single day. Apart from Madurai and Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar reported 100 cases on Saturday. The total number of cases in the district is 782, including 429 active cases, the sixth highest in the region. Among the other Covid-19 deaths in the southern region, one was reported in Tirunelveli on Saturday. A 67-year-old woman from Tirunelveli with diabetes died of Covid-19 on July 3 at a private hospital taking the death toll in the district to nine. Tiruenelveli also reported 61 fresh Covid-19 cases, which took the overall district tally to 982, including 338 active cases. Meanwhile, Covid-19 deaths in Kanyakumari district have climbed to two with the death of a 64-year-old woman having diabetes and pulmonary tuberculosis at Kanyakumari Government Medical College Hospital on June 29. The district also reported 69 fresh Covid-19 cases. Tenkasi is now the district with the least number of Covid-19 cases in the southern region with 408 cases after Saturday’s cases took Sivaganga’s total cases to 425. A 62-year-old woman from Pudukottai with acute respiratory failure died early on Friday. She was admitted to the hospital on Thursday after testing positive for Covid-19. She was a type – II diabetic patient. She died after a sudden cardiac arrest. Trichy district recorded 83 new cases taking the tally to 886. Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy so far discharged 536 patients. As many as 42 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in Pudukottai district. This was the highest single day spike in the district. This included four people from Pudukottai fish market and three Chennai returnees. With this the total cases have climbed to 294. Delta districts – Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam recorded three, 11 and six cases respectively. Covid cases were also reported in Perambalur (5), Ariyalur (3), Karur (3), Tuticorin (64), Theni (54), Sivaganga (48), Dindigul (22) and Tenkasi (17).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/south-tn-reports-936-covid-19-cases-10-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/76791808.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Stop vendors from other dists: Kolhapur corporators||KOLHAPUR: The corporators of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation ( KMC) have asked civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti to restrict vegetable and fruit vendors from Sangli and Satara districts, from entering Kolhapur city due to the rise in Covid-19 cases. A large number of vendors, mostly farmers, come every day to the city to sell their produce. The corporators said that they are not screened and many come from Covid affected areas of the district. Recently, a vegetable vendor from Karad who had come to the city, tested Covid positive after returning to his hometown. Rajaram Gaikwad, corporator from Ramanmala area, said, “Many vendors from other districts are not taking proper precautions. They do not wear masks nor are they screened at check posts as they fall under essential services.” The corporators also said the vendors arriving in vegetable and fruit vans do have a pass for essential service. There is no record of them entering the city. A senior official of KMC requesting anonymity said, “We have decided to carry out a survey of the roadside vendors. If they do not have a pass for essential services, they will not be allowed. We will ask the district authorities to carry out thermal screening at the entry posts.” Meanwhile, families with babies arriving from red zones will be home quarantined, said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/stop-vendors-from-other-dists-kolhapur-corporators/articleshow/76790590.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Dehradun||In a first, RPF gets ‘super sniffer’ dogs to track wildlife crimes||DEHRADUN: For the first time, squads of ‘super sniffer’ dogs, specialised in detecting smuggling of wildlife and other related contraband, have been introduced in the Railway Protection Force (RPF). These teams have been introduced in the northern and eastern railway divisions in the first phase to curb the rampant wildlife trafficking along the India-Nepal border. According to sources, ‘super sniffer’ squads, comprising a German Shepherd, its handler and assistant handler, would be deployed across the railway network in the country in phases to curb wildlife crimes. Wildlife trade monitoring network TRAFFIC-India head Saket Badola said, “Trafficking of wildlife through railways is common in the northern and eastern regions, especially across the Nepal border. We even had cases of tiger and leopard remains being smuggled through trains on this stretch. Hence, we wanted to step up vigil in these areas.” RPF director general Arun Kumar said, “Railways is increasingly being used as a transportation medium for smuggling of narcotics and wildlife items. Hence, we are exploring all means to ramp up our potential to curb such crimes. As these dogs are specially trained at tracking wildlife contraband, it will be of immense help to us.” Another TRAFFIC official said, “These ‘super sniffer’ dogs were trained for nine months at the police training school (dogs) in Madhya Pradesh. The animal, its handler and assistant handler act like each other’s close aides. They understand each other and share a strong bond. Even though the dogs are trained in detecting wildlife items, their handlers will further teach them how to identify species endemic to a particular zone where the squad is deployed.” According to conservative estimates, India records around 350 to 400 wildlife crimes every year. Hence, TRAFFIC introduced ‘super sniffer’ dogs in the country in 2008 to detect such instances. There are 74 such squads at present which have helped crack around 400 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-rpf-gets-super-sniffer-dogs-to-track-wildlife-crimes/articleshow/76790606.cms||Shivani Azad
July 5, 2020||Trichy||Boy retrieving kite from high tension wire electrocuted||Trichy: A 13-year-old boy was electrocuted when he tried to take his kite that was entangled in a high-tension electric wire at Varaganeri in Trichy city on Friday. The deceased has been identified as R Akthan of Mettu street in Varaganeri. The Gandhi market police took up the investigation. Sub-inspector Ramesh said that the boy was playing with his kite on the terrace of his house with his friends. His kite got stuck in a high-tension wire passing along the second floor of the house. Unable to reach the kite, the boy found a six feet long steel rod and tried to catch hold of the string. The SI said that the steel rod came in contact with the live wire leading to the electrocution. The boy sustained severe burn injuries on his hand and leg. His family members rushed him to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy. The doctors examined him and declared him brought dead. A post-mortem was performed and the body was handed over to his family on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/boy-retrieving-kite-from-high-tension-wire-electrocuted/articleshow/76791811.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Trichy||Trichy to set up containment zone for 3-4 cases too||Trichy: More containment zones will be established in the city as Trichy corporation has revised the protocol in establishing containment zones. So far, containment zones were established only if an area recorded five of more Covid-19 positive cases. But the corporation has started establishing containment zones even if a locality reports three or four positive cases.Until two months ago, containment zones were established even for one Covid-19 positive case. The norms were relaxed in May to the effect that containment zones were set up when five or more people tested positive in a particular house or a particular street. Even if multiple cases were reported in a scattered manner in adjacent streets but from the same locality, there were occasions the civic body refused to establish containment zones. In the past three weeks, Trichy city saw the total number of containment zones increasing to 12. However, the containment measures, according to the civic body, were effective in curbing the spread of the disease. Rallying on the efficacy of the containing strategy, the corporation has planned to establish a containment zone even if four cases were reported in a particular street or house.Recently, a containment zone was established at Kavi Bharathi Nagar in KK Nagar in the Ponmalai zone as four cases were reported in a house. The reason for the infection could not be traced. Civic body sources said that they are even prepared to establish a containment zone for three positive cases in a close distance. “Our objective is to contain the spread of the infection. At least four containment zones were relaxed recently since no fresh cases were reported there, it shows the success of the containment strayegy,” Trichy Corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-to-set-up-containment-zone-for-3-4-cases-too/articleshow/76791816.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 5, 2020||Kolhapur||NDRF jawans train villagers for rescue ops||KOLHAPUR: A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) is imparting training to people living in the villages along the banks of Krishna river and its confluence with smaller streams on how to operate boats and carry out rescue operations in the wake of floods. Last year, a boat operated by locals had overturned which claimed lives of 20 villagers from Bhramnal village in Palus taluka of Sangli district. Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhari said, “We have selected 30 people from each of the four talukas affected by the floods last year. We want locals to learn how to carry out rescue operations methodically. The villages are being provided with new boats and life-saving jacket. The local disaster management teams will remain in touch with the trained persons. One more team of NDRF will soon arrive in Sangli.” There are around 105 villages in the district which were affected by floods last year. Around 87,800 people had to be rescued. “Currently, we have 51 rescue boats in the district. Eight new motor boats and 22 fibre boats will be procured soon. Our disaster response teams are stationed in 105 villages. Plans for evacuation will be activated depending upon the rise in the water level of Krishna river,” said Chaudhari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ndrf-jawans-train-villagers-for-rescue-ops/articleshow/76790604.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||KT Rama Rao assures govt support to builders||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government will take all possible measures for continued development of Hyderabad metropolitan region even after the coronavirus pandemic has impacted the construction activity to some extent, municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao said. He said the state government had taken several measures to develop Greater Hyderabad in the last six years. The minister interacted with representatives of various developers and builders’ associations of the city on Saturday and assured them that the government would continue to support them. He thanked the contractors and developers who helped the migrant workers during the Covid-19 crisis. “Unlike other metros in the country, situation in Hyderabad is still better and impact on various sectors is not alarming. The Telangana government will utilise this opportunity in some sectors like pharma,” KTR said. The government was committed to developing the city and would strictly enforce the new Municipal Act, he said and warned that action would be taken against builders for dumping debris in lakes and water bodies. The associations raised issues like easing of building and layout approvals, master plans and cement prices. The minister assured that the government would consider their requests positively and discuss with manufacturers on cement prices. KTR spoke to TS Mineral Development Corporation officials on availability of sand and asked the authorities to see that sufficient stocks of sand are made available. He advised the builders to ensure safety of the workers at the sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-assures-govt-support-to-builders/articleshow/76791223.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Dehradun||45 new Covid-19 cases surface, state’s recovery rate over 80%||Dehradun: As many as 45 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Uttarakhand on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 3,092. With 21 recoveries on the day, the state's recovery rate crossed the mark of 80%. Till Friday, 2,502 patients had recovered from the virus. According to Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, among the 45 new cases reported, 17 were from Udham Singh Nagar, followed by eight cases from Dehradun, six from Bageshwar, five from Uttarkashi, four from Nainital, two from Almora, and one each from Haridwar, Pauri and Tehri districts. The official added that with over 80% recovery rate, the state now has the fifth best figures for maximum recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/45-new-covid-19-cases-surface-states-recovery-rate-over-80/articleshow/76790610.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 5, 2020||Trichy||Volleyball courts, traffic island inaugurated in Trichy||Trichy: A volleyball court, a beach volleyball court and a traffic island constructed at a cost of Rs 30.27 lakh were inaugurated by state tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan and state minister for backward and minorities welfare minister S Valaramathi in Trichy on Saturday. The courts and the islands will be maintained by the Trichy police. Both courts, which are equipped with floodlight facilities, have come up on the campus of the Armed Reserve (AR) police force at K K Nagar. While the volleyball court was constructed at Rs 11.71 lakh, the beach volleyball was set up at Rs 4.55 lakh. The projects were completed under self-sufficient scheme (SSS) by the police department. The traffic island – roundabout was constructed on the Anna stadium road under SSS with 50% funding from AL Sirajudeen of Home Guards of Trichy. The total cost of the project was Rs 14 lakh. Sculptures of men doing workouts have been placed at the roundabout. Former inspector general of police (IGP), central zone A Amalraj, who had initiated it during his stint here, also participated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/volleyball-courts-traffic-island-inaugurated-in-trichy/articleshow/76791814.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Dehradun||Lockdown-hit blind folk singer couple struggles to make ends meet||Dehradun: The suspension of several fairs held annually in Uttarakhand due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown has not only dampened the festive spirit, it has also snatched away livelihoods of local artistes. For instance, blind folk singers Sant Ram and his wife Anandi Devi who are regular performers at such fairs are struggling to make ends meet after losing their main source of income. The duo from Almora’s Dhaulchheina village has won several awards for their soulful music and their songs are familiar to radio listeners in Bageshwar and Almora. They are specially invited to the renowned Nanda Devi Fair in Almora that takes place in September-October. But this year as the coronavirus outbreak brought all festivities to a halt, no fairs have been held since April. According to local officials, public gatherings are unlikely to resume until the end of the year. “We earn from local fairs but this year we have had no income and there is no hope of earning in the coming months as well,” said 68-year-old Sant Ram, who lives in a one-room shop in the village which was given to him by the social welfare department under a scheme for those from scheduled caste. “If we could see, perhaps, we could take up other jobs, but our singing is our only source of income,” said Anandi Devi. The couple has sung famous songs like ‘gadi chaleli' and also does shows on radio thrice a year. According to Sanjay Joshi, programme executive at Akashwani Almora, the couple is paid Rs 3,000 per recording. “We have a limited budget so we can only call them thrice a year but they are very talented and the state should have some schemes for such folk singers.” For now, the musician couple is surviving on ration donated by some good samaritans. Kripal Singh, patwari of Dhaulchheina village told TOI that the district administration has given free ration to the couple during lockdown. Chandra Singh Mahra, Dhaulchheina pradhan, however said the district administration helped only once and it is the local businessmen who have provided regular ration to the singers. Mahra added that the shop, which the couple calls home, is in urgent need of repair but the administration has not offered any help. “Folk art is part of our heritage and the government should have programmes to cover such artistes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lockdown-hit-blind-folk-singer-couple-struggles-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/76790627.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 5, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: No diagnosis or cause of death in P Jeyaraj’s case sheet||CHENNAI: No referral was made to a bigger hospital, no specialists called for consultation, no diagnosis or cause of death — the case sheets of P Jeyaraj, the direct eyewitness to the custodial torture death of his son Beniks, raise more questions than answers. The two key elements of a usual case summary — diagnosis and cause of death — have not been derived although patient Jeyaraj spent at least seven hours at Kovilpatti hospital. Jeyaraj and Beniks were arrested by the Sathankulam police on June 19 and taken to Kovilpatti subjail on June 20. On June 22, Beniks died within 75 minutes of admission at Kovilpatti government hospital. Documents available with TOI show Jeyaraj was admitted at the hospital at 10.45pm on June 22. This was an hour and 45 minutes after the death of his son Beniks at the same hospital. The casualty medical officer, Dr T Balasubramanian, had told health department that it was too late to refer Beniks to Tirunelveli Medical College and Hospital. But the case sheets of Jeyaraj do not show any attempt by the medical team to transfer him for higher level of care. Dr Balasubramanian, who holds a diploma in ENT, did not even call for a specialists’ opinion. “He could have called for a doctor from the same hospital who has seen these patients in the sub-jail or a senior physician. That is the normal protocol,” said a senior doctor. However, when TOI contacted, Dr Balasubramanian said: “I have given my response to the government in writing. I have no comments.” Beniks was taken to the Kovilpatti GH at 8pmwith difficulty in breathing, palpitation and sweating by two warders – Marimuthu and S Velmurugan. Dr Balasubramanian attended on him. Beniks had high pulse, mildly elevated BP and low oxygen saturation. Examination found nearly foot long -- 25x20cm and 20x20 cm – wounds on both buttocks. He called for an ambulance to transfer him to Tirunelveli Medical College and Hospital. But at 9pm, he was pronounced dead. In less than two hours, Jeyaraj was brought to the hospital with fever, body ache but no “breathlessness”. He too was attended by Dr Balasubramaniam, who noted similar wounds on his buttocks. Jeyaraj had a high blood pressure (170/110 mmHg against normal 120/80), high blood sugar (437mg) and mild fever (98.4F). He was known diabetic, as per the case sheet. “In normal circumstance, when there are two people from the same case brought one after the other for unknown medical reasons, they are transferred to higher centre for better care,” said a senior government doctor. Jeyaraj was shifted to the ward, and prescribed intravenous fluids, insulin, antihypertensive medications, drugs to bring down fever and other supportive drugs. In one hour, at around 12am on June 23, Jeyaraj’s blood sugar dropped to 258mg% and his BP was 140/100mmHg. Hospital Superintendent A Kamalavasan has told the joint director of health services that “a sudden cardiac arrest was noted by the staff nurse and the duty doctor rushed to the ward and team coordinated to resuscitate him.” This, according to the patient chart happened at 5.20am on June 23. The summaries sent to health department late last month did not mention what happened between midnight and the cardiac event. But, on July 3 (Friday), doctors had sent an hourly update which showed no abnormal changes in blood pressure or blood sugar. It said that after the cardiac arrest, Jeyaraj became unconscious, and was not responding to stimuli. He was gasping, his blood pressure could not be recorded and his pulse was feeble. The team performed a cardiopulmonary resuscitation, pumped oxygen using ambubag, gave him injections such as adrenaline and steroids to revive him. He died at 5.40am. Their bodies were sent to the medical college one after the other on “oral” inquest from the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-diagnosis-or-cause-of-death-in-jeyarajs-case-sheet/articleshow/76791829.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Trichy||Trichy ramps up mass testing; over 200 samples collected||Trichy: After three traders testing positive for Covid-19 in the random sampling held at the EB Road temporary vegetable market, Trichy Corporation has intensified mass swab collection at other vulnerable spots including a vegetable market. As many as 223 samples were lifted from vulnerable spots in Trichy on Saturday. The civic body was urged to continue the mass screening in other vulnerable spots including G Corner Ground vegetable market and fish markets.Corporation officials said that district collector S Sivarasu had instructed the civic body to ramp up Covid-19 testing. As per his directives, the corporation collected a total of 183 samples from the retail vegetable traders in Thennur Anna Nagar Uzhavar Sandhai, the highest number of samples collected at a single place. While 174 samples were collected at the market, nine samples were collected at Thennur urban primary health centre (UPHC). As the vegetable traders frequent the G corner ground, traders demanded a similar screening at the wholesale market. All the four temporary vegetable markets functioning in four zones procure vegetables from the G corner market.Similarly, after a frontline professional in Mela Ambikapuram ward number 29 tested positive, swabs were collected from 40 contacts and neighbours. “All the retail traders purchase vegetables from G corner wholesale market. Conducting a random sampling at the wholesale market will prevent the spread,” a vegetable trader from Gandhi Market said. The civic body, on May 5, collected 180 samples from G corner ground, but all of them tested negative. But as the Covid-19 situation has changed in the last two months with the city witnessing more cases, another mass screening was sought in G corner ground market. “UPHCs have started collecting more samples than before, vulnerable spots are focussed through door-to-door inspections,” a senior official with corporation added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-ramps-up-mass-testing-over-200-samples-collected/articleshow/76791819.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 5, 2020||Trichy||Badly filled trenches in Thiruverumbur hamper mobility||Trichy: Residents of Thiruverumbur have expressed their disappointment over the shoddy work of Trichy Corporation in filling up trench dug for underground drainage (UGD) project. In the recent rains, the trenches that were not packed properly have made trucks and cars to frequently get stuck in the closed UGD pits, affecting the mobility on the lone approach road for hundreds of households in Thiruverumbur.UGD project work was carried out a few months back at New town, Muthu Nagar and SAS Nagar falling under ward number 63 of Trichy Corporation. Pits were dug at the approach roads that connect at least 500 houses to Thiruverumbur on Trichy-Thanjavur National Highways for this purpose. However, it was recently closed by the civic body. But in the recent rainfall that lashed the city last week, unleashed the problem. Residents alleged that as the UGD pits were not closed and packed properly due to poor supervision, and the rainwater has made the pits slushy. Recently, a truck that visited a construction site in New Town was stuck in the UGD pit, forcing the property owner to spend Rs 10,000 for retrieving the heavy vehicle with the help of a heavy machinery.“If at all the pits were packed properly and officials supervised it, such discomforts would not have raised. At least now, before the onset of monsoon, the civic body should rework the closed UGD pits,” A Sathik Basha, a resident of Muthu Nagar added. As the entire residential vicinity of New Town depends on the approach road to reach rest of the city, locals claimed that they could not freely access the stretch in cars. “We will inspect the UGD pits and do the needful corrective work,” a senior official with Trichy Corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/badly-filled-trenches-in-thiruverumbur-hamper-mobility/articleshow/76791818.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 5, 2020||Dehradun||Heavy rains trigger landslides, 11 roads blocked, houses damaged||Bageshwar: At least 11 roads have been blocked and two houses damaged in Bageshwar as continuous heavy rains lashed the district, triggering landslides at several places. Connectivity has also been lost at several remote areas of the district. “Out of the total 11 blocked roads, eight are in rural areas and three are highways. Two roads have been reopened for traffic and efforts are on to open the remaining nine roads,” district disaster management officer Shikha Suyal told TOI. Suyal said that the two houses that have been damaged are in Bhatkhola village of the district. While one has been completely flattened, the other has been partially damaged. However, no person or cattle was injured or killed due to the landslides. However, debris descended on paddy fields in Gurguchha Dhapola village due to heavy rains, damaging produce. “The damage is being examined by the officials concerned and the details will be shared soon,” Suyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/heavy-rains-trigger-landslides-11-roads-blocked-houses-damaged/articleshow/76790629.cms||Rohit Joshi
July 5, 2020||Bareilly||Four teachers with fake degrees booked in Bareilly||Bareilly: Nearly nine months after the basic education department dismissed four teachers with fake degrees from service, FIRs were finally lodged against them in four police stations of Bareilly on Thursday. Besides, Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA) sent a recovery notice of Rs 36 lakh each to two former teachers. These two teachers were terminated from service after they were earlier found with fake degrees. Officials said several teachers in UP who had obtained fake BEd degrees of Agra university were found working in primary schools. Of these, four were working in Bareilly. Though these four teachers were terminated in October last year, the basic education department didn’t lodge an FIR in the past few months. BSA Vinay Kumar said, "FIRs have been registered against four teachers at four different police stations on the complaints of concerned block education officers." Police said the accused teachers have been booked under IPC sections 420 (cheating), 466 (forgery of record of court or of public register), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document). The BSA said, "I have served recovery notice to two other teachers who were dismissed from service after they were found with fake documents. They have been served recovery notice of Rs 36 lakh each. Besides, during verification of documents, the documents of four other teachers are suspected. I have ordered to withhold their salary till the probe is complete." On Monday, officials at the basic education department in Bareilly found two teachers with the same set of documents working at primary schools in Bareilly and Muzaffarnagar districts. As the matter came to light, BSA Vinay Kumar constituted a committee to probe the matter and withheld the salary of the teacher posted in Bareilly. The Bareilly teacher, meanwhile, lodged an FIR against the Muzaffarnagar teacher accusing him of forging his documents. In January, basic education department had lodged FIRs against 48 teachers with fake degrees in several police stations of Bareilly and Shahjahanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-teachers-with-fake-degrees-booked-in-bareilly/articleshow/76789871.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 5, 2020||Trichy||College admissions may come under cloud||Trichy: While the state higher education department has ruled out the possibility of introducing a single window system (SWS) for admissions to the arts and science colleges this year, rule violations will continue in these colleges in the absence of a centralised admission system, says academicians. A single window admission system is in place for medical and engineering colleges. But arts and science colleges in the state make admissions independently by inviting applications to various under graduate and post-graduate courses. There is good demand for arts and sciences courses as the demand for engineering courses have come down and students face challenges in passing NEET. Arts and science colleges, especially the aided colleges, are alleged to be selling seats for more than Rs1lakh in cities such as Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy. The violation is more rampant in the management-run government aided colleges, which manipulate the availability of seats to various courses based on the demand. It could not be checked in the absence of a centralised system for admission. While there were attempts in the past to introduce the system, it never took off. The director of collegiate education, which governs arts and science colleges in the state, had sought opinion from the colleges two years ago following a demand, but there wasn’t any progress. The government has to adopt a single window system for admissions in the arts and science colleges, says former president, AUT, K Pandiyan. The occasional announcement from the higher education department on single window system appears to appease academicians, he said. A similar attempt was made to introduce the system in 1997, but it was turned down by the high court citing that government cannot interfere in the admission process as per the Tamil Nadu Private College Regulations Act 1976. Unless an amendment is made to the act, it will not stand by the legal scrutiny, added Pandiyan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/college-admissions-may-come-under-cloud/articleshow/76791820.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 5, 2020||Dehradun||IIT-R develops system to help drivers get clear visibility during fog||Roorkee: IIT-Roorkee has claimed to have developed a computing system which would enable better driving experience during fog and lower the risk of accidents when the visibility is not good. According to the researchers, a camera would be mounted on the inside of the windscreen and it would take images that will be processed and made clear by a mobile phone-sized hardware system and shown on the dashboard screen for the driver. “The cost of this entire computing system would not be more than Rs 15,000,” Brajesh Kumar Kaushik, a chief researcher of this project and professor at Electronics Engineering Department of IIT-R told TOI. “The driver would get to see 20 feet ahead clearly with our system,” he added. This research has also been published in the May issue of IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation System journal. “The collision of vehicles due to poor visibility caused by fog leads to numerous fatalities annually. This advanced defogging system will aid drivers by providing real-time information and minimize the risks of road and train mishaps due to fog,” said AK Chaturvedi, director of the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-r-develops-system-to-help-drivers-get-clear-visibility-during-fog/articleshow/76790638.cms||Tapan Susheel
July 5, 2020||Trichy||Tiruvarur tally surges to 524 as local cases spread||Trichy: After Trichy, Tiruvarur has recorded the most number of Covid-19 positive cases in the central region. As of July 4, the district registered 524 positive cases with 11 new cases on Saturday. Apart from Chennai returnees, there is local spread which has added to the spike. Eight Tasmac liquor outlets, a sub court and a police station have been sealed after the staff and police personnel were infected by the virus.Till the end of April, the district had less than 20 cases, while Thanjavur recorded 57 and Nagapattinam 43. By mid May, the count was 32, and 47 on May 31. Thereafter three to five cases were recorded daily in the district. However, on June 10, 14 new cases took the count to 83 and thereafter positive cases were being added in double digits.Chennai returnees and their contact were the reason for the spike in positive cases in the district, district health officials said. When compared to the neighbouring districts such as Thanjavur and Nagapattinam, the number of people that returned from Chennai and other districts and states were less. However, the number of people that contracted the virus was more, officials said. After the workers from 8 Tasmac liquor outlets tested positive, all of the shops were closed a few days back in Needamangalam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tiruvarur-tally-surges-to-524-as-local-cases-spread/articleshow/76791821.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Trichy||25 fall sick after drinking tap water||Thanjavur: A total of 25 people, including 16 women, complained of vomiting and drowsiness after drinking water from corporation taps on Saturday morning at Thanjavur. They were treated at Thanjavur government hospital and sent back. About 500 families reside in street number 4 and 5 at Tholgappiar Nagar under ward 32 in Thanjavur city corporation which supplies drinking water to residents. Residents said the water supplied for the last few days was dirty, but since they did not have a choice, they continued to use it for household purposes including drinking. Some people developed vomiting and dizziness on Saturday morning while some others complained of diarrhoea. They were taken to a primary health centre at Maharnonbuchavadi where they were treated and sent back in the afternoon. City health officials examined all residents at Tholgappiar Nagar and distributed tablets to those who had vomiting sensation. The corporation authorities later found that the tap water was contaminated after sewage water mixed with it due to damage suffered by the drinking water pipeline during a work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/25-fall-sick-after-drinking-tap-water/articleshow/76791824.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 712 cases in 24 hours, state tally reaches 35,398||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending at 5pm on Saturday, Gujarat recorded 712 cases – or one case every two minutes – taking the total Covid-19 case tally to 35,398. Gujarat also recorded deaths of 21 Covid patients – highest in 10 days – taking the death toll to 1,927. On July 1 also, the state had recorded 21 deaths in a day. Surat again outstripped Ahmedabad in number of cases with 253 – the highest single-day rise so far – compared to 172 from Ahmedabad. In the past five days, Surat has recorded the highest number cases in the state thrice, whereas on Friday, Ahmedabad and Surat had recorded an equal number of cases. Vadodara recorded 61 and Rajkot 47 cases – the highest for the district so far. For Ahmedabad, it was the lowest daily tally in 67 days or more than two months. On April 28, the district had recorded 164 new Covid-19 cases. Of the 33 districts in the state, 14 have 200 or more total positive cases whereas 14 districts have recorded 10 or more deaths of Covid patients. The deaths were recorded from Ahmedabad (nine), Surat and Rajkot (four each), Mehsana, Aravalli, Kutch and Valsad (one each). Gujarat recorded the discharge of 473 patients in 24 hours, taking the total to 25,414. The discharges include 228 from Ahmedabad, 109 from Surat, 29 from Vadodara and 23 from Rajkot. With the update on Saturday, the state now has 8,057 active cases, which is 22.8% of total Covid-19 positive cases reported so far in the state. The percentage of discharged and deceased patients in Gujarat is now at 71.8% and 5.4% respectively. Gujarat carried out 8,481 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 4.04 lakh tests. A total of 2.6 lakh persons are under quarantine in Gujarat, out of which 2.57 lakh are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/712-cases-in-24-hours-state-tally-reaches-35398/articleshow/76791868.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19 survey to cover new areas, says Delhi government||NEW DELHI: In a bid to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, Delhi government has expanded the scope and scale of the Covid-19 survey and directed the district magistrates to get house-to-house surveys conducted in areas that have regularly reported Covid positive cases for over 28 days, localities with infrequent isolated cases and places that are inhabited by economically disadvantaged people vulnerable to infection. A survey that began last month has already verified all residents of the city’s 421 containment zones. This new two-part survey is aimed at early marking of people with influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infections and to identify high-risk individuals with comorbidities and other susceptibilities. The survey has been planned under the directions of the central government. “It is not being done as a substitute for a house-to-house survey earlier planned but postponed by Delhi government. Currently, there is no clarity on that survey,” revealed a source. A government official explained, “All cases will be mapped in terms of time and geographic location and transmission chains. It will be followed by enhanced contact tracing and testing, strict quarantine and isolation.” For the survey in areas where Covid-19 cases have not been reported, the authorities will constitute village vigilance teams to list elderly people and those with comorbidities. The focus of this survey will be rickshaw pullers, auto drivers, daily-wage workers, domestic workers and others similarly vulnerable to the infection. “The scope of the survey was expanded so that people who are vulnerable due to staying in areas where isolated cases have been found and the extremely weaker sections of the society who are greatly vulnerable to the infection due to their living conditions can be screened and tested if necessary,” said the source. The district magistrates have been directed to begin the survey on priority and cover all target groups. Where the survey teams are to carry out house-to-house visits, they will seek details of the members of the households and note if any have Covid-19 symptoms. The surveyors will comprise ASHA workers and district health workers and auxiliary nursing midwifery personnel, with each team having two-four members. “There is no shortage of survey teams,” claimed an official. Delhi has reported more than 97,000 Covid-19 cases and over 3,000 people have died. The recovery rate in the city, however, is rising.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-survey-to-cover-new-areas-says-govt/articleshow/76791851.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 5, 2020||Trichy||Seven govt schools in Trichy to be powered by solar energy||Trichy: For the first time, seven government schools in Trichy district will soon have solar electrification at a cost of Rs 4 lakh each under Samagra Shiksha - an integrated central government scheme for school education. The idea is to reduce the use of conventional energy source and switch to solar power in the coming years. Three model schools - government girls higher secondary school in Manachanallur, Syed Murthuza government higher secondary school and government higher secondary school in Ayyampalayam - have already been selected under the scheme. While work is on the verge of completion at the Manachanallur school, it is set to begin soon at the other two schools. Besides, four other government schools, which have vocational education and training, have been selected. A senior official from the Samagra Shiksha said that a total 140 schools across the state have been selected under the scheme. The aim is to power at least 20 classrooms in each school with solar energy. Speaking to TOI, Trichy district chief education officer S Shanthi said this is the first time that solar panels are being installed in government schools. All the schools selected under the scheme in the district have started receiving funds and the headmasters of the respective schools have been asked to oversee the installation work. While the scheme may be extended to other schools in the coming years, it would help them shun their dependency on non-conventional energy sources in the coming year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/seven-govt-schools-in-trichy-to-be-powered-by-solar-energy/articleshow/76791828.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||Economic revival plan for villages gathers pace||Panaji: The directorate of higher education (DHE) and Goa Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development (GIPARD) have started compiling comprehensive recommendations to make Goa’s village panchayats and municipalities self-sufficient, which would be submitted to the government. Colleges entrusted with the task of gathering data have submitted survey reports of all 191 village panchayats and municipalities. Lolayekar said they have started examining the survey reports submitted by the colleges to prepare an economic revival plan for Goa post lockdown. Speaking to TOI, director of higher education Prasad Lolayekar said, “Once the comprehensive report is ready, it would be submitted to the government for its perusal. In our report, we will advise the government on what should be the line of action, highlighting the strengths of each panchayat.” Sources said that during the course of interaction with teachers, the villagers have sought packages for revival of their businesses in form of tax concessions, loan waiver schemes, etc. DHE and GIPARD have been asked to survey panchayats and municipalities so that a detailed economic revival plan can be drawn up. The idea behind the survey is to analyse the potential for revival of sectors related to agriculture, animal husbandry, fishing, horticulture, tourism, MSME, traditional means of livelihood and the employment potential in each village. As part of the study during the last one and half months, colleges teachers interacted with elected panchayat members and sought data from them regarding the livelihood activities and businesses affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A form was given to the elected representatives to submit the data and also suggest measures for economic revival. The government also sought details on alternative business proposals and training required for villagers to generate self-employment opportunities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/economic-revival-plan-for-villages-gathers-pace/articleshow/76792103.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Dehradun||Rising influx of tourists concern Mussoorie residents||Mussoorie: After nearly three months of Covid-19 lockdown, the Queen of Hills is again witnessing footfall of tourists from different states. The number of travellers to the city is rising gradually but steadily and while this influx was much needed to bring the economy of the hill town back to life, locals fear that the spread of novel coronavirus may become more severe as the tourists are “blatantly disregarding social distancing norms”. “The town has been witnessing tourist footfall for about a week now and the number of travellers has increased significantly in the past two days. A majority of visitors are from Delhi, Haryana, and Punjab,” said Ajay Bhargava, vice-president of Mussoorie Hotels Association. Locals feel that the administration must take measures to ensure their safety as tourists from various parts of the country are thronging the town. “It is a question of lives over livelihoods. We welcome tourists coming here but a majority of tourists can be seen strolling without face masks,” said Shalabh Garg, a local resident. The local traders’ body has also echoed this concern . “The administration must monitor hotels located in the outskirts of the town and ensure that they are adhering to guidelines,” said a resident. Meanwhile, Devendra Aswal, station officer of Mussoorie, told TOI that the police are monitoring tourists and hotel activities in the town. “A large number of tourists were penalised on Friday and Saturday for not wearing face masks. On Friday, we also held a meeting with the owners of a number of guest houses.” They were asked to strictly adhere to the government guidelines in relation to Covid-19,” Aswal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rising-influx-of-tourists-concern-mussoorie-residents/articleshow/76790656.cms||Anmol Jain
July 5, 2020||Dehradun||Leopardess found dead in Uttarkashi||Uttarkashi: The carcass of a female leopard was found in Jogat Talla region of Uttarkashi district on Friday evening. The forest department has sent the big cat's samples for postmortem examination. According to TOI sources, villagers of Jogat Talla region in Chinyalisaur block found the body of the female leopard on Friday evening. Soon after getting information, a team of forest officials and veterinary doctors reached the spot and collected samples for further testing. After this, the carcass was destroyed as per official procedure. Nagendra Singh Rawat, ranger of Dharasu region, claimed it was a natural death. He said, “A female leopard, nearly two-year-old, has died in Jogat Talla region. After primary investigation, we assume that the female leopard might have fallen from the cliff. However, we have sent the samples for postmortem examination to ascertain the exact cause of the death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopardess-found-dead-in-uttarkashi/articleshow/76790661.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
July 5, 2020||Dehradun||Pithoragarh Police re-launches drive against drug addiction||Pithoragarh: Pithoragarh Police has restarted an initiative against drug menace in the district that they had launched in February. The campaign had failed to take off once the Covid-19 outbreak hit the state. The initiative will focus on students from class 8 to 12, who are the most vulnerable to drug addiction. To drive their message home, police will use social media, short films, songs and plays. Awareness messages would be circulated on WhatsApp groups. “At this tender age (the teen years), a youth should be educated about the consequences of drug use and ways to avoid it,” said an officer associated with the campaign, who refused to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pithoragarh-police-re-launches-drive-against-drug-addiction/articleshow/76790660.cms||Prem Punetha
July 5, 2020||Trichy||Trichy cops asked to act against agents cheating air passengers||Trichy: District collector, S Sivarasu has ordered the police department to take action against travel agencies cheating the passengers arriving at the Trichy airport from other countries and violating the standard operating procedure (SOP).Air India Express has been operating flights under the Vande Bharat Mission to rescue Tamils stranded in various countries after the announcement of lockdown due to the outbreak of Covid-19. This apart, travel agencies have also been carrying Tamils by charter flights to Trichy on their own arrangements, collector said in a statement. “The travel agencies collect the fare from the passengers as a package which also include Covid-19 tests for two times and providing quarantine facility at private hotels with food. However, the agencies are not testing the passengers twice. The swab should be lifted after they arrive at the airport and the second swab test must be conducted after the completion of seven days quarantine,” he said.However, the district administration received complaints from the passengers accusing the agencies of not conducting the swab test for a second time, though it was mandated. “The travel agencies were not returning the money collected for the second test either,” collector stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-cops-asked-to-act-against-agents-cheating-air-passengers/articleshow/76791825.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid growth rate drops, raises fresh hope in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The most dramatic numbers in Ahmedabad’s Covid-19 cases began to show up in early May, when the day-on-day growth rate of cases nearly touched 8%. This was a time when the civic health authorities had to go back to their drawing board and revise their strategy. Today, with targeted intervention and increased testing the overall Covid-19 day-on-day growth rate is in the negative and touched -3.53 by July 1. “Nearly 21% of the active Covid cases are under home isolation, private establishments have even come out with homecare packages,” said a senior AMC official. By May 9, the new in-charge municipal commissioner and the new Covid in-charge for Ahmedabad, ACS Rajiv Gupta, had realized that the death rates were high because for over a month since the pandemic outbreak on March 23, people with co-morbid conditions were not able to access healthcare, because hospitals and clinics were forced to close by the AMC. Immediately, the AMC executed orders to force open 2,800 clinics and hospitals within 48 hours. Because of this timely move, daily OPD patients increased to over 70,000 at these hospitals and clinics. By July 1, the daily OPD in city crossed 1 lakh and pulled down overall deaths in the city. By May 11, the AMC launched 120 Dhanvantari vans or clinic-on-wheels that fanned across the city. The vans provided ayurvedic medicines, Vitamin C, D tablets, to 2,100 persons every day. Today, 4.27 lakh people have benefited from OPD consultations so far in which Dhabnvantari vans played a major part. The intervention successfully treated 20,143 patients with fever, over 70, 048 with cough, cold and other symptoms, Over 462 patients with severe respiratory tract infections were referred to UHC and hospitals for clinical treatment. In a systematic manner through repeated negotiation and sometimes punitive methods, 67 private hospitals were requisitioned to add beds and ventilators to the overall Covid healthcare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-growth-rate-drops-raises-fresh-hope-in-city/articleshow/76791861.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Dehradun||China has no role in India-Nepal border issue: Senior Nepal leader||DEHRADUN: Bishnu Rijal, deputy chief of Nepal’s department of foreign affairs and member of the central committee of the NCP (Nepal Communist Party), which is currently in power, in an interview with Mohammad Anab regarding the stand-off between India and Nepal on the Kalapani issue, said that it is a fallacy to assume that Nepal is acting on behest of China on the border dispute. Alleging that China has no role to play in Nepal’s internal matters, Rijal said that the Nepal Communist Party and the Communist Party of China are very different from each other in character and the political systems of both countries are also different. He further said that Nepal was forced to redraw its map after India passed a map in November 2019 that showed Lipulekh, Limpiyadhura and Kalapani, which were recognised as disputed territories by both countries, as part of its map, adding that Nepal has historical documents to prove its claim on the territories. Excerpts: India and Nepal have had very strong ties for several centuries. In this context, the souring of relations between the two countries over a border dispute is being seen by many people as having happened because China is exerting pressure on Nepal and the NCP is taking steps on the directions of the Communist Party of China. How do you react to this? The foreign policy of any country is not determined by ideology but on the basis of national interest. If ideology determined foreign policy, then there wouldn’t have been any war between China and Russia in the 1960s. We understand that we have two great friends in India and China and we share different kinds of relationships with both of them. As far as India-Nepal issues are concerned, we must not bring China into it and similarly, India should not be brought in when we talk of Nepal-China matters. It is unfortunate that some of the Indian officials are alleging Chinese influence in the current matter. In fact, both the communist parties (Nepal Communist Party and the Communist Party of China) are very different from each other in character. We have a multi-party democracy system while in China, the CPC is ruling for several decades. There are no similarities in both the political systems. Therefore, there is no Chinese influence at all in this issue. In fact, they never interfere in our internal matters. What is the basis of Nepal’s claims that Lipulekh, Limpiyadhura and Kalapani which lie in Uttarakhand, are part of Nepalese territory?Before I elaborate, let me point out that India and Nepal have not signed on a common map (regarding the border area) yet. Since the 1980s, both countries have been working on finalising a map. Both of us believe that 98% of the mapping is completed. The remaining 2% is the disputed part which is yet to be resolved. This 2% comprises the Kalapani region bordering Uttarakhand and Susta region bordering Bihar. In 1997, then-Indian PM I K Gujral had visited Nepal and both countries had issued a joint statement of 25 points. The 21st point clearly states that the Kalapani-Lipulekh issue will be resolved with consensus. Even though Indian Army is present there, India also agrees that Kalapani is a disputed territory. In 2015, when India and China issued a joint statement after the visit of PM Modi to China, they declared that Lipulekh pass will be a trade route. We expressed our reservations on this and wrote letters to India and China stating that the territory belongs to us too and the Lipulekh pass cannot be declared a trade route without our consent. China replied to the letter stating that they are willing to have a dialogue if we have some reservations but India didn’t respond to our letter. Later, when PM Modi visited Nepal, both countries agreed that Kalapani issue will be resolved but no meeting has been called to resolve the matter. If the issue was to be resolved with dialogue, why bring out a new map now?Wouldn’t this destabilise potential talks?After the abrogation of Article 370 of the Indian Constitution, India issued a new political map in November 2019 which showed the disputed territory as part of Indian territory. We expressed our dissatisfaction and handed over a diplomatic note to the Indian embassy in Kathmandu immediately. Later, we also wrote to the Government of India to hold a meeting to resolve that problem. But we never got any reply. We again wrote a letter to the Indian government in December 2019. Later, both countries got busy with coping with the Covid-19 pandemic. It is only after not getting any response that Nepal was compelled to bring out a new map which is based on various historical documents. What are those historical documents?India and Nepal have had many treaties to demarcate our border. One treaty, namely the Treaty of Sugauli of 1815 categorically describes the border between the two countries as the Kali River. Our stand is that the river originates in Limpiyadhura and therefore the area is part of Nepalese territory. India claims that the river originates at Kalapani. However, even maps made by western countries have shown that the river originates from Limpiyadhura. In addition, we have historical documents from the time of the British rule to support our claim. What do you have to say about the recent claim made by PM Oli that India was trying to destabilise his government?It is our party’s internal matter and our party will review the performance of the government. If there is a problem inside NCP, then we will rectify it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/china-has-no-role-in-india-nepal-border-issue-senior-nepal-leader/articleshow/76790655.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 5, 2020||Amritsar||SJF fails to starts its ‘voter registration’ for Khalistan||Amritsar: Heavy security arrangements were made around the Golden Temple due to apprehension of US-based body Sikh for Justice (SFJ) trying to start “voters’ registration” for its Khalistani ‘Referendum 2020’ campaign. Police vehicles in large numbers and policemen in plain clothes were seen in the Golden Plaza, from where they kept a watch to foil any anti-national activity. SFJ’s lead campaigner of the secessionist movement, Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, was on Wednesday declared a terrorist by the Union government under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The Union home ministry had declared seven others as terrorists too. These are: Wadhawa Singh Babbar of Babbar Khalsa International; Lakhbir Singh of International Sikh Youth Federation; Ranjit Singh, Bhupinder Singh Bhinda, Gurmit Singh Bagga, all of Germany-based Khalistan Zindabad Force; Paramjit Singh of Khalistan Commando Force; Hardip Singh Nijjar of Khalistan Tiger Force; and Paramjit Singh of UK-based Babbar Khalsa International. On Thursday, the Punjab police also registered two separate FIRs, in Amritsar and Kapurthala against him, and his associates Joginder Singh Gujjar, an SFJ member who reportedly came to India from Italy in February this year. Sources in security agencies said the arrangements were made in view of possibility of some disillusioned SFJ supporters gathering and creating ruckus or making an attempt to begin the voter registration process to attract media attention. SFJ had also urged acting jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Harpreet Singh to perform ‘ardas’ on July 4, when it would begin voter registration for its ‘Referendum 2020’ seeking people’s opinion on separating Punjab from the rest of India. SFJ had chosen the date to further inflame the sentiments since on the same day in 1955 police had arrested Sikh leadership demonstrating in support of Punjabi Suba, said sources.  Russian portal launched SFJ launched its voter registration in Punjab through a Russian portal. It appealed to the people in Punjab aged 18 or above from any religion, as well as Sikhs living anywhere else in India to register their votes. Detailed information regarding the registration process was put up in English and Punjabi languages on the Russia-based website, which mentions three steps for registration of votes and the sign-up to receive updates about the ‘Referendum 2020’. The Indian government has since been in touch with the authorities concerned as to how the SFJ used Russian cyberspace to launch the voter registration for Referendum 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sjf-fails-to-starts-its-voter-registration-for-khalistan/articleshow/76791853.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Booze-laden car rams into rickshaw||Ahmedabad: A car loaded with liquor, speeding from the direction of HL Commerce College Road, rammed into an autorickshaw right at Vijay Crossroads on Saturday morning, causing the rickshaw to turn turtle.The rickshaw driver, Umashankar Sharma, a resident of Odhav, and his friend Ratan Jha, suffered serious injuries while the car driver fled the scene. When police checked the car, they found bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 1,31,000 in it. Two complaints have been registered over the incident, one by B Division traffic police station for the accident, and the other by Gujarat University police station for the liquor found in the car. While both persons in the rickshaw have been shifted to hospital, Gujarat University police is hunting for the car driver. Umashankar Sharma 36, the auto driver, in his FIR at B Division traffic police station said that as he was crossing Vijay Crossroads, a speeding car hit the auto on the left side, and while the auto turned turtle, the car driver ran away. As he and Jha were seriously injured, they were taken to hospital by an ambulance. Inspector of Gujarat University police station H M Vyas said when they reached the spot both vehicles were in the middle of the road. “On checking the car we found IMFL boxes worth Rs 1,31,000 in it. We have the name of the car owner, but it may be that the car had been sold or was being used by someone else,” added Vyas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/booze-laden-car-rams-into-rickshaw/articleshow/76791256.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Trichy||3 elderly patients with comorbidities cured in Pudukottai||Trichy: Three elederly people - aged 84, 72 and 62 years - from Sivaganga district, who had tested Covid-19 positive and were treated at the Pudukottai government medical college hospital, were discharged after recovering on Saturday.The patients, who were relatives were admitted on June 25 with shortness of breath and sore throat. Being high-risk comorbid patients, as all the three had a history of diabetes and hypertension, a team of doctors consistently examined their health condition.As part of mental counselling, all the three were kept in the same ward. The 84-year-old man, who had a history of diabetes for the past 35 years, tested negative within seven days. However, he was kept in the hospital till the other two recovered.The patients lauded the cleanliness of the hospital, the dedicated and affectionate healthcare delivery by doctors and nurses and the attention of sanitary workers. They also appealed to the public not to worry about Covid-19 infection, as it can be cured by treatment and preventive measures.Even though they hail from Sivaganga, they offered to get themselves admitted in Pudukottai after one of them had visited the hospital last year and was confident of getting better treatment. “It adds to our reputation when outsiders appreciate our services,” said the dean, Dr A L Meenakshi Sundaram. “We gave them a pulse oximeter to check oxygen saturation in blood. Covid-19 patients tolerate hypoxia which is reduced oxygen level in blood especially during rest. Usually, the respiratory rate increases for normal people in case the oxygen saturation drops but in case of Covid-19 cases that doesn’t happen,” said the dean.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-elderly-patients-with-comorbidities-cured-in-pudukottai/articleshow/76791835.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||Goa: Masks, sanitisers, and happily ever after||PANAJI: Move over premium glassware, hundreds of guests, long queues at buffets, and gatecrashers. Quintessential components of Goan weddings, these are a far cry in the Covid-19 era, and have made way for stuff suited to the times — disposable cutlery, thermal scanners, sanitiser stations and customised masks. Across the state, wedding planners, venues and companies are thinking out of the box to make “quarantine weddings” possible. Some offer all-inclusive packages — from venue to food to drinks to wedding car and cake — valid till the lockdown ends. They also assure couples and their families that the highest levels of sanitisation will be maintained at their wedding. Many who have gotten into this business are former seafarers, who are now home after harrowing months in limbo during the pandemic. Fraizer Fernandes, former bartender at P&O cruises and now businessman, says he’s organised a few celebrations over the past few weeks, strictly adhering to government guidelines. He isn’t the only one. Many seafarers, he says, are now party planners. “Who better than seafarers to know the nitty-gritties of sanitisation?” he asks. And it’s not just locals planning their weddings. Even in these times of uncertain travel, destination weddings haven’t quite died. Dominic Rodrigues of Bay15, a popular wedding reception venue, said that he has received calls from couples in Mumbai and Bengaluru who are considering “quarantine destination” weddings. He, too, says all possible precautions are being planned. Fernandes, the former bartender, gives a glimpse of a quarantine wedding. “We take down names, addresses and numbers of all guests, and note their temperature before they enter the venue,” he said.  “This is both for our record, and also to give government officials a helping hand should the need arise.” This idea, too, is borrowed from the detailed sanitation logs maintained on board cruise liners, which can be scrutinised by any officer from any port in any country. Waiters have been trained to sanitise all tables every 40 minutes, and the couple is given the option of disposable tablecloths. At the buffet table, too, guests are served by waiters, so that multiple people don’t handle the same serving spoons. At the parties Fernandes organises, all music is unplugged. The bigger venues have sanitising stations. “After their temperature is checked, guests are presented with masks and mini-sanitisers so that they don’t have to keep rushing back to sanitising stations every now and then,” Rodrigues said. The masks, too, are customised in keeping with the wedding theme. “Security at the entrance will seal the venue when the 50 guests have entered. Only disposable cutlery will be used.” Fernandes says that apart from trying to stop the pandemic stalling people’s weddings, he also tries to give his fellow-seafarers an opportunity to work. “We want to help seafarers whose future is uncertain, they must showcase their talents, give the economy a boost,” he said. Thus, all his vendors — photographers, bartenders, caterer, musicians and decorators — are seafarers. Rodrigues says that he tries his best to merge traditions with government guidelines. For instance, the traditional wedding march, for long part of Catholic wedding receptions, still takes place, with generous musical assistance from a five-piece band. And when it comes to food, the traditional buffet spread is there for the photographers, but not for the guests. “The menu will be displayed on screens, and guests must place orders with waiters,” he said. “We don’t want people queueing up at the buffet table and touching the cutlery.” Meanwhile, many couples who had planned to get married this year are hesitating as they haven’t received refunds from the venue, band and decorator, all of whom were paid before the pandemic hit. Rodrigues advises these couples to take advantage of Covid times by hosting an intimate wedding at a fraction of the cost, and invest the rest of the money in a house and their future. Some event organisers are even cutting the costs associated with the venue. One company, Funktion Junction, presents the couple several options, including their own backyard! “One bride-to-be had such a beautiful backyard, we suggested having the wedding there itself instead of hiring a venue,” said Daniel Hiremath. “One’s house is always the safest place. We bring in our decorators and transform the place to give it the feel of the dream wedding the couple envisioned.” With several couples postponing their Goa destination weddings this year, Hiremath said that some are still keen to come to Goa and hold private weddings at hired villas which have decent gardens. “This is an upcoming trend,” he added. But others prefer to err on the side of caution and postpone. Royce Coutinho, a master of ceremonies, said that all 14 of his bookings till June have been cancelled. “Some have postponed their weddings to January or February, while others have cancelled them for now. Three couples have gone ahead with intimate celebrations at home.” He said that in these times when money is scarce, smaller, intimate weddings are the new norm. “Instead of planning a wedding a year and a half in advance, a small wedding can be planned at short notice,” Coutinho said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/masks-sanitisers-and-happily-ever-after/articleshow/76791852.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 5, 2020||Dehradun||Challans for lockdown violation cross 1L||Dehradun: The total number of challans issued for lockdown violation crossed the one lakh mark in the state with over 1,500 new ones on Saturday. DG (law and order) Ashok Kumar said that a total of 4,190 cases have been registered for lockdown violation and 52,642 arrested in this regard ever since the Covid-induced curbs were put in place on March 24. On Saturday, over 1,500 were challaned for the offence. Apart from this, 9,951 vehicles were seized and Rs 5.9 crore levied as penalty from vehicle owners on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/challans-for-lockdown-violation-cross-1l/articleshow/76790670.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR sets up units for biz development||Hyderabad: With an aim to double freight business by 2024, business development units (BDUs) are being set up at both zonal and divisional levels of South Central Railway (SCR), as per the directions of the railway board. As part of the project, SCR has approved setting up of a multi-disciplinary BDUs at zonal level, comprising senior administrative grade officers from all major relevant fields. According to SCR, the committee set up for the BDU will have frequent interactions with the trade and industry bodies to understand the existing pattern of goods transportation and explore the possibility of attracting additional freight traffic to railways. “The BDU will also serve as a nodal point for speedy operationalisation of any new traffic proposal. Similar BDUs are also being formed in all the six divisions of SCR (at the divisional levels) with senior operating managers acting as the coordinators of divisional BDUs,” said SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya. He also suggested the committee members to assist freight customers to avail the policy/transportation benefits from the railways in order to capture new traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-sets-up-units-for-biz-development/articleshow/76791261.cms||Moulika.KV
July 5, 2020||Goa||Covid-19: Now, locals turn against ‘outsiders’, second-homers||PANAJI: A handful of citizens have taken it upon themselves to play the role of self-proclaimed vigilantes, accosting “outsiders”, stopping vehicles and knocking at people’s doors late at night, all in the name of warding off Covid-19. Several weeks since Goa lost its ‘Green Zone’ reputation, local hostility has surged alongside Goa’s Covid-19 count. A palpable fear that entrants will bring coronavirus into shops and villages has residents on edge, and the “locals” are now prepared to do something about it. On July 1, at around 9:30pm, an angry group of men and women in Aldona showed up at Fatima Mascarenhas’ residence. They wanted to know who was living in the apartment and who owned the MH-registered vehicle in the parking lot. “A friend from a neighbouring village, who has been living in Goa for five years and who hasn’t left the state in 10 months, was visiting us for dinner,” said Mascarenhas, who works with an NGO. The angry locals did not introduce themselves, but did let on that one of them was an Aldona panchayat member. According to a statement to be submitted to Goa Police by Mascarenhas and her husband, the crowd threatened them and did not maintain adequate physical distance. This incident, which ironically happened a day before Goa officially opened up the tourism sector, is not the only instance. When Anuradha Sharma, who works at a private firm in Porvorim, returned from Delhi, her landlady said that locals in Parra were not in favour of her return. “Two days before I was supposed to arrive, my landlady asked me to get a Covid-19 negative certificate. I had to beg and plead to get tested. It was a high-anxiety time for me,” said Sharma. Despite getting tested, Sharma was shocked when her landlady requested her to stay indoors so that locals do not create trouble because of her return. “I felt very uncomfortable because I was told that I should not be seen out during the day. It was pretty difficult,” said Sharma. Tourism is a mainstay of Goa’s economy, but the increasing hostility at those perceived as “bhaile” could dent Goa’s image as a peaceful destination. Political rhetoric in recent days has added to the problem. “Indian tourists are desperate to come here to Goa because Goa is much better than other states. If they come here, Goa will be in big trouble,” said NCP MLA Churchill Alemao on Friday. A former private sector banker, who lived in Goa for over two years and who has a second home in Goa, was questioned at Morjim by locals who spotted his MH-registered car. “Their whole concept is that if it’s an MH-registered car, then it has brought Covid,” he said. “I told them that I have a home here and I live here, and thankfully, they did not press things further,” he said. He did not wish to be named for fear of reprisals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-locals-turn-against-outsiders-second-homers/articleshow/76791872.cms||Newton Sequeira
July 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Khalistanis are not terrorists: Radicals||Patiala: Condemning the Union government’s move in declaring nine Sikhs using violent means for cause of Khalistan as terrorists, the Dal Khalsa and the Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) on Saturday asked the Union home ministry to “rectify its error”. Addressing a joint press conference here, Dal Khalsa president H S Cheema and SAD (Amritsar) general secretary Mohinderpal Singh termed the government’s move an attempt to paint the image of Sikhs with “terrorism” brush. “Continuing with its anti-minority policies and mindset, the Union government under Narendra Modi has designated nine Sikhs associated with Khalistan movement as terrorist under the amended draconian Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, 1967. We don’t see any justification or logic behind government’s provocative and illegal move. The timing of the move to target Khalistani Sikhs has raised eyebrows,” alleged said Cheema. “We stand by the goal of Khalistan through democratic means and are of the opinion that referendum or plebiscite is the only peaceful method to resolve conflicts. Being a main indigenous faces of the political movement for a sovereign Punjab or Khalistan, we have presented the case... at national and international stages a number of times,” they said. Both Cheema and Singh made it clear that they had no alignment with the Sikhs For Justice. “There are only two kinds of referendums which can deliver results. One is United Nations sponsored and the other is conducted by an ‘occupied country’, (in this case India). In the SFJ case, both are not involved,” added the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/khalistanis-are-not-terrorists-radicals/articleshow/76791863.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||Past 3 days have seen 297 cases, 35% of Goa’s active caseload||PANAJI: The state’s active Covid-19 tally shot up to 853 on Saturday after 108 new cases were detected, the highest single-day spike since March. The past three days have seen 297 new cases — 35% of the state’s active caseload — and have also been the state’s worst days so far in terms of cases, with 95 positives reported on Thursday and 94 on Friday. Saturday also saw 53 patients cured and discharged. Among the new cases reported includes an Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) personnel posted at the Goa assembly complex in Porvorim. Speaker Rajesh Patnekar said he was posted at the complex’s gate, and that more than ten of his contacts also submitted their swab samples for testing. The positive case at the assembly came a day after the government decided to curtail the two-week monsoon session to just one day, on July 27. Meanwhile, the last rites of the 45-year-old man from Khariavaddo, Vasco, and the 74-year-old woman from Curtorim, both of whom died on Friday, were conducted on Saturday. The death of the Vasco man has stumped the state government. “He had a very mild fever when he came to the primary health centre, and his swabs were taken,” Mohanan said. “His condition was not serious for him to be hospitalised, so he returned home.” She said that by the time the test results were out, he had died at his residence. “We are surprised by the entire course of events,” she said. Mohanan was responding to a query on whether there was delay in picking him up after his test result returned positive. “There was no delay in intimating his family when his test result was received,” she said. When it was pointed out that there have been delays in picking up patients in the past, she said that the health department team has tried its best to avoid delays. “There may be a slight delay in picking up a person on a day when there are many cases,” she said. “But the moment the result is received, the family is intimated, asked to take all precautions, and the patient is picked up in the shortest possible time.” However, she admitted to there being a shortage of ambulances in the state. The state executive committee discussed this issue at length on Saturday. “Several options are being discussed,” she said. As cases continue to rise at an alarming pace, the state is trying to enhance Covid care facilities in the state. Mohanan said that the government is on the verge of using the hostels of Goa Engineering College and others in its Farmagudi campus as care centres. The collector has already started the process to mobilise resources, she said. As of Saturday, she said the state can accommodate 855 active patients, including the 85 who are being treated at the Covid hospital in Margao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/past-3-days-have-seen-297-cases-35-of-states-active-caseload/articleshow/76791858.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dhanvantari Raths to also test for dengue, malaria||Ahmedabad: The Dhanvantari Raths of the civic body that were testing patients for cough, cold and fever will now also check patients for dengue and malaria. Rajiv Gupta, ACS, forest and environment, and overall in-charge of Covid control in Ahmedabad said, “AMC has deployed 120 Dhanvantari Raths across the city. These vans have successfully conducted over 4.27 lakh OPD consultations. The intervention has helped to successfully treat over 20,143 patients with fever, over 74,048 with cough and cold and another 462 patients with severe respiratory tract infections were referred to urban health centres and hospitals for clinical treatment. The vans also referred 826 patients with hypertension, diabetes and other co-morbidities for clinical treatment at nearby urban health centres, community health centres, and hospitals.”Gupta said that the scope of health services of mobile medical vans has been extended to include malaria and dengue tests and this was done in view of the monsoon season and the likelihood of increase in vector-borne diseases.During the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Dhanvantari Raths, (mobile vans carrying medics and medical equipment) were launched to provide non-Covid essential healthcare services to the doorsteps of citizens.Gupta said the move was required as a majority of the hospitals were engaged in Covid-19 treatment. These vans carry an Ayush Doctor, paramedic and nursing staff along with local medical officer from urban health centres of AMC. These mobile medical vans were equipped with all essential medicines including ayurvedic & homeopathic medicines, vitamin supplements, basic testing equipment like Pulse Oxymeter, said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dhanvantari-raths-to-also-test-for-dengue-malaria/articleshow/76791272.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Delhi||Take basic papers to renew labourer registration: Delhi high court||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court has told the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers (DBOCW) Welfare Board it should only ask for basic documents to renew registration of workers, at a time when there is urgency due to Covid-19. The court said it should not insist on information about the family members with their Aadhaar card details since focus is on ensuring renewal of labourer registrations. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar gave the suggestion while hearing a plea filed by activist Sunil Kumar Aledia seeking to provide relief and all mandated benefits to workers and migrant labourers. The court said that “at this point of time, when there is rush as well as urgency for grant of renewal of registrations in view of the prevalent pandemic, the collection of information about the family members with their Aadhaar card details should be suspended, at least, in respect of those applicants who are seeking renewal of their lapsed registration.” It also directed the board to carry out the necessary changes/amendments to their online application form for registration/ renewal of registration in accordance with its directions. During the hearing, the court was informed that the application form presently in use requires the applicant to disclose particulars of his family members along with their Aadhaar card numbers, making it difficult for the workers. Considering the fact that the board has to deal with lakhs of workmen, the court also advised it to seriously examine the possibility of having its own website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/take-basic-papers-to-renew-labourer-registration-hc/articleshow/76791881.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ranchi||Paddy sowing yet to begin in 13 districts||RANCHI: Paddy sowing is yet to begin in 13 of the 24 districts in the state so far despite the timely onset of monsoon this year. The districts which lag behind include Palamu, Latehar, Godda, Jamtara, Deoghar, Dumka, Hazaribag, Ramgarh, Chatra, Koderma, Giridih, Dhanbad and Bokaro. The state agriculture department, however, said the sowing is expected to pick up pace in the next week. Out of about 28 lakh hectare of cultivable land, 18 lakh hectare is used for paddy in Jharkhand the rest is for pulses, oilseeds and cereals. Till July 3, only 11.67% of the 18 lakh hectare fields has been sowed. In terms of area, about 2.10 lakh hectare has been covered. The sowing of maize has, however, touched close to 50% of the targeted 3.12 lakh hectare whereas pulses have covered 17.73% out of the six lakh hectare and 25% (out of 60,000 hectare) oilseeds have been sowed. Cereals stood at only 7% out of the 42,000 hectare. The department said all districts have begun sowing of all other kharif crops. State agriculture director Chavi Ranjan said the groundwork for paddy sowing could be on in many of the districts and will pick pace in another week or so. "This season, we have ensured timely distribution of seeds to all districts as per the intended targets and special focus has been put to provide all possible assistance to the farmers for good produce to tide over the crisis which they may have faced due to the lockdown. We are awaiting sowing reports from a few districts but by next week, you can expect the sowing to pick up pace," he said. Ranchi district agriculture officer Ashok Kumar Sinha said areas like Ormanjhi, Pandra and a few other low-land pockets in the state capital have started sowing but there is a need for another continuous spell of rain for a couple of days for paddy sowing. He said, "The IMD has predicted rain over the next few days which will come as a boon for the farmers." In Dumka, district agriculture officer Surendra Singh said preparation of paddy nurseries have touched 70% of the targeted coverage for transplantation. "Sowing couldn’t begin in most parts of Santhal Pargana except Shahibganj along the banks of Ganga river, so far as farmers were readying the saplings for transplantation," he said. Senior agro-meteorologist at Birsa Agriculture University, A Wadud said the weather conditions are fully favourable for paddy sowing. He said, "Last year, the coverage was 25% by July end but we are sure it will be better this time. The monsoon began on a good note this season and provided the required soil moisture across the state."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/paddy-sowing-yet-to-begin-in-13-districts/articleshow/76791636.cms||ASRP Mukesh
July 5, 2020||Ranchi||Increasing people’s faith a priority: Ranchi SSP||Ranchi: Newly-posted Ranchi SSP Surendra Kumar Jha on Friday said police will adopt a proactive approach to tackle extremism, cybercrime, social evils and law and order issues during his tenure in the state capital. Jha took over charge as Ranchi SSP on Friday from Anis Gupta who has been posted as commandant, Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP-1). Jha said, “Our focus will be to enhance technology-based policing and earning the people’s faith.” He added, “Extremists are battling for survival in the state. Police will also focus on crime control and track down gangs involved in illegal activities.” It may be stated here that Jha is an IPS officer of the 2010 batch. Before his new posting, Jha served as Giridih SP and also worked as the SP of Koderma, Chatra, Dhanbad and Ranchi (rural).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/increasing-peoples-faith-a-priority-ranchi-ssp/articleshow/76778157.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ranchi||Congress chief Sahay ‘flouts norms’, meets jailed RJD prez Lalu||Ranchi: Former Union minister and Congress functionary Subodh Kant Sahay on Saturday met incarcerated RJD president Lalu Prasad at the paying ward of Rims "without taking permission from the jail authorities". In view of the pandemic, visitors have been barred from meeting Lalu who is suffering from various ailments. Sahay’s visit took place minutes after Ranchi (rural) SP Naushad Alam inspected the state-run hospital’s paying ward to ensure that proper security protocols are being followed. In a bid to avoid media persons, Sahay entered the paying ward complex through the super specialty block and spent over half an hour with the RJD president. He exited the ward through the central emergency entry where he spoke to the reporters and said he had come to enquire on Lalu’s health. "I hadn’t had a chance to meet Lalu ji ever since the JMM-led government took charge in Jharkhand in December. I only came to enquire about his health," Sahay added. Asked if he had discussed the upcoming Bihar election with the RJD functionary, Sahay said they will definitely miss Lalu ji in the polls, but to give a tough fight to BJP, he himself will visit Bihar during the election. "I will stand by anyone, even a monkey, if he opposes BJP," Sahay added. When TOI asked if he had taken permission from the jail authorities to meet Lalu, Sahay said he had informed the authorities concerned before his visit. However, when jail superintendent Ashok Chaudhary was contacted, he said, "I did not receive any intimation regarding anyone paying a visit to Lalu Prasad as there has been a blanket ban on his visitors since the outbreak of Covid-19." However, the number of visitors has substantially increased following Lalu’s birthday celebrations on June 11 in the presence of his son Tejaswi. Two RJD functionaries violated the jail regulations and met Lalu at Rims on July 2, which prompted the SP (rural) to inspect the ward on Saturday. Alam said, "As Lalu ji is housed as a prisoner, no one can meet him without prior permission from the authority concerned. We had come to know through media reports that a few visitors tried to meet him. I went to Rims to inspect the security arrangement and have instructed the personnel not to allow anyone without permission."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/congress-chief-sahay-flouts-norms-meets-jailed-rjd-prez-lalu/articleshow/76791608.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 5, 2020||Ranchi||MCI conducts online inspection of Rims||RANCHI: The Medical Council Of India (MCI) on Saturday started online inspection of the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), which has been seeking recognition of its 18 additional post-graduate seats in four departments. Rims officials said the inspection was conducted in surgery, medicine, ENT and pharmacology departments through video conferencing. The 18 seats were filled after Rims received MCI permission in 2017. Students in these PG courses are sitting for the final examination being conducted at the hospital. The simultaneous online inspection during the examination was made to give recognition to the seats. “The inspectors communicated with the students as well as the faculty members during the online inspection and assessed the process of courses which were granted by MCI in 2017. We submitted all required documents related to the courses, the faculty strength and the academic calendar. We are hopeful of getting recognition for the seats,” said Dr Satish Chandra, dean of academics. Among the 18 seats are eight in the general surgery department, four in ENT and three each in pharmacology and medicine. Heads of these four departments and the faculty members said the inspections were smooth and they have fulfilled all criteria set by MCI. “Our department will be a big gainer if all the seats are recognised by the medical regulatory body as it will increase the total number of recognised seats to 28 from the current 16,” said Dr Nishit Ekka, assistant professor of the surgery department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mci-conducts-online-inspection-of-rims/articleshow/76791661.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 5, 2020||Ranchi||Pradeep Yadav asks PM to terminate Chinese firm’s contract in Godda power plant||RANCHI: Poreiyahat MLA Pradeep Yadav on Saturday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding termination of contracts of the Chinese firm and its employees engaged in the construction of the 1,600MW power project of Adani in Godda district. In his letter, Yadav claimed the Chinese firm — Sepko-3 — has 95 Chinese engineers and hundreds of Chinese nationals working in the project. Hailing the Centre on banning 59 Chinese apps, Yadav wrote, “I heartily welcome the government’s stand which is in the interest of the national security and at the same time, I urge you (PM) to also cancel contracts of the Chinese company in Adani power project.” Referring to Modi’s cabinet colleague and Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari’s recent statement announcing debarring of all Chinese firms from road projects, Yadav requested Modi to terminate Sepko-3 for the sake of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. “If this company is terminated, it can pave way for an Indian company to contribute in building the power project. In a way your dream of an Atmanirbhar Bharat will be fulfilled and also lead to a lot of of employment operation to Indians,” said Yadav, who earlier this year joined Congress after Babulal Marandi-led JVM-P was merged into BJP. Notably, Yadav has been at the forefront over the last five years to block the Adani Power Project in Godda, accusing the BJP government of giving acres of lands at throwaway prices to its corporate friends. Yadav had also spent months in jail after being arrested by the erstwhile Raghubar Das government on charges of fanning unrest among land owners in Godda against the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pradeep-asks-pm-to-terminate-chinese-firms-contract-in-godda-power-plant/articleshow/76791681.cms||ASRP Mukesh
July 5, 2020||World||Virus, protests, Trump's angry words darken US July 4th weekend||WASHINGTON DC: The United States marked an unusually somber Independence Day on Saturday, as a record surge in coronavirus cases, anti-racism protests and an angry speech from President Donald Trump cast a shadow over what normally are festive celebrations. Popular beaches on both coasts -- normally packed on July 4th -- were closed as California and Florida suffer alarming surges in Covid-19 infections, and Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti warned citizens to "assume everyone around you is infectious." Across the country, Main Street parades have been canceled, backyard barbecues scaled down, and family reunions put off on a day when Americans typically celebrate their 1776 declaration of independence from Britain. But others, weary of lockdowns or simply defiant, carried on as if the deadly pandemic were a thing of the past. Florida on Saturday marked a new daily high in confirmed virus cases at 11,458 -- far more than any other state. Miami Beach imposed a curfew and made mask-wearing mandatory in public, yet some Florida beaches remained open. The beach at New York's Coney Island was also open and crowded, with few wearing masks. Mark Ruiz came with his wife and two children, despite being "definitely worried" about the virus. "I just can't stay home on the Fourth of July, I got to take my kids out," he told AFP. "We can't be in a bubble all summer." Coney Island also hosted a special socially distanced version of the annual Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest -- won for the 13th year in a row by Joey Chestnut, who set a new world record downing 75 hot dogs in 10 minutes. Health officials have been bracing for a new spike in virus cases after this weekend, which they see as a potential tipping point for more infections. The US virus death toll is fast approaching 130,000, roughly one-quarter the world's total. Fireworks displays are typically a high point of the holiday, but an estimated 80 percent of the events have been canceled this year. Local officials in Washington have discouraged massing on the National Mall for the capital's fireworks display. People were out even so, with some saying they were compelled to be there at a moment when the US is both grappling with the virus and undergoing a historic reckoning on racism. "It's time for us to stop bragging that we are super special, that the world should follow, we need to look inside to see what's wrong with us. We never honestly asked ourselves about race in this country," 54-year-old Mary Byrne told AFP. Trump plans to take in Saturday's "Salute to America" in Washington, complete with military music and flyovers, from a White House balcony. He and his wife, Melania, released a video message wishing Americans "a very, very happy Fourth of July." The president was optimistic about the virus. "We got hit with this terrible plague from China," he said, "and now we are getting close to fighting our way out of it." Trump's address at the Washington festivities will pay tribute to health care workers, police and the military, White House spokesman Judd Deere told AFP. Social distancing would be observed, he added. The previous evening Trump spoke at Mount Rushmore, where he upended the tradition of presidents giving inspiring and unifying speeches on July 4th by lashing out at protests that have erupted since unarmed African American George Floyd was killed by police. Facing a tough re-election battle in November and eager to mobilize his political base, Trump denounced "violent mayhem" on US streets, though most demonstrations have been peaceful. His presidential challenger, Democrat Joe Biden, struck a sharply different tone, tweeting Saturday: "Our nation was founded on a simple idea: We're all created equal. We've never lived up to it -- but we've never stopped trying. This Independence Day, let's not just celebrate those words, let's commit to finally fulfill them." Protests have continued in many US cities since Floyd's killing in May, and more than a score were taking place Saturday in Washington. All should be over before the night's celebration on the Mall, set to start at 6:40pm||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/virus-protests-trumps-angry-words-darken-us-july-4th-weekend/articleshow/76792265.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC allows minor to terminate her 23-week pregnancy||MUMBAI: Bombay HC on Friday allowed a 12-year-old alleged rape survivor to terminate her 23-week pregnancy. The HC had sought a medical board's report, and on its recommendation, allowed her plea. At her first doctor's examination, the minor had crossed 20 weeks' for termination under MTP Act, so she petitioned the court. While allowing the termination to take place on July 6 in Sangli, HC directed a DNA sample of the foetus be preserved for evidence. The minor told her mother that she was repeatedly raped by people in the locality, noted HC. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-allows-minor-to-terminate-her-23-week-pregnancy/articleshow/76792283.cms||Swati Deshpande
July 5, 2020||Mumbai||Eight junior colleges run by coaching institutes shut in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Cracking the whip on junior colleges run by coaching classes, the state school education department has rejected recognition to eight such institutes in Mumbai for not fulfilling infrastructure norms. The institutes which have been denied recognition are five Rao Junior Colleges of Science (one each in Andheri, Borivli, Kharghar, Sion and Thane), Pace Junior Science College in Kharghar, and Lakshya Prep Junior College in Thane and Borivli. In an order issued on June 24, the education department said, "Notices were issued to the managements of these eight schools (junior colleges) about the shortcomings. The response and report have been received but have been unsatisfactory, so the recognition of these schools has been cancelled." Affected students to be accommodated in nearby colleges: StateThe education department said the managments of the colleges had replied to its notice but since the requirements had not been fulfilled, the recognition of the institutions had been cancelled in accordance with the provisions of the Maharashtra Self Financed School Act of 2012. Schools or junior colleges first receive permission to start classes and have 18 months to comply with norms before they can seek recognition. College authorities said they have now fulfilled the norms and have requested the state government to reconsider its order. “We have requested the education minister that in the interest of students and institutions in this Covid lockdown, the order should be reconsidered. We are also compliant with all requirements, so we are confident that we will get the permission for these colleges,” said Vinay Kumar, MD and CEO of Rao IIT Academy, which runs the Rao Junior Colleges. Praveen Tyagi, MD, IITians’ Pace that runs Pace Junior Science College, said their branch in Kharghar had not yet started operations. “We had only applied for permission but not admitted students. The infrastructure requirements have been met,” he said. Authorites at Mahesh Tutorials, that runs the Lakshya Prep Junior College, were unavailable for comment. The department has instructed the deputy director of education, Mumbai division, to accommodate the affected students in nearby colleges. Confirming that they had received the department’s order, deputy director of education Rajendra Ahire said the colleges had not met infrastructure norms and hence would have to shut down. The matter first came to light in December last year when nearly 600 students from Rao institutes in Borivli, Andheri, Kharghar, Sion and Thane had to be registered through colleges in Kandivli and Powai after the state board denied them an index number due to lack of permissions from the education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/eight-junior-colleges-run-by-coaching-institutes-shut-in-mumbai/articleshow/76792284.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
July 5, 2020||India||Delhi’s positivity rate falls, Telangana and Maharashtra on top||NEW DELHI: From being among the top states in terms of incidence of coronavirus cases, Delhi’s positivity rate, or total confirmed cases per 100 tests, in the past two weeks has come down by 45% and the state is in third position, behind Telangana and Maharashtra, raising hopes that the outbreak in the capital may begin to taper off. Much of it has been possible with Delhi tripling the total number of tests. Delhi’s positivity rate between June 19 and July 2 (a 14-day period as per WHO is a yardstick to judge progress in Covid-19 control) came down to 16.4% from a high of 29.7% during the June 5-18 period. Telangana took top spot at 25% — more than double the positivity rate recorded in the previous fortnight — ahead of Maharashtra at 22% and Tamil Nadu and Gujarat at 11% each. Overall, the consolidated all-India positivity rate of all states together has risen to a worrisome 8.63% during this period as compared to 7.77% in the previous fortnight and 7.4% the fortnight before. The high incidence states are making their presence felt. A high positivity rate can be indicative of a state not testing enough and only testing the sickest. Extensive tracing and testing are key to containment of the pandemic, restricting it from spreading to a larger population. Also, lower positivity can lead to lower fatality as cases are detected at an early stage and adequate measures can be adopted in time. Among the top 10 states that have seen the pandemic spreading faster with positivity rate of 5% and above during the last 14 days include Telangana, Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Haryana (8%), Karnataka (6%), West Bengal (5%) and Odisha (5%). Delhi has been aided by higher testing. Between June 5-8, the state conducted 79,000 tests which increased to 2.38 lakh during the fortnight between June 19 and July 2. This has also resulted in the positivity rate coming down. Maharashtra has almost maintained its positivity rate, though at a high of 21%-22% over the last three fortnights. This is reason for some satisfaction as the incidence of the disease is not rising. Gujarat, Karnataka and West Bengal are on an upward trajectory since May 19, but Haryana and Uttarakhand among the top 10 have shown a downward trend during the last three fortnights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhis-positivity-rate-falls-telangana-and-maharashtra-on-top/articleshow/76792286.cms||Pradeep Thakur
July 5, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Telemedicine takes off, clinics on cloud nine||Sitting at his Mira Road home, Mohsin Khan tapped his cellphone and out popped on his screen, his gastroenterologist perched in front of his laptop staring down at Khan from a few miles away in south Mumbai. The awkwardness subsided after a minute or two. Following a brief chat, Khan saw his phone transform into a DIY medical tool as the doctor-on-camera guided Khan’s finger to move up, down, poke and prod his own abdomen before sending out a photograph of the prescription handwritten and signed on his official notepad. The routine took about ten minutes and Khan recovered two days later. “It did feel strange at first,” said Khan, reminiscing about the “doctor’s touch” to check his pulse or peer into his mouth for telltale signs. But a lot could still be accomplished over video, he admitted. “At a time when you can’t risk sitting for hours in a waiting room where another patient might transmit the coronavirus, it’s a huge relief.” Khan is part of a growing number of people switching to audio-visual technology to hook up with a doctor as the coronavirus fans out across the country, rendering hospitals and doctor’s chambers a no-go zone. Developed decades ago to serve far-flung rural populations — virtual healthcare, also called telemedicine, digital health, or remote care over video, phone and web based platforms — has found a fresh lease of life in this pandemic. Taking heed, health care providers are rapidly laying the groundwork for clinics in the cloud; and maladies — once, a waiting room’s worth of problems — are now being tackled online, rather simply for those with a smartphone and speedy Internet. With artificial intelligence at the core of these virtual visits, Mahim’s PD Hinduja Hospital developed its own teleconsultation software that it launched in April, shortly after the lockdown while Apollo Hospitals in February launched Apollo 247, a virtual consultation platform that provides round the clock access to their doctors over video, audio or text. If the in-house technology team at HN Reliance Hospital in Girgaon helped familiarize doctors with their virtual OPD, doctors at Hinduja had to undergo a three- day training on handling audio, video and chat including mock calls. These virtual platforms have been handling 200 to a 1000 virtual calls in a day with gynaecologists, GPs and dermatologists being the top draw. A video call can last for five minutes to 20 after a patient schedules an appointment with a doctor of choice and pays the charges for a virtual consultation mandated to be the same as a physical consultation. Before the virtual visit, they receive a call explaining the log-in process and how to upload past medical records, scans and prescriptions. For Dr Rahul Gupta, a senior cardiologist with Apollo Hospitals, preparing for a video appointment with a patient is a lot like setting up a television broadcast. His chosen spot is the study table in his bedroom positioned next to the window that allows for ample sunlight to stream through when he slips into his blazer and sits down for a virtual visit. “A different level of care and etiquette is needed during remote consultations. For instance, eye contact is important. That’s a reason why I had to adjust the lighting in a way so they feel connected when I’m looking at them and helps me appear fresh and bright when they see me through the webcam. A dim, dark and cluttered environment can be unsettling for a patient,” says Gupta. “As my comfort with on-cam patients grew, I did away with the blazer but you can’t get too casual. It’s important to be properly attired because it enhances patients’ faith in your discipline.” While the virtual system helps beam in a doctor from several miles away for a quick prescription or piece of advice, older adults may find the digital system difficult to navigate, feels Vishakha Kamat from Vile Parle who recently helped her septuagenarian mother navigate a screen-to-screen interaction with her nephrologist. “Given how doctors’ chambers are magnets for the contagion, it helps that a video call is the closest you can get to a traditional doctor-patient interaction but for someone of my mother’s age who isn’t tech savvy or doesn’t have a smartphone, it can be challenging unless there’s someone to assist.” But with fears running high, people are jumping on board quickly with telemedicine as much as it is the centerpiece of the way physicians are treating everyday illnesses. A new study by the health tech platform Practo — based on 5 crore Indians who accessed healthcare online between March and May — shows how virtual care appointments increased by 500% since March and 80% of all telemedicine users were experiencing it for the first time, signaling a possible long-term shift in healthcare delivery. The origin of telemedicine can be traced back to the year 2000 when the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) made a modest beginning with a pilot project using satellite communication to link Chennai's Apollo Hospital with a rural hospital in the Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh. Over the next few years, ISRO’s telemedicine facilities helped the government and some private players connect offshore islands and remote districts with major specialty hospitals in the cities. Despite being around for close to two decades, virtual healthcare remained in a nascent state, given the ambiguities around it. Gaps in legislation and uncertainty of rules posed a risk to its practice, and both doctors and patients mostly stuck with the ways medical care has forever been delivered — in-person appointments. The pandemic changed that. In a significant move this year, the Medical Council of India (MCI) permitted the practice of telemedicine by its registered doctors and released fresh guidelines on March 25, prepared in partnership with NITI Aayog. The new advisory incorporated in the MCI Code of Medical Ethics as an amendment to the Indian Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics) Regulations, 2002 offer much-needed clarity on protocols related to physician-patient relationship as well as on issues of liability and negligence. “While this has enabled doctors to continue their practice remotely, the MCI is in the process of developing an online telemedicine course which will be mandatory for all medical practitioners to take after three years in order to tele-consult in the future,” says Maharashtra Medical Council president, Dr Shivkumar Utture. While the new guidelines have allayed past apprehensions with virtual healthcare, there may be new grey areas in ethics, warns Dr Anant Bhan, an expert on bioethics. “The nuances of physical examination and empathy are such that not everything can be done virtually. A medical practitioner will have to use discretion to determine when telemedicine may not suffice and ask for in-person review,” he says, in order to guard against the risk of misdiagnosis. “But there’s a risk benefit calculus in medical ethics and given the need for safety at the moment, telemedicine is important for medical care.” (Patient names changed on request for privacy)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-telemedicine-takes-off-clinics-on-cloud-nine/articleshow/76792290.cms||Mohua Das
July 5, 2020||Delhi||Rain, high-velocity winds lash Delhi; more expected||NEW DELHI: A fresh bout of rain and high-velocity winds lashed the national capital overnight, bringing the mercury down by several notches on Sunday morning. Light rain and generally cloudy weather is expected during the day. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for Delhi, recorded 33.6mm rainfall till 5.30am. The Palam station gauged 43.4mm precipitation, the weatherman said. Heavy rainfall, lightning and thunder hits #Delhi(Visual from near Rail Bhavan)(Video credit: ANI)#DelhiRains https://t.co/HpcQMrpJuz— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1593908659000Rainfall recorded below 15mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5mm is moderate, and above 64.5mm is heavy, according to the India Meteorological Department. Humidity levels also shot up to 100 per cent. Heavy rainfall, lightning and thunderstorm hit #Delhi(Visuals from Connaught Place)#delhirain #DelhiRains https://t.co/EDPieT8tbI— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1593908770000More rain is expected over the next three to four days, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. Parts of #Delhi receive rainfall(Visuals from Vijay Chowk)#DelhiRains#DelhiRainUpdates https://t.co/yQkCSgKSmZ— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1593913463000The monsoon reached Delhi on June 25. Normal rainfall is predicted in the national capital during the season. Light rain, cloudy sky to keep mercury down in next 3-4 daysLight rains and cloudy skies over the next three-four days are expected to keep the mercury in check in the national capital, Meteorological department officials said on Saturday. Light rains are also expected around midnight, Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the India Meteorological Department’s regional forecasting centre, said here. The maximum temperature is expected to drop to 34 degrees Celsius by Wednesday, the IMD said. Srivastava, however, said good rains in the capital and the adjoining areas are expected only after July 15. On Saturday, the mercury oscillated between 37 and 40 degrees in Celsius in most parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/heavy-rain-lashes-parts-of-delhi/articleshow/76792297.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Get ready for showers: AP to see light to moderate rainfall over next few days||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh will see moderate to heavy rainfall at certain places over the next few days, according to a weather bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The twin Godavari districts have seen heavy rainfall in the last 24 hours and light to moderate rains were reported across the state on Saturday. The expected rainfall is being attributed to the presence of active southwest monsoon conditions such as the formation of trough along north-coastal Andhra Pradesh stretching across to south-coastal AP at a height of 7.6km from the mean sea level. Under the influence of the weather system, many areas in the state have already started receiving light to moderate rainfall, said a senior IMD official while adding that some areas have even seen heavy rains over the last two days. According to statistics compiled by Andhra Pradesh State Development Planning Society (APSDPS), Mummidivaram in East Godavari district has registered the highest rainfall—122.5mm in the last 24 hours. Tadepalligudem in West Godavari district registered 133mm rain. Bhogapuram in Vizianagaram district also registered nearly 90mm rain while Narsipatnam in Visakhapatnam saw 91mm rain. Agriculture officials say that rains around this time will come as a boon for farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/get-ready-for-showers-ap-to-see-light-to-moderate-rainfall-over-next-few-days/articleshow/76790933.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Former minister Kollu Ravindra planned Moka Bhaskar Rao’s murder: Cops||VIJAYAWADA: The Krishna district police said on Saturday that former skill development minister, Kollu Ravindra of TDP, had allegedly planned the murder of YSRC leader Moka Bhaskar Rao. Addressing a press conference, Krishna SP M Ravindranath Babu said that Ravindra was in constant touch with the alleged murders before and after the murder. YSRC functionary Moka Bhaskar Rao was stabbed to death by five assailants on motorcycles at a fish market in Robertsonpet police station limits on June 29. SP Ravindranath Babu said, “Apart from the confession of the accused killers, we have call data that shows that Chinta Nancharaiah— one of the accused— was in touch with Ravindra’s personal assistants Rizwan and K Ramu right after the murder of the late YSRC functionary and the former chairman of the market yard committee.” “He was heard saying: ‘Anna, work is over’,” the SP said while pointing out that investigation has revealed that the plan to murder Bhaskar Rao was being made for years. “The murder happened due to political reasons and Ravindra had assured necessary support to accused. They even met 15 days prior to the incident and planned the execution. There is corroborating evidence to that as well,” the SP said further. Cops said that the gang had in fact tried to assassinate Rao in 2013 as well as on June 28, a day before they finally managed to commit the crime. The police have produced all six accused, including the former minister, before the district sessions court which has remanded them to judicial custody. Cops are now on the lookout for Ravindra’s personal assistants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/former-minister-ravindra-planned-moka-bhaskar-raos-murder-cops/articleshow/76790948.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 5, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: 19 VIMS staff, including six doctors test positive; hospital sanitised||BALLARI: Doctors, nurses and staff at the Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), Ballari, who were involved in treating non-Covid patients, tested positive on Friday. The 19 staffers include six doctors, two staff nurses and lab technicians. VIMS director Dr Devanand told STOI that a patient with a severe orthopaedic problem and needed emergency surgery was admitted to the hospital. “Since the patient was asymptomatic, we went ahead with the emergency surgery without waiting for Covid-19 results. However, the result said he was Covid positive.” The surgeons and nurses contracted infection from the patient who also infected lab technicians and some PG students. “As we are dealing with asymptomatic patients, it has become a challenge for us to protect ourselves from the infection. All 19 staff members contracted the infection from one asymptomatic patient,” Dr Devanand said. The entire hospital was disinfected on Saturday. About 20 other staffers are under quarantine and about 60 persons who are primary contacts of the infected have been identified and their samples have been sent for testing, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-19-vims-staff-including-six-doctors-test-positive-hospital-sanitised/articleshow/76792300.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
July 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||DGP Sawang in Vizag on surprise visit||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh DGP Gautam Sawang made a surprise visit to Visakhapatnam to inspect government-owned land in the city. The state top cop landed in the city late on Friday night and went on inspection on Saturday. Sawang visited the IT-SEZ area, the land allotted to the anti-Maoist force Greyhounds and other land holdings allocated to the police department. Upon landing on Friday night, the police chief had also conducted a review meeting with officials. Sources said that the police chief also visited Simhapuri Colony near Gosala in Simhachalam area where a lot of government land is lying vacant. “The DGP examined the land allocated to the police department. We have to examine the feasibility of setting up various police wings in once Vizag becomes the executive capital,” a senior police officer said on condition of anonymity. The DGP also visited the Sainor industry where two workers were killed and four hospitalised after a gas leak four days ago. Sources informed that the DGP may hold a review meeting on the issue before he leaves for Amaravati on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dgp-sawang-in-vizag-on-surprise-visit/articleshow/76790963.cms||Siva G
July 5, 2020||India||Modi hails BJP workers for ‘seva yagna’ in Covid times||NEW DELHI: The BJP organisation is not just an electoral machine but represents an effort to reach out to all sections and strike deep roots in society, PM Modi told party workers on Saturday, pointing out that the party is represented by 53 Dalit, 43 tribal and more than 113 OBC MPs. In his address after reviewing presentations by state units over what they did to reach out to people during the Covid crisis, Modi said the challenge was to meet people and assess ground realities. He said BJP was not a party that confined itself to closed-door discussions and saw itself as having a role in nation-building and development of society. He stressed that from Jana Sangh to BJP, the party has seen itself in a broader role as being part of social change. Though he did not say it in as many words, the reference to the number of SC, ST and OBC MPs was a pointer that social outreach will deliver political gains. “The campaign launched by you is the biggest seva yagna,” the PM said, lauding the party workers’ campaigns but at the same time cautioned that the danger of the Covid-19 was still not over and people should be more careful with the onset of festival season. Hailing the efforts of the party cadres, PM Modi said that at a time when people are busy protecting themselves, BJP workers dedicated themselves to the service of the poor and needy. “BJP workers are taking risks to carry out welfare work during the Covid-19 pandemic and some even lost their lives,” the PM said and urged party workers to take care of the families who lost their kin in fight against the pandemic. “Had the campaign been in the western countries, whole world would have acknowledged it,” the PM said and asked the party leadership to prepare a digital booklet collaging the work from mandal to state level and launch it on September 25, the birth anniversary of Deen Dayal Upadhyay. He said the corona phase will also be recalled as how BJP used the crisis as an opportunity to serve humanity. He hailed the work of the party’s Rajasthan unit saying it showed how a party can play a “constructive role” even in opposition and also spoke of BJP’s Maharashtra and Bihar wings. BJP president J P Nadda also shared details of the overall relief work done by party workers during the lockdown and said nearly four lakh workers served the elderly and sick people. BJP workers are taking risks to carry out welfare work during the pandemic and some even lost their lives. Had the campaign been in the West, the whole world would have acknowledged it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-hails-bjp-workers-for-seva-yagna-in-covid-times/articleshow/76792303.cms||Akhilesh Singh
July 5, 2020||Jaipur||With 480 cases, Rajasthan logs highest single-day spike||JAIPUR: With 480 new Covid-19 infections, the state reported its biggest single-day jump in positive cases on Saturday. The second-highest number of positive cases (395) was reported on June 23. Eleven districts reported 20 or more than 20 fresh cases on Saturday. Highest number of cases was reported from Alwar where 54 persons were found infected with the new virus taking its tally 656. While in Barmer, in western part of the state, where the state government has already imposed sevenday lockdown, reported 43 cases. In Jaipur, 16 different places reported 40 new cases. The areas which reported new cases are Manak Chawk (8), Ajmer Road (4), Johri Bazaar (3), Durgapura (3), Sanganer (2), Sodala (2), Galta Gate (2), Vaishali Nagar (2) and one each case was reported from Kotputli, Jawahar Nagar, C-scheme, Mansarovar, Sitapura, Gopalpura and Gandhi Nagar. Seven persons who have returned from foreign countries under Vande Bharat and have been kept at institutional quarantine facilities, were tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. In Bharatpur, which has been fighting hard to contain the spread of the virus since last week of May, reported 30 new infections. In Bharatpur, the source of infection was its grain and vegetable mandis. Dholpur reported 39 cases on Saturday taking its tally to 740. Till June 19, Dholpur had reported 250 cases and it took in 15 days. Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (54), Bikaner (46), Barmer (43), Jalore (42), Jaipur (40), Dholpur (39), Bharatpur (30), Jodhpur (29), Nagaur (26), Pali (22), Udaipur (20), Sikar (16), Dungarpur (13), Jhunjhunu (11), Sirohi (8), Ajmer (7), Dausa (4), Karauli (3), Rajsamand (2), Tonk (2), Bhilwara (1), Sriganganagar (1), Hanumangarh (1), Sawai Madhopur (1) and four from other state and one is BSF personnel. However, as many as 359 persons have been cured of Covid-19 taking its tally to 15,640. The number of active cases has increased to 3,445 on Saturday. The highest number of active cases are in Jaipur (479), followed by Jodhpur (411), Alwar (310), Bikaner (244) and Barmer (210).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-480-cases-rajasthan-logs-highest-single-day-spike/articleshow/76792306.cms||---
July 5, 2020||India||Shipments at Centre-run ports drop 20% amid pandemic||NEW DELHI: The Covid pandemic has impacted the traffic handled at 12 major ports under the central government. These ports put together saw nearly 20% decline in the handling of shipments between April and June this year as compared to the same period last year as domestic demand fell. According to the quarterly data uploaded by Indian Port Association, ports handled 141.9 million tonnes (MTs) of shipments till June 30, while last year’s figure was 176.7 MTs. Sources said the fall could be due to weak domestic demand for steel and clearance of stockpiles by miners in Goa. The maximum fall was recorded in thermal coal cargo, which declined by 34.7%. The other category of cargo that saw sharp fall was container cargo, by 30.1%. Handling of only two types of cargo saw increase and these were raw fertiliser (28.6%) and iron ore including pellets by 18.8%. Only two major ports – Murmogoa and New Mangalore – saw increase in handling of cargo by nearly 29% and 4% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shipments-at-centre-run-ports-drop-20-amid-pandemic/articleshow/76792309.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: After NCP, Congress nudge, police back down on 2km travel curbs||MUMBAI: In a U-turn after fresh restrictions placed on people’s movements attracted criticism and resulted in the NCP and Congress disagreeing with CM Uddhav Thackeray on the need for such harsh measures, the Mumbai police on Saturday said their guideline of not travelling more than 2km from home was only an “appeal to citizens”, not an order. The guideline, issued on June 28 through a soundbyte and the police’s Twitter handle, had said all trips, including visits to markets and salons and for exercising, should be restricted within 2km from home. Travelling more than 2km was only permitted for essentials and going to the office, it said. The police have since impounded more than 34,000 vehicles for lockdown violation. But a written prohibitory order issued on June 30 is mum about the 2km guideline. It instead says that the “movement of people for non-essential activities will be permitted within neighbourhood areas/nearby only”. Times ViewThe day the 2km-rule was announced, this paper called it “arbitrary”. “All this new rule will do is encourage harassment,” it said. And indeed, harassment is what it led to with tens of thousands of vehicles being impounded even when many of them had a legitimate reason to be out on the road. It also led to huge traffic snarls, thanks to police nakabandis. We’re glad that the police have seen reason and diluted the rule.If you stay in Borivli, can’t come to Mahim, except for work: CopsThe prohibitory order has been issued for a fortnight from July 1 to 15. Mumbai police spokesperson DCP Sangramsinh Nishandar said on Saturday that the 2km guideline was an “avahan” (appeal) to the public. “The written order does not mention 2km; ‘neighbourhood’ is the correct term. What we mean is people living in Borivli or Malad cannot be coming to Mahim or Colaba for any reason other than office or essentials,” said Nishandar. The prohibitory order clearly says that long distance travel for non-essential items will not be permitted. Post the clarification issued by police, nakabandis will still continue, but may not be as strict as earlier. The term “neighbourhood” may prove to be vague to enforce. Motorists said they would continue to carry their address proof along. To enforce the 2km guideline, among other rules, police officers had last week fanned across the city, putting up nakabandis on arterial roads. The checks resulted in massive snarls. There were complaints from a number of citizens about how their vehicles were impounded even when they were going to buy medicines, headed for office or for buying groceries within a few hundred metres from home. The guideline also came under criticism from the legal fraternity, which said it created confusion. Finally, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar discussed with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray the hardships caused to people by rules such as the 2km guideline. Senior police officials added that the objective of the 2km guideline was only to protect citizens from getting a Covid-19 infection. “The situation is getting worse by the day. Deaths and infections are mounting in the city. Satellite towns like Thane, Mira-Bhayander and Kalyan-Dombivli are under lockdown. If Mumbaikars do not stay home, stricter measures will have to be brought in,” said an IPS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-after-ncp-congress-nudge-police-back-down-on-2km-travel-curbs/articleshow/76792302.cms||Nitasha Natu
July 5, 2020||Mumbai||17% of new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra from Mumbai, 40% from rest of MMR||MUMBAI: The 1,163 new cases of Covid-19 the city added on Saturday made up 17% of the state count of 7,074 cases for the day. The rest of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region reported 2,882 cases, 40% of the total cases added in the state. The city had lower than usual cases and deaths on Saturday. While its caseload rose to 83,237, the death toll reached 4,830. Of the 295 additions to the state death toll, 124 were from Friday and Saturday and 171 from a previous period, showing that data reconciliation was far from over. In just the first four days of July, 25,105 cases and 816 deaths were added in the state. The city added 5,542 cases, 22% of the state figure for the month so far. "The unlocking has led to more activity and travel, and the surge in cases was expected to an extent. The unlocking was needed for economic activities in these metro cities to resume. We used the lockdown to add capacity," a state official said. The BMC update said 51 out of the 68 fatality additions on Saturday had co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension or obesity. While 46 victims were males, 22 were females. "Only three of the victims were under 40 years of age, while 24 were between 40 and 60 years and 41 were over 60 years of age," civic officials said. With the doubling rate in the BMC area at 41 days, experts said the situation seemed stable for the moment. Dharavi, once the worst hot spot in the country in terms of Covid-19 cases, registered only two cases on Saturday. "We have not reported more than 1,500 cases in a single day for over a month now," additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said. The city saw its highest one-day case count on May 22 with 1,751 positive results, followed by May 24 at 1,725, May 30 at 1,510 and June 10 at 1,567. The lockdown was relaxed on June 3 but cases and deaths have not increased greatly, said Kakani. The movement of people and traffic in the past week has increased a lot, causing snarls along the highways. "There could be a surge in the next two weeks due to this heavy movement and exposure," Kakani said. On July 7, the BMC will add over 1,000 beds and start ICUs in its jumbo facilities at MMRDA grounds in BKC and NESCO in Goregaon. BMC officials said sero-surveillance to monitor the virus spread in the city had got a "good response" from slum areas, where over 2,000 samples had been collected, but cooperation was lacking from housing societies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/17-of-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-from-mumbai-40-from-rest-of-mmr/articleshow/76792329.cms||Malathy Iyer
July 5, 2020||Nagpur||BJP to protest govt move to take back local body funds||Nagpur: The cash-strapped state government has asked all local bodies, including zilla parishads (ZPs), municipal councils and municipal corporations, to return the funds not spent in 2019-20. This has raised the hackles of the BJP, which fears that the move will adversely affect development works. The party has decided to stage a symbolic agitation on June 10 against the decision.Addressing a press conference on Saturday, state general secretary Chandrashekhar Bawankule demanded that the government resolution (GR) in this regard should be immediately withdrawn in the next cabinet. “When I was the guardian minister for five years, the district got double its share of district planning committee (DPC) funds. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, instead of maintaining the tempo, reduced Nagpur district’s allocation below many other districts to settle scores with the BJP. Now it is taking away whatever meagre amount it has sanctioned. The district will go back ten years in time if this disastrous decision is implemented,” he said.Bawankule, district BJP president Arvind Gajbhiye, MLAs Sameer Meghe and Tekchand Sawarkar and MLC Girish Vyas have calculated that the 21 municipal councils of the district will lose Rs25.47 crore if their unspent money is taken back.The ex-minister said that BJP activists would stage agitations all across the district. “We will seek alms from the common man to ‘help this beggar government’. The money collected would be deposited with the chief executive officers (CEOs) of municipal councils and zilla parishads (ZP). As this government is taking away money from poor people to run the show, it perhaps needs our token collection,” he added.Bawankule slammed energy minister Nitin Raut for demanding Rs10,000 crore from the central government for MSEDCL. “The discom is a state government company. State government should therefore pay this amount. Raut should seek this amount from deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the finance portfolio. People’s earnings have reduced or have become nil due to the lockdown. They should be provided power free of cost,” he said. Former Congress minister Anees Ahmed has also demanded free electricity up to 300 units.The BJP general secretary flayed municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe for not implementing the directives of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) house. He also charged Mundhe with ignoring the corporators.MLC Vyas urged home minister Anil Deshmukh to set up a quarantine centre for Central Jail inmates. “There are over 100 Covid-19 positive cases in the jail. It is very crowded and a quarantine centre is a must. These inmates should not be freed as they can spread the disease outside,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-to-protest-govt-move-to-take-back-local-body-funds/articleshow/76791645.cms||Ashish Roy
July 5, 2020||India||After 120 yrs, end of Visva Bharati’s Poush Mela||NEW DELHI: The curtains have come down over the century-old Poush Mela in Visva Bharati University. The 120-year-old fair and festival (Poush Mela) organised for three to four days in December annually had been disrupted only twice – in 1943 due to the famine and in 1945 due to the second world war. But caught in a web of violations of the National Green Tribunal’s orders, fine imposed by West Bengal Pollution Control Board and police complaints over alleged harassment, the central university’s executive council (EC) on Friday decided to scrap the fair, which attracts over two lakh visitors. The council also resolved to organise Basanta Utsav, the Tagore edition of Holi, on a different day, citing that if held on the same day as the festival of colours it would be tough to manage the crowd. As per sources in EC, the university has been spending lakhs of rupees in multiple legal battles because of the mela. Also academically the university has been on a downslide, managing only B+ NAAC grading and slipped from 37th to 50th position in the 2020 NIRF rankings. The university has written to the Union HRD ministry as well as apprised the prime minister’s office regarding the developments, such as a police investigation (a copy of which is with the TOI) against it after the administration tried to remove shops on completion of the fourth day of the mela “to honour the order of NGT.” “The PM office has been informed by the university that a couple of days ago some officials were summoned by Santiniketan police for interrogation. This was related to December 2019 Poush Mela when the organisers tried to vacate the fairground after the scheduled four days. A section of local businessmen resisted which led to a scuffle. A complaint of outraging modesty was lodged against a number of university officials including the vice chancellor,” said the MHRD official. The NGT had directed that the mela “shall be restricted only to the sale and exhibition of arts, crafts, traditional rural handicrafts, literature… It certainly would not dilute the object of the mela as it has been done in the recent past. The mela should be wound up without fail on the 4thday.” The tribunal following violations had also imposed Rs 25 lakh penalty on the university. On January 7, 2020 the WBPCB also wrote to the university asking as to “why an environmental compensation amounting to Rs 10 lakh shall not be imposed,” over non-compliance of the NGT order. The observations and orders of the NGT on the mela made in the last three years include violation of pollution laws relating to solid wastes and plastics, generation of hazardous plastics and that the essence of the mela has disappeared and it has now become purely a commercial event. Also the tribunal observed that the mela which is supposed to be run by the trust has been taken over by unscrupulous elements beyond the prescribed period of fiour days. It would go on beyond 10-12 days without official electricity and would run on generators which cause air pollution thereby vitiating the atmosphere of the university. According to a senior MHRD official, “Now even water purifiers, mobile phones and tractors are being sold in the fair.” According to a government source, since the state administration has a hands off approach after the fourth day leaving the university on its own to deal with the situation including law and order, the EC felt that the university should reconsider permitting the mela within its campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-120-yrs-end-of-visva-bharatis-poush-mela/articleshow/76792331.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
July 5, 2020||Mumbai||Despite concern over remdesivir use, BMC orders over 15,000 vials||MUMBAI: Even as concerns emerge over the use of remdesivir, the anti-Ebola drug being used for Covid-19 patients, the BMC has ordered for 15,000 vials of the injection from a Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company. "We are scheduled to get a quarter of our order by late Saturday," said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. The drug, which costs around Rs 5,000 a vial, will be given free to patients admitted to public hospitals. Remdesivir is the only drug to be cleared by the US FDA as a treatment for Covid-19 and there are reports of the US buying stocks from across the world. However, many doctors, both in the public and private sectors, say the drug could be useful only to patients in earlier stages. There also are reports of it affecting organs adversely. While the medicine was available to patients admitted to private hospitals for over a month, there was criticism that patients at public hospitals were not getting access to it. This promoted the BMC and state government to float a tender to purchase the drug. "More than drugs, it is important to ensure that patients are traced at the earliest. Supportive treatment like giving oxygen support at the earliest is important in Covid-19 management," said Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state's task force on Covid-19. He said there is need to first ensure aggressive tracing and testing. "If patients are picked up early, they can be treated and taken care of," he added. Meanwhile, a piece in the BMJ medical journal pointed out that "no remdesivir study has demonstrated any reduction in hospital stay or mortality". Only one study of 1,063 patients published in the New England Journal of Medicine showed a shortened time to recovery in the remdesivir group (11 days) versus 15 days in the placebo group. "There was no effect on mortality," wrote James M Brophy of McGill University in BMJ.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/despite-concern-over-remdesivir-use-bmc-orders-over-15000-vials/articleshow/76792333.cms||Malathy Iyer
July 5, 2020||India||Thousands leave Bengaluru fearing fresh lockdown||BENGALURU: Faced with a surge in Covid-19 cases and fearing another lockdown, thousands of Bengalureans were headed back to their hometowns, lining up bumper to bumper on the city’s exit roads on Saturday. Amid murmurs of another lockdown after the SSLC examination, several workers from other parts of Karnataka headed home. There were huge snarls on Tumakuru road and other exit routes. Some said they had vacated their houses in the city and moving back home permanently. Authorities said traffic jams on Mysore Road were due to ongoing repairs. With total lockdown imposed on Sunday, effective from 8pm on Saturday, people left the city early in the morning. KSRTC officials said many people are moving out of Bengaluru since Class 10 exams are over. Covid cases have surged in Bengaluru in the past 10 days and the health infrastructure has come under strain. As of July 4, the city has 7,250 patients under treatment. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updates‘Will never come back to B’luru’Rame Gowda, who worked as cab driver, said he would feel safer in his village in Maddur. “Cases in Bengaluru are rapidly rising and there are no hospitals to admit patients. I am worried about my life. Though I managed to survive the lockdown, now it has become impossible. I will work in the fields for a living. I will never come back to Bengaluru.” Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage Leelavathi, a resident of Peenya, was heading to Bellur Cross in Mandya. Stuffing all her belongings in a goods auto, she said her garment unit shut down 15 days ago. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  “We have already lost our jobs and our family is not in a state to pay house rent. We decided to go back to our hometown before there is another lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/thousands-leave-bengaluru-fearing-fresh-lockdown/articleshow/76792335.cms||Kiran Parashar
July 5, 2020||India||HP to open for tourists, but e-pass must||Himachal Pradesh plans to soon allow outsiders and tourists to enter the state. However, the state government has made it mandatory for people willing to travel to the state to ensure they register.  “It has been decided to open the state to tourists, the tourism department of the state government will issue standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the functioning of the tourism industry,” chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said. All inter-state movement will be monitored through registration using Covid e-pass software to ensure compliance with quarantine requirements and facilitate contact tracing of persons in the event a Covid-19-positive case is detected||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hp-to-open-for-tourists-but-e-pass-must/articleshow/76792336.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Nagpur||AIIMS brings ultra-modern device to save SARI patients||Nagpur: The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Nagpur, has procured the Biofire FilmArray Torch, a state-of-the-art multiplex assay which detects 22 respiratory pathogens responsible for causing Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). In the Covid-19 pandemic, about 30% of the cases have been detected with SARI. At present, this equipment is only available at AIIMS, Nagpur, in the entire state. Dr Meena Mishra, professor and head of microbiology department of AIIMS, told TOI that the new addition could be a life-saver for SARI patients who test negative for Covid-19. “Many SARI patients are testing negative for Covid-19 but still they dying as they don’t respond to the medicines or antibiotics given as per the standard protocol. This device is capable of detecting 22 respiratory pathogens, including virus and bacteria. Moreover, it detects whether the SARI-causing bacteria have developed resistance to antibiotics. In short, doctors would be able to prescribe the exact medicines suitable for the SARI patient and save his life,” she said. Through this device, pathogens responsible for SARI in Vidarbha and Maharashtra will also be detected in the long run. This will help doctors understand the prevalence of bacteria and viruses in this geographical region and decide the line of treatment for patients. “We are thankful to the Divisional Commissioner of Nagpur Dr Sanjeev Kumar and Divisional Commissioner of Amravati Piyush Singh. Both have contributed from the Vidarbha Covid-19 Relief Fund for this equipment,” said Director of AIIMS, Nagpur, Maj Gen Dr Vibha Dutta who has been instrumental in procuring the device.The test sample for BioFire assay is a Nasopharyngeal swab collected in VTM (Viral Transport Media) which is same as the test sample collected for Covid-19 testing and reports can be available in less than one hour. Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary, medical education, and Dr T P Lahane, director, DMER, have consented to work jointly with AIIMS, Nagpur, for testing of SARI cases. “This collaborative work will be a boon for the people of Vidarbha and Maharashtra and will provide a ray of hope in the diagnostic arena,” said Dr Dutta. The department of microbiology of AIIMS, Nagpur, is already doing Covid-19 testing and till date, had processed more than 12,000 samples. The department has also imparted training in Covid-19 testing to about 25 institutes as part of mentoring. “With the new addition, we are ready to venture into respiratory panel testing for SARI cases,” said Dr Mishra.THE SAVIOUR* SARI is an acute respiratory infection with history of fever and cough* Many SARI patients require hospitalization and respiratory assistance* Rising SARI deaths a major concern for Maharashtra * Device helps diagnose SARI’s aetiological agent * With specific treatment for aetiological agent, lives can be saved* In long run, device will give data of bacteria and viruses responsible for SARI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aiims-brings-ultra-modern-device-to-save-sari-patients/articleshow/76791732.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 5, 2020||Goa||Govt for movement of iron ore till July 31||Panaji: The directorate of mines and geology (DMG) and Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB), after a joint inspection, recommended that the transportation of extracted iron ore be permitted till July 31. The inspection report, filed before the high court of Bombay at Goa, was pursuant to the court’s directions regarding a petition citing illegal mining. The inspection report also stated that due care needs to be taken by the transport contractor to avoid spillage on village roads. The inspection, conducted at mines in Bicholim taluka, also included representatives of the petitioner, as was ordered by the court. The Mulakh Khajan Tenants Association (MKTA) and others had approached the high court and pointed out that a mining company was indulging in fresh, illegal mining. They stated that the Supreme Court permitted leaseholders only to transport extracted ore, and added that the unregulated transport by other mining companies was causing environmental havoc. On June 2, the court directed the GSPCB to file its reply addressing the petitioners’ concerns. “If the GSPCB desires to inspect the site physically, it may put on notice any representative of the petitioners and carry out the inspection in coordination with the mining department,” the court stated. The court was told that water samples were collected from various locations and that the results are awaited. It also said that the handling of mining dumps outside lease areas are not overseen by the government, and that it’s an issue pending before the Supreme Court. The report stated that desilting of the river Poira may be carried out in consultation with the water resources department, and also suggested that check dams be provided in the trench through which water flows to the Poira. It also said that the agricultural field at Mayem may be inspected by the zonal agriculture office, Bicholim. This was among several suggestions made in the report. In the petition, farmers said that they have been facing hardships due to illegal mining, and sought to restrain the company from doing so. They also sought a direction to the government to monitor ore transportation and ensure that their lands are not affected in the monsoon due to the proximity of iron ore stacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-for-movement-of-iron-ore-till-july-31/articleshow/76791726.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||‘Check distance between bldg, power lines while issuing NOC’||Panaji: The electricity department has requested local bodies and planning authorities to ensure that there are no structures in the vicinity of power lines to ward off accidents due to leakage and contact with live wires. In a letter to the director of panchayats, urban development, rural development, chief town planner and chairmen of district planning authorities, the department has requested them to issue NOCs for construction only if the prescribed distance is maintained between the proposed structure and the power lines. “It is observed that over time, structures have been constructed without maintaining the minimum distance resulting in likely occurrence of electrical accidents due to leakage or direct contact with the live wires,” the department stated in its advisory. “Fatal electrical accidents have occurred due to illegal storage structures or storage yards below or in close proximity to the power lines,” it stated. The department has requested the local and planning bodies to follow the minimum prescribed clearances according to the Electricity Rules 1956. Where a low or medium voltage (up to 650 volts) overhead line passes above or adjacent to or terminates on any structure, the minimum clearances from any accessible point must be on the basis of maximum sag (Sag is the difference in level between points of supports and the lowest point on the conductor). For a flat roof, open balcony and verandah, a vertical clearance of 2.4m from the highest point where the line passes over the structure and a horizontal clearance of 1.2m from the nearest point when the line passes adjacent to the structure. For a pitched roof, a vertical clearance of 2.4m immediately under the lines when the line passes over the structure and a horizontal clearance of 1.2m from the nearest point when the line passes adjacent to the structure. Similarly, vertical clearances have also been prescribed for extra high voltage overhead lines passing above or adjacent to a structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/check-distance-between-bldg-power-lines-while-issuing-noc/articleshow/76791737.cms||---
July 5, 2020||India||AIIMS-Patna among 12 ICMR picks for trials of Covid jab||PATNA: The ICMR has shortlisted AIIMS-Patna among 12 institutes for conducting clinical trials of indigenous Covid-19 vaccine BBV152 developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava has written a letter to the 12 shortlisted institutes, informing them about the development. On being asked, AIIMS-P director Prabhat Kumar Singh told TOI on Saturday that the process of clinical trials is at the preliminary stage. “A decision on commencement of trials will be taken after several rounds of meetings and discussions,” he said. Dr Neeraj Aggarwal, the nodal officer for Covid-19 and dean of AIIMS-P, said: “Our main concern right now is to finalise the procedure and successfully conduct the trials. It is a very critical step as the country’s hope depends on its success or failure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aiims-patna-among-12-icmr-picks-for-trials-of-covid-jab/articleshow/76792341.cms||Archi Rani
July 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 1,500 patients waited over 3 hours to get an ambulance||BENGALURU: Over 1,500 Covid-19 patients waited for more than three hours on average to get an ambulance in the past eight days. The fact came to light as civic and health officials in Bengaluru coped with the fallout of the death of a 65-year-old Covid patient, who collapsed by the roadside near his house while waiting for an ambulance on Friday. The incident has once again brought into focus the availability of emergency vehicles in the state capital and the long time it takes for officials to arrange transport and hospital beds during a pandemic. In the said eight-day period, some patients waited for up to six hours for an ambulance to take them to the designed Covid-19 hospital. A few coughed up a hefty sum to hire private ambulances, so they could get treatment on time. “In the past one week, we must have picked up only about 500 of the 800 Covid-19 patients who were getting reported on a daily basis,” said an official of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The delays in taking patients to hospitals have baffled experts and citizens, especially since there isn’t much traffic congestion. “There are 200 ambulances in the city and of these, 163 are functional. Each ambulance takes nearly four hours to complete one cycle, which includes transporting the patient from home to hospital and later sanitising the vehicle as per protocol. If 7am to 7pm is considered the peak time for ambulance service, one vehicle can complete only three trips,” another BBMP official said. “How can ambulances be everywhere when hundreds of people are testing positive daily?” Some ambulance drivers told STOI that there was a lack of coordination between BBMP and hospitals. “In the past weeks, it has become difficult to take patients to the hospital on time,” said Stalin, who has ferried over 150 patients since March. “It takes 30 minutes to reach the patient’s house. After picking up the person, we are forced to do rounds as hospitals refuse admission.” Hospitals check and verify a person’s Covid-19 positive report before allotting a bed. “It takes hospital officials 45 minutes to cross-check the details. This is unnecessary. After the patient is admitted, I have to drive the ambulance to Malleshwaram, where it is sanitised and kept idle for an hour,” Stalin said. During the time, as per protocol, ambulance drivers remove their PPE kits, take a shower and get ready to attend to the next call. Stalin said many of his colleagues were also ferrying patients to Covid care centres located on the outskirts of the city. Another driver, Amarjan Akbar, said Bengaluru needed more ambulances and a transparent system that can show drivers and patients availability of beds, ICUs and ventilators. “This data can help us attend to the patient faster,” Akbar said. While government-run ambulances struggle to keep up with calls, private operators charge high rates to ferry patients. “On Wednesday, two members of a family complained of breathlessness, and we immediately contacted 104 and 108 helplines. The phone operators said there was a long queue of patients and it would take time to arrange an ambulance. We didn’t want to take a risk, so we called private ambulances,” said a resident of Itamadu. One trip cost Rs 6,500, while the other Rs 8,000. BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar said the civic body was working on streamlining the ambulance service. “We are also trying to improve the coordination between hospitals and ambulance drivers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-1500-patients-waited-over-3-hours-to-get-an-ambulance/articleshow/76792175.cms||Kiran Parashar
July 5, 2020||Goa||Pay jobless youth Rs 3k as allowance, says Cong||Panaji: Reminding the BJP-led government of its election promise to role out a minimum employment assurance scheme, the Congress party said that the current Covid-19 crisis is the right time to make a budgetary provision and rollout the scheme from August. State Congress media convener Trajano D’Mello said that the government should start paying all unemployed youth a monthly allowance of Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,500 as promised in the 2012-2027 election manifesto. “Many youth have lost their jobs in the private sector. The government by declaring a recruitment freeze has sent shock waves to the youth shattering hopes of a future of survival,” said D’Mello. He said that the government needs to take into account that the state’s youth while implementing austerity measures. “I demand allowance payment (for jobless youth) from the month of August. A couple of crores in the form of rupees will save the future resource of Goa, our youth,” D’Mello told reporters on Saturday. Accusing the government of several scams, D’Mello said irregularities in the recruitment of the Awal Karkun and the Goa Building and other Construction Workers Covid-19 relief scheme had showed that the BJP was only trying to favour its own workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pay-jobless-youth-rs-3k-as-allowance-says-cong/articleshow/76791745.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||TTAG’s raises red flag over 3 projects in green zone||Panaji: The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) has expressed concern over the three proposed projects through the Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem national park an said that the move will cause the state to lose several hectares of forest cover and as a result destroy its chances at promoting hinterland tourism. “Goa has the potential to host a more sustainable form of tourism that will benefit locals and safeguard protected areas,” TTAG committee member Akash Madgavkar said. Tourism stakeholders also expressed surprise over the clearance given to the project since Goa’s tourism master plan emphasises on hinterland and ecotourism. The TTAG has asked for a cumulative environmental impact assessment study of these projects to better understand the repercussions on hinterland tourism and industry stakeholders. It also demanded for due processes to be followed until pandemic-related travel restrictions are lifted to allow in-person meetings and travel to project sites for fresh appraisals. The environmental and sociological impacts of the projects cannot be overlooked, Madgavkar said. The government must explain the explicit requirement of the three projects, the travel body said. “There are multiple concerns with respect to livelihoods and ecology that need to be integrated into a larger plan for Goa’s largest protected area,” TTAG’s vice president for North Goa Jack Sukhija said. “Slowly and steadily, the three projects will pave a way for more projects through the forest area during the next few years. Nobody will be able to stop further development. We can forget eco-tourism if three projects go ahead,” said a tourism stakeholder. Recently, tourism professionals wrote to the minister of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) Prakash Javadekar urging him to reconsider the permissions granted to the railway double tracking, expansion of NH4A and laying of LILO transmission line projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ttags-raises-red-flag-over-3-projects-in-green-zone/articleshow/76791751.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Goa||King cobra rescued in S Goa, released in Netravali sanctuary||Edited... emailed to Nida Times News Network 240 words + plus pics Panaji: A 3.8m-long king cobra, weighing nearly 15 kg, was rescued recently from a residential area in the south Goa village of Vichundrem. The snake was found in the backyard of a resident’s house, curled up near the firewood storage area. The forest department later released the reptile in the Netravali Wildlife Sanctuary. The rescue squad received the call at around 4.30pm on Thursday from the house of a daily wage labourer. It took them about 30 minutes to capture the snake. “No harm was inflicted to human life or cattle,” Bipin Phaldesai, who carried out the rescue mission, said. Forest officials have attributed the sudden appearance of the king cobra in a residential area to the mating season. “The onset of the monsoon season coincides with the breeding season for snakes and we usually get many snake rescue calls. The king cobra feeds on snakes and doesn’t usually prey on other animals. So, it is unlikely that it entered the residential area in search of food. It’s only rat snakes that enter the human habitation looking for rodents,” Phaldesai said. The snake was kept in the rescue squad’s care for a day following which it was released on Friday. “King cobras prefer to live close to water bodies. Keeping that in mind, we released it in the forest near a perennial water source,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/king-cobra-rescued-in-s-goa-released-in-netravali-sanctuary/articleshow/76791764.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Lamington Road market sweats over deleting its dependence on China||MUMBAI: In the bylanes of south Mumbai’s musty Lamington Road, there is disquiet among traders, retailers and shopkeepers as India starts its economic crackdown on Chinese goods and services. Described as the one stop for all hardware, the Lamington Road electronics market near Opera House has a deep connection with China. “Over 80 to 90% of electronic hardware in industrial electronic components come from China directly or indirectly,” says Rushab Shah, committee member of All India Electronic Association (AIEA). His family business has operated from Lamington Road for 43 years. There are more than 1,500 shops and offices that deal in electronic hardware and products within a 500m radius on Lamington Road. The market’s annual turnover is roughly Rs 2,500 crore, most of which comprises imports from China, according to AIEA. “Virtually all products such as CCTV cameras, automation, access control, entertainment apparatus, PA systems for sound technologies and IT hardware are imported from China,” says Shah. ‘Prices will rise, products will also reduce if China goods are banned’Although certain goods also come from Europe or the USA, the raw material required by these manufacturers is mainly sourced from China. “So it would not be out of place to mention that the Lamington Road market’s dependency on China is almost total for electronics hardware,” adds Shah. Old-timers say Lamington Road has been a hardware market for more than 80 years and a key area since the time radios and transistors such as Murphy Radio were in demand. Today, it offers things from a simple resistor to a sophisticated microcontroller-based system to computers, laptops, music systems and electronic components. Lamington Road was an electronics hub even when Japan was just a developing country for these goods. But then manufacturing moved to China due to low labour cost, better labour laws, high productivity and conducive Chinese government policies welcoming people to set up their plants in their country. “Today, a majority of the products are made in China and almost every big brand has a factory located in that country. Hence, it is imperative to state that Lamington Road’s connection with China is inevitable,” says a local hardware trader. That the percentage of Chinese made components in electronic goods is as high as 80% is not just true for Lamington Road, but “also for similar clusters in Chennai, Bangalore, Delhi, Kolkata and other prominent cities,” say traders. “If there is a ban, not only will the cost escalate to twice or three times the level, but there will be so many products for which finding an alternative and getting approval will be a challenge,” they add. The AIEA says it is encouraging its members to look for opportunities and ways to produce locally and has sought funding at interest rates similar to China and land at cheaper rates. Mitesh Mody, AIEA president (West Zone), says the industry will get hit “very badly” if the government bans import of Chinese hardware. The Indian electronic industry is heavily import-dependent for electronic components. “Even if we source it from other countries such as Taiwan, South Korea or Japan, we need to shell out 20% to 40% more money. Besides, they all produce most of their goods in their China factories. So China will not lose business,” says Mody. Mody adds getting rid of this dependency on import from China will be the real boycott of goods made in that country. “We are capable of producing superior products locally if correct policies and facilities are provided by our government,” he says. Govind Nagpal, central committee member of AIEA, says India can export a lot of electronic goods if “we plan now to achieve this in the next five years”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-lamington-road-market-sweats-over-deleting-its-dependence-on-china/articleshow/76792345.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
July 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Goats of positive Tumakuru shepherd test negative||BENGALURU: Farmers of a village in Tumakuru are a relieved lot after 10 of the 47 goats swabbed last week tested negative for Covid-19. The goats were quarantined outside Godekere village in the district after their goatherd was found infected. There is no reported case of goats contracting coronavirus, said KG Nandeesh, deputy director of the veterinary department in Tumakuru, about 127km from Bengaluru. “Farmers can continue to rear goats as usual and need not panic. People can also eat mutton freely without any fear,” he said. Of the 47 swabs collected, 15 were tested. “Swabs of 10 goats were sent to the Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals in Bengaluru and five were sent to a Bhopal laboratory. The results came on Friday and the goats have tested negative,” Nandeesh said. There was fear in Godakere after four goats belonging to the goat-rearer died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-goats-of-positive-tumakuru-shepherd-test-negative/articleshow/76792314.cms||Kiran Parashar
July 5, 2020||Delhi||Mock test adds to Delhi University students’ exam woes||NEW DELHI: Glitches marred the mock test that Delhi University held on Saturday ahead of the final open book examinations from July 10. Among other problems, the examinees were foxed by the guidelines with incomplete sentences. Some students who did not have a laptop and visited the common service centres as advised were turned away because the centres had no details about the mock test. As DU itself had advised, students shared the drawbacks on emails to the examination department and Delhi University Teachers Association, on college and departmental WhatsApp groups and also on Twitter, where #DUAgainstOnlineExams trended through the day. A total of 2.5 lakh students are to sit for the OBE. Question papers of all subjects weren’t available for the mock test, leaving students wondering about the need then to conduct the test. There were also cases when students received questionnaires of the previous semesters. In the 37 subjects covered by the test, there was not a single question paper for courses on economics, computer science, botany, law and some other subjects. The university explained in its notice that the “question papers as given for mock test are indicative for practice and based on procedural steps required for appearing in examinations only”. But as law student Dipti argued, “If a student is sitting for a mock test, he or she wants more to see the question paper format and whether it can be managed in the time given rather than understand the online process.” For the OBE, students will get three hours to complete the test — two hours to write the exam and one hour to download the questions and upload the answers. Students with disabilities get an extended time limit of five hours. Regarding the website crashing, Vinay Gupta, dean of examinations, claimed, “There were no problems with the university’s server. By 5pm, almost 1.15 lakh students had registered. If the system could handle such a load, when OBE starts, it will only need to deal with a tenth of this on a given day. The error the students faced could be due to the poor internet connectivity at their end.” Aman Sharma said the mock test had demotivated him from appearing for the OBE. “We had hoped to gain confidence after doing the mock test, but it has only added to the many issues we are struggling with during the pandemic,” said Sharma. “We have no guidance and learning facilities and in the name of online classes, we get scanned copies of textbooks.” Sharma also pointed out that the size of the answers file to be uploaded was limited and students wasted time compressing the files. Vaisali, an MA student, revealed that there was no confirmation after uploading the papers, leaving the students wondering if their papers had reached the university. The mock test only strengthened the demand of students and teachers for scrapping OBE, with even the Academic Council members writing to the vice-chancellor to cancel the exams and DUTA urging the Union HRD ministry and the University Grants Commission to revise the exam guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mock-test-adds-to-delhi-university-students-exam-woes/articleshow/76792350.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 108 ambulance service to make Covid trips||Bengaluru: The 108 ‘Arogya Kavacha’ ambulance service will be used to shift confirmed and suspected Covid-19 patients, people awaiting results and those with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) to hospitals, the state government said. The 108 service normally attends to medical emergencies, though it has ferried some Covid-19 patients. Now, it will be fully available for the fight against coronavirus. Anyone experiencing breathing distress can call the toll-free number 108. The emergency team will quickly check the person’s status with the help of details such sample referral form and move them to the nearest Covid treatment facility after consulting civic body BBMP. The 108 service will transport patients using advanced life support (ALS) ambulances; staff will have to wear personal protective equipment. If the patient is breathless, they should be immediately taken to the hospital regardless of their official health status, i.e. Covid positive or negative. The ambulances will also be used to move patients across Covid treatment facilities in Bengaluru. Under the new system, the heads of government facilities can dial 108 for any transportation requirements of the patient, including referral to a new hospital for further treatment. If a dedicated hospital or Covid care centre refuses admission or if there’s any other grievance, citizens can dial toll-free number 1912. The call centre is located at Bescom’s corporate office. In BBMP, a bed allocation team for patients with coronavirus infection has been set up. It is headed by IAS officer Tushar Girinath, principal secretary, co-operation. It will have real-time data on bed availability and direct access to 108 and 1912.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-108-ambulance-service-to-make-covid-trips/articleshow/76792179.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Dengue cases rise; some patients turning Covid positive||BENGALURU: Hospitals are seeing an uptick in the number of dengue cases, and some patients are also testing positive for Covid-19. Symptoms like fever and body ache are seen in both diseases. One such patient, a 45-year-old man, was treated in the intensive care unit (ICU). He had reported to the hospital’s outpatient ward on June 23 and was subsequently tested for dengue. “The case was evaluated, and he was diagnosed with dengue. As he was very weak, he was isolated. We conducted a Covid-19 test and he turned out to be positive for that too,” said Dr Ambanna Gowda, internal medicine specialist, Fortis, Cunningham Road. “As he developed breathing difficulties, he was shifted to the ICU. With non-invasive ventilation and high-flow oxygen support, his condition improved.” Doctors ordered the Covid-19 test as they suspected that there was more than one factor at play. “It has been a learning curve for us,” Dr Gowda said. The patient has recovered from both diseases and is set to be discharged. There were two more cases of concurrent infections: two girls, aged 8 and 12, were treated at People Tree Hospital. They have recovered and are back home, said Dr AV Gurudutt, paediatrician and intensivist at People Tree. According to him, in case of children, Covid-19 is often detected after they are brought to the hospital for a different medical issue. Dengue cases have increased not just in Bengaluru but also in the state. Between January and June, 2,186 cases were recorded. The city reported 386 cases during the period. Dr Girimallappa N Nesaragi, joint director, National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, said awareness drives on prevention of dengue were not being conducted because of the pandemic. “We will have to spread the message through social media. Dengue surveillance activities will be taken up in high-burden districts such as Bengaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Yadgir and Koppal,” Dr Nesaragi said. “We have not heard of both dengue and Covid-19 positivity in patients. This will be looked into.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-dengue-cases-rise-some-patients-turning-covid-positive/articleshow/76792180.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 5, 2020||Mumbai||Two sugar cooperative fail loan test, but Maharashtra government to stand guarantee||MUMBAI: Eyebrows are being raised over the decision of the cash-strapped state government to stand guarantee for major loans secured by two cooperative sugar factories from the Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank. Subject to submission of all documents, the MSC Bank will release Rs 60 crore to Vithal Cooperative Sugar Factory and Rs 12 crore to Rajgad Cooperative Sugar Factory. Vithal in Pandharpur is controlled by NCP legislator Bharat Bhelke. Rajgad in Bhor is led by Congress legislator Sangram Thopte. The cooperation department has put up the orders for the guarantee on its website on Thursday. An MSC Bank official said that the conditions laid down by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development made both units ineligible for loans owing to poor net disposal resources. The loan was approved after the government agreed to stand guarantee. "Since the state government will stand guarantee, our money is safe," the bank official said. "In the past, quite a large number of cooperative sugar factories had defaulted, but we recovered the entire loan from the state government following a Supreme Court order." The official said that since 1993 the MSC Bank had sanctioned loans to 80 cooperative units controlled by Congress and NCP politicians. When the units failed to repay the loan, the MSC Bank moved the Bombay high court for recovery of Rs 2,322 crore, following which the state moved the SC, which on January 29 last year directed the state to pay Rs 1,049 in four equal instalments to the MSC Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-sugar-cooperative-fail-loan-test-but-maharashtra-government-to-stand-guarantee/articleshow/76792359.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
July 5, 2020||India||Will Xi Jinping’s muscle-flexing be counter-productive?||NEW DELHI: A bid to assert Chinese power to signal that the communist giant is far from weakened post Covid-induced economic and diplomatic shocks might end up posing bigger questions for China's supreme leader President Xi Jinping as India and other nations push back at Beijing's muscle-flexing. There are no signs that Xi's impressive control over the communist party and state apparatus has loosened or faces any imminent challenge but from being feted as "chairman of everything", the leader faces a long haul in regaining the momentum that had seen him ride over the economic slowdown in the Chinese economy in 2015-16 without breaking into a sweat. India-China border stand-off: Complete coverage The economic crunch China is now experiencing, and even more significantly the souring mood in western nations, including those that have indulged the regime in the past, is hurtful. Used to frequent travel abroad for work,study and tourism, the Chinese elite had come to see their nation's primacy as a settled fact. Read AlsoLAC face-off: PM Modi visits Ladakh, interacts with Army, Air Force and ITBP personnelPrime Minister Narendra Modi, along with CDS Bipin Rawat and Army Chief MM Naravane visited Ladakh on Friday morning to review the ground security situation amid the ongoing border face-off with China. During the day-long visit to the forward position in Nimu, Ladakh, they will be briefed on theThe entire Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) network was intended to further China's political goals and enmesh client countries in economic dependencies but now the ambitious project has taken a serious hit. Many countries are demanding rescheduling of debt and image-building exercise has been severely damaged by the charge that China hid the emergence of Covid infections for weeks on end. Read AlsoAmid LAC stand-off, India approves purchase of fighter jets, missiles worth Rs 38,900 croreWith India prepared for the long haul in the border confrontation with China, the defence ministry on Thursday approved several capital procurement projects worth Rs 38,900 crore. They include 33 new fighter jets, 300 long-range land-attack cruise missiles and 250 air-to-air missiles. The projectsDespite the harsh experience of his family being purged during the Cultural Revolution, Xi has been a party loyalist,completely wedded to the goal of retaining and refurbishing the communist party's legitimacy as sole arbiter of China's fortunes. This contract has largely rested on the party's ability to deliver economic progress and Xi has added to it a ruthless campaign against corruption that has also seen him take down rivals. Though China's recent aggression is intended to remind its neighbours near and afar (Australia) of their subservient position, things haven't gone to plan. India has responded to intrusions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) unambiguously, making it clear that it will not be deterred by the risk of escalation. Australia has shrugged off threats to halt imports and stall the influx of Chinese students. Japan and South East Asian countries have called on China to respect laws of the sea. Read AlsoIndia-China border row: A minor cool-off, but LAC’s still hotThere has been a slight reduction of troops at the four friction zones on the Line of Actual Control but there is no let-up in concentration and mobilisation of forces by India and China. The lengthy discussion between top Indian and Chinese military commanders held earlier this week is expected toThe flurry of criticism over new,restrictive laws in Hong Kong will not make Xi change his path. But it is a bewildering world for Chinese elites who have accepted the trade-off between democracy and economic well -being. In the short run, a tide of nationalism can help the leader deflect attention from pricklier matters. But Xi may find that the task of preserving the supremacy of the party in the eyes of the people has become more daunting. Watch Xi Jinping faces real challenge as India, other nations push back at Beijing's muscle-flexing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-xi-jinpings-muscle-flexing-be-counter-productive/articleshow/76792353.cms||Rajeev Deshpande
July 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Booth-level task forces to boost virus response||Bengaluru: The government has decided to form booth-level committees across Karnataka for all-round surveillance of Covid-19, including monitoring of people ordered home isolation. Bengaluru will have 8,800 such committees. After a meeting of Covid-19 task force on Saturday, medical education minister K Sudhakar said the local management of all issues related to the pandemic would be strengthened with the help of these committees. “There will be booth-level task force committees across the state, from villages to cities. They will act at ultra-local level,” he said. Each panel will have five to six members, including representatives from the health department, police and municipality or panchayat. Volunteers and valvemen will also be involved in the effort. Virus surveillance, tracking of ILI cases and coordination for ambulances and hospital beds will be part of the job. The state government is also making arrangements for telemedicine for asymptomatic patients who want to speak to a doctor. In another key decision, at least two ambulances will be stationed in each of the 198 wards of Bengaluru. Sudhakar said the additional commissioner of police (traffic) would be the nodal officer to coordinate the movement of ambulances. The task force has also appointed a nodal officer to track availability of beds and ventilators at hospitals. The officer will provide real-time information about the facilities. “We want to ensure that no one runs from one hospital to another,” Sudhakar said. Fresh guidelines have been issued for handling bodies at mortuaries, transporting them in ambulances, performing last rites, and fumigating beds. This follows outrage over disrespectful handling of bodies in a few places. “Legal action will be taken against those who treat bodies in an inhuman way,” Sudhakar said. The state-level task force has also decided to arrange for test reports within 24 hours and decided to increase the testing capacity from 15,000 a day to 25,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-booth-level-task-forces-to-boost-virus-response/articleshow/76792184.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Short on health infra, Vasai-Virar has 2,000 beds for 12,500 lakh people, Panvel 5,600 for 8 lakh||MUMBAI: Mumbai, the country’s financial capital, has roughly 50,000 hospital beds. While this figure falls short of the World Health Organisation’s ideal 1:200 bed-to-population ratio, Mumbai looks like a healthcare haven in comparison to the satellite cities around it. The nine civic bodies around the BMC that have reimposed a stringent lockdown due to worsening of the Covid-19 outbreak, have inadequate beds as well as medical staff. Healthcare for residents of these areas means going to the neighbourhood nursing home or taking a long drive to a hospital in Mumbai. The emergency over Covid-19 underlines this: Officials from these satellite towns have been calling up the BMC, and requesting beds and medicines for their patients, said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. Consider the Vasai-Virar township, which has 2,000 beds for 12.5 lakh people, according to the 2011 Census. This works out to one bed per 625 people. Panvel, touted as the next real estate destination in the Greater Mumbai region due to the second airport plan, has one 100-bedded sub-district hospital run by the state government for its eight lakh population. Healthcare is delivered by the 200-odd nursing homes and small private hospitals that collectively have 5,540 beds. Mira-Bhayander, home to 15 lakh people, has 2,740 beds. Its lone public entity—the 150-bedded Pandit Bhimsen Joshi Hospital in Bhayander (West)—came up after a 2007 PIL in the Bombay high court following the train blasts of July 2006. In the eastern end, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation claims the twin cities have 4,720 beds but KDMC only manages 220 of these—Rukminibai Hospital with 120 and Shastri Nagar Hospital with 100. Public health analyst Ravi Duggal said satellite cities don’t have a robust healthcare system when compared to Mumbai. “Many places such as Mira Road and Bhayander don’t have primary healthcare centres or dispensaries like Mumbai does,’’ he said. Only the two big satellite cities of Navi Mumbai and Thane are comparatively better. While the 22 lakh population of Thane city has access to 7,420 hospital beds (including 700 in the public sector), the 15 lakh-plus population of Navi Mumbai has 8,000 (600 public sector). “The private sector is clearly the main healthcare provider in both these cities,” said Duggal. But the three months of the Covid outbreak have shown most patients are being treated in public sector hospitals. And, this is where the satellite towns have fallen so woefully short. Moreover, most beds in the nine municipal entities around Mumbai are in the nursing home sector. “Except for a couple of big hospitals, one can only see 10-bedded or 15-bedded nursing homes in these areas,” added Duggal. Health budget is clearly inadequate here. Mira-Bhayander corporator Dhruvkishore Patil said the civic body’s health budget of Rs 10 crore is inadequate to meet the needs of the population. Panvel City Municipal Corporation spends only Rs 30 crore for healthcare. By contrast, the BMC has a health budget of Rs 4,260 crore for 2020. (Inputs by Malathy Iyer, Sandhya Nair, B B Nayak, Shrutika Sukhi, Umesh Parida & Pradeep Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-short-on-health-infra-vasai-virar-has-2000-beds-for-12500-lakh-people-panvel-5600-for-8-lakh/articleshow/76792355.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Jamshedpur||First casualties in Khunti, Jamshedpur; 3 deaths take Covid toll to 18||RANCHI: Three persons afflicted with the novel coronavirus died in Jharkhand in the biggest one-day spike in Covid-19 death toll. While East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur) and Khunti district recorded their first casualties, the toll in Shaibganj along the border with Bengal is now two. All the deceased were above 55 years in age and were admitted to hospital with other comorbidities. Meanwhile, with 42 fresh cases in 24 hours (six reported late on Friday night), Jharkhand’s total caseload now stands at 2,739, of which 686 are active, 18 have died and 2,035 have recovered (including 34 on Saturday). Among the casualties, two patients died at Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (Rims) and another at death at Tata Main Hospital, Jamshedpur. “A 66-year-old woman from Sahibganj and a 55-year-old man from Khunti died at our Covid-19 block in the early hours of Saturday. The woman was admitted with chronic kidney diseases and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome on Friday in a critical situation and the man was suffering from pneumonia and Cushing syndrome since June 19,” said a Rims official. In Jamshedpur, a 72-year-old cancer patient succumbed to the infection. “The patient who was admitted to TMH’s CCU for a week succumbed to the viral infection. The patient was under medication for two years,” said an IDSP official. Among the fresh cases, East Singhbhum recorded 13 new infections, Ranchi six, Dhanbad four, Palamu, Deoghar, Hazaribag, Saraikela two each and Giridih, Bokaro, Lohardaga and Pakur one each. Two of the infected persons infected in Dhanbad are journalists — the first scribes in the state to test positive. “More than 100 journalists have come in contact with the duo and all of them have quarantined themselves at home,” said a district administration official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/first-casualties-in-khunti-jamshedpur-3-deaths-take-covid-toll-to-18/articleshow/76796149.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 5, 2020||Ranchi||Police strengthen preventive measures after six personnel test positive||Ranchi: Alarmed by the detection of six Covid-19 positive personnel, the police department on Saturday took up contingency steps, including sanitisation of affected police stations and contact-tracing exercise to prevent further spread of the disease. One policeman each from Dhurva, Hindpiri, Bariyatu, Chutia and Argora stations and another from the police line were found positive on Friday. The cases were detected during a random checking of policemen recently. DGP MV Rao said, "We are on a lookout for persons who came in close contact with them." Ranchi SSP Surendra Kumar Jha said, "The affected persons have been isolated and sent to the Covid-designated treatment centre. The police are carrying out contact tracing of each of them so that samples of people at risk could be tested. The positive personnel will be quarantined until their reports are negative. In addition, a fumigation drive has been undertaken in the affected police stations." Sources said collection of samples and testing of the personnel started early on Saturday. Among the policemen who tested positive, one was primarily involved in interacting with the public at the Bariyatu police station. A senior police official said it is unlikely that people who came across infected policeman for a brief moment would become ill. He said the standard operating procedure would be followed in the case, adding that only after the personnel tested negative, they would be allowed to join duty. Following the incident, precautionary measures were strengthened at the Chutia police station. After fumigation, bleaching powder was strewn all over the campus. People were also prevented from entering the station building. The main gates of Argora police station were also closed even as people were allowed to enter from another gate. Bleaching powder was seen sprinkled all over the place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/police-strengthen-preventive-measures-after-six-personnel-test-positive/articleshow/76791142.cms||Sanjay Sahay
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal’s June unemployment rate far below nat’l avg: Didi||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday kicked off her campaign for TMC’s July 21 programme on a positive note by citing Monitoring of Indian Economy (CMIE) data for June 2020 to say that Bengal’s unemployment rate was far below the national average. Banerjee’s tweet attributed the low rate to Bengal’s “robust economic strategy” undertaken to tackle the two-pronged challenges of Covid-19 and Cyclone Amphan. The CM gave CMIE figures to say that the state’s unemployment rate was 6.5% in June 2020, way lower than the rate in Uttar Pradesh (9.6%) and Haryana (33.6%). Both UP and Haryana are BJP-ruled states. The rate, compared to a host of states, happened without the Centre’s support in the form of Garib Kalyan Rojgar Yojana Fund because Bengal doesn’t figure in the list of six states that have been included in the programme. Neither has the government worked out a Centre-state collaborative scheme that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has crafted for Uttar Pradesh. According to the CM, inclusion figures in MGNREGS (100-day work) were much higher than it was in May 2019. The state agriculture department has claimed there has been a huge increase in the net sown area for kharif crops. Both of these helped in absorbing large sections of the rural workforce and also a portion of migrant workers who returned home. This also explains why rural unemployment rate in Bengal is lower than in urban areas. A look at CMIE’s state-wise unemployment figures show at least two BJP-ruled states, namely Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh, that have an unemployment rate much less than Bengal’s. June 2020 data shows that Gujarat has a 2.8% unemployment rate, while it is 2.1% for Himachal. States with a higher degree of urbanization such as Delhi, Haryana and Maharashtra have a relatively high unemployment rate for June 2020. Economist Abhirup Sarkar pointed to both the positives and negatives of the state-wise unemployment data. He argued that unemployment rate was higher in urban areas across states because many people had the savings to sustain during lockdown and were not ready to offer themselves to any job and at lower rates. Most people in villages could not afford to stay at home for days together. Sarkar, while talking about the sunny side of the low unemployment rate in Bengal, said: “Many among the migrant workers who have returned home are skilled workers. Entrepreneurs have engaged them at relatively lower wages, thus turning the disadvantage into an advantage.” However, this has not happened for all in rural Bengal. “The lower unemployment rate particularly in rural Bengal also indicates the desperation among the rural workforce to offer them at lower wages to eke out a living,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengals-june-unemployment-rate-far-below-natl-avg-didi/articleshow/76792112.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||Flights from Del, Mum & 4 other cities can’t land in Kol from Mon||Kolkata: The ministry of civil aviation has announced suspension of flights to Kolkata from six Indian cities with high incidence of Covid-19 cases following a request by the Bengal government. “No flight shall operate to Kolkata from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad from July 6 to 19 or till further order. Inconvenience caused is regretted,” the Kolkata airport Twitter handle announced on Saturday afternoon. State chief secretary Rajiva Sinha wrote to civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola on Tuesday, asking for an embargo on flights from these cities as well as Surat and Indore. The flight count from Kolkata will reduce to 40 from the current 65 with this decision. Arrival of international repatriation flights has already been stopped to Kolkata following the state government’s request. This led to cancellation of five flights between July 1 and 15. Two of these flights were from the Gulf, two from the US and one from the UK. The civil aviation ministry may have acquiesced to these requests but officials hope to persuade the state government into dropping the other demand of curtailing flights from other cities by allowing only each airline to operate to Kolkata only once a week. Kharola on Friday urged Sinha to reconsider the request. Airlines, too, are hoping there is no further curtailment. Airline officials say it will be a logistical nightmare to operate just once a week. Travel agents, too, have pointed out such a plan will not be feasible as it will force passengers to book with multiple airlines for to-and-fro travel. Only those for whom travel is essential are flying right now and so curtailing flights further will cause even more inconvenience. Airlines say flyers from the northeast, who usually get connected to the rest of the country via Kolkata, will have the biggest problem. Industry insiders say travellers from Delhi or Mumbai can still fly to Kolkata but will have to first fly to another city (like Raipur or Bhubaneswar) from where flights are allowed to Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flights-from-del-mum-4-other-cities-cant-land-in-kol-from-mon/articleshow/76792080.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Two dead, five critical in South 24 Parganas clashes||MAIPITH (SOUTH 24 PARGANAS): A CPM-turned-Trinamool worker and a local SUCI leader died in back-to-back incidents of political violence at Maipith on the southernmost fringes of South 24 Parganas since Friday night, triggering a blame game among parties. Trinamool worker Aswini Jana (55) died on his way to SSKM Hospital after he was beaten up allegedly by SUCI supporters late on Friday. SUCI leader Sudhangshu Jana, on the other hand, was found hanging from a mahogany tree near his house on Saturday morning. Five others are admitted to SSKM and Baruipur hospitals with grievous injuries. While Trinamool Yuva leader Shaukat Molla insisted that Sudhangshu committed suicide, former SUCI MP Tarun Mandal claimed that Trinamool hoodlums raided his house and set it on fire. “When Sudhangshu came out of his house along with family members, he was lynched and his body hung from a tree,” Mandal said. Sources said Trinamool’s Nabakumar Giri was fighting for his life at SSKM and four SUCI supporters were critical at Baruipur hospital. Maipith has been on the boil since Thursday, when TMC and SUCI gram panchayat members had a face-off over 300 tarpaulins sent here for distribution among Amphan victims. Trinamool, which has six members in the 19-seat Maipith panchayat, runs it since it poached two SUCI members among the elected 11, besides two CPM members. Former MP Mandal said Trinamool goons on 12 bikes attacked the houses of SUCI supporters around 12.30am. “Our supporters blew conch shells to alert villagers about the attack. They came out and caught hold of some of the goons led by Aswini,” Mandal said. TMC’s Molla had a different story to tell. “It was a pre-planned attack by SUCI to regain its lost turf. SUCI men attacked Aswini’s house in the dead of night,” he said, denying retaliation. “As far as I know, Sudhangshu committed suicide,” he reiterated. A large police contingent has reached Maipith. Baruipur SP Rashidmunir Khan said: “There was political clash. One died on his way to SSKM. The other’s body was found hanging from a tree.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-dead-5-critical-in-s-24-pgs-clashes/articleshow/76792128.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal drafting SOP to facilitate Petrapole trade||Kolkata: The Bengal government is working on a standard operating procedure (SOP) to resolve the stalemate at the Petrapole checkpoint on Indo-Bangla border. State officials hope the SOP will be ready in a day or two even though the message hasn’t yet reached the subdivisional administration. Bongaon SDO Kakoli Mukherjee, who has to follow the SOP, says she has no knowledge of one being drafted. “The subdivisional administration has not been officially informed about the subject,” she said. Officials hinted that the state was consulting health experts before drawing up the SOP, which would include ways to sanitise trucks before letting them in from Bangladesh. Indian exports to Bangladesh via Petrapole came to a grinding halt on Thursday after Bangladeshi traders refused to do business until India allowed import trucks into its territory. Traders in Bangladesh had last allowed 80 trucks from India to ferry perishable goods and machinery on Wednesday. The state administration sprung into action over the Petrapole stalemate after regional chairman of the Federation of Indian Exports Organisations Sushil Patwari sent a mail to chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday. Patwari also spoke to home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. Customs Clearing Ag-ents Association secretary Kartick Chakraborty told TOI that efforts were on to resolve the crisis. “It is quite natural for Bangladesh to not accept our goods if we don’t allow imports from that country,” he said. Petrapole Land Port Authority manager Suvajit Mandal said they would need five-six hours to get ready once the state communicated its decision. Mandal added that the trucks coming to Petrapole could either stock their goods in the warehouse or transfer the consignment onto Indian trucks. “We have to be extra careful while spraying disinfectants, as it might damage garments coming in from Bangladesh,” he added. Things, however, have not been so complex at the Changrabandha checkpoint in Cooch Behar where movement of goods vehicles became normal hours within the chief minister making the announcement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-drafting-sop-to-facilitate-petrapole-trade/articleshow/76792116.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Ranchi||Steel City hosp crowdfunds Covid testing machine||Jamshedpur: Jamshedpur’s biggest state-run hospital, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital (MGMMCH), bought a high-end Covid-19 testing machine with monetary support from corporates and civil society members. The campaign to procure an RNX-96 machine, bought for Rs 30 lakh, received generous support from industrialists and entrepreneurs of Jamshedpur, Adityapur and Chaibasa. Appreciating the role of the civil society in joining hands with the district administration, DC Ravi Shankar Shukla said, “Their cooperation will help us fight the pandemic.” MGMMCH was the first hospital in the state to start Covid-19 tests with its RT-PCR machine. The hospital later bought another machine. “With the installation of the third machine, the daily testing count at the medical college will now increase to 1,000 from the current 300,” Shukla said. The Jamshedpur unit of the Indian Red Cross Society, which played a pivotal role in sourcing funds , said the donors have been generous in supporting the cause. “Whoever we reached out to with a request for donations responded generously,” said Vijay Kumar Singh, the secretary of the society’s Jamshedpur unit. Singh said Rungta Mines Pvt Ltd, Jamipol Ltd, Ram Krishna Foundation (an organization of Ram Krishna Forging Pvt Ltd) contributed Rs 5 lakh each while Adityapur Small Industries Association (ASIA) contributed Rs 4.5 lakh. Besides, Triveni Pvt Ltd and hotelier Ronnie D’Costa, among others who contributed in the endeavour. “So far, we have collected Rs 22 lakh and the remaining will arrive in the next few days and subsequently we will pay the amount to the company,” Singh said. ASIA president Inder Agarwal said entrepreneurs have always been supportive to the cause of human welfare and the support to MGMMCH is a manifestation of that spirit. “Covid-19 has hit society hard. It is a time to forge partnership to fight the disease united,” Agarwal said. MGMMCH principal Prashant Kumar Barla said the installation of the RNX-96 machine is currently underway and will become functional by next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/steel-city-hosp-crowdfunds-covid-testing-machine/articleshow/76791149.cms||B Sridhar
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||3 BSF men injured as smuggling bid foiled||Kolkata: The BSF thwarted an attempt by Bangladeshi nationals to smuggle in ganja into Bengal through the Bansghata border outpost in Bagdah, North 24 Parganas, early on Friday. While three BSF personnel were injured in the incident, 8kg ganja abandoned by the fleeing smugglers were seized. According to BSF officers, the troops fired five rounds from their non-lethal pump-action guns (PAGs) to chase away the group of Bangladeshis around 3.30am on Friday. “There are unconfirmed reports that 1-2 smugglers were injured and carried away into Bangladesh by their associates. The troops had to use their PAGs after 10-12 smugglers attacked them with choppers and other weapons. All this happened opposite the Border Guard Bangladesh outpost of Dhankhola in Sharsha, Jessore,” a senior BSF officer said. Initially, only a single round was fired to disperse the Bangladeshi group, but then the intruders regrouped and charged towards the BSF troops, forcing the latter to fire four more shots, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-bsf-men-injured-as-smuggling-bid-foiled/articleshow/76792125.cms||Jayanta Gupta
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Covid cost’ makes a debut in school accounts books||KOLKATA: The disease that has infected more than a crore and killed more than 5 lakh globally is now on its way to entering the accounts books of some Kolkata schools. Twenty-four schools run by the Kolkata Diocese of the Church of North India are adding a “Covid Cost” as a sub-set within their maintenance cost section. Officials say this will help them meet the “substantial expenses” that they will incur as they undertake various measures to preempt the spread of the virus on campuses. But no decision has been taken on whether this extra expense will be passed on to students, say school officials. These 24 schools have already started sanitisation procedures and are installing systems, which will be in place in the next one month, as part of their preparation to resume classes as and when the government nod comes. All of them have been asked to draw up details of the sanitisation work, the additional expenses they have already incurred and the extra expenses they are likely to incur as part of their resumption preparedness. The additional “Covid Cost”, according to the report being prepared, will be 12% of the current expenses in at least 13 bigger schools under the CNI. The extra expense for 11 smaller schools is not likely to be less than 10%. Most of the campuses are open even though students may not be going to school, the report says; non- teaching and administrative staff are coming to work, necessitating daily sanitisation work. Classrooms, other academic spaces and toilets used by teachers and students are largely untouched now but regular sanitization drills will start by July-end in anticipation of classroom-teaching resumption. Bishop Paritosh Canning had last week issued directives to principals of 13 schools who met for fee rationalization talks, following which 25% of computer, library and sports/games fees were waived. Schools say there has been a “negative cash flow” because of non-payment of fees by a section of parents in the first quarter. Additional expenses for payment of increments to teachers because of the Sixth Pay Commission have added to the burden. “We are appealing to parents to start paying arrears immediately. The Covid Cost is an extra burden but cannot be avoided,” Bishop Canning said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-cost-makes-a-debut-in-school-accounts-books/articleshow/76792086.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 5, 2020||Kolkata||House blast kills 2 in Murshidabad||Behrampore/Barasat: Two persons were killed and five injured when bombs stockpiled in a house went off in Murshidabad’s Suti on Friday. The flag of an hitherto unidentified outfit has been recovered from the rubble. Preliminary investigation suggest the deceased and the injured were outsiders who possibly had been hired to make bombs in the house that belonged to one Tajuddin Sheikh. Deceased Titu Shiekh (28) was a native of Samserganj and Maharul Sheikh (33) was from Farakka. Villagers have told police that the incident has its roots in a local land dispute. They also claimed that two men who sustained splinter injuries escaped before police reached the spot. The area has been cordoned off for evidence collection. Jangipur additional SP Sandip Kara and SDPO Prasenjit Bandyopadhyay said police would quiz the injured now admitted to Murshidabad Medical College. The Murshidabad bomb explosion comes close on the heels of a similar incident in Birbhum. Crude bombs stocked in an abandoned pump house at Ilambazar had gone off on Wednesday. Twelve injured in clash over Amphan relief: As many as 12 people were injured and four houses ransacked during a Trinamool-BJP clash over distribution of Amphan relief at Maslandapur in North 24 Parganas on Saturday. In yet another clash between Trinamool and BJP supporters, six persons were injured at Barrackpore’s Kundu Bari More. The trigger involved installation of a statue of Syama Prasad Mookerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/house-blast-kills-2-in-murshidabad/articleshow/76792130.cms||Sukumar Mahato
July 5, 2020||Ranchi||First casualties in Khunti, Jamshedpur; 3 deaths take Covid toll to 18||RANCHI: Three persons afflicted with the novel coronavirus died in Jharkhand in the biggest one-day spike in Covid-19 death toll. While East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur) and Khunti district recorded their first casualties, the toll in Shaibganj along the border with Bengal is now two. All the deceased were above 55 years in age and were admitted to hospital with other comorbidities. Meanwhile, with 42 fresh cases in 24 hours (six reported late on Friday night), Jharkhand’s total caseload now stands at 2,739, of which 686 are active, 18 have died and 2,035 have recovered (including 34 on Saturday). Among the casualties, two patients died at Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (Rims) and another at death at Tata Main Hospital, Jamshedpur. “A 66-year-old woman from Sahibganj and a 55-year-old man from Khunti died at our Covid-19 block in the early hours of Saturday. The woman was admitted with chronic kidney diseases and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome on Friday in a critical situation and the man was suffering from pneumonia and Cushing syndrome since June 19,” said a Rims official. In Jamshedpur, a 72-year-old cancer patient succumbed to the infection. “The patient who was admitted to TMH’s CCU for a week succumbed to the viral infection. The patient was under medication for two years,” said an IDSP official. Among the fresh cases, East Singhbhum recorded 13 new infections, Ranchi six, Dhanbad four, Palamu, Deoghar, Hazaribag, Saraikela two each and Giridih, Bokaro, Lohardaga and Pakur one each. Two of the infected persons infected in Dhanbad are journalists — the first scribes in the state to test positive. “More than 100 journalists have come in contact with the duo and all of them have quarantined themselves at home,” said a district administration official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/first-casualties-in-khunti-jamshedpur-3-deaths-take-covid-toll-to-18/articleshow/76791165.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 5, 2020||Ranchi||CRPF, cops manage to avert Covid, curb extremism in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Despite a threat from an invisible enemy — Covid-19 — the state unit of CRPF and police successfully managed to curb Left-wing extremism (LWE) in Jharkhand and killed eight rebels and apprehended at least 32 others during its operations in the first six months of the year. Notably, all the eight rebels belonging to CPI (Maoists) were killed during the lockdown period. It may be noted that Moists in the neighbouring state of Chhattisgarh had called for a truce during Covid-19, but the state forces saw a ploy and upped its ante against the banned outfits and found they were increasing their base in Jharkhand. A decision was taken to continue its operations which resulted in curbing LWE activities in the state. Jharkhand DGP M V Rao had announced police would carry out a month-long offensive against extremism. The dogged persistence of the forces also saw six extremists laying their arms under the state government’s surrender policy. The reward amount on the heads of these six rebels ranged from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh. CRPF inspector general Raj Kumar said, “Despite the Covid-19 threat, the extremists continued to indulge in arson and violence to spread fear and collect levy. The state forces carried out operations in sensitive areas to either eliminate or flush out the rebels.” Kumar added, “Even during the operations, our jawans followed the standard operating procedures for prevention of Covid-19. None of them were infected during the operations.” Through the operations, police recovered 12 regular and 26 country-made weapons during the first half of the year. In addition, 133 improvised explosive devices and 1,215kg explosives were also seized. On police’s side, it lost two of its personnel in May in an encounter with extremists in West Singhbhum district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/crpf-cops-manage-to-avert-covid-curb-extremism-in-state/articleshow/76791160.cms||Sanjay Sahay
July 5, 2020||Jamshedpur||CRPF, cops manage to avert Covid, curb extremism in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Despite a threat from an invisible enemy — Covid-19 — the state unit of CRPF and police successfully managed to curb Left-wing extremism (LWE) in Jharkhand and killed eight rebels and apprehended at least 32 others during its operations in the first six months of the year. Notably, all the eight rebels belonging to CPI (Maoists) were killed during the lockdown period. It may be noted that Moists in the neighbouring state of Chhattisgarh had called for a truce during Covid-19, but the state forces saw a ploy and upped its ante against the banned outfits and found they were increasing their base in Jharkhand. A decision was taken to continue its operations which resulted in curbing LWE activities in the state. Jharkhand DGP M V Rao had announced police would carry out a month-long offensive against extremism. The dogged persistence of the forces also saw six extremists laying their arms under the state government’s surrender policy. The reward amount on the heads of these six rebels ranged from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh. CRPF inspector general Raj Kumar said, “Despite the Covid-19 threat, the extremists continued to indulge in arson and violence to spread fear and collect levy. The state forces carried out operations in sensitive areas to either eliminate or flush out the rebels.” Kumar added, “Even during the operations, our jawans followed the standard operating procedures for prevention of Covid-19. None of them were infected during the operations.” Through the operations, police recovered 12 regular and 26 country-made weapons during the first half of the year. In addition, 133 improvised explosive devices and 1,215kg explosives were also seized. On police’s side, it lost two of its personnel in May in an encounter with extremists in West Singhbhum district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/crpf-cops-manage-to-avert-covid-curb-extremism-in-state/articleshow/76796203.cms||Sanjay Sahay
July 5, 2020||Ranchi||Fighting Covid-19: 'Backward' Jharkhand district scripts success story||RANCHI/GUMLA: Cut off from the mainstream and with very little healthcare infrastructure, the tribal-dominated Simdega district has beaten all odds and emerged as a model to follow for administrative and healthcare officials in the 23 other districts of Jharkhand. Battered by the Covid-19 outbreak in the first half of June, Simdega, with a population of about 7.5 lakh, had become the worst-affected district in Jharkhand as many returning migrants tested positive for the virus. Until May 29, Simdega had recorded just 27 positive cases, but on June 8, the district recorded 59 positive cases — all but two were migrants — in the biggest one-day spike for any district in Jharkhand till date. By June 23, Simdega became the worst affected district with 348 positive cases, of which 119 were active and one patient had died. East Singhbhum was second with a total of 344 cases (176 active). The future seemed dire for this Maoist-dominated area on the fringes of Saranda forests along the Jharkhand-Odisha-Chhattisgarh trijunction, 120km from Ranchi. But over the next couple of weeks, officials here pulled a miracle of sorts — the recovery rate soared and the number of new cases reduced to a trickle as the number of returning migrants fell. On Saturday afternoon, Simdega had a total caseload of 353, but only four are active and the number of casualties remains at one. With a recovery rate of almost 99%, mortality rate of 0.3% and just two new infections detected in the last week, Simdega is now on the path to become Covid-free, a miracle for a district that has just one private hospital, an understaffed govt hospital (22 doctors available against a sanctioned strength of 40) and not a single ventilator. In 2018, a Niti Aayog “delta ranking” list based on health, education and economic indicators had put Simdega among the 20 most backward districts in the country. Known as a “district of unwed mothers” — a large number of girls and women from Simdega work as domestic helps in cities across the country and are often sexually exploited by human traffickers and employers, the district has even fared better than urban areas like Ranchi and Jamshedpur, which have much better healthcare facilities. All but seven Covid cases in Simdega are migrant workers, indicating that the authorities were successful with their quarantine and isolation protocols. The returning were not even allowed to meet their families on arrival and put under quarantine immediately. Talking to TOI, Simdega deputy commissioner Mrityunjay Kumar Barnwal said the administration was prepared to handle the Covid situation well before the outbreak started here on April 14. “We knew that containing the spread of the virus was the key to success. It would have been difficult — almost impossible — to manage the active patients if the number of new infections was not controlled,” he said. This strategy was key for a district that is perpetually short of medical professionals and grapples with an inadequately-equipped district hospital. “In the beginning of April, we set up a 50-bed Covid care facility, but the capacity was increased to 200 as the number of new infections started increasing,” he said. Barnwal said that they implemented the three-layer protocol devised by the Centre and the state to the tee. “The returning migrants were put under institutional quarantine and tested immediately. Those found infected were shifted to the Covid care centre and administered prophylactic treatment,” he said. Without a single RT-PCR machine available in the district (samples from Simdega are sent to Ranchi for this testing), officials brought in a TrueNat machine and the number of tests was ramped up from 30-odd a day to 100 tests each day. Simdega civil surgeon P K Sinha said samples testing positive on TrueNat had to be sent to Ranchi for confirmation. “We now have confirmatory kits that are being used to conduct tests on samples testing positive on the TrueNat machine,” he said. The officials then conducted a profile study of the patients to ascertain the chances of them infecting their contacts and were quick with tracing drives. There were issues with data collection, but that did not hamper the anti-Covid efforts. S Parvez, nodal officer for Covid in Simdega, said the number of cases recorded on June 8 was 57, not 59 as there was a repetition of two cases. “Of them, 32 were from Mumbai, seven from Tamil Nadu, six from Ahmedabad and Delhi each, four from Noida and two locals. “We not only ensured their isolation, but also screened all those coming from these hotspots,” Barnwal said. The state health department is yet to rectify the anomaly in the figures it releases every day. Speaking about the treatment protocol, Sinha said most patients were asymptomatic, but were administered with Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and a dose of zinc and vitamin C. “The patients responded and recovered quickly,” he said, adding that there were just about five patients with mild symptoms. Even the lone Covid casualty in Simdega — a man in his 70s — was suffering from chronic kidney disease and hypertension and his death at a hospital in Ranchi was not linked with coronavirus complications, health workers said. However, while Simdega seems to have won the battle against coronavirus in the first phase, officials realise this is not the time to slacken. “While we have controlled the spread of the virus for now, my officials and I are on alert and have not let our guard down. All the norms and protocols that helped us contain the virus will be followed till the virus is defeated,” Barnwal said. Watch 'Backward' Jharkhand district scripts success story in fighting Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/backward-simdega-scripts-a-success-story/articleshow/76791135.cms||---
July 5, 2020||India||Days after walling China companies, govt launches app challenge||NEW DELHI: Days after his government issued an order to block 59 Chinese apps, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday invited the country’s start-up and tech community to participate in the ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge’. In a tweet, electronics and information technology (IT) minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that the Prime Minister has launched the challenge to encourage Indian application developers and innovators. Prime Minister Modi also said that it will help create an “Aatmanirbhar App Ecosystem”. “Who knows, I may also use some of these apps made by you,” he said in a write-up on LinkedIn. Today there is immense enthusiasm among the tech and start-up community to create world class “Made in India Apps”, the PM said. “To facilitate their ideas and products, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology along with the Atal Innovation Mission are launching the ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge’,” the Prime Minister tweeted, sharing the link to the LinkedIn post. Modi had given a call for an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (a self-reliant India) and had urged people to be “vocal for local” products. He said the app innovation challenge is for those who have such a working product or if they feel they have the vision and expertise to create such products. “I urge all my friends in the tech community to participate,” he said while sharing the write-up “Let us Code for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat”. India has a very vibrant tech and start-up ecosystem, which has done India proud nationally as well as globally, PM Modi said. The country’s youth have excelled in providing tech solutions across sectors, he added. “The Covid-19 pandemic has also brought about a big disruption, which is being tackled through the use of technology to aid our day to day lives,” the Prime Minister pointed out. Everyone is aware of the huge potential of the market and the scale products can achieve if they can satisfy the demand, he said. “Nowadays, we are seeing huge interest and enthusiasm among the start-up and tech ecosystem to innovate, develop and promote homegrown apps,” PM said. “Today, when the entire nation is working towards creating an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, it is a good opportunity to give direction to their efforts, momentum to their hard-work and mentorship to their talent to evolve apps which can satisfy our market as well as compete with the world,” PM said in the write-up. To help the start-up and tech community achieve this objective, the challenge will run in two tracks, which are promotion of existing apps and development of new apps, Modi explained. For promotion of existing apps and platforms across the categories of e-learning, work-from-home, gaming, business, entertainment, office utilities and social networking, the government will provide mentoring, hand-holding and support. “Track-01” will work in mission mode for identifying good quality apps for the leader-board and will be completed in around a month. For incubating new apps and platforms, the “Track-02” initiative will work to help create new champions in India by providing support in ideation, incubation, prototyping and roll out along with market access. “Can we think of making traditional Indian games more popular via apps? Can we develop apps with targeted and smart access to the right age group for learning, gaming? Can we develop gaming apps for people in rehabilitation or getting counselling to help them in their journey? There are many such questions and technology alone can give answers in a creative manner,” Modi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/days-after-walling-china-companies-govt-launches-app-challenge/articleshow/76792384.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru adds 1,172 cases in a day; Karnataka tally over 21,500||BENGALURU: In an ominous sign of the way the pandemic could play out in the next few weeks, Karnataka’s Covid-19 caseload crossed 21,000 on Saturday, with the state reporting 1,839 more cases. With this, the tally touched 21,549. What’s worse, Bengaluru, for the first time, reported more than 1,000 cases a day, with a tally of 1,172. The day also saw 42 deaths all over the state, the highest reported so far. Of these, 24 were from Bengaluru, including two who died at home. There are 226 patients in ICUs across the state, including 124 in Bengaluru alone. Home isolation age raised Meanwhile, in revised guidelines for home isolation of Covid patients issued on Saturday, the state government has set the upper age limit as 60 years, against the 50 years said a day ago. It means persons below 60 years who have very mild symptoms or no symptoms are allowed to stay in home isolation. Children below the age of ten years will also be allowed home isolation now if they are asymptomatic. However, home isolation will not be applicable for those with comorbidities and pregnant women four weeks before the expected date of delivery. Dedicated tele-monitoring facility will be established by the government for daily follow-up of patients during the entire period of home isolation, health department authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-adds-1172-cases-in-a-day-karnataka-tally-over-21500/articleshow/76792390.cms||---
July 5, 2020||India||Comments on medical facility in Leh ‘malicious’, says Army||NEW DELHI: The Army has rejected as “malicious and unsubstantiated” the allegations by “some quarters” on social media and elsewhere about PM Narendra Modi’s visit to the military hospital at Leh being stage-managed on Friday. The PM, accompanied by Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and Army chief General M M Naravane, had visited the 153 General Military Hospital at Leh to interact with the 18 soldiers who were wounded in the skirmish with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley on June 15. Citing the official pictures released, some took to social media to claim the hospital ward looked more like a hall, with a video projector and screen being clearly visible while no medical equipment could be spotted. The Army, in an official statement on Saturday, said the hospital’s “training audio-video hall” had been converted into a ward ever since the hospital had been designated as a Covid-19 treatment facility, which required some wards to be converted into isolation facilities. “The injured soldiers have been kept there since their arrival from Galwan to ensure quarantine from Covid-19 isolation facilities. The Army chief had also visited the injured in the same location earlier,” said the Army. “It is clarified the said facility is part of the crisis expansion capacity of 100 beds and is very much part of the hospital complex. It is unfortunate that aspersions are being cast on how our brave armed forces are treated. The armed forces give the best possible treatment to their personnel,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/comments-on-medical-facility-in-leh-malicious-says-army/articleshow/76792401.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Mumbai||Heavy rain throws Mumbai out of gear, yellow alert for Sunday||MUMBAI: Rains lashed Mumbai and the rest of the Konkan region for the second consecutive day on Saturday, causing severe waterlogging and massive traffic disruptions in several areas. While Thane received the maximum rain (213.3mm) in the region, in Mumbai, Kandivli got the highest (184.3mm). It did not rain as heavily in the island city, though. As usual, the high rain intensity caused waterlogging, wall collapses, tree crashes and a staircase fall, though no injuries were reported. Waterlogging in many low-lying areas continued till late on Saturday and BMC workers struggled to pump water out. A yellow alert, indicating heavy rain at isolated places, was issued for parts of Mumbai, Thane, and Raigad for Sunday. While the IMD’s Santacruz observatory recorded 132.2mm in 12 hours starting from 8.30am on Saturday, its Colaba observatory recorded 74.6mm. The day started with intermittent heavy showers during the morning, and rain activity picked up in the afternoon. In comparison, the two observatories had recorded 102.7mm and 161.4mm, respectively, on Friday. “Due to active monsoon conditions, the entire Konkan coast, including Mumbai, is experiencing an intense spell of rainfall. The monsoon remains widespread and active over the entire Konkan belt, including Mumbai... Interior Maharashtra also received fairly widespread rainfall, but mostly moderate to isolated heavy rainfall. Intense rain activity was very likely along the west coast (including Mumbai) and adjoining ghat areas of interior Maharashtra till (the end of) Saturday. There will be a gradual reduction thereafter,” said a press release issued by the IMD. Navi Mumbai received 104mm on average; Panvel’s municipal area and Nerul received 142mm and 119mm, respectively. For Sunday, IMD has forecast that intermittent moderate to heavy rain is very likely in Mumbai and its satellites and there is a possibility of very heavy to extremely heavy rain at isolated places. On Saturday, the BMC received water-logging complaints from 10 places, mostly low lying areas. It also got complaints on four wall collapses, 32 tree falls and 10 short-circuits. Water-logging affected traffic movement in the city. Massive jams were seen at 38 spots. Diversions were required at three locations in Andheri and Sion. Traffic movement on both sides of King’s Circle (police station end) and Gandhi Market was severely disrupted due to flooding. An MSRTC bus was stuck in the middle of the road below the flyover, affecting traffic. The flyover experienced a massive jam too. The authorities said that water levels started rising from 3pm onwards as rain picked up. The police had to divert vehicles via Bhau Daji Road. In Thane, a part of a nullah embankment at Chandanwadi suffered damage due to strong water currents, following which residents from seven hutments along the nullah had to be evacuated and shifted to a temporary structure. Sahar resident and former corporator Nicholas Almeida said rainwater from several areas in Andheri and Vile Parle flows to nullahs joining Mithi River. “Non-cleaning of drains and nullahs may lead to flooding in and around Mumbai Airport,” he said. Watch Mumbai Rains: Heavy downpour throws city out of gear||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/heavy-rain-throws-mumbai-out-of-gear-yellow-alert-for-sunday/articleshow/76792370.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa splits up Covid duties to pacify senior ministers||BENGALURU: Faced with a bunch of restive ministers, chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday mollified them by giving them different responsibilities in Covid-19 management. Revenue minister R Ashoka, who was miffed after being detached from the team, has been entrusted with handling private hospitals along with CM’s political secretary SR Vishwanath. Ashoka had recently stood in for medical education minister K Sudhakar for a week when the latter was in home quarantine. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan, who was also missing in action for some time, will now oversee Covid Care Centres (CCC). These decisions were taken at the task force meeting chaired by Yediyurappa on Saturday. Sudhakar to devise policies, share Covid info with mediaSudhakar will continue to steer Covid management by devising policies and guidelines as well as overseeing the war room and briefing media. “I’ve been entrusted with sharing all Covid details with media,’’ he said. He added that the CM made these changes to ensure better coordination in treatment for patients in Bengaluru. “The CM asked all of us to work together, besides fulfilling our individual responsibilities,’’ he added. ‘Lockdown not necessary’Following suggestions by experts, Sudhakar said some members of the task force felt that lockdown is not necessary now. “The issue was discussed and Ashwath Narayan and I told the CM that lockdown is not needed under the present conditions. The CM will take a final call on this,” he said. However, the Sunday curfew, starting today, will continue for the next four weeks. The CM directed taskforce members and officials to ensure a strict seal-down in containment zones to contain spread of the virus, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-splits-up-covid-duties-to-pacify-senior-ministers/articleshow/76792407.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Woman suffering from asthma denied entry by 7 hospitals; dies||BENGALURU: A 49-year-old woman from Binnypet, off Mysore Road, died after seven hospitals allegedly denied treatment to her. Her death comes nine days after her daughter’s marriage. The woman, an asthma patient, had been suffering from fever for three days. On Friday at 7pm, she complained of breathlessness. Her husband, an electrician, took her to several hospitals, but they refused to admit her. A family member said: “When we said she’s having breathing issues, they all insisted on getting the Covid-19 test done first. We went to KC General hospital twice. At 11pm, she was taken to the hospital again as she fell unconscious. The staff took her inside for a check-up, and in a few minutes, declared that she was dead.” The husband alleged the woman’s gold ornaments were missing when the staff handed over the body. The woman was not subjected to Covid-19 test and cremated on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-woman-suffering-from-asthma-denied-entry-by-7-hospitals-dies/articleshow/76792415.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Not Covid centres, need more ICU beds, say doctors||Doctors are frustrated with the way the Delhi government is opening more and more Covid care facilities in banquet halls and hotels even as more than 9,000 Covid beds in hospitals lie vacant. They questioned the government’s focus on creating more beds, while the looming shortage is of ICU beds with ventilators, of which less than 300 are currently unoccupied. “No one knows how much money is being spent on hiring so many banquet halls and renting cots, mattresses and pillows . Yet, when it comes to crucial life-saving equipment like ventilators, the government buys cheap ones that cannot function as they are meant to,” said a doctor in a government hospital. There was no comment from the Delhi government, despite repeated attempts by TOI to get a response. The biggest demand is for ICU beds, especially ventilator beds. Nearly 65% of non-ICU Covid beds in Delhi are vacant. While data on Covid care centres is not available regularly, the last update on July 2 showed over 75% of beds, about 6,000, were vacant in the existing ones. Most hotels with Covid beds emptyIn addition to its own resources, Delhi has been promised a 1,000-bed facility with 250 ICU beds being developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and a 10,200-bed facility, of which 10% will be equipped with oxygen support, to be operated by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP). Another 8,000 beds in railway coaches are said to be ready, though Delhi government complained that only 200 had been handed over. MHA had hit back by pointing out that only 24 patients had been referred to these coaches so far. The government’s protocol is for mild, pre-symptomatic or asymptomatic cases to be kept in home isolation unless there isn’t any facility at home for segregation. Only about 20% of those infected show moderate to severe symptoms that might require hospitalisation or oxygenation, while 5% could require ICU care. Many patients need treatment for weeks in the ICU, which is why there is pressure for ICU beds, explained a Covid hospital doctor. Going by the announcements, 77 banquet halls have been hired to create over 11,200 beds. But the government is struggling to find trained personnel to run these centres, offering doctors pay per bed. Many banquet halls have been attached to government hospitals, which have the highest vacancy in all categories of Covid beds — regular ones, ICU beds and ICU beds with ventilator. Banquet hall owners, in a petition in the Delhi high court against their facilities being taken over, pointed out that most banquet halls had only half-a-dozen toilets for the hundred-plus beds being put into them. Expenditure for these facilities will come from the Delhi State Health Mission fund for Covid-19 and if that does not suffice from the Delhi government’s budget, say the orders. TOI’s attempts to get a response to questions on how much is being spent on them and the rationale behind these facilities proved futile. Five hotels attached to five private hospitals are mostly lying empty as hospitals still have vacant Covid beds. It is the ICU beds in these hospitals that are getting full. The government plans to expand to 40 hotels. “Our hands are full looking after patients in the hospitals. Imagine the nightmare of providing proper care to patients in a hotel which is separate from the hospital. The need is to expand critical beds in hospitals, not just regular beds,” said a senior consultant in a private hospital which has a hotel attached to it. “The Delhi government was to operationalise its 1,250-bed hospital in Dwarka, a 600-bed facility in Ambedkar Nagar and a 772-bed hospital in Burari. Why didn’t they work on that instead of spending on these temporary facilities? The city would have added substantially to its public health infrastructure,” said a senior government doctor. On June 27, the government issued an order to make 450 beds operational in the Burari hospital. “Most of the new isolation beds created for the pandemic reminds one of the provision of six beds at each primary health centre in India. They add to the numbers, but are not useful when needed because of low functionality,” remarked a public health specialist. Watch Doctors question Delhi govt's focus on creating more beds, raise concern on dearth of ICU beds||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-not-covid-centres-need-more-icu-beds-say-doctors/articleshow/76792416.cms||Rema Nagarajan
July 5, 2020||India||Congress to PM: Tell country truth about incursions||NEW DELHI: Displaying satellite pictures, Congress Saturday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tell the country if areas near Pangong lake and Hot Springs, and Patrol Point 14 in Galwan Valley have been occupied by China. Congress also asked the PM if BJP councillors from Ladakh had submitted to him a memorandum on February 20 alleging that China had occupied Indian territory and what action he took on that complaint. A day after the PM visited Ladakh, Congress spokesman Kapil Sibal asked why was Modi not naming China or accepting Chinese encroachment of Indian territory, arguing that it was weakening India’s case against the aggression across LAC. “The situation on the border is very serious. Showing red eyes to China will come later. Please tell the truth to the country first,” Sibal told the Prime Minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-to-pm-tell-country-truth-about-incursions/articleshow/76792419.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||At 25%, Telangana tops positivity rate chart||HYDERABAD/NEW DELHI: From being among one of the better states in terms of incidence of coronavirus cases, Telangana’s positivity rate, or total confirmed cases per 100 tests, in the past two weeks has gone up to 25% — more than double the positivity rate recorded in the previous fortnight — and the state is in first position followed by Maharashtra and Delhi. One of the key factors for the spike in the positivity rate is Telangana has ramped up its testing numbers only about a fortnight back, increasing from less than 1,000 tests per day to over 6,400 on Saturday. A high positivity rate can be indicative of a state not testing enough and only testing the sickest. Extensive tracing and testing are key to containment of the pandemic, restricting it from spreading to a larger population. Also, lower positivity can lead to lower fatality as cases are detected at an early stage and adequate measures can be adopted in time. Overall, the consolidated all-India positivity rate of all states together has risen to a worrisome 8.63% during this period as compared to 7.77% in the previous fortnight and 7.4% the fortnight before. The high incidence states are making their presence felt. Delhi’s positivity rate between June 19 and July 2 (a 14-day period as per WHO is a yardstick to judge progress in Covid-19 control) came down to 16.4% from a high of 29.7% during the June 5-18 period. Telangana took top spot at 25% ahead of Maharashtra at 22% and Tamil Nadu and Gujarat at 11% each. Delhi aided by higher testingAmong the top 10 states that have seen the pandemic spreading faster with positivity rate of 5% and above during the last 14 days include Telangana, Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Haryana (8%), Karnataka (6%), West Bengal (5%) and Odisha (5%). Delhi has been aided by higher testing. Between June 5-8, the state conducted 79,000 tests which increased to 2.38 lakh during the fortnight between June 19 and July 2. This has also resulted in the positivity rate coming down. Maharashtra has almost maintained its positivity rate, though at a high of 21%-22% over the last three fortnights. This is reason for some satisfaction as the incidence of the disease is not rising.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/at-25-telangana-tops-positivity-rate-chart/articleshow/76792437.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 stigma: Pulmonologist asked to leave star hotel in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Dr Satyanarayana Mysore, a pulmonologist involved in Covid-19 care, was allegedly forced to leave a star hotel on Old Airport Road where he was staying. The 52-year-old doctor, who works as head of the department of pulmonology, respiratory medicine at Manipal Hospital, had checked into Leela Palace on June 28 so as to stay close to his hospital 24/7. On July 2, he was asked by the hotel management to stay at the quarantine facility of the hotel on another floor. The doctor informed them he could not be quarantined as his purpose of staying in the hotel was to attend to his patients at a given time of the day. But his appeals fell on deaf ears. Upset with the humiliation, he checked out of the hotel on July 2 and got accommodation in another place. The outrageous treatment faced by the doctor has triggered a debate on social media. “When I was asked to leave, I tried to explain to the hotel spokesperson that I get my temperature checked four times a day—twice in the hotel and twice in the hospital. Being a doctor, I’m well aware of my health condition, and responsible as well. I checked out from Leela Palace after the humiliation,” the doctor told TOI. He said the hotel staff apologised to him later. “I have asked the management to ensure the staff who communicated with me not be sacked as his family would be depending on him for livelihood and it would be tough to find another job during the Covid-19 situation. But I will never step inside the hotel as it was a humiliating experience. I was discriminated against for being a doctor. I had never hidden my identity,” he added. The hotel spokesperson said the matter has been resolved. “We’re concerned about the incident and would like to reiterate that the wellbeing and safety of our guests have always been our priority. To ensure safety, we requested him to move to an enhanced level on the Leela Suraksha floor, which is identified for all Covid warriors, where rigorous cleaning protocols are in place. We have also met the guest and conveyed the same,” read a statement from Leela Palaces, Hotels & Resorts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-stigma-pulmonologist-asked-to-leave-star-hotel-in-bengaluru/articleshow/76792436.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||1,850 fresh Covid cases, Telangana tally crosses 22,000-mark||HYDERABAD: Telangana’s Covid-19 count crossed 22,000 mark on Saturday. With 1,850 fresh cases, the state’s tally rose to 22,312. Death toll increased to 288 with five more fatalities being reported. The state conducted as many as 6,427 tests, a single-day highest, on Saturday. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, Telangana has carried out 1,10,545 tests, official data released on Saturday said. Districts such as Nizamabad, Karimnagar and Nalgonda continued to witness a surge in cases apart from Ranga Reddy, MedchalandWarangalUrban that saw a sharp rise in numbers for the 10th day in a row. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), the worsthit area in Telangana, recorded 1,572 new infections. T adds 7 more hospitals to list of govt testing centres The test reports of one erring private lab that health authorities, on Friday had said, was being kept in abeyance, continued to be withheld, even as some sources from the department indicated that several labs — served notices by the government — have voluntarily put testing on hold and have started uploading previous reports. “The tests of the lab will remain in abeyance till an inquiry is completed into the matter. Meanwhile, 10 more labs in addition to the 18 which were previously granted permission for testing by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have got the permission and have started doing tests. So, even if some of the erring labs remaining shut for a few days it will not hamper the number of tests being done,” said an official from the state health department. Further, the state government said it has added seven more hospitals to the list of government testing centres, including the district hospital in Gadwal, Medak, Asifabad and Suryapet, to further ramp up testing. Meanwhile, 1,342 patients were discharged from various hospitals and quarantine centres on Saturday. At present, there are 10,487 active cases in Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1850-fresh-covid-cases-telangana-tally-crosses-22000-mark/articleshow/76792433.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: MCA graduate and accomplices con 1,450 people, pull off Rs 156 crore fraud; held||HYDERABAD: Three tricksters, including a Master of Computer Application (MCA) graduate who worked for an MNC earlier, were arrested on Saturday for collecting Rs 156 crore from 1,450 persons by luring them with various fraudulent schemes. Cyberabad police said Raghu Yarlagadda with the support of his associates Srinivas Babu and Meenakshi had started Swadhathri Infra Pvt Ltd with its office at Srinagar Colony. The trio collected huge sums from public by offering different schemes with a promise to pay high returns. "The accused have taken deposits by floating a scheme in which whoever invests Rs 1 lakh and more, the company will offer 9% returns per month for a period of one year and the principal will be repaid within a year or he/she will get interest until the principal is returned. By this scheme alone, Rs 87 crore were collected,'' Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said in an press note on Saturday. Another offering was titled 'Buy Back Scheme' on open plots. The company made agreements and bought plots in bulk at lower price in a few real estate ventures. Then, the accused started to offer a scheme where in a customer who pays full amount, the company would pay 4-10% returns every month for one year. After the completion of one year, the company will buy back the plot if the customers want to sell it. Scheme used to collect nearly Rs 42 croreThrough the ‘Buy Back Scheme’, the accused had managed to collect ₹42 crore from around 300 customers. To lure customers, the accused employed several agents and tele-caller staff. Raghu would even arrange high-end cars, including Mercedes Benz and SUVs, to ferry customers to sites. He would also station the posh cars at his office at Srinagar Colony and another office at Ayyappa Society in Madhapur, to win customers’ confidence. After some customers were not paid the promised returns, they approached Cyberabad police, who registered a case and started investigation. In the past, Raghu had worked for a prominent MNC as a systems programmer. Later, he got into finance business and several cases have been registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-mca-graduate-accomplices-con-1450-people-pull-off-rs-156-crore-fraud-held/articleshow/76792439.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bhopal||Monsoon to revive across Madhya Pradesh: Met||BHOPAL: Monsoon is expected to revive in state from Monday onwards. Though, with hovering clouds, the city might receive some rain on Sunday, forecasts Met. Officials of meteorological department, Bhopal circle said, there are multiple systems that would impact the state including cyclonic circulation over east Uttar Pradesh and adjoining areas, another system over north east Rajasthan and neighbourhood and over west central MP to Arabian Sea. The systems are expected to get active over the state from Sunday onwards. On Sunday, Bhopal's day and night temperature would be respectively at 35 degrees Celsius and 25 degrees Celsius while average wind speed will be 16 kmph City's day temperature was recorded at 33 degrees Celsius, a degree more than the normal mark, while nights were pleasant at 23.8 degrees Celsius. Wind direction in city was south westerly and average wind speed was 16 kilometres per hour. On Saturday evening, Rewa recorded 27mm rain, Guna 9mm and Malanjkhand 0.8mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/monsoon-to-revive-across-madhya-pradesh-met/articleshow/76792455.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Village girl who cycles 24km to school & back gets 98.5%||BHOPAL: She cycled 24 km to school and back every day. And it finally paid off. Roshni Bhadouriya (15), a girl from a village in MP's Bhind district has scored 98.5% in the state board Class 10 exams. She is eighth on the merit list.  The 15-year-old lives in Ajnol, a village of about 1,200 people, and would cycle to school to Mehgaon town, 12 km away. She braved the scorching summer and the rains to reach her school. In fact, there were days when because of rains she couldn't return home as the village roads were flooded. "I'd have to spend the night at the house of my relative. Sometimes, it would be days before I could get back home," she said. Roshni's father, Purushottam Bhadouriya, a 36-year-old farmer, was bursting with pride when TOI called her on Saturday, after the results were declared. "All my children are good students, but this girl has made everyone proud. No one in these parts has ever scored such high marks," he said.  Asked about her plans, he said: "Of course I want her to continue studying. I want to see her get big degrees and work in big firms in big cities." Roshni wants to become collectorAnd what does Roshni think of the future? “I want to join the IAS. I want to be a collector,” she said. “I am told that a collector can do a lot of good work. I don’t know much about it, but I’d like to be a collector and bring change,” she added. Roshini scored perfect 100s in mathematics and science. “I was always attentive in class and focused on writing exactly what I had learnt. I am thrilled to get such high marks,” she said. Maths and English in which she scored an impressive 96 are her favourite subjects, she said. “I want to clear the IAS exam so my father and I have decided to opt for mathematics in Class 11," she told TOI. Asked if she would cycle to school when it reopens, she replied: “Of course. I’m not going to miss school.” Purushottam owns 4 acres of land. It’s hard for him to keep three children in school but the thought of stopping Roshni’s education never crossed his mind. His elder son is in Class 12 and his youngest son is in Class 4. “It is tough with three children in today’s world, but I will not let my family have any problem,” he said. “Besides, my kids are tough too.” A relative in Mehgaon agreed to take her in for the monsoon months. Roshni’s achievement and her family’s support are all the more remarkable considering that Bhind has a high dropout rate, especially among girls, a sex ratio of just 837 girls per 1,000 boys in rural areas (2011 Census), and a female literacy rate of 64%. What drove Roshni on was that her mother Sarita Devi (34) completed Class 12 at a time when the female literacy rate was only around 55% in Bhind. Her father, too, is a graduate. Both parents wish they had been able to study further. “We want our children to study all they want,” Purushottam said. Watch TOI daily: Village girl who cycles 24km to school & back gets 98.5%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-village-girl-who-cycles-24km-to-school-back-gets-98-5/articleshow/76792464.cms||Ramendra Singh
July 5, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: SIT arrests 7 in ‘bir’ theft case after 5 years||BATHINDA: The special investigations team (SIT) probing sacrilege cases in Punjab on Saturday arrested seven people -- said to be Dera Sacha Sauda followers -- in the case of theft of a ‘bir ‘of Guru Granth Sahib from Gurdwara Singh Sabha Sahib in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village of Faridkot on June 1, 2015. They were arrested in the wee hours and produced before a Faridkot court in the afternoon. The court ordered the release of two of them, Shakti Singh and Sukhjinder Singh, terming their arrest as unjustified, while the remaining five were sent in twoday police remand. This was after the defence counsel apprised the court that two were arrested by CBI and released on bail on September 7, 2018, and therefore they could not be arrested again in the same case. The other accused Randeep Singh alias Neela, Ranjit Singh, Baljit Singh, Nishan and Narinder were remanded to police custody. It is after five years that the SIT formed by Punjab government has formally taken over the investigations in three cases — theft of the ‘bir’, putting up of derogatory handwritten posters at Bargari on September 25, 2015, and recovery of torn pages of a Bir near the gurdwara at Bargari on October 12, 2015 — even though the CBI is still fighting and representing these cases in the special CBI court at Mohali. SIT asked to solve sacrilege cases fast: DIGEarlier, these three cases were handed over to CBI for investigations but after the investigating agency filed the closure report in special CBI court at Mohali, the state government had desired to get the cases investigated by its own SIT and a resolution was passed in the state assembly to take back the cases from CBI, which was challenged in the court. Though the high court had decided in favour of the state government, the CBI filed a special leave petition (SLP) which was dismissed on February 20, 2020, SIT head DIG Ranbir Singh Khattra said. DIG Khattra told TOI that the state government has asked the SIT to solve these cases at the earliest. While investigating some other cases of sacrilege, the SIT found that the same persons have role in the theft of the Bir and got them arrested in the wee hours of Saturday. He said he did not want to comment on the investigations by the CBI. A case under section 295A (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 380 of the IPC (theft) was registered at Bajakhana police station on June 2, 2015, on the complaint of Gurdwara Granthi Gora Singh. Other cases were registered on September 25 and on October 12. The family members of the arrested men have alleged a frameup and sent telegrams to the Punjab and Haryana high court chief justice to save their kin. Narinder Sharma's son Kuldeep Sharma and Randeep Singh’s brother Pawandeep Singh have alleged that their family members were whisked away in the small hours by cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-sit-arrests-7-in-bir-theft-case-after-5-years/articleshow/76792467.cms||Neel Kamal
July 5, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Rameshwar Sharma appointed as protem speaker||BHOPAL: Huzur MLA Rameshwar Sharma will be the new protem speaker, according to an official communique issued on Saturday. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan congratulated the BJP leader and said, "I am confident that the House will benefit from your ability and activism. Good luck." Sharma was also lobbying for a ministerial berth ahead of the cabinet expansion in the state. Assembly principal secretary, A P Singh said, "Sharma has been appointed by acting governor Anandiben Patel to the post after Jagdish Devda resigned on Thursday after his appointment as a cabinet minister." He said Sharma will discharge the duties till the election of a regular speaker. The monsoon session of assembly is slated to begin from July 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-rameshwar-sharma-appointed-as-protem-speaker/articleshow/76792472.cms||---
July 5, 2020||World||US sends 2 aircraft carriers to South China Sea during PLA drills||Two US aircraft carriers were conducting exercises in the disputed South China Sea on Saturday, the US navy said, as China also carried out military drills that have been criticised by the Pentagon and neighbouring states. China and the US have accused each other of stoking tension in the strategic waterway. The USS Nimitz and USS Ronald Reagan were carrying out operations and exercises in the South China Sea “to support a free and open IndoPacific”, the navy said in a statement. It did not say exactly where the exercises were being conducted in the South China Sea, which extends for some 1,500 km, and 90% of which is claimed by China despite the protests of its neighbours. “The purpose is to show an unambiguous signal to our partners and allies that we are committed to regional security and stability,” Rear Admiral George M. Wikoff was quoted as saying by the Wall Street Journal. Wikoff, commander of the strike group led by the Ronald Reagan, said the exercises were not a response to those being conducted by China, which the Pentagon criticised as “counter-productive to efforts at easing tensions”. China had announced five days of drills starting July 1 near the Paracel Islands, which are claimed by both Vietnam and China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-sends-2-aircraft-carriers-to-south-china-sea-during-pla-drills/articleshow/76792447.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cancels examinations in universities, colleges||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced cancellation of university and college examinations in the state in view of the Covid pandemic, though the exams that are currently being conducted online by some universities will continue uninterrupted. In his weekly #AskCaptain Facebook Live session, Amarinder said university and college students will be promoted on the basis of their previous year’s results. The students who want to improve their performance will have the option to take a fresh examination later, once the Covid crisis is over. The universities and colleges are in the process of working out modalities for implementing the decision, he said, adding that the decision would be announced in the next few days. More PCS exam chances for Ex-servicemen: CMOn the school board examinations, the chief minister said the state is following the CBSE decision announced in the Supreme Court some days ago. Amarinder, however, urged all students to continue with their studies in right earnest despite the cancellation of their examinations. “You have to continue to work for your future,” he told the students. Meanwhile, in an initiative for ex-servicemen, Amarinder announced increase in the number of attempts for taking the PCS examination. The SC candidates will continue to get unlimited chances, as per the existing system-.The general category ex-servicemen will now get six attempts, in line with the overall general category, instead of the earlier four chances. For the BC category of ex-servicemen, the number of attempts has been increased to nine, he said, adding that he had received several petitions from ex-servicemen to be put at par with the overall general category of aspirants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-cancels-examinations-in-universities-colleges/articleshow/76792481.cms||---
July 5, 2020||World||Construction work at Hindu temple site in Pakistan halted China’s ministry of agriculture||ISLAMABAD: The Islamabad Hindu Panchayat announced on Saturday that it would discontinue the construction of a boundary wall of Shri Krishna Mandir in the capital city after a part of the wall was allegedly demolished by a mob of fundamentalist forces. “Islamabad Hindu Panchayat has announced to discontinue #Krishhna #Temple construction work for the time being following some unpleasant incidents at the site,” Lal Chand Malhi, a PTI National Assembly member, tweeted, apparently referring to the attack. There weren’t too many details about the mob attack at the time of filing this report. Earlier, Pakistan’s government had given in to pressure from religious circles and stopped the construction work. Officials from Capital Development Authority had visited the site on Friday and said that abuilding plan needs to be submitted before any construction can take place. The Hindu Panchayat told TOI it would approach the CDA on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/construction-work-at-hindu-temple-site-in-pakistan-halted-chinas-ministry-of-agriculture/articleshow/76792495.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
July 5, 2020||India||Construction work at Hindu temple site in Pakistan halted China’s ministry of agriculture||ISLAMABAD: The Islamabad Hindu Panchayat announced on Saturday that it would discontinue the construction of a boundary wall of Shri Krishna Mandir in the capital city after a part of the wall was allegedly demolished by a mob of fundamentalist forces. “Islamabad Hindu Panchayat has announced to discontinue #Krishhna #Temple construction work for the time being following some unpleasant incidents at the site,” Lal Chand Malhi, a PTI National Assembly member, tweeted, apparently referring to the attack. There weren’t too many details about the mob attack at the time of filing this report. Earlier, Pakistan’s government had given in to pressure from religious circles and stopped the construction work. Officials from Capital Development Authority had visited the site on Friday and said that abuilding plan needs to be submitted before any construction can take place. The Hindu Panchayat told TOI it would approach the CDA on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/construction-work-at-hindu-temple-site-in-pakistan-halted-chinas-ministry-of-agriculture/articleshow/76792496.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
July 5, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh now open for tourists, but with e-passes||SHIMLA: With the Himachal Pradesh government allowing entry of outsiders and tourists into the state, tourism activity is likely to take-off soon. But, the government has made it mandatory for people wanting to travel to the state to get registered first and to ensure they plan a few days’ stay. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said, "It has been decided to open the state for tourists and the tourism department of the state government will issue standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the functioning of the tourism industry." All inter-state movement will be monitored through registration in Covid e-pass software to monitor compliance with quarantine requirements and facilitate contract tracing of persons in the event detection of Covid-19 positive cases. The notification issued by chief secretary-cum-chairperson state executive committee stated that religious places and places of worship will be opened only as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be issued by the department of language, art and culture after ensuring full readiness to comply with SOPs. Tourism units will be opened and operated as per the SOPs issued by the department of tourism from time to time. Inter-state movement of public transport buses will remain prohibited while taxis have been allowed to ply with the permission of deputy commissioners. Pass free inter-district movement of public transport buses, private vehicles, taxis and autos has been allowed. In the state, government offices will function as per the SOPs issued by the department of personnel from time to time. Restaurant and dhabas can serve food by operating at 60% of their seating capacity and in accordance with the SOPs issued by department of tourism from time to time. The medical colleges of state have been opened for finalyear students to strengthen the health system in coming days along with the health training institutions from July 15 subject to the SOPs issued by department of health and family welfare. It has been made mandatory for the orchardists, agriculturists, contractors and project proponents to ensure the registration of all labourers brought to state from outside in Covid-e-pass software. Persons travelling to the state or entering the state through rail and air route will do so on the basis of their ticket or boarding pass while they will also be encouraged to register on Covid e-pass software. Members of armed forces and central paramilitary forces coming to the state or passing through to join duty need official identity card and don’t need to register on Covid e-pass software.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-now-open-for-tourists-but-with-e-passes/articleshow/76792501.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Bhopal||Tussle over portfolios on, Madhya Pradesh CM headed to Delhi again||BHOPAL: After the prolonged tussle over cabinet formation, there’s a tug of war over portfolios in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet. Two days after 28 ministers were sworn in, no one has yet been allocated portfolios. Newly elected Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, whose rebellion toppled the Congress government won the first round by getting 12 of his loyalists into the cabinet. Now, there seems to be a three-way tussle over prized portfolios — Chouhan’s old guard, Scindia’s team and long-time BJP leaders who were picked by the central leadership over some of the veterans. As with the list of ministers, sources say, the BJP central leadership will take the call on portfolio allocation, too. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is likely to visit the national capital on Sunday morning. Sources in BJP said that after grabbing 41% berths in the state cabinet, Scindia loyalists are insisting on big departments -- including those they had in the previous Congress government. “This is not a big issue. Discussions are on regarding distribution of work as per the efficiency of ministers. Some important portfolios are to be kept with the chief minister. After consultations and consensus, a decision will be taken very soon,” a senior BJP state functionary said. State govt is being run from Delhi, says CongDuring his daylong visit to New Delhi, CM Chouhan is likely to meet central leaders, Scindia, and Union ministers to discuss projects, development schemes and portfolios. Sources said Scindia is keen to retain the old portfolios, which included transport and revenue. Tulsiram Silawat, who is now water resources minister, had the health portfolio that is now with Narottam Mishra. His supporters say working for BJP is more important to them than any prized department. “I am happy with any department. I have to work for the party and the public. Whatever Scindia ji decides, I will accept. I had worked as women and child welfare minister and also bagged awards for my work. There is no contention,” said Imarti Devi on Saturday. Sources say the central BJP leadership has made it clear to the state unit that the party returned to power in MP due to Scindia and his supporters, so there can be no compromise in distribution of berths and portfolios. According to sources, Scindia would like to have the old portfolios of his loyalists –health, revenue, transport, school education, food and civil supplies, labour and WCD – plus home as Gwalior-Chambal region is a sensitive area in terms of law and order. Team Scindia also wants general administration, energy, commercial tax, mining and urban development. Taking a dig at the delay in allocating portfolios, Congress said BJP central leadership seems to be running the MP government. “Formation of cabinet and distribution of portfolios are CM’s prerogative. But what happened to BJP? Ministers were decided by Delhi and now portfolios too will come from the Centre. Running a new government is not a bed of roses for BJP after Scindia joined the party,” said Congress media coordinator Narendra Saluja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tussle-over-portfolios-on-madhya-pradesh-cm-headed-to-delhi-again/articleshow/76792470.cms||Rajendra Sharma
July 5, 2020||India||Earthquake of 4.7 magnitude hits Ladakh's Kargil||KARGIL: An earthquake of magnitude 4.7 on the Richter scale struck Kargil in Ladakh at 3.37 am on Sunday. The quake struck 433 km north-northwest of Kargil. "An earthquake with a magnitude of 4.7 on the Richter Scale hit 433km NNW of Kargil, Ladakh today at 3:37 am," said National Center for Seismology (NCS) Earlier on Thursday, another earthquake of magnitude 4.5 on the Richter scale struck Kargil in Ladakh at 1.11 pm. No loss of life or property due to the quake has been reported as of now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/earthquake-of-4-7-magnitude-hits-ladakhs-kargil/articleshow/76792526.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Waste from Covid homes dumped in open, set ablaze||CHENNAI: Corporation workers are not following due process when disposing waste from houses of those who are Covid-positive. While the waste is collected in the mandated yellow bag, the final disposal should be done by burning the bags in a deep pit or sending them to an incinerator. TOI found that this process was not followed in Maduravoyal. On Saturday morning, a photographer with TOI spotted a civic body worker in full Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) collecting waste from houses under quarantine and then dumping them at a burial ground on Mettukuppam Main Road, where the yellow bags were set on fire. According to guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the yellow bags containing waste from houses under quarantine should either be sent to the Common Biomedical Waste Treatment Facility (CBWTF) or burned after placing them in deep pits. A corporation official said the civic body has imparted training and given clear instructions to workers on how to collect waste from houses under quarantine and maintained that the Maduravoyal case is an isolated incident. “We have provided the workers with full PPEs. They know the risk associated with it (the task) and have been doing a relentless job. In Maduravoyal region, the waste is mostly taken to a facility in Porur. Due to increased workload recently, the worker may have done so. We will inquire,” said a corporation official. The corporation said it has requested residents under home quarantine to disinfect and hand over used masks, gloves and other waste to sanitary workers in yellow bags, provided by the corporation, on a daily basis. The used masks, gloves and other waste should be disinfected with ordinary bleach solution (5%) or sodium hypochlorite solution (1%) and kept in yellow bags exclusively in a closed bin. “While houses under quarantine follow this procedure, in several households not under quarantine, used masks and gloves are mixed with general waste, posing a risk to our workers handling the waste,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-waste-from-covid-homes-dumped-in-open-set-ablaze/articleshow/76792533.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Shots fired in Punjab's Zirakpur, man injured||MOHALI: Panic gripped the Lohgarh locality in Zirakpur on Saturday after gunshots were fired leaving one injured. The police have detained one person suspecting his involvement in the incident. The injured, who sustained a bullet injury in his left leg, has been identified as Harpreet Singh, a resident of Lohgarh. He was rushed to the civil hospital, Derabassi. According to the police, the victim alleged that he was crossing the main road adjoining a park on his bike when a girl, sitting on a bench, allegedly hurled abuses at him. Upon questioning her, both had verbal duel. The girl then called up two to three friends, who came in a white Hyundai Verna car. They first fired gunshots in the air while sitting inside the car and then two more shots were fired in the air after coming out of the car. They then shot at his left leg and escaped from the spot. A case was yet to be registered till the filing of this report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shots-fired-in-punjabs-zirakpur-man-injured/articleshow/76792538.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Amritsar||Baghapurana blast: Street seller learnt to make bomb online to settle biz rivalry||Bathinda: The low-intensity blast in Banghapurana on June 30 in which a man was injured was the fallout of business vendetta in which an overzealous street food vendor learnt how to make the explosive online, said police on Saturday. Moga district police on Saturday arrested three persons in connection with the explosion. After the arrests, Moga SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said, the blast had been carried out by a street food seller, with the help of his brother and a friend, to settle scores with a rival street food seller. He ruled out any terror angle to the crime. Police claimed that Sandeep, the main accused, had learnt how to make the bomb online. However, the bomb did not injure his target and instead an unassuming courier delivery man sat on the bomb and triggered it. The delivery man suffered an injury on his arm because of the blast. The SSP said Sandeep was working with Raju, another street food seller in Baghapurana. As he did not have many sales, Raju fired Sandeep. Soon after, Sandeep set up his own vend and this resulted in bad blood between the two. With his business suffering losses, Sandeep decided to attack Raju, said the police. The SSP said Sandeep, after researching online how to make a bomb, roped in his brother Manoj and friend Anup to prepare the explosive, so they could gar Raju. They put the bomb beneath the steps leading to Raju’s shop. After some time of them keeping the bomb below the steps, two courier delivery persons reahced the spot and one of them, Chhotu Ram, sat on that steps and triggered the bomb. SSP said the police had called in the forensics, bomb disposal squad and NSG to check if there was any terror angle to it. “The possibility of the blast with motive of any disruptive activity has been ruled out,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/baghapurana-blast-street-seller-learnt-to-make-bomb-online-to-settle-biz-rivalry/articleshow/76791884.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Chennai||After high, Chennai's Covid-19 numbers go below 2,000||CHENNAI: A day after its tally crossed one lakh, Tamil Nadu recorded 4,280 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the total active cases to 44,956. The death toll rose to 1,450 with 65 more fatalities reported. This included 37 in Chennai, which pushed the city’s death toll to 1,033. As the state shows a steady climb in new infections, Chennai dropped below 2,000 cases for the first time in days, registering 1,842 fresh cases. The total number of people still under treatment in the city is 24,195. Though the city has 62% share in the total number of cases, its share in the daily cases has dropped to 43%. Chennai's three neighbouring districts Chengalpet (215), Kanchipuram (134) and Tiruvallur (251) continued to register a sharp rise in cases, together adding 600 new cases and logging 11 deaths. Epidemiologists indicated several other districts had started to show a spike in infections. These included Madurai (352 fresh cases), Ranipet (104), Ramanathapuram (149), Thiruvannamalai (173), Coimbatore (67), Tirunelveli (61), Virudhunagar (100), Tuticorin (64) and Trichy (83). This, experts had earlier pointed out, is the natural progression of the epidemic in the state. Virologists indicated that cases in the districts would rise a lot more before the Covid curve flattened in the state. Among the total 65 deaths reported on Saturday, six had comorbidities. The oldest casualty was is a 92-old man from Ramanathapuram and the youngest a 29-year-old man from Chennai. Both had comorbidities. The report said three patients died a day before their Covid test results arrived. On Saturday, 2,214 people left the hospital after successful treatment taking the total number of people discharged to 60,592 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-high-chennai-covid-19-numbers-go-below-2000/articleshow/76792548.cms||---
July 5, 2020||World||China reports eight new coronavirus cases in mainland||BEIJING: China reported eight new coronavirus cases in the mainland for July 4, compared with three cases a day earlier, the health authority said on Sunday. Six of the new infections were imported cases, according to a statement by the National Health Commission, while the capital Beijing reported two new cases. There were no new deaths. China reported seven new asymptomatic patients, up from four a day earlier. As of Saturday, mainland China had 83,553 confirmed coronavirus cases, the health authority said. China's death toll from the Covid-19 remained 4,634, unchanged since Mid-May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-reports-eight-new-coronavirus-cases-in-mainland/articleshow/76792555.cms||---
July 5, 2020||Amritsar||Priyanka Gandhi helped Sidhu couple in Dussehra tragedy case: SAD||AMRITSAR: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday termed the indictment of five Amritsar municipal corporation (MC) employees in the Dussehra train tragedy as a travesty of justice and claimed that Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi had a direct role in securing a clean chit for former local body minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and his namesake wife, Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu. Talking to media here on Saturday, former chief parliamentary secretary Virsa Singh Valtoha alleged that a judicial probe by a retired district judge had framed junior officers of the MC. “The employees could not have refused any directive from the minister who was also the sitting legislator from Amritsar East assembly constituency, where the controversial Dussehra programme was held in contravention of all rules and regulations,” said Virsa. In his investigation, retired judge Amarjit Singh Katari had held five officials of MC were responsible for negligence of duties. The report was sent to the Punjab government on Friday. Claiming that the Sidhu couple and other Congress leaders including Mithu Madan, organiser of the event, were not touched under pressure from Priyanka , Virsa said, “We reject the magisterial probe and demand a high level inquiry into the entire episode to ensure the guilty are punished. We also demand that a criminal case be registered against the Sidhu couple and Madan.” He claimed that even the victims of the Dusshera tragedy were dissatisfied with the findings of the judicial probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/priyanka-behind-clean-chit-to-sidhus-in-dussehra-rail-tragedy-says-sad/articleshow/76791900.cms||---
