July 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Fear not your neighbour with Covid-19; show them empathy||At the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic in India, dancer and choreographer Diya Naidu was among the first in the city to publicly acknowledge that she had contracted the virus. Her diagnosis, though, came days after she had returned from a Europe trip, following which she had made public appearances, including to a music concert. After her announcement, Diya was trolled relentlessly for ‘spreading the contagion’. Her battle with the virus, though, did not end with just testing negative subsequently, what with the owner of the apartment she was letting evicting her shortly after. "For the past one month, I have been living in the loft at Shoonya- Centre for Art and Somatic Practices, which also happens to be my workplace. In fact, while I was in hospital to get treated, the landlord asked me to vacate the apartment. But then the doctor attached to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike and a psychiatrist spoke to him to allow me to continue to stay there. It was all well for about a month and then, it was back to square one,” says Diya, who eventually decided to give in and move out. Diya is not the only one who has faced the rough end of the stick, as far as the infection goes. TV actress Navya Swamy who is currently recuperating after testing positive for Covid-19, said that she was treated like an outcast on the set after the news of her diagnosis came. Across the country reports of people being refused entry into their homes and being scorned by society at large have been coming in, putting the focus on the need to alleviate fears surrounding the pandemic and treating those afflicted with empathy. Dr Smitha Segu, task force head and nodal officer for COVID-19 at the government-run Victoria Hospital, says, "It is absolutely necessary to be empathetic and reasonable at this time. Yes, it is a virus that can be transmitted through contact, but it is just like any other disease, diabetes or Influenza and 85% of patients are recovering. There should be no social stigma attached to being afflicted by the condition." Shedding light on the situation at Victoria Hospital, Dr Smitha adds that in the last few months, such has been the panic that people have been dumping family members who test positive there or those with symptoms make a beeline for the hospital themselves. I totally understand the panic among people, but there is a system that has been put in place by the government, whereby every patient is accommodated according to his/her age, symptoms and comorbid conditions at different facilities depending on the treatment that he/she needs," she says, adding, "As long as you follow standard safety protocols, you will be fine. Covid-19 cannot be compared with long-term diseases like diabetes or hypertension." Dr Gitanjali Narayanan, associate professor in clinical psychology at Nimhans has the final word, "The saying 'Love thy neighbour as thyself' has become more relevant now in these anxious and uncertain times. People need to understand that it is not a crime or a sin to test COVID-19 positive. Being sensitive to others who are suffering can go a long way in alleviating their distress, which is much-needed right now as numbers are only increasing. Sometimes, something as simple as a kind gesture or word, or just providing companionship online can instil courage in those suffering."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fear-not-your-neighbour-with-covid-19-show-them-empathy/articleshow/76802265.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
July 6, 2020||India||Chhari Mubarak rituals held ahead of Amarnath Yatra||SRINAGAR: Ahead of the commencement of this year’s Amarnath Yatra on July 22, the ‘Chhari Mubarak’ rituals of Bhoomi Pujan (earth worship), Navgrah Pujan (paying obeisance to nine planets) and Dhwajarohan (flag hoisting) were performed at Pahalgam on the occasion of ‘Ashad Purnima’ on Sunday. Emphasizing the significance of the ceremonies, Mahant Deependra Giri — the custodian of the holy mace of Lord Shiva — said the rituals mark the commencement of the Amarnath Yatra. He added that the pilgrimage will be a “low-key affair” this year in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, and devotees and citizens of J&K must help the administration in ensuring a smooth journey by adhering to the essential safety protocols set in place for the pilgrimage. “It would be a great challenge to manage social distancing among the pilgrims who come from all over the country and workers in the langars, even if the yatra is curtailed to a period of two-three weeks from July 22,” Mahant Giri told reporters at Pahalgam. The Mahant added that Chhari Puja will be performed at Srinagar’s Dashnami Akhara on Nag Panchami on July 25, following which he will carry the holy mace to the Amarnath cave shrine for ‘darshan’ (viewing) on the auspicious the occasion of Shravan Purnima on August 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chhari-mubarak-rituals-held-ahead-of-amarnath-yatra/articleshow/76803654.cms||M Saleem Pandit
July 6, 2020||India||Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in Poonch||JAMMU: Pakistan violated the ceasefire and resorted to unprovoked firing along the LoC in forward area of J&K’s Poonch district on Sunday evening, an Army spokesperson said. This is the second breach of truce in the past 24 hours. “Around 7.45pm, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along the LoC in Poonch’s Balakote sector. Indian troops retaliated effectively,” Jammu-based defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said. Late on Saturday, Pakistan had breached the truce along the LoC in the district and attracted prompt retaliation from the Indian side. Sources said two Pakistani soldiers including one subedar were killed in the fire exchange in Mendhar sector while one each were injured in Rakh Chikri, Deva in Poonch and Rajouri’s Bagsa sectors. On July 2, Pakistan had violated the ceasefire and suffered two fatalities in Indian retaliation. Several Pak bunkers were also destroyed by Indian troops, sources said. There was, however, no official confirmation from Indian Army about the Pakistani casualties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-poonch/articleshow/76803718.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
July 6, 2020||Agra||Once an epicentre of Covid-19 in UP, Agra’s doubling rate slows down to 60 days||AGRA: Once the epicentre of the coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, Agra has come down to the fifth position in the number of Covid-19 positive cases reported among the UP districts. The Covid-19 doubling rate, which was recorded as one day in April, has now reduced to 60 days. The positivity rate of the virus has also reduced to 3.04%. As of July 4, India’s Covid-19 doubling rate was 21 days and the positivity rate was at 9.15%. Agra health department officials attribute this slowing of new cases to four main interventions – increase in testing capacity with quicker turnaround time in reporting results, door-to-door screening in containment zones and large outbreak regions, improved contact tracing and strengthening of isolation facilities. Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “An eight-layer action plan was prepared to put a tab on the spread of Covid-19. Desired results are being achieved following strict monitoring. So far, over 26,000 samples have been tested in the district, which is the highest in UP.” The main features of the eight-layer action plan include – rapid contact tracing of the Covid-19 patients, screening of all the contacts, intense sanitisation of the patient's house and nearby vicinity, door-to-door health checkup using thermal guns and pulse oximeters in containment zones, sealing of the containment zone, deployment of police and inspection in the containment zones on a daily basis. Chief medical officer (CMO) RC Pandey said, “Till Saturday, there were 1,282 Covid-19 positive patients in Agra district. Of these, 82.1% (1,053) people were cured of the infection and have been discharged. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door checkups in different parts of the district and samples of suspected patients are being sent for testing.” Agra was the first district in UP to start pool testing to identify Covid-19 patients. Specific groups identified for this purpose were – restaurant staffers, bus and rickshaw drivers, medical store operators, heath workers of both government and private centers, Asha workers, old age home inmates and government offices. Five cases were identified following pool testing. With a maximum of 2,785 positive cases reported till Sunday afternoon, Gautam Buddha Nagar was on the top of the state Covid-19 list. Ghaziabad, with 2,224 cases, stood at the second position followed by Lucknow with 1,448 cases, Kanpur Nagar with 1,364 cases and Agra with 1,291 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/once-the-epicentre-of-covid-19-in-up-agras-doubling-rate-slows-down-to-60-days/articleshow/76803024.cms||Deepak Lavania
July 6, 2020||India||J&K Congress sets up 10-member internal panel on delimitation||JAMMU: Jammu and Kashmir Congress on Sunday set up a 10-member committee to deal with the issues of proposed delimitation of parliamentary and assembly constituencies in the Union Territory. The committee, headed by former JKCC president and former minister Peerzada Mohammad Sayeed, includes former MP Madan Lal Sharma, former deputy chief minister Tara Chand, former ministers Taj Mohiuddin, M S Niaz and R S Chib, former legislators Ravinder Sharma, A S Micky, Shah Mohd Choudhary and Vinod Koul. Jammu and Kashmir Congress chief GA Mir said the committee will keep track of various aspects of delimitation and guide the party on the issue. “Later, a sub-committee will be constituted to regularly deliberate on various technical aspects of the matter,” Mir added. The Centre had in March this year announced a delimitation commission, to be headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai, to redraw Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of the Union Territory. All five Lok Sabha MPs from Jammu and Kashmir — three from the National Conference (NC) and two from the BJP — have been nominated as ‘associate members’ of the Delimitation Commission to assist the panel in redrawing parliamentary and assembly constituencies. However, National Conference has announced its decision not to participate in the exercise as the constituencies of the erstwhile state were to be delimited in 2026 along with the rest of the country. The decision, taken in a meeting chaired by Dr Farooq Abdullah, was announced by NC chief spokesperson Ruhullah Mehdi in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-congress-sets-up-10-member-internal-panel-on-delimitation/articleshow/76803766.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
July 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Physically challenged school teacher jumps into Punpun river at Fatuha, dies||PATNA: Hardly after a month of her husband's death, a physically challenged teacher of a private school allegedly committed suicide by jumping into Punpun river from a bridge at Fatuha in Patna district on Sunday morning. The deceased has been identified as Kanti Devi (32). Police said she lived with her 12-year-old daughter and eight-year-old son at Govindpur in Naya Tola under Fatuha police station. Fatuha police station SHO Mithilesh Kumar said the woman used to teach at a school in Dumri at Fatuha which was closed since lockdown and police had come to know that she had not received any salary. "NDRF searched for the body for several hours but it could not be fished out. Search will resume on Monday," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-physically-challenged-school-teacher-jumps-into-punpun-river-at-fatuha-dies/articleshow/76803769.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 3 jail inmates test positive||PATNA: Three inmates of Kishanganj district jail have tested positive for Covid-19 infection, civil surgeon Dr S Mandal said on Sunday. Mandal said samples of 68 more inmates had been collected on Sunday. "All three have been shifted to Covid-19 centre in the district," he said. Sources said the three were tested as they had come in contact with infected persons before being sent to jail. "They were already in the isolation ward of the jail," a prison source said. He said in the first batch, 29 samples were collected from the jail on June 30, included that of 18 inmates and prison staff who had served them food. "Their test results came on July 3 and three were tested positive," he said. "On Sunday, samples of 24 more prisoners and 44 jail employees were collected. The test results will come in three days," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-3-jail-inmates-test-positive/articleshow/76803808.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 6, 2020||India||CRPF man injured in Pulwama IED blast, another defused timely||SRINAGAR: A CRPF trooper was injured after terrorists detonated a low-intensity improvised explosive device (IED) in Gangoo village of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Sunday morning, moments after the paramilitary convoy passed through the area. Later in the day, security forces averted a major tragedy by detecting and defusing another IED in the vicinity. Officials said terrorists had planted the first device under a tree near Peaks Automobiles area in Gangoo. “The IED exploded just a few minutes after the convoy passed through the area,” CRPF spokesperson Junaid Khan said, adding that the CRPF trooper sustained injuries in his hand and is in a stable condition. Tweeting about the second IED, J&K Police wrote, “Yet again a major incident of #IED blast is #averted by the timely input and action by Pulwama Police, CRPF and Army near Peaks Automobile crossing #Pulwama”, adding that the device was defused safely. The explosion, followed by firing, triggered panic in the village. “There was no loss of life or serious injury in the blast,” Khan said, adding that the “area was cordoned off after the attack to trace the perpetrators.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/crpf-man-injured-in-pulwama-ied-blast-another-defused-timely/articleshow/76803860.cms||M Saleem Pandit
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Kin of Akali ex-MLA, 3 booked for murder||Patiala: Police booked Karan Singh, the husband of former Akali MLA from Shutrana and an officer in the transport department, on charges of murder after the death of Jasdeep Kaur, wife of the MLA's personal assistant . Jasdeep's husband Gursewak Singh reportedly committed suicide on June 3. The case has been registered after a video made by Jasdeep Kaur, who died under mysterious circumstances on Sunday morning emerged in which she named Karan Singh, her mother-in-law Gurmail Kaur, her brother-in-law Ramphal and one Lal Singh Yadav to be responsible for her death. In the video, Jasdeep Kaur is seen alleging that Gurmail Kaur and Ramphal forcibly administered her poisonous tablets. Her husband Gursewak Singh, a personal assistant to the former Akali legislator, Vaninder Kaur Loomba, had allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself on June 3. Cops said a case has been registered against Karan Singh, Jasdeep's mother-in-law Gurmail Kaur, her brother-in-law Ramphal and another individual Lal Singh Yadav under Sections 302 and 120 B of the IPC at Patran police station on a statement of Satbir Singh, Jasdeep's maternal uncle. The case was registered after Satbir Singh produced a video sent to him by Jasdeep Kaur after she was given celphos tablets allegedly by her in-laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-kin-of-akali-ex-mla-3-booked-for-murder/articleshow/76803944.cms||Manish Sirhindi
July 6, 2020||India||In a first, two slain Hizbul terrorists test positive for coronavirus||SRINAGAR: Two Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists who were killed in an encounter on Saturday were found to be carrying coronavirus according to their test reports which came in on Sunday. This is the first instance of any terrorist testing positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir. The terrorists, identified as Ali Bhai alias Abu Okasha and Hilal Ahmad, were killed in an operation in Arrah in Kulgam district. Their samples were sent for examination as part of the revised medico-legal formalities, given a surge in Covid-19 cases in the Kashmir Valley, which accounts for more than 70% of the 8,429 cases in the Union territory so far. A police spokesperson said that the test reports of the two terrorists, which were received from CD Hospital, Srinagar, confirmed that they were covid positive. They were ferried in a protective care ambulance and buried as per Covid-19 protocols in Baramulla, the spokesperson added. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the burial of slain terrorists is being carried out at designated spots to ensure the safety of citizens from an inherent risk of contracting the infection. In such cases, medico-legal formalities are strictly followed, which include an autopsy, DNA and Covid-19 tests, a statement from J&K police said. A native of Pakistan, Ali had been active in the Kashmir Valley since 2017 and was an A++ category terrorist, sources said. The second terrorist, Hilal, was from Kulgam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-a-first-two-slain-hizbul-terrorists-test-positive-for-coronavirus/articleshow/76803954.cms||M Saleem Pandit
July 6, 2020||India||Lt Gov GC Murmu performs 'Pratham Aarti' in Amarnath cave, event telecast live||SRINAGAR: Lieutenant governor Girish Chandra Murmu on Sunday performed “Pratham Aarti” at the holy Amarnath cave in the Himalayas, which was telecast live by Prasar Bharti. Murmu was accompanied by principal secretary and CEO of Shri Amarnath Shrine Board, Bipul Pathak, and other officers, the official spokesman said. The event was telecast live by Prasar Bharti and as per officials it will do so till the culmination of the Amarnath Yatra on August 3. The aarti will be shown live at 3am and 7pm. J&K chief see, BVR Subhramanym, said on Saturday that this year’s Amarnath Yatra would be undertaken in a restricted manner, so that the SOPs for Covid-19 are strictly adhered. The limited Yatra is likely to be held from July 23 to August 3 this year, from Baltal track in Sonmarg in central Kashmir only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lt-gov-gc-murmu-performs-pratham-aarti-in-amarnath-cave-event-telecast-live/articleshow/76804015.cms||M Saleem Pandit
July 6, 2020||Mumbai||SOS calls on the rise on Mumbai’s suicide prevention helplines||While COVID-19 has been threatening physical health, the world at large has also been grappling with mental health issues. The city has also seen some succumbing to it, as was seen in the recent report of a 16-year-old girl committing suicide due to depression. In trying to cope with the pandemic, isolation due to social distancing, income worries and virus fears among others, many have turned to support groups and experts to help them tide through this tough phase. A few others have been reaching out to crisis helplines.  One of them, a suicide prevention helpline in the city, has seen a rise in the number of calls of late. Says Johnson Thomas of AASRA, Mumbai’s 24-hour suicide prevention helpline, “Many callers belong to the age group of 25-45. Lack of income and space, increasing domestic friction and having to adhere to new social behaviours have put a strain on mental health. For some bordering on mental illnesses, it has also turned out to be a trigger to contemplate suicide.” These counsellors have been spending time round-the-clock to reassure the callers. Says Nayana Vaity of a Kharghar-based helpline, Singing Soulz, “I get calls even at midnight. When it comes to helplines, you cannot look away and have to reassure people at any time.” ‘Housing societies should organise awareness sessions’ Phones are constantly buzzing even among city psychologists. “I have got calls from across the country, though 80 per cent of these are from Mumbai. There’s also been an increase in my online sessions all through the lockdown, which includes virtual workshops for corporate employees as well,” reveals counselling psychologist and life coach Namrata Jain.  She has noted a development that could mark the start of something new. “A housing society in the city recently contacted me to conduct a mental health session for its residents. This is an important step, because not everyone is able to reach out via a helpline and some may even be technologically challenged. It also helps to break down the stigma about approaching a mental health professional,” she says, adding that other housing societies should take initiatives like this to create a healthy environment. Mumbai shows the way with ‘care bubbles’‘Support bubbles’ have been created in the UK, where people can meet up with members of another household to help them deal with loneliness. Mumbai has its own version of it called ‘online care bubbles’, where people can reach out to complete strangers in a group to share their feelings. Anusha Srinivasan Iyer created one such group, ‘Zindagi Helpline’, on a cross-platform messaging service recently. Since then, it’s been buzzing with messages, with many joining in, including counsellors and doctors. She says, “It’s meant to be a place where anyone can be comforted. Coping strategies like getting out of the house and meeting a friend are not possible, so such online groups are like a safety net. It’s also a way to hold hands at this time without physically being there, it can help people from feeling low.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sos-calls-on-the-rise-on-mumbais-suicide-prevention-helplines/articleshow/76802790.cms||Ismat Tahseen
July 6, 2020||Jaipur||No hugs, only 'namaste' and no roadside chai for Jaipur bikers on their first ride, post lockdown||On Sunday morning, 18 bikers got together for their first bike ride, post lockdown, from Awar Jawan Jyoti to Delhi-Jaipur HighwayAfter almost three months of lockdown,18 bikers from two biking clubs got together on Sunday morning at Amar Jawan Jyoti for a leisurely ride. Covered in their biking gears, zooming past the city on their giant-sized bikes, the riders were excited to hit the road. For bikers, wearing jackets, masks, balaclava and gloves is an essential part of their safety gear. So, nothing much has been changed after Unlock, the bikers say, except the social distancing norms. Rajiv Bansal, president of Band of Brothers, says, “Generally, we go out on weekends for leisure rides. However, for the past three months, we hadn't done that were waiting for normalcy to return, so that we can step out for a ride together. This was our first ride, post lockdown. We followed all safety norms. It was a great experience to step out and enjoy the thrill of riding a bike, along with our fellow bikers.” 'Want to promote safe riding and local tourism'Shiv Kedia, president of Riders of the Storm, said, “During this time, we want to promote safe riding and local tourism, and highlight the fact that by maintaining proper hygiene and social distancing, we can follow our passion of bike riding. Now, when we meet our fellow bikers, we don’t hug each other, but simply say ‘namaste’, and maintain a certain distance.” No stopping by for roadside chai and snacksExploring the beauty of the city and its empty roads during early mornings, stopping for chai at roadside stalls and gorging on street food are some of the activities that bikers had been missing during the lockdown. Vinit Vashishtha, a rider, added, “Earlier, we would stop by at a roadside dhaaba for some chai and snacks, but now, things have changed now. We are taking baby steps towards normalcy.” After traversing the city, the ride culminated at a farmhouse on Delhi-Jaipur Highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-hugs-only-namaste-and-no-roadside-chai-for-jaipur-bikers-on-their-first-ride-post-lockdown/articleshow/76800546.cms||Richa Shukla
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Artists take the road||Coronavirus-themed artwork is making inroads into a different space, thus expanding the scope of design showcasing opportunities. It is giving artists a reason to explore street art in depth as they put together their design prowess to create unique art. From creating awareness about the virus to highlighting well-being and thanking frontline workers, Chandigarh is seeing streets painted in catchy colours and designs these days. The artists involved in the works here have taken a cue from global trends and its growing popularity in various countries. While main road dividing Sector 9 and 10 has a large work highlighting 'stay home, stay safe' message, city's inner roads in Sectors 33, 49, etc has 3D artwork to bring out the real theme of the initiative. Deepshikha Singh, former student of Govt College of Art, says they are in touch with the UT administration and are preparing designs as per new trends. "Since Chandigarh has a great recovery rate our new paintings will be themed on that aspect," she said. For graffiti artists, the current situation gave them an opportunity to thank doctors and others who are working to combat virus. Not just Chandigarh, the artists around the world have reacted to the situation and created catchy street art. The muralists on the other hand feel messages painted on roads make maximum impact, particularly in the time when vehicular movement has started. Akash Deep, a painter, said, "Commuters feel positive when they read messages of hope. Wall murals are also a great way to express thoughts but then corona-inspired street art is no less. It makes for a great impact." While artists explain ease of things (read space) behind its growing popularity, this themed artwork is also being used as a tool to show the efforts of doctors, paramedic staff, police who were working during the nationwide lockdown. The world of corona-inspired street art is diverse as it showcases global crisis in a different way. "Incorporating Covid-19 into my work helped me think differently," said Sukhdeep Bhatia, a painter. He saw in the news about how artists are paying tribute to healthcare workers through street art. "That was when I decided to go for it," he added. Turning streets vibrant by venturing out into an unexplored territory, the artists here have creatively tackled the issue. GLOBAL ARTISTS DIP THEIR BRUSH IN COLOURS OF PARODYGlobally, the artists have highlighted issue of panic buying, isolation, etc well. Some even lampooned politicians including Britsol based artist who took a dig at US President Donald Trump for his statement about injecting disinfectants to get rid of virus. ALso, Brazilian street artist Aira Ocrespo targetted the Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro who discouraged social distancing and lockdown. He highlighted his lackadaisical approach through artwork.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/artists-take-the-road/articleshow/76804308.cms||Ankur Batra
July 6, 2020||India||Few takers for Covid hotel beds, govt begins rollback of facility||NEW DELHI: With poor occupancy at hotels that were converted into extended health facilities for Covid-19 patients and attached with prominent city hospitals, the district administrations have started reviewing the arrangement. On Saturday, the south west district delinked three such hotels as the connected hospitals had failed to utilise these facilities to admit coronavirus patients. Senior officials in some other districts also accepted that most hotels didn’t have any Covid-19 patient and they may review the situation soon. TOI had last week reported that most hotels had heard neither from the government nor the hospitals ever since the announcement of requisitioning their rooms was made. With a sudden surge in the number of Covid-19 positive patients in early June, the Delhi government had asked the administration in 11 revenue districts to requisition hotels, convert them into extended Covid health facilities and attach them with the nearest hospital. After a thorough exercise, the government had identified 40 hotels across the city and earmarked 4,628 rooms for Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms, with arrangements for basic health facilities such as oxygen cylinders and concentrators. The patients staying at these hotels were to be charged Rs 2,500 to Rs 4,500 per day separately towards room charges. According to the proposal, the patient staying at a hotel should be shifted to the attached hospital in case his condition deteriorates. In his order on July 4, SDM (Dwarka), while delinking three of the four hotels in his area said only 25 of 900 rooms had been utilised by the hospitals till date. “On the other hand, these hotels are requesting that arrangements be to utilize the rooms as they are incurring huge expenditure on salaries, maintenance and other related costs of keeping the rooms ready round-the-clock,” the order read. While keeping 300 rooms at Hotel Welcome in Dwarka Sector 10 at his disposal, the SDM delinked three other hotels – Piccadilly at Janakpuri district Centre, Taj Vivanta in Dwarka and Pride Plaza in Aerocity. A New Delhi district official confirmed that they had yet to requisition any room at two hotels attached with the hospitals. A Central district official also confirmed that the hotels were under-utilised. “We had expected a surge in the number of patients last month hence such large scale arrangements were made. But now, even the hospital beds are empty while more health facilities in the form of DRDO and Radha Soami Covid care centres have come up,” said an official, requesting anonymity. “We will still keep some hotels at our disposal as some moneyed people may not like to stay at big health centres.” The hotels welcomed the government move and said the facilities can now be utilised for other purposes. “As a noble gesture to tackle this deadly pandemic, the government had issued a notification to allot 300 rooms at our Pride Plaza Hotel Aerocity for Covid 19 Positive patients. However, only very few of allotted rooms have been utilised till now. We appreciate the government order to delink with the hospital as it will help us to utilise these rooms for quarantining guests coming to India through the Vande Bharat Mission,” said Mohammad Shoeb, associate vice president, Pride Plaza Hotel, Aerocity. Dipak Haksar, advisor CII national committee on tourism and hospitality, said this was an opportune time for the Delhi government to allow hotels to resume business. “Under unlock 1.0 and 2.0, many economic activities have opened up including air travel, malls, eateries, etc, but not hotels. The recent order revoking hotels as extension of hospitals is the right first step towards economic openings of hotels... We shall be requesting the state government to allow the hotels to run their businesses for the tourism and hospitality sector,” Haksar said. Vishal Mehra, GM, Hotel Piccadily’s general manager Vishal Mehra also welcomed the decision. “We have been hosting doctors at our property since April. We welcome this decision to delink our hotel from the hospital and would want the hospitality sector to urgently restart,” Mehra said. Officials said the West district has also sent a proposal to the health and family department to delink 11 hotels while keeping just one at its disposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/few-takers-for-covid-hotel-beds-govt-begins-rollback-of-facility/articleshow/76804400.cms||Atul Mathur
July 6, 2020||Bhopal||MP achiever’s father refuses offers of help||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan gave his blessings and offers for help came pouring in on Sunday for Roshni Bhadouriya, the village girl from Bhind district, who ranked eighth with 98.75% in her MP board class 10 exams despite having to cycle 24km to school and back. “Beti Roshni, the success that comes from a hard fight boosts self-confidence. You are an inspiration to other girls of the state. Be happy. Be successful. My blessings,” CM Chouhan tweeted, urging girls in MP to “overcome hurdles and create new milestones of success” . TOI had carried a report on Roshni’s grit on Sunday, which led to a flurry of calls from government officials and individuals from all over the country. But her father, farmer Purushottam Bhadouriya, politely declined all help, saying he would rather take a loan. “I am a farmer. I know how to nurture a plant. I want my children to learn the importance of selfrespect in life. Today, if I take help, it won’t be possible for me to teach that lesson to my children. I have no problem accepting government help, but private help I can’t accept,” he told TOI. Want to make my family proud & serve society, says RoshniAll such people are good human beings. I said no to them for my self-respect. I will be in touch with all of them. They are kind souls,” said Purushottam. Roshni, clearly a chip off the old block, said she felt proud about her father’s stand. “Our parents have always taught us not to accept money that we haven’t earned. I am proud that despite the struggles he goes through, my father refuses to take help from anyone,” she added. Purushottam acknowledged that it is tough for him to keep all three children in school (Roshni is his second child), but he is determined that all of them will study as long as they wish. “I am thankful to every individual who has shown their concern for my daughter. They want to help me in her studies. However, I can’t take money from anyone for my daughter. It is against my principles. I will take a loan for her education but accepting money is just not possible for me,” said Purushottam. Roshni is delighted by the congratulatory calls she has been getting from all over the country. “This is a new experience for me. I don’t know what to say, but I feel happy that so many people have recognised my effort. I will try to improve this year’s marks,” she said. About her wish to become a collector, she said, “I want to make my family proud and serve society. I have seen my father working in the farm, and want to give my parents a comfortable life.” Now that she is in Class 11, studies will get more intense, and cycling two hours a day, to and from school, will be even harder to manage. Purushottam said he has decided to rent a room near her school so that she won’t have to cycle all the way. “It will be an extra burden but I will manage by taking loans,” said Purushottam. The Bhadouriya family has turned into an inspiration in the region, said Shobharam Parihar, sarpanch of Gata gram panchayat, which encompasses Ajmol village. “Roshni’s achievement is stunning. She has proved that girls can do wonders if they are given an opportunity. Her success is all the more important because her parents gave her confidence and sent her outside. Very few parents do that in our area. More girls will now be able to move out and follow their dreams,” said the sarpanch. Bhind district collector Virendra Rawat said he has directed officials to contact Roshni’s family. “We will definitely help her,” he said. The cycle that Roshni uses was gifted by local authorities when she had bagged high scores in her Class 8 exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-achievers-father-refuses-offers-of-help/articleshow/76804473.cms||Ramendra Singh
July 6, 2020||India||In UP & rural Gujarat, it’s harder for a baby to survive than a 75-year-old||Who is more likely to die — an infant less than one year old or someone in their late seventies? This may seem like a no-brainer, but in Uttar Pradesh or rural Gujarat, the infant is more likely to die than a 75-79-year-old. This shocking reality emerges from data in the recently released SRS 2018 report. The data also shows that in most of India’s big states, the death rate among those less than a year old is higher than those aged 65-69. This is correlated to high infant mortality rate (IMR), which India has been struggling to bring down. Thus, in Kerala and nine other states, the death rate of infants is lower than for any age group above 65 years. Most of these states are also those with the lowest IMR. The death rate for infants aged less than a year in UP is 68.3, higher than the 64.2 for the 75-79 age group. In rural Gujarat, the death rate for infants at 52 was significantly higher than 45.9 for the 75-79 age group. Age-specific crude death rate in a year is the total number of deaths in a particular age group in that year for every thousand of the population in that age group. IMR is the ratio of the number of deaths of children under one year to the total number of live births in that year. While the values of crude death rate of children under one year and IMR are close, they do not correspond exactly. Kerala, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and West Bengal, in that order, have the lowest IMR and also have the lowest crude death rate of infants under one year. But Jammu & Kashmir, which has a low IMR of 22, is among the states where crude death rate of those under one year (29.4) is more than the death rate in the 65-69 age group (22.3). Madhya Pradesh has the highest IMR of 48, but is below UP when it comes to crude death rate in the below-one-year age group though UP’s IMR is lower at 42. "High IMR is due to a mix of medical and socioeconomic reasons. So many states continue to have a relatively high IMR even after their health services improve because the socioeconomic reasons continue to contribute to the death of infants. But a lot of preventable mortality in this age group is definitely due to inadequate health services," explained Dr N Devadasan, former director of the Institute of Public Health. There is an obvious gender skew too, with two factors contributing to it — higher IMR among girls than boys and lower death rates among older women than men. As a result, there are states besides UP and Gujarat where an infant girl is more likely to die than a 75-79-year-old woman, particularly in rural areas. For instance, in rural Madhya Pradesh, girls in the below-one-year age group have a crude death rate of 57.6 compared to 29.7 and 44.8 for women in the 65-69 or 70-74-year age groups. Similarly, in Rajasthan, the death rate for girls below one year is 57.9 compared to 21.4 and 27.7 for women in the 65-69 and 70-74 age groups, respectively. Obviously, in many states, the first year of life is more dangerous than its twilight. And this is particularly true for females and for rural populations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-up-rural-gujarat-its-harder-for-a-baby-to-survive-than-a-75-year-old/articleshow/76804512.cms||Rema Nagarajan
July 6, 2020||India||City to conduct antigen tests on all high-risk asymptomatic patients||NEW DELHI: Scaling up the testing facilities to identify and isolate suspected Covid-19 patients, the Delhi government has decided to conduct rapid antigen detection tests on all high-risk asymptomatic patients admitted or seeking admission or individuals with influenza-like symptoms visiting any health facility. This includes those having influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms visiting a hospital either for consultation with a doctor or accompanying a patient, said an official. The government has also made it mandatory for all asymptomatic patients undergoing aerosol generating interventions such as dental procedures and endoscopy, those requiring admission for chemotherapy, transplantations, those with malignant disease or HIV at any health facility to get rapid antigen detection tests done. All asymptomatic patients above 65 years of age and having comorbidities seeking admission in a hospital will also have to get the test done. The health and family welfare department on Sunday issued an order increasing the scope of rapid antigen detection tests, which give clear results whether a person is infected with coronavirus or not within 30 minutes. The decision was taken with a view to test as many people in the national capital for Covid-19 as possible. “All healthcare facilities are required to carry out ‘Rapid Antigen Detection Testing’ of following high risk of individuals who visit their facility – all individual/patients with ILI symptoms and all patients admitted with SARI (severe acute respiratory infection),” the order issued by the Delhi government’s health and family welfare department principal secretary Vikram Dev Dutt read. The order further said the health facilities will also require to conduct rapid tests on all asymptomatic patients in high-risk groups such as those undergoing chemotherapy, immunosuppressed patients, including HIV positive, patients with malignant disease, transplant patients, elderly patients (above 65 years) with comorbidities and undergoing aerosol generating interventions. According to the health bulletin released on Sunday, the Delhi government had conducted more than 23,000 tests on Saturday, which included 13,263 rapid antigen detection tests. The government has asked DMs of all 11 revenue districts to carry out 2,000 rapid tests each in their jurisdiction. While initially the rapid antigen detection tests were being conducted only on high-risk contacts and those living in containment zones, the Indian Council of Medical Research recently issued fresh guidelines to take all people under its ambit. All symptomatic people with influenza-like illness (ILI) in containment zones or hotspots and asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts with other ailments are being tested with rapid antigen detection kits. of confirmed cases. Apart from setting up the testing centres outside the containment zones, some districts have even deployed mobile teams and given buses to move around and collect samples. The districts have shortlisted their own target groups for conducting the tests. While in some areas, the frontline workers such as those working in containment zones, healthcare personnel and sanitation staff are being tested with the rapid detection kits, in others those working as essential services providers are being given the priority. In some other districts, the health teams have been taking samples of random people from a cross-section of society on a first-come-first-served basis, sources said. The Delhi government had recently procured about six lakh rapid antigen detection kits and placed the order for another five lakh. A rapid antigen detection kit costs Rs 450 while an RT-PCR test comes for about Rs 2,400.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/city-to-conduct-antigen-tests-on-all-high-risk-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/76804527.cms||Atul Mathur
July 6, 2020||India||Highways ministry ups border roads upkeep funds by 4 times||NEW DELHI: In a significant ramp up in the context of the ongoing border standoff with China, the road transport and highways ministry has increased four-fold the allocation for maintenance of border roads managed by the Border Road Organisation (BRO) from Rs 30 crore to Rs 120 crore for this year. The decision reflects the strategic imperatives that have emerged in the wake of the military face off and the government’s renewed focus on stepping up the infrastructure in border areas so as to allow swifter and smoother movement of troops and military supply chains. The ministry has also significantly increased the ceiling for sanction of new national highway works in border states. In Ladakh, for example, works up to Rs 589 crore can be approved against the earlier cap of Rs 72 crore. This comes at a time when the government is accelerating the development works in the newly created Union Territory and recent development of critical border roads is seen as an important trigger for Chinese aggression along the line of actual control. While BRO comes under the defence ministry, the highways ministry allocates fund from its budget to BRO for stretches which have been entrusted to them. Improving border roads has gained momentum in recent years. Recently, NHIDCL, which is responsible for development national highways in border and hill states had mobilised its workforce after a slump due to Covid by offering to double wages and even increased them up to 170% in some categories for road construction activities in high altitude regions, many of which are in border areas adjoining China. The extent of Chinese mobilisation along the LAC and its intrusions at certain points saw the government further scaling up the already accelerated pace of infrastructure development near the borders. Sources said a large share of the increased maintenance fund allocated by the road ministry for the Border Road Development Board (BRDB) under defence ministry will be used for better upkeep of strategic roads in the border areas. The allocation was revised in less than three months after the first allocation for the current fiscal year was made in April first week. The decision, amid indications that the stand off with China may well grind on into the winter, indicates a resolve to vigorously counter the Chinese tactics of suddenly intruding into the Indian side of LAC. In another circular issued on June 27, the ministry has also hiked the sanction ceiling for border roads in Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand by Rs 4,031 crore. While new projects or works with total expenditure of Rs 1,351 crore can be taken up in Jammu and Kashmir, Rs 340 crore can be spent in Uttarakhand. Watch TOI daily: Highways ministry ups border roads upkeep funds by 4 times||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/highways-ministry-ups-border-roads-upkeep-funds-by-4-times/articleshow/76804589.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 6, 2020||India||No coronavirus vaccine before 2021, science ministry says in release, deletes it||NEW DELHI: A fresh controversy erupted over India’s Covid-19 vaccine timelines with a department of science and technology (DST) press release first mentioning and then deleting a reference to the antidote being unlikely to be ready for mass use before 2021. Days after an Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) communication to participating institutes that the Bharat Biotech vaccine should be ready for launch for public health use by August 15 sparked concerns over ethical and medical issues, the print-and-retract fiasco only made matters worse for the government. The DST press release was essentially an academic tract explaining the various vaccine options being developed around the world and the regulatory approvals to two Indian companies among 11 candidates that have entered human trial stage. But it ended with the observation that none of the vaccines was likely to be available before 2021. Seen in the light of ICMR's clarification on Saturday that it was not seeking to short-circuit due processes, the DST release seemed to further set the record straight. However, the decision to delete the 2021 reference only fuelled speculation why the release was edited. The reason perhaps was that DST sought to strike an optimistic note, that with regulatory approvals for human testing, there was a “silver line in the dark clouds” that would mark “the beginning of the end". In a letter on July 2, ICMR director general Balram Bhargava had said the government aimed to launch India’s first locally made vaccine against Covid-19 for public health use by August 15 and asked clinical trial sites for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin to fast-track processes to meet the timeline. A day later, ICMR clarified that it was seeking to cut red tape and not get around safety measures and made no reference to the August 15 deadline. While the July 2 letter stirred the medical and scientific community, public health experts questioned the ethics and credibility of ICMR’s position. In this context, the initial statement from the DST saying a vaccine was unlikely to be launched by 2021 attracted attention and was seen as further course-correction. “With the announcement of Covaxin by Bharat Biotech and ZyCov-D vaccine by Zydus Cadila, the proverbial silver line in the dark clouds of Covid-19 appears at the horizon. Now, the nod given by the Drug Controller General of India for conduct of human trial for the vaccines marks the beginning of the end,” the DST statement said. It added that India had emerged as a significant vaccine manufacturing hub and local companies accounted for 60% of vaccine supplies made to Unicef. “The vaccine for novel coronavirus may be developed anywhere in the world, but without Indian manufacturers involved, the production of required quantity is not going to be feasible,” it said. Watch No coronavirus vaccine before 2021, science ministry says in release, deletes it||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-coronavirus-vaccine-before-2021-science-ministry-says-in-release-deletes-it/articleshow/76804617.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: DRDO’s 1,000-bed hospital ready in 12 days||NEW DELHI: A 1,000-bed Covid hospital in Delhi Cantonment, complete with 250 ICU beds, is ready to be operational after Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), with the help of Tata Sons and others, has set it up in just 12 days. “DRDO’s 1,000-bed coronavirus hospital is ready. I thank the central government on behalf of Delhiites. It has 250 ICU beds, which is much needed at the moment,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Sunday after inspecting the facility along with Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and health minister Harsh Vardhan. DRDO chairman G Satheesh Reddy was also present. Shah, who conducted a meeting in June in which DRDO was tasked with creating Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid-19 Hospital, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was fully committed to helping the people of Delhi in these challenging times and this Covid hospital yet again highlighted this resolve. “I thank DRDO, Tatas and our Armed Forces Medical Services personnel who have risen to the occasion and helped tackle the emergency,” said Shah. The hospital, to be manned by doctors, nurses and other medical staff from Armed Forces Medical Services, will lead to an 11% increase in the number of Covid-19 beds in Delhi, said the home ministry. Covid-19 patients referred by the district administration will be treated free of cost here and extremely critical cases will be referred to AIIMS. The centrally airconditioned facility will utilise products made by the industry using DRDO-developed Covid-19 technologies in the past three months. These include ventilators, decontamination tunnels, PPEs, N95 masks, contact-free sanitiser dispensers, sanitisation chambers and medical robot trolleys. Shah had held a series of meetings since June 14 to review Covid-19 managements in Delhi-NCR. Among the requirements highlighted in the meetings was augmenting the hospital bed capacity in Delhi. The matter was discussed between the home and defence ministries and DRDO undertook the design, development and operationalisation of the facility on a war footing. With the permission from the Indian Air Force, a plot situated near the IGI Terminal-1 was identified and the construction work started on June 23. The facility will be maintained by DRDO, which will also run a psychological counselling centre for patients. The project has been funded with major contribution from Tata Sons. Other contributors are BEL, BDL, AMPL, Sri Venkateswara Engineers, Brahmos Pvt Ltd, Bharat Forge and the DRDO employees who voluntarily gave their one day’s salary. Each of the 250 ICU beds is equipped with monitoring equipment and ventilator. The corridor network has been designed in a way that it will keep the patient’s movement separate from that of doctors and other staff. Patient facilities include oxygen supply to each bed, X-ray, ECG, haematological test facilities, ventilators, Covid test lab, wheelchairs and stretchers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drdos-1000-bed-hospital-ready-in-12-days/articleshow/76804053.cms||Bharti Jain
July 6, 2020||Business||Edelweiss Fin posts Rs 2,281 crore loss in Q4||MUMBAI: Edelweiss Financial Services has reported a consolidated loss of Rs 2,281 crore for the quarter ended March 2020 as against a profit of Rs 246 crore in the year-ago period. The company said the loss was a result of its conservative stance adopted on impairments. For the quarter, the group reported total impairment of Rs 2,549 crore, recorded based on revisions in the expected credit loss (ECL) model and impact of Covid-19. The company said it plans to raise Rs 1,500-2,000 crore of fresh equity and improve operational efficiency through the use of technology. “The last eight quarters have been challenging ones for the financial services industry. A slowing economy was further weakened by the Covid-19 crisis. I am proud of the resilience we have showed in such testing times. I attribute our adaptability as an organisation to our diversified business model. So even when one of our businesses battle sustained headwinds, our other three businesses continued more or less BAU (business as usual). Throughout this year, our liquidity has been adequate, and our capital base more than adequate,” said Edelweiss Financial Services chairman and CEO Rashesh Shah. Besides raising capital, the company is planning to sell-down loans and collaborate with banks on co-lending, on-lending and securitisation. The conglomerate has a presence in lending, asset reconstruction, wealth management, insurance and broking, among others. The credit business has three arms — ECL Finance, which has reported a bulk of the losses of Rs 1,414 crore, Edelweiss Housing Finance and Edelweiss Retail Finance, which managed to turn in a marginal profit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/edelweiss-fin-posts-rs-2281cr-loss-in-q4/articleshow/76803461.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Patna||University teachers, researchers and staff working under corona threat||PATNA: Even as the Union HRD ministry has directed that teachers, researchers and non-teaching staff in the country should be permitted and advised to work from home till July 31, the employees of different universities in the state are being compelled to work at their respective institutions from 10am to 5pm every day amid ever-increasing cases of Covid-19. While the educational institutions remain closed for students and the teachers have to stay at their headquarters and work from home, the officers and non-teaching staff of colleges and universities are supposed to report to their duties on all working days, even if they have little work to do. They are under constant threat of being infected with the deadly novel coronavirus, said Patna University Teachers’ Association president Randhir Kumar Singh. Singh pointed out that several PU employees reside in Patna City area, which has already been declared a Covid-19 hotspot by the district administration. Besides, some positive cases have recently been reported from areas like Kunkun Singh Lane and Bhikhna Pahari located just in front of the university campus. Under these circumstances, they face great hardship in attending to their duties regularly, he said. PU Employees’ Association president Subodh Kumar said the employees’ representatives have requested the university authorities on several occasions either to close the office completely or to run it with the minimum number of staff. The practice of calling only a third of the total employees every day by rotation should be re-introduced as a preventive measure against Covid-19. But, due to reasons best known to the authorities alone, the employees have not been granted any relaxation so far, he said. Only staff & teachers allowed on PU campus: PU registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra, when contacted, said in view of the rising Covid cases in and around the campus, the entry of outsiders has been banned till July 31. Only staff and teachers having valid identity cards would be allowed to enter PU from Monday. The telephone numbers of all important university officials would be displayed at the main entrance gate so that students or guardians may get their queries answered by the officials concerned. Since the state-level combined entrance test for admission to the BEd course scheduled for July 19 has already been postponed, the universities are most likely to postpone all their examinations scheduled to be held this month. PU is also likely to postpone its pending undergraduate examinations scheduled from July 21. A final decision about the postponement would be taken after the meeting of the Raj Bhavan committee on examinations scheduled for July 8, said PU examination controller R K Mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/university-teachers-researchers-staff-working-under-corona-threat/articleshow/76802792.cms||B K Mishra
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man loses Rs 3.58 lakh in trying to rent space to ATM||AHMEDABAD: Harekrishna Panchal, a resident of Shahibaug, wanted to rent out space at high rent for an ATM machine. He contacted an agency for installing the machine but in the end lost Rs 3.58 lakh to cybercrooks. He had got the phone number of the agency from an online search engine. Panchal lodged an FIR with Shahibaug police on Saturday. According to the FIR, two persons, who identified themselves as Vikas Kumar and Ravi Kumar, got in touch with him and collected information about the place where the ATM machine was to be installed. They also sought documents from Panchal for the purpose. “The complainant gave them a copy of his mother’s Aadhaar card and sent them pictures of the place where he wanted the machine to be installed,” said a police official. Later, the crooks told Panchal that his application has been approved and he will have to make a payment of Rs 3.58 lakh towards land bank declaration agreement fee and the security deposit. Panchal paid the amount demanded by the cybercrooks. When the callers stopped responding to Panchal’s phone calls, he contacted cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-loses-rs-3-58l-in-trying-to-rent-space-to-atm/articleshow/76803590.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 12,700 liquor bottles seized, five arrested||PATNA: Altogether 12,700 bottles of smuggled India made foreign liquor were seized at Pathrahi village under Bajpatti police station in Sitamarhi district on Sunday. The smugglers had hidden 5,000 liquor bottles in the kitchen room of the local government middle school. After seizing 7,700 bottles of smuggled liquor from a truck bearing Haryana registration number hardly one kilometre away, the police followed the tyre marks of other vehicles used by the smugglers on the village road and reached the school. Five persons were arrested and a new car, an SUV, a pick-up van and three bikes were seized. Those arrested were identified as truck driver Baldev Singh (37) and co-driver Jaipal Singh (32) of Karnal in Haryana and Manoj Sahni (27) of Pitaujia, Ranjit Sahni (25) and Dinesh Sahni (23) of Dakhrama village under Hathauri police station in Muzaffarpur. Pupri SDPO Sanjay Pandey said the consignment was loaded in Haryana with rotten ladies fingers and bitter gourds. He said it took six hours to trace the liquor hidden at the school after the seizure of truck. He said raids began amid rain at 2am after receiving a tip-off that some people had reached Pathrahi and were suspected to be involved in liquor smuggling. “During interrogation, Baldev told police that some small vehicles had already left the spot after unloading liquor from the truck,” Pandey said and added that thereafter police started trailing the tyre marks of vehicles from the spot. “Due to overnight rain, there were tyre marks on the road which led us to the school,” he said. “The name of one Manoj Rai of Muzaffarpur surfaced as the alleged receiver of major part of the consignment smuggled from Haryana,” the SDPO said and police were investigating the case further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/12700-liquor-bottles-seized-five-arrested/articleshow/76803098.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 6, 2020||Surat||South Gujarat reels under wet spell||SURAT: Several parts of south Gujarat, especially the coastal regions, received heavy rain in the 24 hours ending 6pm on Sunday especially coastal region. According to flood control room sources, Valsad, Navsari and Surat districts got significant with Jalalpore in Navsari recorded the highest 110 mm followed by Valsad (105 mm), Umargam (90 mm), Kaprada (40 mm) and Navsari town getting 76 mm. In Surat district, Choryasi, Bardoli, Kamrej and Mangrol also received showers. Heavy rainfall in the catchment area of Ukai dam led to water level increasing to 319.09 foot. According to sources, as on Sunday evening, the inflow of water into Ukai dam was 6,513 cusec while the outflow was the same. “Heavy rain was reported in the catchment areas which included Dhulia, Lakhpuri, Burhanpur and Dedtalai,” said an Ukai dam official. According to the state emergency centre data, South Gujarat has so far received 10.79% of its average annual rainfall as on Sunday morning. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued heavy rainfall warning for the next 48 hours beginning Monday. “Heavy to very heavy rains are very likely at isolated places Bharuch, Surat, Navsari, Valsad and the union territory of Daman, Dadra and Nagar Haveli,” an IMD bulletin stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/south-gujarat-reels-under-wet-spell/articleshow/76803771.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Patna||LJP’s vote bank will shrink as NDA ally: Shaktisinh Gohil||PATNA: Congress in-charge for Bihar and Rajya Sabha member Shaktisinh Gohil on Sunday said the Lok Janshakti Party’s (LJP) vote bank in the state would shrink if its founder and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan continues to remain with the BJP as the NDA government at the Centre remained silent on the Supreme Court’s recent observation that ‘reservation is not a fundamental right.’ Talking to TOI over phone, Gohil said the LJP’s major support base in Bihar is among those people who are strong supporters of reservation policy. “LJP will have to face erosion in vote-bank if Paswan continues to remain with the BJP during the forthcoming assembly election,” he said. Gohil’s statement assumes political significance ahead of the assembly polls in the state as there are reports of fissures in the NDA due to certain statements issued by JP chief Chirag Paswan. It is widely believed in political circles that Chirag is not on good terms with ally JD(U). Recently, Chirag had said that the LJP’s alliance in 2014 was with the BJP and not with the JD(U). The JD(U) became part of the NDA again in 2017 when Nitish Kumar walked out of the Grand Alliance comprising the RJD and the Congress, and joined hands with the BJP. Weeks ago, Chirag criticized the Bihar government the way it handled the return of migrant workers from other states. Referring to recent statements of Chirag, Gohil said differences may crop up in the NDA as the BJP utilises its allies as per its requirements. “Take the case of Shiv Sena. The BJP utilized Shiv Sena and later broke the promises made with that party. The BJP will do similar things with its allies in Bihar.” Gohil said. On being asked whether the allies of GA would accept the LJP, Gohil, who recently won Rajya Sabha election from Gujarat, told TOI, “If Paswan knocks our door seeking an entry, the allies of the GA will sit together and take a decision on the issue of LJP’s entry.” On the other hand, Union minister for home affairs and senior BJP leader Nityanand Rai, while addressing a virtual rally in Purnia, on Sunday assailed the Congress and the RJD for spreading rumours that all is not well within the NDA. Rai said the ruling NDA alliance was in order and would contest the forthcoming assembly elections in Bihar together.” “I want to tell the leaders of the RJD and the Congress that they should not spread rumours and should worry about their grand alliance. There is no split in the NDA, we are one and we will jointly contest elections and repeat the performance of 2010 assembly polls again in 2020,” Rai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljps-vote-bank-will-shrink-as-nda-ally-gohil/articleshow/76803171.cms||Madan Kumar
July 6, 2020||Mumbai||Can coconut oil help fight Covid-19? Doctor cites Kerala as case in point||MUMBAI: Coconut oil and its ‘health benefits’ are once again at the centre of a medical debate in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. One of India’s prestigious medical journals, JAPI (Journal of Association of Physicians), has carried a review on coconut oil, focusing on its ‘immunomodulation benefits’ and ‘ability to act against microbes’, in its July edition. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesOne of the main authors of the paper, Dr Shashank Joshi, who is also the dean of Indian College of Physicians and a member of the state government task force on Covid-19, told TOI that coconut oil has lauric acid, a saturated fatty acid that can be easily synthesized by the body. “Indians consume a lot of saturated fatty acids, especially ghee, which are the right source of fats needed for the body’s metabolism,” he said. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageCoconut oil has been recognized as an ayurvedic medicine for 4,000 years now. When consumed or applied locally, it releases lauric acid, which, in turn, forms monolaurin that can kill pathogens such as bacteria, viruses and fungi. “While Covid-19 wasn’t the main reason for conducting this review on coconut oil, it is a fact that Keralites, who consume a lot of coconut oil, have managed to fight Covid-19 well,” said Dr Joshi. The use of virgin coconut oil, he said, has increased in the US in the last few years because of the belief in its curative powers. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  Not all doctors are convinced though. A doctor attached to a public hospital said there is no basis to say that coconut oil can protect against infections like Covid-19. “It is known that it contains compounds with antimicrobial properties. It has zinc as well which is being given to Covid patients to boost immunity,” said the doctor. “But we don’t know if and how much the human body is able to efficiently absorb all these chemicals from coconut oil.” There also has been a long-standing debate on how the use of coconut oil—a lipid-rich oil—for cooking in Kerala could be the cause of the high heart disease burden in the state. Delhi-based endocrinologist Dr Anoop Misra said, “I would be delighted if coconut oil is proved to enhance immunity in humans, but current limited data do not give me that much confidence.” He said fish oil has been shown to have significant immune-modulatory properties. “But it remains to be tested in Covid-19 patients,” he added Dr Misra. Ever since the Covid-19 pandemic emerged in India in March, there has been a debate on the use of Indian and/or alternative medicines. Indian health authorities have approved the use of homeopathy and ayurvedic preparations to boost immunity. Watch Can coconut oil help fight Covid-19?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/can-coconut-oil-help-fight-covid-19-doctor-cites-kerala-as-case-in-point/articleshow/76804060.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hubballi||Ganesh idol makers in Hubballi, Mysuru stare at a bleak future||MYSURU/HUBBALLI: Several festivals are lined up for the month of Shravana, including the Ganesh Chaturti. However, this year’s festival is going to lack lustre given that the pandemic is not going away. With the summer, the season for idol making lost to the pandemic and the resultant lockdown, idol makers in the city are staring at a grim future. With Ganesh Chaturti falling on August 21, idol makers are not yet ready for the festivities. According to them, the process starts in June with the collection of clay, but this year they are yet to take up any work fearing police action on large gatherings and large idols due to Covid-19. “It is a tough period for us. Ganesha Chaturti and Dasara are the two occasions when the idols are in huge demand. Unfortunately this year, nothing is clear. So, no idol maker is taking the risk to start preparations,” said Basavappa, a idol maker from Ittiegudu. He has been making clay idols for the last 35 years. “There was a huge demand for the clay idols due to the ban on the PoP idols last few years. However, the situation is different this year,” he added. Ganeshaiah, another idol maker from Hosabandikeri said the economic crisis is a major cause of worry. “Small idols usually get us good business as all keep Ganesha idols at their homes. But, now with the financial crisis being faced by all, I highly doubt if there will be any demand at all. That’s why we have not yet started preparations,” he said. “All of us are facing similar crisis. The only hope is Dasara,” he added. ‘Need clarity on public celebrations’Ganesh idol makers in Hubballi and Belagavi have urged the government to come out with a clear decision on public celebration of the festival. Sanjay Killekar, an idol maker in Belagavi, said due to lack of clear guidelines, sarvajanik Ganesha mandals have not booked their idols yet. “I am not sure if authorities will allow installation of large idols and pandals. I have taken a risk by preparing to make idols that are taller than six feet. If authorities do not permit them, I will face a loss,” he added. Killekar, who is the working president of Belagavi Ganesha Idol makers association, said they met with representatives of Ganesh Utsav Mahamandal and ask them to take a decision on the size of the required idols within a week. Chitragar Samaj president Raghavendra Murgod said the government should come out with detailed guidelines pertaining to the celebration of Ganesha festival. When contacted, large and medium industries minister Jagadish Shettar said, “Currently we cannot say anything as Covid cases are increasing day by day. We are in such a situation for the first time. I will discuss the matter with officials soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ganesh-idol-makers-stare-at-a-bleak-future/articleshow/76803151.cms||Shrinivasa M
July 6, 2020||Vadodara||13-feet-long ‘killer’ crocodile captured near Vadodara's Waghodia||VADODARA: Two days after it killed another woman, the 13-feet-long crocodile that made Dev River in Waghodia taluka of Vadodara a very scary story, was finally rescued late on Saturday night. The killer reptile has been handed over to the forest department much to the locals’ relief as over the past few years, the giant crocodile’s preying on humans had kept the river almost out of bounds for the people. “There were several attempts to rescue it in the past too, but the reptile remained elusive. It would attack the locals and disappear in the river. We laid a trap for the past two days and managed to capture the crocodile,” said Hemant Vadhwana, a wildlife activist. Two days ago, the crocodile had attacked Mangiben, who was washing clothes near the river bank in Mahadevpura village. Before passers-by could intervene, the reptile dragged the woman deep inside the river. Her husband along with locals began hunting for the woman amid the croc-infested waters and could finally locate her body after more than an hour’s search. Vadhwana claimed that in March this year the same crocodile had also killed another 70-year-old woman who had entered the river to wash clothes. Victim Javra Parmar was standing in knee-deep water in the river, when the crocodile caught hold of her legs and began dragging her. Luckily, some locals spotted Parmar and jumped in the river to save her. Two locals who came within the crocodile’s reach tried to scare it away. The crocodile then let go off the woman and disappeared in the dark waters. Parmar was rushed to a hospital with grievous injuries, but she succumbed during treatment. Activists said that crocodiles usually attack women, who normally sit by the riverbanks to wash clothes, mistaking them for some small animal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/13-ft-long-killer-crocodile-captured-near-waghodia/articleshow/76802590.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Mysuru||Ganesh idol makers in Hubballi, Mysuru stare at a bleak future||MYSURU/HUBBALLI: Several festivals are lined up for the month of Shravana, including the Ganesh Chaturti. However, this year’s festival is going to lack lustre given that the pandemic is not going away. With the summer, the season for idol making lost to the pandemic and the resultant lockdown, idol makers in the city are staring at a grim future. With Ganesh Chaturti falling on August 21, idol makers are not yet ready for the festivities. According to them, the process starts in June with the collection of clay, but this year they are yet to take up any work fearing police action on large gatherings and large idols due to Covid-19. “It is a tough period for us. Ganesha Chaturti and Dasara are the two occasions when the idols are in huge demand. Unfortunately this year, nothing is clear. So, no idol maker is taking the risk to start preparations,” said Basavappa, a idol maker from Ittiegudu. He has been making clay idols for the last 35 years. “There was a huge demand for the clay idols due to the ban on the PoP idols last few years. However, the situation is different this year,” he added. Ganeshaiah, another idol maker from Hosabandikeri said the economic crisis is a major cause of worry. “Small idols usually get us good business as all keep Ganesha idols at their homes. But, now with the financial crisis being faced by all, I highly doubt if there will be any demand at all. That’s why we have not yet started preparations,” he said. “All of us are facing similar crisis. The only hope is Dasara,” he added. ‘Need clarity on public celebrations’Ganesh idol makers in Hubballi and Belagavi have urged the government to come out with a clear decision on public celebration of the festival. Sanjay Killekar, an idol maker in Belagavi, said due to lack of clear guidelines, sarvajanik Ganesha mandals have not booked their idols yet. “I am not sure if authorities will allow installation of large idols and pandals. I have taken a risk by preparing to make idols that are taller than six feet. If authorities do not permit them, I will face a loss,” he added. Killekar, who is the working president of Belagavi Ganesha Idol makers association, said they met with representatives of Ganesh Utsav Mahamandal and ask them to take a decision on the size of the required idols within a week. Chitragar Samaj president Raghavendra Murgod said the government should come out with detailed guidelines pertaining to the celebration of Ganesha festival. When contacted, large and medium industries minister Jagadish Shettar said, “Currently we cannot say anything as Covid cases are increasing day by day. We are in such a situation for the first time. I will discuss the matter with officials soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ganesh-idol-makers-stare-at-a-bleak-future/articleshow/76806814.cms||Shrinivasa M
July 6, 2020||Business||2,500 job offers get stuck at Nokia plant buyer Salcomp||CHENNAI: Finnish phone parts maker Salcomp, which took over the now defunct Nokia factory in Sriperumbudur is ready with job offers for more than 2,500 people — mostly diploma holders and engineers — for its assembly lines, but is unable to conduct the interview with prospective candidates and take them onboard. Reason: Lockdown in Chennai region since March end. Salcomp acquired Nokia factory and Lite-On-Mobile units inside the Nokia SEZ as part of its India expansion strategy for nearly $50 million last November. After all the statutory clearances, it has now taken possession of the units and has announced aggressive expansion plans — recruit another 10,000 persons over the next couple of years, most of which will be within the next 18 months. It employs more than 8,000 persons now. “We are ready with the expansion plans, we are unable to identify the candidate and recruit and bring them on to the shop floor. For the first phase we will need 2,000 people as direct employees, while a few hundreds as indirect,” said Sasikumar Gendham, MD of Salcomp India. The company which used to visit college campuses in tier-2 and tier-3 towns in Thanjavur and Ramanathapuram districts, among others, is unable to go ahead with the recruitment process “I was hoping TN would lift the lockdown from Monday, but they have extended it till July 31,” he said. Towards this Salcomp is seeking the support of the state government. “Each collectorate has a District Industrial Cell, which is incharge of industrial activity in the district. If they can bring in the candidates to these centres, we can conduct an online interview and with special permission we can move them for work immediately,” Gendham said. The company’s factories are working on thin edge with its inbound shipments stuck at customs after India has raised restrictions on Chinese imports in the wake of Galwan Valley attacks. “We will get our shipments cleared and hopefully it will reach our factory on Wednesday. If that happens, there would be no loss of production as existing inventories will last till then,” he said. Salcomp is among the largest manufacturers of phone charges including for Apple, and other parts and supplies to original equipment makers and contract manufacturers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/salcomp-has-2500-job-offers-ready-but-recruitment-is-stuck/articleshow/76803501.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
July 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt empowers ASIs to handle liquor cases||PATNA: The state government has rolled out an ordinance amending the Bihar Excise and Prohibition Act, 2016 retrospectively and empowering even assistant sub-inspector (ASI) rank officers of state police to search and seize liquors and investigate prohibition-related cases. Earlier, sub-inspector and above ranked officers were permitted to enter, inspect, search and seize or investigate prohibition cases. The Bihar Prohibition and Excise (Amendment and Validation) Ordinance, 2020 would be deemed to have come into force on October 2, 2016 when Bihar Excise and Prohibition Act, 2016 was enacted. The ordinance also mentions that the Act shall have overriding effect and all acts done according to the provisions of Bihar Excise and Prohibition Act, 2016 by ASIs shall be deemed to be valid. This amendment is aimed at empowering government to challenge even those cases in which any accused had been already granted relief, including acquittal by the court, on grounds that an ASI had handled the case. On June 16, IG (prohibition) Amrit Raj had written to all SSPs and SPs to immediately hand over the investigation of prohibition-related cases to SIs or inspectors if earlier handled by ASI-rank officer. Raj had mentioned the ill-effects of ASIs conducting search, seizure and investigation as the accused were getting benefits during trial of cases. He had highlighted Section 73(E) of the Act where search and preparing seizure list could not be done by any officer below SI-rank as per Section 78(2). Only these two sections were amended by substituting the word sub-inspector with assistant sub-inspector. In the ordinance, lack of SIs in state police had been cited as the reason behind the amendment. The sanctioned strength of SIs is 17,535 but there were only 8,669 in state police. Of them, 4661 are working with investigation wing while the rest 4008 are engaged in maintaining law and order. When asked, advocate Satyabir Bharti said there were several cases in which the Patna high court had granted relief to the accused as search and seizure by an ASI were declared illegal. “However, in my opinion, amending criminal law with retrospective effect is violation of Article 20 (1) of the Constitution,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-empowers-asis-to-handle-liquor-cases/articleshow/76803121.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 6, 2020||Business||Nalanda Cap eyes $800 million fund||BENGALURU: Nalanda Capital — one of the largest long-only, India-focused funds — is raising $800 million for an additional corpus. Out of this, it has already mopped up $728 million, according to its filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Started by former Warburg Pincus India co-head Pulak Prasad, known for his bet on telco Bharti Airtel, the new fund will take the corpus raised by Nalanda to over $2.3 billion. The latest fund comes at a time when the stock market has been volatile for the last few months since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, even though the index has recovered a large part of the initial fall. An email sent to Prasad, whose firm was in the news last year for its shareholding in Mindtree, seeking comment on the new fund did not elicit a response till the time of going to the press. Prasad had led Warburg Pincus’s investment in Airtel in 1999, which made more than six times returns of over $1.8 billion, setting the stage for the global private equity rush to India. After quitting Warburg Pincus, Prasad set up Nalanda Capital in 2007 based out of Singapore. The firm raised its first fund of $400 million in May 2007, followed by a second $475-million fund in 2011, and then an additional corpus of $620 million in 2016. Nalanda’s limited partners (LPs) include endowments, foundations and family offices from the US and Europe. Nalanda follows the private investment in public enterprises, or PIPE, route to focus on investing in the large universe of small- and mid-cap companies listed on the bourses, which are typically off the radar of big global investors and equity research firms. Some of the recent bets by Nalanda include hiking its stake in environment and engineering firm Thermax. Several of its large holdings are in construction and ancillary space like Havells and Berger Paints, besides internet companies such as Info Edge, Just Dial and Matrimony. Its most successful bet is Page Industries, a licensed manufacturer of the Jockey brand of innerwear in India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal. Nalanda had picked up a stake of close to 10% in October 2008, at an average price of Rs 440-450, and is currently sitting on gains of more than 40 times as the company’s shares closed on Friday at Rs 20,609 on the BSE. Nalanda sold about a quarter of its stake in the company last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nalanda-cap-eyes-800m-fund/articleshow/76803473.cms||Madhav Chanchani
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||77% of Kolkata containment zones are in standalone buildings, complexes||KOLKATA: Among the 1,872 containment units in Kolkata, nearly 76.7% are standalone buildings and apartment complexes. These are spread across 18 clusters with south Kolkata continuing to show a late spurt. According to the containment data made available by the state, Kolkata has 689 containment units in standalone buildings and 742 flats or apartments. Police on Sunday indicated that stricter containment policies will be implemented at places which throw up several cases. This may include a lockdown of that particular zone. “In such places, entry of outsiders will be restricted. We will also ensure that there is social distancing at the markets, bus stops and public transport in these zones. Anybody not wearing a mask will be penalized,” said a senior officer. In isolated containment units, norms will be relaxed. While individual Covid patients and their family members residing in isolation units will be counselled and advised not to step out, places where four to five cases get reported within a single apartment complex and where there is a “high chance of multiplying” will witness immediate police intervention and stricter enforcement of rules. Kolkata now has 18 containment zones and another 1,872 isolation units. Incidentally, all the containment zones at present are apartments. TOI on Sunday visited five containment zones in Bhowanipore and Kankurgachhi, which have reported cluster outbreaks, to get a feel of the ground reality. At Chakraberia North, barricades had been put up at two entry points of the lane and four cops were guarding a building that houses 22 flats. On Sarat Bose Road, two more apartments had two cops guarding them. “We do not know how food is being delivered to the residents. You have to ask our senior,” said a constable at the barricade. At Kankurgachhi, barricades were visible outside both containment zones. But while one had a lone cop on guard, the other had none. The shop right next to the containment zone is still operational. “We are going by requirement,” said an officer. In Ballygunge and Bhowanipore, fresh cases are being reported from high-rises, apartment buildings and stand-alone buildings. In the Ultadanga-Kankurgachhi belt, which has the highest number of containment zones, the KMC health team is doing the rounds after fresh Covid cases were reported. The health department has been asked to remain extra vigilant in large areas of Bhowanipore, Sarat Bose Road and Hazra Road. “We need to keep a special vigil on large markets in the Park Circus-Ballygunge and Bhowanipore-Sarat Bose Road areas as many cases have been reported in the vicinity,” a senior health department official said. (With inputs from Amit Moulick)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/77-of-city-containment-zones-are-in-standalone-bldgs-complexes/articleshow/76804071.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 6, 2020||Patna||Two lawyers & one employee of Kishanganj court found infected||PATNA: Two lawyers and one employee of Kishanganj civil court tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday. Their samples were collected three days back after two court employees had been found infected. One of them died on Friday on way to JLNMCH in Bhagalpur. Kishanganj civil surgeon Dr S Mandal told TOI over phone that the three tested positive on Sunday included a court staff and a woman lawyer. “Samples of several civil court employees and lawyers were collected as per contact tracing and also as a precautionary measure,” Dr Mandal said. He said more samples would be collected as per necessity. The physical functioning of Kishanganj civil court was earlier suspended till Wednesday, but looking at the present scenario, it might remain closed for some more time for precautionary measure and sanitization of the court campus. Only urgent matters would be taken up for hearing via videoconferencing till then. Meanwhile, physical working of Patna civil court along with subdivisional courts at Danapur and Patna City would now remain suspended till Tuesday for sanitization after another court employee tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday. Only very urgent matters would be taken up for hearing via videoconferencing by the judges from their respective residences. All these courts have been closed since July 1 and were scheduled to reopen on Monday. A lawyer of Patna civil court had tested Covid-19 positive. He is a special public prosecutor for the state government. The class-IV employee, who tested positive, is posted in the ADJ-I court at Danapur. He had actually come in contact with the infected lawyer of the civil court. Patna district and sessions judge Rudra Prakash Mishra on Saturday issued orders for further suspending physical work of all the three courts for sanitization of courtrooms, offices and bar buildings. Employees and lawyers at Danapur court have been urged to voluntarily come forward and inform authorities if any of them had come in contact with the lawyer as well as the staff infected. They should also go into self-quarantine for 14 days and get themselves tested for Covid-19. 3 jail inmates test positive: Three inmates of Kishanganj district jail have tested Covid-19 positive, Kishanganj civil surgeon Dr S Mandal said on Sunday. This is probably for the first time that Covid cases have been reported from a prison. Mandal said samples of 68 more inmates had been collected on Sunday. “All three have been shifted to Covid-19 centre in the district,” he said. Sources said the three were tested as they had come in contact with infected persons before being sent to jail. “They were already in the isolation ward of the jail,” a prison source said. He said in the first batch, 29 samples were collected from the jail on June 30, included that of 18 inmates and prison staff who had served them food. “Their test results came on July 3 and three were tested positive,” he said. “On Sunday, samples of 24 more prisoners and 44 jail employees were collected. The test results will come in three days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-lawyers-one-employee-of-kishanganj-court-found-infected/articleshow/76802752.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 6, 2020||Business||HDFC Bank’s loans grow 21% in lockdown quarter||MUMBAI: HDFC Bank has reported a loan growth rate of 21% amid the lockdown for the quarter ended June 30. The bank’s loan book expanded to Rs 10 lakh crore at the end of the quarter from Rs 8.3 lakh crore in the year-ago period. Deposits grew 25% in April-June 2020 to touch Rs 11.9 lakh crore from Rs 9.5 lakh crore in the previous year. In absolute terms, the bank has managed to grow its loans by Rs 10,800 crore during the lockdown quarter, while its deposits rose by Rs 42,000 crore. The higher increase in deposits was an outcome of the flight to safety as the country’s largest private bank was seen as a safe haven at a time when some private lenders saw deposits being pulled out. The growth rate was higher than the same period in the previous fiscal, when HDFC Bank had a smaller balance sheet. In the first quarter of FY20, the private bank had reported an 18.5% increase in total deposits to Rs 9.5 lakh crore, while total advances had risen by 17.1% to Rs 8.3 lakh crore. HDFC Bank appears to have gained market share as its deposit growth rate has been nearly double than the industry. According to RBI data, the banking system’s deposits grew 11% year-on-year to Rs 138.7 lakh crore till June 19. This means HDFC Bank has a market share of around 8.5% in deposits. The loan growth has been almost twice as fast for the bank. Total bank credit grew 6.2% to Rs 102.5 lakh crore, while HDFC Bank’s credit growth is three and a half times that of the industry, giving it a market share of around 9.5%. The exact market share numbers will be known only after the RBI releases data for the industry for the last fortnight of June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-banks-loans-grow-21-in-lockdown-quarter/articleshow/76803448.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Surat||Despite spike, textile biz decide against shutdown||Surat: The textile industry captains have decided that they will not shut down the businesses, but take all precautions to stop the spread of Covid-19. The Federation Of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTA) held a meeting with Navsari MP CR Paatil on Sunday to decide whether to shut shops or continue business. Over 700 people associated with textile business have tested positive so far. “The traders agreed to continue business with precautions and no textile business will be shut. Everyone agreed to download Arogya Setu App,’‘ Patil said.Diamond industry leaders also held a meeting with state minister Kumar Kanani and said guidelines for the operations are being prepared. “Just because some people are violating the rules, the entire industry should not be closed,” said Babu Kathiria, [resident, Surat Diamond Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/despite-spike-textile-biz-decide-against-shutdown/articleshow/76803707.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Surat||Shopkeepers to pay Rs 5,000 fine||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Sunday said shopkeepers will be fined Rs 5,000 if they don’t wear masks and sell anything to customers who don’t have the face shields.“If SMC finds any shopkeeper without mask or selling items to customers who don’t weak masks, they will be fined of Rs 5,000,” a civic body communiqué stated. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/shopkeepers-to-pay-rs-5000-fine/articleshow/76803720.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar registers three more Covid deaths, 404 fresh positive cases||PATNA: Three more patients died as Covid-19 toll in the state mounted to 91 on Sunday. Also, 404 new cases of coronavirus were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 11,864 in Bihar. As many as 8,765 patients have recovered while 3,008 active cases remained in the state. Altogether 277 people have been discharged from hospitals and isolation centres in the past 24 hours. The state has 73.9% recovery rate. Patna districts crossed the 1,000-mark with 38 new cases on Sunday. The total coronavirus cases reported in the district is 1,003. So far 522 patients have been discharged from hospitals, including 56 in the last 24 hours. Patna had 469 active cases. Two deaths were reported from Bhagalpur and one from Samastipur district. Bhagalpur civil surgeon Dr Vijay Kumar Singh said an 83-year-old man from Naugachia died on Sunday morning after testing positive for Covid-19 and admitted to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) on July 4. “He had fever and cold and also had breathing problem. His contacts are being traced. His family members’ swab will be collected for test,” Dr Vijay said over the phone. A 48-year-old man from Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur, who died at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in Patna, was admitted for the treatment of virus on July 4. Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer at NMCH, said he had chronic kidney disease, hypertension and diabetes. “He was tested positive on July 3 and referred from Bhagalpur after his condition deteriorated. The man was put in the ICU,” he said. In the third case, a 33-year-old man from Hansa under Warisnagar block in Samastipur, died on Sunday. He had returned from Delhi about a fortnight ago. Dr Mukul said the man was brought to NMCH on June 30 and admitted in the ICU. “The man had liver disease, fever and dry cough,” he said. Altogether 27 Covid patients have died at NMCH so far, whereas 399 had been discharged. He said 203 patients were undergoing treatment at NMCH. According to a health department bulletin, 2,57,896 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the state so far, including 6,799 in the past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-registers-3-more-covid-deaths-404-fresh-ve-cases/articleshow/76802734.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 6, 2020||Mysuru||Kodagu Congress divided over partyman’s comment on PM||Madikeri: The Kodagu Congress is divided house over a public comment against Prime Minister Narendra Modi by a prominent party leader. The differences started when Vindhya Poonacha, a resident of Kushalnagar, mocked Congress supremo Sonia Gandhi on Facebook recently. The district Congress unit complained to the Kushalnagar police urging action against Vindhya. When police said legal action is not possible under the cyber act, former ZP member and congress member VP Shashidhar from Kushalnagar had argued with police. He said, “Will you keep quite when Modi is called a *****?” The video of the argument has gone viral. Later, BJP office bearers complained against this in Kushalnagar station. Former Kodagu ZP president KP Chandrakala defended Shashidhar and said, “We have great respect for PM Modi. Shashidhar said that word in the spur of the moment.” However, district Congress president KK Manjunathkumar has opposed Shashidhar’s comment. Party members should not defend such remarks, he added. “Chandrakala’s opinion is her personal one and we do not praise Modi has failed to provide a good administration,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kodagu-congress-divided-over-partymans-comment-on-pm/articleshow/76803256.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||E-tailers must mark products’ Indianness: PIL||Ahmedabad: A PIL (public interest litigation) in the Gujarat high court is seeking directions to the Centre to frame rules to mandate e-commerce platforms to show the ‘Indianness’ of their products. Yatin Soni, an advocate, filed the PIL on July 2. Soni has said that to implement Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan’, it is necessary for a consumer to insist on Indian products, made in India. To exercise that choice, the consumer needs relevant information. The petitioner has further contended that transactions on online platforms have surged lately. The petitioner has said that e-commerce platforms do not inform their customers whether products being sold are manufactured in India by Indian companies or by foreign companies. The petitioner has sought directions to the government to compel e-commerce platforms to include colour codes and symbols to indicate product origins. Soni has said in his PIL that it is a consumer’s right to be informed about where a product is manufactured. It is difficult to determine that fact when one places an order online, he has said. The petition has contended: “There are a large number of people who wish to give preference to products which are ‘Made in India’ and manufactured by Indian companies, if available in the open market, as they belong to the Swadeshi School of thought.” The petitioner has also said that it is impossible for every user to search for this information and hence e-commerce platforms should be mandated to provide these details. This PIL is likely to come up for hearing later this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/e-tailers-must-mark-products-indianness-pil/articleshow/76803592.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Business||WFH could ‘Uberise’ some bank jobs||MUMBAI: With banks adopting the work-from-home (WFH) model, there is a possibility that some jobs could go the Uber way with employees deciding which hours of the day they will plug in. This is applicable for tasks that are homogeneous, like that of call centre employees where technological developments are making it easier to monitor even remotely. Axis Bank had been preparing for a WFH model even before the pandemic struck, which made it possible to keep 700 of its call centre executives active even after the lockdown was announced. SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar recently told TOI in an interview that the bank was planning to move to a work-from-anywhere model rather than just work-from-home. In the early weeks of the lockdown, HDFC Bank MD and CEO Aditya Puri had said that the bank was going to shift permanently to a WFH model for a third of its employees. According to Axis Bank head (process transformation & customer experience) Ratan Kesh, the private lender was able to immediately activate call centre services from remote locations as it had put in place applications that could push the caller data to the executive’s device and simultaneously route the call to the executive’s personal mobile device. This resulted in successful business continuity and the bank has been able to get back to 90% of pre-Covid-19 volumes. “We were also able to operate the call centres for FASTag (electronic wallet for toll payments), while many others were still struggling,” said Kesh. Employees were able to connect as the bank adopted a bring-your-own-device strategy, allowing staff to connect through VPN. The managers were also able to do their job remotely as a dashboard gave them an update of employee performance. Additionally, a newly installed artificial application converted conversations into text and analysed them to see whether managerial intervention was required. According to Kesh, WFH is likely to be part of the new normal even as the space cleared is used for maintaining social distancing in office. One of the key advantages in the WFH model is that rostering of staff could be done on an hourly basis instead of a daily basis. “Based on the experience, we can forecast the busy hours in a day. In a WFH model, some staff can choose to take a break during the non-peak hours and resume later. This is not possible in the call centre,” said Kesh. The other advantage is that of being able to work from any location, which can help save rent for some.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wfh-could-uberise-some-bank-jobs/articleshow/76803438.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 6, 2020||Patna||Work on second phase of Ganga Path to begin soon: Nand Kishore Yadav||PATNA: Road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav on Sunday said technical constraints in the second phase of Ganga Path project, commonly known as Ganga driveway project, in Patna has been resolved. The project is to cost Rs 736 crore and may be completed within 2.5 years. Yadav said work approval letters had given to the selected companies. “The construction of 7-km-long Ganga Path between Nauzer Ghat and Didarganj has been awarded to GR Infra Projects limited. The project is to cost around Rs605.07 crore,” he said and added: “Gawar Construction Limited has been awarded construction work to link Ashok Rajpath (near PMCH) to the Ganga Path. It will cost Rs131 crore. The work will be completed within 500 days.” The second phase envisages construction of an expressway on the Ganga bank from Nauzer Ghat to Didarganj near Patna-Bakhtiyarpur NH-30. The minister said the project would ease heavy traffic congestion on Ashok Rajpath and boost the economic activities in the area. “It will also ensure direct connectivity to Kangan Ghat, Krishna Ghat, Gai Ghat, LCT Ghat and AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies,” he said. The 20.5-km-long four-lane highway work from Digha to Didarganj was initiated in 2013. But it was delayed mainly due to land acquisition hurdles, slow work and some technical issues. Around 35% work has been completed on the 13-km-long pathway between Digha and Nauzer Ghat in the first phase. Yadav said action would be initiated against the company which had been awarded work between Digha and Nauzer Ghat. “The work is going on at a snail’s pace. That’s why we divided the project into two phases and awarded tenders for the second phase to other companies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/work-on-2nd-phase-of-ganga-path-to-begin-soon-minister/articleshow/76802832.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 6, 2020||Surat||Doc, veggie seller donate plasma||Surat: Good news for positive patients as the city will soon start Plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients. In a move to this effect, two patients who fought off Covid-19 successfully and recovered fully from the virus have donated their plasma at the blood bank at SMIMER Hospital on Sunday.Confirming this, Dr Ankita Shah, professor and head, immunohematology and blood trransfusion (IHBT) department at the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run hospital, told TOI, “One of the two donors include Dr Kishor Dudhat, an orthopaedic surgeon. We took their plasma as per the The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines and we will soon use plasma therapy for treatment of Covid-19 patients.”“Plasma therapy is now recommended to Covid-19 patient with moderate disease as a treatment protocol. We request other recovered patients to come forward and help Covid patients recover early with plasma treatment,” Dr Shah said. She further said that all precautions are being taken while taking the donation as the hospital takes plasma only from donors. “All necessary tests are conducted before blood transfusion to patients as per the guidelines. We have a team of 42 people at SMIMER’s blood bank who are counselling patients for plasma donation as well as working on collection,” she added.Chandresh Kothawala (39), vegetable shop owner in Sardar Market, who also donated plasma, said, "I convinced two other friends also to donated plasma." Kothawala had recovered from Covid-19 around 45 days ago.“Our team at SMIMER and Covid-19 care centre at Samras Hostel are contacting recovered Covid-19 patients and encouraging them for plasma donations. Before being discharged from Covid care centre, over 200 patients had given oral consent for plasma donations,” Puneet Nayyar, (IFS), who is coordination, SMMIER as well as Covid Care Centre, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/doc-veggie-seller-donate-plasma/articleshow/76803680.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Surat||SNVIT to take online exam for BTech, MSc||Surat: At a time when majority of higher education institutions in the country have cancelled their exams, Surat’s Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) completed its last semester exams for Bachelor of Technology (BTech) as well as five-year integrated Master of Science (MSc) . The exam was conducted in online format and after successful completion, the varsity will conduct remaining exams for BTech and MSc students. Altogether 814 students from various branches of BTech and MSc have appeared in the exam and their results are also being announced by the institute currently. The decision to conduct final year exam was opposed by the students initially and were demanding that they should be given marks as per the previous exam performance. But the institute refused to cancel the exam. After smoothly conducting the exams, the institute in a recently held senate meeting decided to conduct exam of second, fourth and sixth semester exam in BTech while second, fourth, sixth and eighth semester exam in five year MSc course. “Exam of around 2,700 students of BTech, MSc and MTech will now be conducted after successful completion of last semester exam. Last year MTech tests are also continue currently,” said H R Jariwala, associate dean, academic, SVNIT. “Exam of those students who have failed in other semester in past will also be conducted,” said a faculty member. “We are ensuring that the students can appear in exam without any trouble. Taking exam will help them in their career,” said S R Gandhi, director, SVNIT. The exam of last semester students was conducted online. The exam papers were uploaded online and students were supposed to send scanned answer book after writing answers. “In current circumstances the final semester exam was of 30 marks instead of 50 marks. We have earlier completed 30 marks mid semester exam and its marks will now be calculated on proportionate out of 50 marks,” said P G Agnihotri, professor at Civil Engineering department, SVNIT. The institute also conducted 20 marks surprise test earlier and its marks will be counted in final result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/snvit-to-take-online-exam-for-btech-msc/articleshow/76803745.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 6, 2020||Surat||‘I will donate every fortnight’||Surat: Dr Kishor Dudhat, an orthopedic surgeon, who became the first plasma donor in the city on Sunday, vowed to continue donating plasma every fortnight to help Covid-19 patients fight the disease successfully. After his father, Vitthal Dudhat (67) got infected with coronavirus in the first week of May and was put on a ventilator at New Civil Hospital, the surgeon and his dentist wife, Dr Kiran too, tested positive. “We thank the civil hospital administration for their dedication and helping us all recover from the infection,” Dr Dudhat told TOI. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/i-will-donate-every-fortnight/articleshow/76803698.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Mysuru||Muda to go for audit to check land grabbing||Mysuru: Mysuru Urban Development Authority (Muda) is on a mission to reclaim all its ‘lost’ properties by carrying out an audit of land it had acquired in the past five decades. In toto, about 13,000 acres of land has been acquired by Muda since 1968. Records of some of the properties are unavailable and even details of land acquired by the urban body are missing. As a result, there have been incidents of land grabbing and encroachment of Muda land. Muda recently initiated the process to recover four houses built on its land in Hebbal locality. About 10 guntas of land in prime location was taken over by land grabbers after fabricating documents. An RTI query by BN Nagendra revealed the illegal possession of land that helped the urban body to reclaim the vacant sites and initiate a process to take over houses built on its land. This is one such incident wherein Muda was lucky. ‘Old record going missing’ at the urban body facilitated land grabbers to create fake records and gobble up land. Few other sites in developed layouts that were sold using fake documents too were taken back. Such incidents are happening as records of undeveloped lands aren’t available. Muda is asking people in possession of disputed lands to produce documents for verification. Muda commissioner DB Natesh admitted that land belonging to the authority has been gobbled up by grabbers after fabricating documents. He said that the land audit will help MUDA identify land that has been taken away illegally. “We will verify such lands and check what can be done to get back such disputed property,” he added. “Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has brought in legislation which allows people currently in possession of disputed land to pay some percentage of guidance/land value to the urban body and regularize the property. Separate slabs were fixed for different dimensions of sites. Muda will check whether the same proposal can be applied here or not,” Natesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/muda-to-go-for-audit-to-check-land-grabbing/articleshow/76803376.cms||Lawrence Milton
July 6, 2020||Patna||Experts to evaluate and grade online video lectures and study materials||PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan has asked the vice-chancellors to get evaluated the video lectures and study materials being uploaded to the university websites. It has been decided to improve the quality of study materials being uploaded to the websites of different universities during the Covid-19 pandemic. The VCs have been asked to get the materials evaluated through expert committees and get them graded, too. In a recent circular sent by the chancellor’s secretariat, the VCs have been directed to send the e-contents of best quality to Raj Bhavan so that they may be used for imparting online education by other universities as well. If some e-content is found to be substandard, steps may be taken to get them revised and upgraded. The universities may collaborate and pool their resources to achieve the objective of imparting quality online education, the circular said. The chancellor ordered that interactive online classes should be organized in every university and college regularly and information about the schedule of classes must be displayed in advance on the websites of universities and colleges. Students should be informed of the mechanism and links through which they may access and attend the classes. Students may also be conveyed the information about the classes separately through other means like emails or social media. It has been observed that so far the mechanism of interactive online classes has not be used sufficiently and effectively by the universities and colleges, Chauhan observed in the circular. The VCs were further directed to upload subject and topic-wise video lectures to either the websites of universities and colleges or on other channels like YouTube and Fecebook, and the links may be provided on the websites. Similarly, subject and topic-wise study materials should be uploaded to the websites of universities and colleges and the links may be given on the websites, the chancellor added. The VCs have been directed to submit weekly reports to the chancellor’s secretariat every Wednesday. The chancellor observed that apart from the need to continue online education during the corona period, universities and colleges need to plan their academic activities in such a way that online education is continued as supplementary and complementary to offline education even when the educational institutions reopen, the circular added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/experts-to-evaluate-grade-online-video-lectures-and-study-materials/articleshow/76802763.cms||B K Mishra
July 6, 2020||Patna||CISF maintain strict vigil at Patna airport||PATNA: The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel are keeping a strict vigil on flyers at the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport, Patna, post Unlock 1.0 as touts have become active in carrying villagers from state on largescale by flights to various destinations to work in factories as daily wage workers. Two recent incidents have alerted the CISF after touts were found submitting forged identity documents for making the villagers board flights on tickets booked on names of others. Six villagers from Begusarai were arrested on June 18 followed by three more from Supaul on July 4 According to a senior CISF officer of airport security said that with the commencement of unlock 1.0, demand of daily wagers grew in other states for factories and other works. Another reason for maintaining alertness is the post Galwan valley clash between the Indian and Chinese Army. “At present, domestic flights are the only secure and frequent mode of transportation available as the number of trains are few,” the officer said. “Number of flyers from villages had surged suddenly. This was never observed in past due to which monitoring, profiling and vigilance have been increased at the airport. Two recent incidents in which flyers from Begusarai and Supaul attempted to fly on someone else’s ticket with forged documents had never happened earlier,” he said. In fact, touts make bulk booking of tickets. However, some of the villagers back out at the last moment and instead of cancelling tickets, the touts then try to rope in others who are willing to work outside the state. They also try to use the same tickets are for them by forging documents. “This problem can be prevented by creating awareness with the help of media, police and mukhiya in villages,” he said. When asked, airport director Bhupesh CH Negi said, “The CISF personnel are maintaining strict vigil at the airport.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cisf-maintain-strict-vigil-at-patna-airport/articleshow/76803218.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 6, 2020||Patna||Sahni to field 33% EBC candidates||PATNA: Vikasheel Insan Party (VIP) chief Mukesh Sahni said on Sunday that his party would field 33% candidates belonging to extremely backward classes (EBC) in the forthcoming state assembly polls due in October-November this year. Addressing a virtual rally ahead of the state assembly election using a digital platform, the VIP national president said that the voters belonging to the EBC will play a decisive role in the formation of the next government in the state. “No government can be formed in the state without the active support of the EBC. Hence it’s of paramount importance to accord due representation and honour to the people falling under EBC category,” he told the supporters of the party. Sahni said that the VIP has its deep influence among the people belonging to the EBC. “Hence the role of the VIP in the formation of the government after the declaration of the results of the election will be of immense importance,” he told the supporters as well as activists of the party. Sahni also said that the members of Nishad community, who have a sizable population in many constituencies, would also be given its due representation. “Unko bhi uchit pratinidhitwa milega (they will also be accorded due representation),” he added. He further said that though he stepped into active politics in 2014, he floated a political party, VIP, in November 2018 to cherish the dreams of late Karpoori Thakur, who fought for the cause of the suppressed throughout his political career.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sahni-to-field-33-ebc-candidates/articleshow/76803191.cms||Ramashankar
July 6, 2020||Patna||Railways plans to run private trains on 15 routes originating in Bihar||PATNA: With the Railway Board inviting ‘request for qualification’ (RFQ) bids from private operators, decks have been cleared to run high-speed 151 private passenger trains on 109 different routes across the country. Out of 109 chosen routes, 15 will have the originating destination points (ODP) in Bihar under the East Central Railway (ECR). According to Railway Board chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav, railways has worked out its blueprint to execute it sometimes in 2023, bringing a world-class technology of the fastest mode of communication to cater to the needs of people. This ambitious plan was announced in the Union Budget of 2020-21 fiscal after approval from the Niti Aayog with an aim to generate additional funds for the cash-strapped railways. Besides, this move is being taken in railways’ parlance as an alternative to aeroplanes. Several private operators from foreign countries are likely to bid while a few Indian business tycoons are keen to compete at the pre-bidding stage, a Board official said. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said as announced earlier, railways has proposed to run private passenger trains on 15 routes in Bihar. They are Patna-New Delhi (daily), Patna-Howrah (daily), Darbhanga-Anand Vihar (biweekly), Bhagalpur-Anand Vihar (weekly), Gaya-Anand Vihar (triweekly), Darbhanga-Jogeshwari (weekly), Patliputra Jn- Bengaluru (five days a week), Katihar-Tilak Bridge (weekly), Kishanganj-Tilak Bridge (weekly), Barauni-Anand Vihar (biweekly), Chhapra-Anand Vihar (biweekly), Patna-Pune (weekly), Patna-Surat (weekly), Patna-Mumbai (weekly) and Danapur-Indore (weekly). According to sources, railways has fixed Rs668 per train kilometre as haulage charges, which include terminal cost, traction, transportation, track maintenance, signalling and overheads cost. Railways is likely to make an indicative investment of Rs22,500 crore for a period of 35 years for running about 151 private passenger trains on different routes, sources said. According to the CPRO, the experiment will give a boost to railways economy as well as relief to people who are keen to travel fast. Under the proposed terms and conditions, railways has fixed Rs25 lakh as compensation to each victim in case of accident and to pay compensation of Rs100 for every hour late running and Rs250 for two hours late arrival of private passenger trains at the destination points, he said, adding private operators will pay a fine of Rs1 lakh in case of luggage lifting from the running coach during journey. Meanwhile, an expert, on the condition of anonymity, said the haulage charge of Rs668 per kilometre is a meagre amount. It will not benefit railways in the long run, keeping in view the fact that the United Kingdom was forced to take over railways even after 20 years of its privatization, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlys-plans-to-run-pvt-trains-on-15-routes-originating-in-state/articleshow/76803272.cms||Kumod Verma
July 6, 2020||Patna||Patna: No respite from foul smell as trash piles up at Bakri Bazar||PATNA: Delay in the construction of secondary garbage points at Gardanibagh and Agamkuan has caused a major problem for the residents of these areas. Similar is the situation in Station Road market area as its nearby Bakri Bazar has become an open dumping yard and a nightmare for the people, especially during the monsoon season. The 16 acre land identified under the smart city project of Railway Station Area Redevelopment has been turned into a temporary secondary garbage point by the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC). Filled with plastic bags and trash, the place makes it difficult for the passersby and residents of Bandar Bagicha, Budh Marg, Meethapur, Shri Niwas Path, Chandani Chowk and Lal Market to breath. Subodh Goel, a chartered accountant and resident of Bandar Bagicha, said it was impossible to sit even in the balcony of home. “My flat is almost 800 metres away but the whole area stinks. The garbage should not be dumped in the residential areas, especially when coronavirus threat is mounting,” he said. Sandeep Choubey of Budh Marg said, “We can keep our homes clean, but what about the garbage piles lying in our locality. The civic body needs to do something about it.” Putul Kumari of Gardanibagh said not only the household garbage but the used medical equipment were also lying there. “Rain worsens the situation for the residents. We are more scared due to Covid-19 pandemic. There are also commercial establishments and hospitals in the area,” she said. Amit Kumar of Budh Marg complained that mosquitoes swarm the area with the onset of monsoon. “We cannot even sleep due to the foul smell,” he said. Altogether 365 autotippers have been engaged in dumping and transporting garbage from households to the Gardanibagh, Agamkuan and Bakri Bazaar. PMC sources said the garbage generated from the PMC’s New Capital, Patliputra and Bankipore circles was dumped at Bakri Bazaar. When contacted, PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said as soon as the garbage transfer station at Gardanibagh gets ready, the dumping of garbage at Bakri Bazaar would be stopped. “It is a temporary arrangement till the transfer station becomes operational. The sanitation workers clear the garbage on alternate days and dispose of it at landfill site,” he said. “The work on Gardanibagh transfer station has stopped since February due to some technical reasons. The PMC has already requested the urban development and housing department to resume work. We expect it to restart soon,” Himanshu said and added, “Around 80% of the works has already been completed at Gardanibagh while it is yet to start at Agamkuan.” The civic body has planned to process the garbage at secondary points with the help of compactors before dumping it at the landfill site at Ramachak Bairiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-respite-from-foul-smell-as-trash-piles-up-at-bakri-bazar/articleshow/76802822.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 6, 2020||Patna||Migrants put Gaya economy under pressure||GAYA: The 80,000 plus people who came to the district following easing of lockdown restrictions on travel and Shramik Specials, have put the essentially agriculture-based Gaya economy under pressure. According to district magistrate Abhishek Singh, besides 60,067 migrant workers, 13,115 other professionals, 3,031 students, 3,462 dependents of migrant workers and other returnees, several others including 117 persons from abroad have come to the district post-lockdown. Expressing concern over the economic situation prevailing in the district, senior Congress leader and AICC member Vijay Kumar Mithu said that even before Covid-19, Gaya economy was under pressure on account of low tourist footfall, shifting of the Officers’ Training Academy and several other factors. Leave aside establishment of new industries, despite several assurances, neither the Gaya Cotton Mill, nor the Guraru Sugar factory could be revived. In agriculture sector too, chances of additional gainful employment were nil as there is total lack of assured irrigation facility as all the eight rivers of the district including the Falgu and the Morhar are seasonal in nature and there is no perennial river. Conceding that the problem created by the recent influx of migrant workers and skilled/semi-skilled workforce was serious, Kaushalendra Pratap Singh, former president, Central Bihar Chamber of Commerce said that at least some of the educated returnees can be given employment at the local level. According to the business body former chief, “Following the introduction of GST, there was acute shortage of personnel who were computer savvy as well as possessing basic accounting knowledge. With some training under skill development programme, employment generation was possible.” Kisan leader Baliram Sharma said that, of late, a sizeable number of returnee migrant workers have again started going back to their previous places of work as they did not get work here. “Between starvation and Covid, such workers have chosen the former,” said the activist. Asked about the official plan to deal with the new situation, the DM said that all out efforts are being made to give jobs to the returnees. Besides creation of 38,000 man days for unskilled workers, 1200 skilled workers have got employment in the private sector including manufacture of railway sleepers and power loom sector in Manpur. About 3,200 persons have got job in the construction sector, said the DM. Skill mapping of the returnees has also been done. Asked about reverse migration of the work force, the DM said some workers have gone back but the number of such workers was very low as compared to the number of returnees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migrants-put-gaya-economy-under-pressure/articleshow/76802845.cms||Abdul Qadir
July 6, 2020||Patna||Patna: 88 shops closed, 947 people slapped fines for violating norms||PATNA: As the number of coronavirus cases in Patna crossed 1,000-mark, the district administration and transport department conducted special drives on Sunday to crack down on the violators of safety norms at public places and on roads. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said 166 shops had been issued notices in the past 24 hours and 88 shops closed for violating the safety norms like wearing masks, using sanitizers and maintaining social distance. Ravi said in Patna Sadar, the team issued notices to 14 shops whereas four shops were closed. “Twenty shops were closed in Patna City, three in Danapur, four in Masaurhi and two in Barh subdivision. Ten shops in Paliganj, three in Danapur, four in Masaurhi and 27 in Patna City were issued closure notices,” he said. On Sunday, 108 shops were raided by the teams constituted by the district authorities. Notices were issued to 58 shops and three shops were closed. Transport department also conducted the special drive across the state and fined 947 persons for not wearing mask, seat-belt and helmet. The traffic police and transport officials collected Rs31 lakh as fines for violating the Covid -19 safety norms and Motor Vehicles Act rules. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said people must wear masks while driving or riding a private or public vehicle. “Those who flout the norms will have to pay hefty fine and their driving licences will also be seized for three days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/88-shops-closed-947-people-slapped-fines-for-violating-norms/articleshow/76802804.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 6, 2020||Patna||No ‘Shrawani Mela’ gatherings this year||BHAGALPUR: Shrawani Mela 2020, which was scheduled to commence on July 6 at Baidyanathdham (Deoghar), has been cancelled. Devotees, this year, will have to give their visit to the temple a miss during the holy month of Shravan, as the century-old shrine, which reopened on June 1, has decided to shut its doors again, amid the spurt in Covid-19 cases. Even the Bhagalpur district administration has also ordered for postponement of gatherings at all Lord Shiva temples in the district for 'jal-abhishek' this month. Last Friday, the Jharkhand high court agreed with the state government’s position of not holding the fair on account of the pandemic while hearing a plea against its cancellation filed Godda BJP MP Nishikant Dubey. Incidentally, one of the biggest religious congregations of eastern India, the month-long carnival, is the single largest revenue generator for the region, especially Deoghar and Dumka, where Baba Baidyanath and Basukinath temples are situated. The Jharkhand government has also asked the Bihar government and the Bhagalpur district administration to stop the movement of devotees from Sultanganj to Deoghar. This year, devotees can only do online darshan of the deity. All rituals will be performed at the shrine by the priests, while strictly adhering to the guidelines laid down to stop the spread of corona virus. Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar has issued an order to postpone the ‘Sharwani Mela’ gatherings and directed the SDMs and DSPs of Bhagalpur, Kahalgaon and Naugachia besides all the 16 block officials to put up check-posts in their respective jurisdictions and ensure stoppage of movement of kanwarias. The DM also ordered to create awareness about the reasons for postponement of ‘Shrawani Mela’ and for restricting movements towards Sultanganj and Deoghar. In normal times, more than 50 lakh devotees and kanwariyas visit Babadham during the holy month of Shrawan every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-shrawani-mela-gatherings-this-year/articleshow/76802861.cms||Kumar Rajesh
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Private hospitals adopt changes to adhere to cost limit||KOLKATA: Private hospitals are adopting various measures to stick to the Covid treatment charge ceiling recommended by the state last week that had prompted the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) to seek a reconsideration. Though the AHEI is yet to write to the government, some hospitals are tweaking their treatment methods while others are rationalizing PPE use to lower the burden on patients. Yet others have decided to carry on the way they had been doing so far. They argue they are absorbing the extra expenses that can’t be curtailed without impeding treatment. The state has fixed the daily charges for PPE and consultation at Rs 1,000 each while Covid test charges have been limited to a maximum of Rs 2,250. AMRI Hospitals is working out a formula to ensure optimum utilization of PPE without compromising on patients’ and healthcare workers’ safety that will allow them to stick to the price ceiling. “We are trying to reduce the number of nurses and group D staffers who serve at Covid units. Doctors, too, will be visiting the unit in a way that keeps PPE use to a minimum. Even though PPE cost has come down, the better ones still cost Rs 500-Rs 600. So there’s very little margin since we can’t reduce the number below two per day,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. He added that it would be comparatively easier to lower the consultation charges. “We may have to space out consultant visits to ensure the limit is adhered to,” added Barua. Some hospitals, however, felt that PPE use and consultants’ visits could not be reduced without compromising on the quality of care. Fortis Hospital has chosen to continue without any change and absorb the additional cost. “A Covid patient often has to be examined by multiple consultants each day. Now we must reduce their fee by half to stick to the limit, which is unfair,” felt Fortis pulmonologist Raja Dhar. A private hospital official said consultants are paid between Rs 750 and Rs 1,000 per visit, a part of which goes to the hospital. “We can’t ask them to sacrifice their fee and use poor quality PPE,” he said. Medica Superspecialty Hospital, too, hasn’t reduced consultant visits, but is charging patients for just one per day. It has rationalized PPE use to two-three per patient. “Most Covid patients require multiple consultations every day. But we have restricted the number of PPE, though it still costs us more than the stipulated Rs 1,000. It is a strain, but we must bear it till the situation improves,” said Medica CEO Alok Roy. At Peerless Hospital, cost of PPE has dropped to Rs 400-Rs 600. It used to be four times that amount till May. Cost of tests, too, has come down to Rs 2,500. “We have rationalized the use of PPE, bringing it down to two per Covid patient per day, apart from four masks. We can bring it down further since PPE supply has increased and price is coming down further. A 10-day stay at Peerless now costs Rs 1,20,000-1,30,000 on an average,” said CEO Sudipta Mitra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-adopt-changes-to-adhere-to-cost-limit/articleshow/76804077.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
July 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Krishna district education officer order pulls the plug on online classes||VIJAYAWADA: In a major development, the Krishna district education officer (DEO) has issued orders directing the managements of private schools across the district to not conduct online classes. The order comes in the wake of a number of complaints from parents on exorbitant fees demanded by private schools for conducting online classes. MV Rajyalakshmi, DEO of Krishna district, stated in the order that the 2020-21 academic year had not yet commenced due to the pandemic. The academic year has been deferred in view of the rise in cases in the state, the DEO said. “The state government has not yet finalised the academic calendar this year. We are waiting for official orders but many private and corporate schools have started online classes without our permission. This will be treated as illegal and stringent action will be initiated against those institutions,” she said. Schools cannot collect any fees for the 2020-21 academic year as per the directions of the Andhra Pradesh School Education Reforms Committee (APSERC). School fees will be fixed by APSERC based on the infrastructure and faculty available at schools, the DEO added. Responding to the order, teachers at private schools and managements condemned the move. “Schools can pay our salaries only if they run classes and receive fees. The government should support private teachers and pay them an honorarium before giving orders prohibiting online classes,” said KN Prasad, a private school teacher in the city. Meanwhile, the decision has evoked a mixed response among parents. Some parents said prohibiting online classes will adversely affect high school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/deo-order-pulls-the-plug-on-online-classes/articleshow/76803580.cms||Venu Lanka
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Now, app to track bio-waste, from collection to disposal||KOLKATA: The Bengal government has mandated the use of a mobile application to track bio-waste disposal from all Covid facilities, including testing centres. The state will also seek the Centre’s nod to set up separate disposal units in Cooch Behar, Siliguri and Bankura. The app, which is available on Google Play Store, can be downloaded on Android phones and an iOS application is being worked on. This was recommended by the Central Pollution Control Board based on the NGT’s directions last month. The government is also working on a proposal to tag bio-waste with a bar code to track it end-to-end. According to sources, the state is expected to decide this month whether it will develop the software on its own or purchase it. The decision, sources said, will also depend on how data can be synced with the Covid facilities and the private bodies engaged by the state to dispose bio-medical waste. The private agencies have also been tasked with collecting and disposing bio-medical waste from households where Covid positive patients are staying in home isolation. All such patients are receiving an SMS from KMC immediately after their records are updated with the health department providing them the details of these agencies. According to sources, the Covid19BMW app must be downloaded by Covid hospitals, quarantine centres, isolation wards, testing laboratories and Covid-19 sample collection centres and the waste data has to be uploaded. The private agencies disposing the waste and the state nodal officers will be the other users. “The hospital administrations will be responsible for the data upload,” an official said. This app, also functional in web-based applications, will enable real-time monitoring of bio-medical waste from collection to disposal, a source said. Sources said a meeting in this regard was held at the health department on June 29 and the state had issued the guidelines for immediate implementation on July 2. “Bio-medical waste disposal is being done by specialized private agencies in Bengal which are empanelled by the pollution control boards. Bio-medical waste are now being collected from households, Covid facilities and testing laboratories and incinerated. This has led to effective monitoring of the bio-medical waste both at the state and the Central level,” the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/now-app-to-track-bio-waste-from-collection-to-disposal/articleshow/76804080.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Surat||Now Covid-19 patients at NCH will be able to video chat with kin||SURAT: For so long, isolated Covid-19 patients at New Civil Hospital (NCH), were almost cut off from society, thanks to even the poor mobile connectivity in the premises. Once put under isolation, kin cannot neither the patient personally nor are they allowed entry into the hospital building. And the biggest communication obstacle was the weak mobile network inside the hospital premises. However, that’s about to change with the authorities making preparations to enable patients make video calls to their anxious kin. NCH has already started a help desk to provide information round the clock about patients, but now wants to upgrade the facility by enabling patients make video call themselves. “We will provide tablet to the patients to help them video chat with their kin directly so that they can relax seeing their patient’s health condition,” said a senior doctor at NCH. For better mobile coverage, a tower is being installed in middle of the NCH campus for better network facility. With this, video calling will become possible, the doctor informed. Since March 16, when the first Covid-19 positive case was admitted, NCH has treated more than 4,000 patients till now. Currently it has 361 positive patients under its treatment at NCH. Test reports of more than 200 suspects are awaited. The hospital has been mired in a lot of controversies — from unhygienic conditions to delay in admission to positive patients, refusing tests and delay in cremation of bodies. Recently, a kin alleged that their patient was cremated without informing them about the death. “We have started a help desk for patients’ kin where our staff will be available round the clock to handle inquiries,” said Dr Ashvin Vasava, nodal officer for Covid-19 treatment in south Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/now-covid-19-patients-at-nch-will-be-able-to-video-chat-with-kin/articleshow/76803736.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: 4 held in drug racket bust||VISAKHAPATNAM: City task force police, led by ACP A Trinad Rao, nabbed four drug peddlers and recovered 2.5 grams of methylenedioxy-methamphetamine (MDMA) powder, 61 bolts of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), six ganja packets and Rs 9,500 in cash from them. Based on reliable intelligence, the task force carried out a raid at the old Port Quarters and seized the drugs. The arrested were identified as Manukonda Satyanarayana alias Sattipandu (26), Majji Ajay Kumar (24), Kandhi Ravikumar (22) and Kethi Manoj Swaroop (24). The police said Satyanarayana, who is a resident of Seethampeta area, was arrested in April 2019 for supplying drugs to a rave party held near Rushikonda Beach. DGP Gautam Sawang said a few ganja smugglers in the district have links with other drug peddlers in Bengaluru and Goa. The former import MDMA and LSD from Bengaluru and Goa and sell in across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/4-held-in-drug-racket-bust/articleshow/76803600.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Bhopal||MP achiever’s father refuses offers of help||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan gave his blessings and offers for help came pouring in on Sunday for Roshni Bhadouriya, the village girl from Bhind district, who ranked eighth with 98.75% in her MP board class 10 exams despite having to cycle 24km to school and back. “Beti Roshni, the success that comes from a hard fight boosts self-confidence. You are an inspiration to other girls of the state. Be happy. Be successful. My blessings,” CM Chouhan tweeted, urging girls in MP to “overcome hurdles and create new milestones of success” . TOI had carried a report on Roshni’s grit on Sunday, which led to a flurry of calls from government officials and individuals from all over the country. But her father, farmer Purushottam Bhadouriya, politely declined all help, saying he would rather take a loan. “I am a farmer. I know how to nurture a plant. I want my children to learn the importance of self-respect in life. Today, if I take help, it won’t be possible for me to teach that lesson to my children. I have no problem accepting government help, but private help I can’t accept,” he told TOI. “All such people are good human beings. I said no to them for my self-respect. I will be in touch with all of them. They are kind souls,” said Purushottam. Roshni, clearly a chip off the old block, said she felt proud about her father’s stand. “Our parents have always taught us not to accept money that we haven’t earned. I am proud that despite the struggles he goes through, my father refuses to take help from anyone,” she added. Purushottam acknowledged that it is tough for him to keep all three children in school (Roshni is his second child), but he is determined that all of them will study as long as they wish. He said he felt overwhelmed by the calls he received on Sunday. “I am thankful to every individual who has shown their concern for my daughter. They want to help me in her studies. However, I can’t take money from anyone for my daughter. It is against my principles. I will take a loan for her education but accepting money is just not possible for me,” said Purushottam. Roshni is delighted by the congratulatory calls she has been getting from all over the country. “This is a new experience for me. I don’t know what to say, but I feel happy that so many people have recognised my effort. I will try to improve this year’s marks,” she said. About her wish to become a collector, she said, “I want to make my family proud and serve society. I have seen my father working in the farm, and want to give my parents a comfortable life.” Now that she is in Class 11, studies will get more intense, and cycling two hours a day, to and from school, will be even harder to manage. Purushottam said he has decided to rent a room near her school so that she won’t have to cycle all the way. “It will be an extra burden but I will manage by taking loans,” said Purushottam. The Bhadouriya family has turned into an inspiration in the region, said Shobharam Parihar, sarpanch of Gata gram panchayat, which encompasses Ajmol village. “Roshni’s achievement is stunning. She has proved that girls can do wonders if they are given an opportunity. Her success is all the more important because her parents gave her confidence and sent her outside. Very few parents do that in our area. More girls will now be able to move out and follow their dreams,” said the sarpanch. Bhind district collector Virendra Rawat said he has directed officials to contact Roshni’s family. “We will definitely help her,” he said. The cycle that Roshni uses was gifted by local authorities when she had bagged high scores in her Class 8 exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-achievers-father-refuses-offers-of-help/articleshow/76803610.cms||Ramendra Singh
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||Inmates with mild infection to be in jail under GMCs’ watch||NAGPUR: One more prisoner of Nagpur Central Jail tested positive late in the evening on Saturday, taking the count of prisoners with Covid-19 infection to 44 so far. SP, Nagpur Central Jail, Anupkumar Kumre said that 17 asymptomatic prisoners admitted to IGGMCH and equal number from GMCH have returned to the jail’s Covid Care Centre (CCC) to complete their treatment. “They would be treated at CCC as per guidelines,” he said. After getting administrative approval to convert three barracks into CCC, the jail authorities have now requested the district administration to help them avail services of doctors and paramedical staffers from GMCH and IGGMCH (Mayo Hospital). “There will be proper medical facilities inside the jail with doctors and paramedical staffers visiting the prisoners. Restrictions and relaxations will be as per the prison manual,” he said. Cases connected to the jail have already crossed the 100-mark — the fastest as per Nagpur Municipal Corporation records — with 56 jail staffers and eight of their family members also having tested Covid-19 positive. Additional DG (prison) Sunil Ramanand, who visited the Nagpur Central Jail along with state home minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday, sounded confident about turning the prison into green zone, a status it held almost for over three-and-half months before the first case was detected here on June 30. “The prison administration would follow guidelines of the high court which has appreciated measures undertaken by us. The redemption process in jail will be carried out within the framework of those guidelines,” said Ramanand. “Patients from other prisons in the state have been discharged after recovery. We will emerge from the situation in Nagpur soon,” he said. Kumre said they have requested senior NMC officials for spraying disinfectant and sanitizing the Jail premises. “We also plan to get fogging done in the Jail,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/inmates-with-mild-infection-to-be-in-jail-under-gmcs-watch/articleshow/76804067.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 6, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan focusing on two methods for evaluation||JAIPUR: The state higher education department is deliberating on two methods to evaluate the academic performance of 20 lakh students enrolled in its colleges and universities in the absence of annual/semester exams. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had on Saturday announced cancellation of the exams due to the Covid situation in the state. The evaluation will either be done on the basis of exams held before the lockdown or classroom performance in the entire academic session. State higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati said they were also examining central government norms for the same to ensure that valid assessment is made. In other states, they are depending upon internal assessment as the basis for annual scores, but in state none of the state university has such a system leaving no scope for evaluation on the basis of academic session. Most of the universities have held upto 50 per cent papers and will find it easy to evaluate on the basis of scores. But, the problem arises in honours courses which were not held and in the semester exam system in which two exams are held in a year. In Rajasthan University, none of the honours subject exams was held leaving a question on how to evaluate the students. “It should be seen as a temporary relief to students and during this period some sort of evaluation mechanism has to be developed. Awarding marks or percentage on the basis of last year scores is unjust and impractical,” said Rashmi Jain, vice-principal of Maharani’s College. The scores in degree colleges don’t matter for jobs but it is considered for appearing in competitive exams. A professor in Mohan Lal Sukhadia University, Udaipur, wondered how to evaluate students who have not appeared in the last semester exam. “The government should have come up with some mechanism or the other for evaluation. For a smaller class with 30-40 students, even a teacher can create sometimes help but in bigger classes, it is difficult to evaluate,” said a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-focus-on-two-methods-for-evaluation/articleshow/76807727.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan focusing on two methods for evaluation||JAIPUR: The state higher education department is deliberating on two methods to evaluate the academic performance of 20 lakh students enrolled in its colleges and universities in the absence of annual/semester exams. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had on Saturday announced cancellation of the exams due to the Covid situation in the state. The evaluation will either be done on the basis of exams held before the lockdown or classroom performance in the entire academic session. State higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati said they were also examining central government norms for the same to ensure that valid assessment is made. In other states, they are depending upon internal assessment as the basis for annual scores, but in state none of the state university has such a system leaving no scope for evaluation on the basis of academic session. Most of the universities have held upto 50 per cent papers and will find it easy to evaluate on the basis of scores. But, the problem arises in honours courses which were not held and in the semester exam system in which two exams are held in a year. In Rajasthan University, none of the honours subject exams was held leaving a question on how to evaluate the students. “It should be seen as a temporary relief to students and during this period some sort of evaluation mechanism has to be developed. Awarding marks or percentage on the basis of last year scores is unjust and impractical,” said Rashmi Jain, vice-principal of Maharani’s College. The scores in degree colleges don’t matter for jobs but it is considered for appearing in competitive exams. A professor in Mohan Lal Sukhadia University, Udaipur, wondered how to evaluate students who have not appeared in the last semester exam. “The government should have come up with some mechanism or the other for evaluation. For a smaller class with 30-40 students, even a teacher can create sometimes help but in bigger classes, it is difficult to evaluate,” said a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-focus-on-two-methods-for-evaluation/articleshow/76804055.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Bizwoman scans code, loses Rs 35,000||AHMEDABAD: Manisha Ambani, 22, of Kubernagar lodged an FIR on Saturday stating that Rs 35,077 has been siphoned off from her bank account. In her complaint to the Sardarnagar police, Ambani said that she runs a cosmetics business along with a friend. She said that on January 8, a man had called her posing as a customer. Promising to buy products from Ambani, the man made her scan a QR code. “The man told Ambani that she should scan the code to accept a payment from him,” a police official said. “He sent the code over the phone. When Ambani opened her Paytm account and scanned the code, money was debited from her bank account.” According to the FIR, the cyber crook took Ambani’s number from the Facebook account of her business associate. “We have registered an offence under Sections 406 (breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and some sections of the IT Act,” said a Sardarnagar police official. “We are hunting for the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bizwoman-scans-code-loses-rs-35k/articleshow/76803606.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan focusing on two methods for evaluation||JAIPUR: The state higher education department is deliberating on two methods to evaluate the academic performance of 20 lakh students enrolled in its colleges and universities in the absence of annual/semester exams. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had on Saturday announced cancellation of the exams due to the Covid situation in the state. The evaluation will either be done on the basis of exams held before the lockdown or classroom performance in the entire academic session. State higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati said they were also examining central government norms for the same to ensure that valid assessment is made. In other states, they are depending upon internal assessment as the basis for annual scores, but in state none of the state university has such a system leaving no scope for evaluation on the basis of academic session. Most of the universities have held upto 50 per cent papers and will find it easy to evaluate on the basis of scores. But, the problem arises in honours courses which were not held and in the semester exam system in which two exams are held in a year. In Rajasthan University, none of the honours subject exams was held leaving a question on how to evaluate the students. “It should be seen as a temporary relief to students and during this period some sort of evaluation mechanism has to be developed. Awarding marks or percentage on the basis of last year scores is unjust and impractical,” said Rashmi Jain, vice-principal of Maharani’s College. The scores in degree colleges don’t matter for jobs but it is considered for appearing in competitive exams. A professor in Mohan Lal Sukhadia University, Udaipur, wondered how to evaluate students who have not appeared in the last semester exam. “The government should have come up with some mechanism or the other for evaluation. For a smaller class with 30-40 students, even a teacher can create sometimes help but in bigger classes, it is difficult to evaluate,” said a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-focus-on-two-methods-for-evaluation/articleshow/76807728.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Gurgaon||100 Covid deaths in Gurugram: Nearly 40% did not have comorbidities||GURUGRAM: Nearly 40% of all Covid deaths reported in the city so far are of patients who did not have comorbidities. Many of them, according to government doctors supervising Covid treatment, were brought to hospital at a late stage of the infection with aggravated respiratory illness, giving medical teams little chance to save them. Besides, more than 50% of the deaths were reported between June 11 and 29, coinciding with the surge in the number of infections in the city. What this underlines is the need for early detection of the infection (possible with higher testing) close monitoring of patients, creating awareness about reporting any symptoms to the doctor and keeping a close eye on blood oxygen saturation levels for those recovering at home. A large percentage of Covid patients is asymptomatic, and while most recover, there are some in whom the fall in blood oxygen saturation levels is not accompanied by symptoms till very late, after which deterioration is sudden. This is what doctors call silent hypoxia, where a patient is already critical when the first symptoms show up. Many patients who reach this stage do not recover. Most patients without comorbidities who died of Covid-19 had acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Doctors across the world have also seen cases where a patient’s immune system overreacts – a cytokine storm – triggering ARDS and leading to death. It wasn’t immediately known if any of the patients in the city experienced this; the doctors did not have a specific comment to make. “Apart from ARDS, patients were seen to have pneumonia and blood clots in various organs and multi-organ failure, which led to death,” said Dr Virender Yadav, Gurugram’s chief medical officer. Haryana has stepped up testing, which is a step in the right direction for early detection, though the numbers need to increase substantially still. It has also decided to distribute pulse oximeters to patients in home isolation, which makes up most of the active cases. On Sunday night, Gurugram became the 22nd Indian city to record 100 deaths from the pandemic, though its case fatality rate – the percentage of Covid patients that succumbs to the infection – is among the lowest, at 1.68%. It is also below the national CFR of 2.85%. Global trends on the pandemic have shown that the novel coronavirus appears more lethal for men. The numbers in the city so far reflect that – of the 100 to die of Covid, 64 were men and 36 women. Both the youngest (23 years old) and oldest (89) patients to be claimed by the pandemic were male too. The highest death toll in a single day, 6, was recorded on June 11. Ten of the patients had passed away by the time they were brought to hospitals. Around 40% of all the deaths recorded were of patients in the 41-60 age group, followed by the 71-90 bracket. Comorbidities, doctors said, are most widely prevalent in people in these age ranges, though a younger person could have one or all of the common comorbidities as well. The most common co-morbidities that doctors have noted were cardiac disease, hypertension, obesity and diabetes. “Most of the deaths are happening because of comorbidities. People with diabetes, hypertension, obesity, heart diseases, cancer and respiratory diseases are at high risk, and according to the trend we have seen, these are the comorbidities among Gurugram patients that have led to Covid-19 deaths,” said Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, the nodal officer for Covid-19 in Haryana and head of the department of pulmonary and critical care at PGIMS-Rohtak. “We have also noticed that Covid is affecting males more than females, but it can be because more men have comorbidities,” said Dr Manoj Goel, director, pulmonology, at Fortis Memorial Research Institute. Dr Chaudhary said hospitals in Haryana are administering plasma therapy to some critical patients. “We have started plasma therapy, in which a recovered patient donates blood and plasma, which contains antibodies. It is ingested into the body of the patient. The antibodies work to eliminate the virus from the patient.” Otherwise, the treatment regime involves use Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, which is an anti-inflammatory drug. The health department is distributing Ayush immunity boosters to home-isolated patients. “We have been taking care of nutrients of patents in critical care as per their needs. The treatment is supportive care and to conduct intervention as per the condition of the patient,” said Dr Chaudhary. Better reporting of cases has also meant there have been no instances of patients arriving at hospital in an extremely critical condition in recent days, he added. “Nowadays, we are not getting patients who are critical and who have died within 12 hours of admission. Earlier, people tended to hide Covid-19 cases. Now, they are coming forward and informing about their status,” Dr Chaudhary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/100-covid-deaths-in-gurgaon-nearly-40-did-not-have-comorbidities/articleshow/76804460.cms||Ipsita Pati
July 6, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan focusing on two methods for evaluation||JAIPUR: The state higher education department is deliberating on two methods to evaluate the academic performance of 20 lakh students enrolled in its colleges and universities in the absence of annual/semester exams. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had on Saturday announced cancellation of the exams due to the Covid situation in the state. The evaluation will either be done on the basis of exams held before the lockdown or classroom performance in the entire academic session. State higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati said they were also examining central government norms for the same to ensure that valid assessment is made. In other states, they are depending upon internal assessment as the basis for annual scores, but in state none of the state university has such a system leaving no scope for evaluation on the basis of academic session. Most of the universities have held upto 50 per cent papers and will find it easy to evaluate on the basis of scores. But, the problem arises in honours courses which were not held and in the semester exam system in which two exams are held in a year. In Rajasthan University, none of the honours subject exams was held leaving a question on how to evaluate the students. “It should be seen as a temporary relief to students and during this period some sort of evaluation mechanism has to be developed. Awarding marks or percentage on the basis of last year scores is unjust and impractical,” said Rashmi Jain, vice-principal of Maharani’s College. The scores in degree colleges don’t matter for jobs but it is considered for appearing in competitive exams. A professor in Mohan Lal Sukhadia University, Udaipur, wondered how to evaluate students who have not appeared in the last semester exam. “The government should have come up with some mechanism or the other for evaluation. For a smaller class with 30-40 students, even a teacher can create sometimes help but in bigger classes, it is difficult to evaluate,” said a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-focus-on-two-methods-for-evaluation/articleshow/76807726.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC judges dispose of 7,367 applications in 99 days||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has come out with a report card of performance of its judges, who have been working from home since the imposition of nationwide lockdown, and claimed that 90% of cases filed in over three months have been cleared through virtual court. Since March 24, the HC has been hearing cases through video conferencing and it has been work from home for the judges as well as the advocates with the courtroom closed on the HC campus in Sola. In 99 days — from March 24 to June 30 — the high court passed 13,359 orders and 320 judgments. The HC’s report claims that 8,138 applications were filed in the high court during this period, and total 7,367 matters have been disposed of, which gives a case clearance rate of 90%. Of total orders passed, 3,503 orders and 95 judgments were passed during the scheduled summer vacation in May. The orders were dictated by the judges to stenographers, who used to be at their respective residences or at the high court registry. For most of the time, the HC heard extremely urgent cases only with limited number of benches. The judges heard bail and detention matters for most of the days before the number of benches were increased in June. The courts disposed of 1,530 applications for regular bail, 1,030 pleas for temporary bail and 368 for anticipatory bail. The courts disposed of 25 habeas corpus petitions. Corpus used to be presented before the HC through video conferencing from different courts and police headquarters. The benches conducted virtual court on 87 days including on declared holidays. There were instances when hearing took place late in the evening and after midnight on petitions seeking permission for Rath Yatra procession in Ahmedabad. The HC has declared that there were 557 sittings of single judge benches and 108 sittings of division benches since March 24. Data provided by the HC revealed that the HC disposed of highest number of cases – 585 orders and 13 judgments – on June 12, when it functioned with 23 benches. On the first day when it went virtual on March 24, three benches could pass only six orders and two judgments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-judges-dispose-of-7367-applications-in-99-days/articleshow/76803602.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||Leopard dies in Gorewada||Nagpur: A female leopard, kept at the Gorewada Rescue Centre, died on Sunday while undergoing treatment. The initial medical observations suggests that the leopard, around 12 years old, died due to hepatorenal failure. The exact reason can be ascertained only after the officials get the post mortem report. The leopard was part of a group of five which had been shifted here in September 2016. The five leopards had been captured in 2015 near Junnar and kept at the Manikdoh Leopard Rescue Centre there. As per a media statement issued by forest officials, the female leopard suddenly fell ill on Sunday, following which medical treatment started. The leopard died around 3pm while the treatment was under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/leopard-dies-in-gorewada/articleshow/76804064.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Mounting bills add to misery of patients’ families||HYDERABAD: With coronavirus cases rising in the state, patients and their families are now facing another major problem — mounting hospital bills. Many have taken to social media citing instances of patients and even bodies of victims being detained by hospitals over non-payment of bills. In one such instance, the family of a Covid-19 victim, Mohammad Abbas Ali, was told to pay over Rs 5 lakh to collect the body. This, in addition to Rs 5.3 lakh which had been deposited earlier. In a video shared on social media by the victim’s son, Mohammad Irfan Ali, said that his father was admitted to a corporate hospital in the city on June 19 after several government hospitals refused admission due to a lack of beds. Following admission, he tested positive for the virus. “I paid Rs 5.30 lakh to the hospital while my father was undergoing treatment. I informed the hospital authorities that I don’t have any money left with me when the bill went up to Rs 7 lakh...My father died on July 4. We were shocked when the hospital authorities asked us to pay Rs 5.22 more for collecting the body,” said Irfan Ali. In another case, a 47-year-old patient was forced to stay at a corporate hospital for four days despite recovering from Covid-19. The patient alleged that the hospital had refused to discharge him over a dispute with his insurance company regarding treatment costs. “I was charged Rs 4.21 lakh for treatment at this private hospital but they forced me to stay back after the insurance company approved the claim for only Rs 1.20 lakh,” he said. The patient was discharged by the hospital authorities on Sunday morning after reaching out for help on social media but he now fears for two other members of his family who also tested positive for coronavirus and are presently under treatment in the same hospital. Meanwhile, Majlis Bachao Tehreek (MBT) leader and social worker Amjed Ullah Khan tweeted a copy of a bill of a 50-year-old resident of Talabkatta, who was charged close to Rs 10 lakh for her treatment. Speaking to TOI, Indian Medial Association (IMA) Telangana secretary, Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav said, “Since these are corporate hospitals where charges are more than government hospitals, it is important that attendees of patients keep track of costs every day. If they feel that this is something which they cannot afford, then they must apply to the CM relief fund or the PM relief fund to get assistance from the government or they should have insurance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mounting-bills-add-to-misery-of-patients-families/articleshow/76804403.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Varanasi||Mukhtar’s men face heat inaction against illegal trade||VARANASI: Jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari and his henchmen are facing the brunt of the police crackdown against organised crime and gangs in east UP. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan told TOI on Sunday, “Not only in Mau and Ghazipur, action has been taken against the gang and aides of Mukhtar engaged in illegal trades with his backing in Varanasi, Jaunpur and Azamgarh districts as well in past few weeks.” Mau police started targeting Mukhtar’s henchmen from early June. Mau cops booked 11 henchmen of Mukhtar under Gangster Act for extorting money. They also busted an illegal slaughter house and arrested five persons. Mukhtar’s three aides involved in illegal fish trade were also arrested with over 10 tonne of fish. On July 1, cops had arrested Mukhtar’s close associate Sanjay Sagar of Sarva village for procuring two arms licences by mentioning fake date of birth in documents, said SP Mau Anurag Arya. On July 3, notorious criminal Haji Mukhtar was also arrested with a country-made revolver and 55 cartridges. Haji Mukhtar was involved in cases of grabbing government land and dealing in disputed properties, Arya said. Since May 31, five FIRs were lodged against 45 persons involved in illegal fish trade, mining and extortion. They were booked under Gangster Act and only three are absconding. In the last one week, Varanasi administration and police broke the backbone of fish trade mafia flourishing in the district under Mukhtar’s patronage since past two decades. The gang led by Mohd Salim was involved in selling banned species of Thai Mangur and also extorted money from all traders in local market on the sale of fish per kg, said police. Similar action was initiated by Jaunpur police against fish trade mafia on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mukhtars-men-face-heat-inaction-against-illegal-trade/articleshow/76803503.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 201mm rain in 24 hours, second highest in July after 2014||MUMBAI: With 200.8mm of rain reported in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on July 5, the Santacruz observatory of the IMD recorded its second highest July precipitation after 2014. In 2014, the city had reported 207.2mm rainfall between July 2 and 3 while last year between July 1 and 2 Santacruz observatory reported 375.2mm of rainfall, which has been the highest one-day rain recorded in a decade. The heavy rain activity is expected to continue in the city and its adjoining areas on Monday as well with the IMD having issued a yellow alert indicating heavy rain very likely at isolated places for July 6 in Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) maintains historical data of extreme weather events of its Santacruz observatory. IMD officials said that due to active monsoon conditions, the entire Konkan coast, including Mumbai, is experiencing an intense spell of rainfall. “Monsoon remained widespread and active over the entire Konkan belt, including Mumbai, with heavy to very heavy rainfall over many places and isolated extremely heavy falls. Interior Maharashtra also received fairly widespread rainfall with mostly moderate rainfall. The intense rainfall activity is likely along west coast (including Mumbai) and adjoining ghat areas of interior Maharashtra till July 5 and gradual reduction thereafter,” said the IMD. Between July 4 and 5, the highest rain in the entire North Konkan region was reported in Thane at 377mm while parts of Navi Mumbai like Belapur, Nerul and Juinagar reported 226mm, 225mm and 221 mm of rainfall. Rainfall reported greater or equal to 204.5mm falls within IMD’s extremely heavy rain category. The heavy downpour continued in parts of Mumbai’s suburbs and around the city on Sunday as well with the IMD Santacruz observatory reporting 103.9mm rainfall in the nine hours between 8.30am and 8.30pm. In parts of the island city there was only light rainfall recorded at 11.2mm. In its impact-based forecast issued for Monday the IMD said that this could lead to localised flooding and water-logging of low-lying areas and traffic may need to be regulated effectively. The city suburbs have so far reported 488.9mm rain (from July 1 to July 5), which is 58.1% of the month’s average rainfall (840.7mm). The city had recorded 395mm rain in the entire month of June, which was the lowest monthly rain in five years. K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD, said that weather models had already been indicating that heavy rain would continue on Sunday over the entire west coast including Mumbai. “In the 24 hours ending on Sunday morning at 8.30am, Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai recorded extremely heavy rainfall. Heavy rainfall warnings for the entire Maharashtra coast are already in place by the IMD. The impact of three days of heavy rain reported over the weekend have been such that negative rain departures of June are now largely positive,” he said, indicating how total rain reported so far by the IMD Colaba observatory has been 915.6mm while IMD Santacruz observatory has been 780.1mm, which is 204.3mm and 99.5mm above normal. The water stock in the lakes supplying water to the city was 1.15 lakh million litres (7.98%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/201mm-rain-in-24hrs-2nd-highest-in-july-after-2014/articleshow/76804408.cms||Richa Pinto
July 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur police launch corona awareness campaign||JODHPUR: Post-lockdown, city police is leaving no stone unturned to disseminate awareness among the people about Covid-19. Started on June 22, police have been taking to roads every day in different areas with placards and banners in their hand, shouting slogans for the people to keep caution and to make mask-wearing and social distancing a practice, using a public address system. Nodal incharge of the campaign additional DCP Nirmala Bishnoi said besides the ACPs and police from different police stations of the areas, traffic police, members of Mahila Shakti team and police mitras have also been actively participating in this drive. “We have been incorporating every possible means with a view to send out a strong and clear message to the masses that there is need to be more cautious during the unlock phases as negligence could lead in contracting coronavirus,” Nirmala said. With the help of theatre artistes, they have been holding nukkad nataks (skits) at the main spots of the city, forming human chains, road paintings and flying coloured balloons to engage people. Jodhpur police also organised a poster-making and video-making competition for people to participate in with their expressions about the pandemic, its threat and precautions and awareness. Earlier, a similar awareness campaign was launched by the department of information and public relations of Jodhpur which earned state-wide appreciation for its unique and innovative character evoking massive response from the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-police-launch-corona-awareness-campaign/articleshow/76804069.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Mumbai||Over 450 more buildings and floors sealed in two weeks||Mumbai: A spike in Covid-19 cases in the city has resulted in sealing of 456 more buildings or floors within, in nearly two weeks. According to BMC data, on Sunday, the city had 6,416 sealed buildings or floors compared with 5,951 on June 22. Of the cumulative total of 14,128 buildings and floors sealed in the city, 7,712 have been released Considering that Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the suburbs, the maximum number of sealed buildings or floors are in R-Central ward (Borivli, Gorai) at 761, followed by K-East (Andheri and Vile Parle east) at 728, P-North (Malad) at 516 and R-South at 478. In the island city, F-North ward (Matunga, Wadala) has the maximum number of sealed buildings or floors at 532. The total number of people currently quarantined in these buildings is 12.7 lakh. However, the number of containment zones in the city has dropped to 747 from 770 a week ago, indicating a shift in the pattern of new cases, which are now being reported from buildings instead of slum pockets. Sanjoy Kabre, assistant municipal commissioner of P-North ward, said their strategy of localised lockdown in parts of Malad helped reduce cases in slum areas by almost 40%. “In the first week of June, there were 474 cases. After strict containment measures in slum areas, the number came down to 247 by month-end. But now there appears to be a reverse trend, with more cases being traced to buildings,” he said. Last week, BMC had conducted 424 rapid antigen tests in R-Central, P-North and R-South wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/over-450-more-buildings-and-floors-sealed-in-two-weeks/articleshow/76804073.cms||Richa Pinto
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman ends life in Ahmedabad, father files complaint||AHMEDABAD: A 37-year-old woman, Shakuntalasinh Kushwah, who had ingested phenyl at her in-laws’ house in Vastral on June 19 to end her life, passed away on June 21 at a private hospital. The woman’s father Munnasinh Tomar, a resident of Nikol, alleged that her daughter was tortured for not bearing a child and that her husband Mangalsinh Kushwah has an affair with another woman. Police said Tomar told them he was busy with the last rites of his daughter and hence came late to lodge the complaint. The FIR was lodged on Saturday. Inspector K S Dave of Ramol police station said an offence has been lodged under section 306 of the IPC. According to the FIR lodged by the woman’s father, her daughter was married to Mangalsinh about 17 years ago but the couple had no children. “Mangalsinh had bought a flat at Devnandan Apartment in Naroda. Some days later, Shakuntala and her sister-in-law Suman went to see the flat but the flat was closed from inside,” said a police official. “On knocking the door, Mangalsinh and Suman’s sister came out of the flat. However, the issue was solved with the intervention leaders of their society,” police said. From that day, Mangalsinh used to torture Shakuntala for not bearing a child. “Fed up with the torture, Shakuntala ingested phenyl on June 19 and was shifted to a private hospital. On June 21, she died,” Dave said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-ends-life-father-files-plaint/articleshow/76803612.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||BCI fails to reply to RTI query for over 1.5 years||NAGPUR: An aggrieved petitioner charged the Bar Council of India (BCI) with failure to reply to his queries under the Right to Information (RTI) Act for over a year. The apex body also took over one-and-a-half years to file the reply to his first appeal. He has now filed a second appeal, which would be heard on July 22. Sanjay Thul, father to a law student and also an RTI activist and social worker, sought information regarding BCI’s control on various national law universities (NLUs) in India and their guidelines on charging fees. Though the application was filed on March 30, 2018, the BCI’s Delhi office failed to reply for a month. Subsequently, Thul filed his first appeal on April 30, which also went unanswered. The central public information officer (CPIO) at the BCI replied to Thul’s queries only on September 24, 2019. Inconvenience caused to the applicant was regretted, with the CPIO stating that “no information was available to him”. Even the letter of disposal of Thul’s first appeal came on November 4, 2019, after a long gap of over one year and six months. Thul posed queries regarding exorbitant fees charged by various national law schools in India ranging from Rs1.5 lakh to Rs2 lakh per student. “Even for appearing in the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT), these universities are charging Rs4,000 from the general category and Rs3,000 for reserved category students. For the same exams, the Maharashtra government is charging Rs300,” the parent said. In his reply, the CPIO — Ashok Kumar Pandey, joint secretary at BCI’s headquarters in Delhi — provided various reasons for delay in filing the answers. Stating that Thul’s queries were related to lots of colleges and continuous meetings were held to take the decision in this regard, the CPIO said it led to an “involuntary delay” in filing the reply. “Since the academic year had commenced in colleges, counselling for admissions also started. I (head of department) and other staff members of the department of legal education were extremely tied up in the entire process, as the future of students was at stake. Moreover, there was change/exchange of staff between the BCI departments, that led to further delay,” Pandey mentioned. An aggrieved Thul said that if a top law body like BCI made mockery of RTI rules, what could be expected from other government offices. “My query is regarding exorbitant fees charged by law universities from the students. Poor and middle class families can’t afford to send their wards to these premier law schools, even if they secure meritorious marks. They should have provided reply within a month as per the rules,” he said. IN A NUTSHELL Law student’s father filed RTI query at Bar Council of India Sought info on its control over NLUs and their guidelines for charging fees No reply for a month, petitioner filed appeal Reply to RTI comes an year and six months later||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bci-fails-to-reply-to-rti-query-for-over-1-5-years/articleshow/76804075.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 6, 2020||Jaipur||‘Promoting students sans exam will hit placements’||JAIPUR: Expressing reservations over promoting students without examination, technical education institutions, especially engineering colleges, are of the opinion that if it is not implemented nationally, the move is likely to hit placements of final year students. Rajasthan Technical University (RTU), which has close to 100 affiliated engineering colleges, had already released the timetable for examinations to start from July 16. They had made all arrangements to ensure social distancing is now in a fix over the government directive. Reacting on the move, R A Gupta, vice-chancellor of RTU, said that they have yet to receive an official communication but the decision would not have a major impact on any student. “The final year engineering students have yet to appear in their theory examinations, while they have completed their mid-term and sessional papers. They have appeared in close to 42 papers out of 48 papers in all eight engineering semesters which I believe will not affect their placements,” said Gupta. On the contrary, experts cautioned the government that those students, who are in the final semester of their engineering course, would likely to face problems when they appear for the interviews as it not being done nationally. “Technical education is different from degree colleges. The examinations are a precise assessment of the students’ know-how of the subject and form the basis of job or placement. Ideally, the final semester students should be allowed to appear in the examinations as engineering colleges are capable to make suitable arrangements to appear in the examinations,” said Puneet Sharma, a technical education expert. “PM Narendra Modi and even our chief minister Ashok Gehlot have been repeatedly saying that we have to learn to live with coronavirus for some time. The cancellation of examinations is against the spirit of living with Covid,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/promoting-students-sans-exam-will-hit-placements/articleshow/76804061.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Jaipur||Skill details of 11,000 collected; 8,000 interested in training||JAIPUR: As the labour and employment department has started skill mapping of the returnee migrant workers in the state, so far, of the 13.22 lakh migrants, skill-set details of around 11,000 workers have been collected by RSLDC (Rajasthan Skill & Livelihoods Development Corporation). “Of the total, around 8,000 have shown interest in getting trained in new set of skills. Around 4,000 were engaged in retail sector, 2,000 were construction workers, 900 were engaged in automobile work and around 800 were engaged in electrical/electronic work,” said deputy general manager (RSTP, MIS, Placement & Convergence, A&C, OPB), RSLDC. “Of the total, nearly 5,000 are from Barmer district,” he added. Details of over 13.22 lakh migrant workers have been uploaded on Raj Kaushal Portal - Rajasthan Labour Employment Exchange. So far, data of nearly 53 lakh workers (52.76 lakh) and 11.18 lakh employers (industries) has been uploaded on the Raj Kaushal Portal. These workers include registered building and other construction workers and those who have been trained by RSLDC and Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs). There are 23.20 lakh building and other construction workers, 3.37 lakh were trained by RSLDC and 1.21 lakh were trained by ITIs. There are about 12.7 lakh registered unemployed persons in the state. With no data available with the state government about skill sets among the returnee migrant workers, the labour and employment department had directed all district collectors to conduct ‘skill mapping’ (the kind of work one has expertise in) of the workers who have returned from other states. RSLDC will conduct short-term training of these workers and for recognition of the skill they already possess. “The government of India has sought data from us with regard to skill mapping of migrant workers. Under GOI’s PM Kaushal Vikas Yojana and the state government’s Pravasi Shramik Kalyan Kosh, the migrant workers will be trained in various skills and later be employed,” labour commissioner Prateek Jhajharia had earlier said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/skill-details-of-11000-collected-8000-interested-in-training/articleshow/76804076.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Pandemic helps revival of Madakas in Udupi||Mangaluru: The Covid-19 pandemic has turned out to be a boon for water conservation in Kadoor Panchayat of Udupi district. Various teams led by panchayat development officer Mahesh K are working on the revival of five madakas - a traditional rainwater harvesting system - in Nadoor and Kadoor villages. Mahesh told TOI, “We have been working on water conservation and we have a dedicated team of women that takes up de-silting work since 2016. With the pandemic, youth who worked in Mumbai and Bengaluru have returned home. We decided to employ them through MGNREGA. Generally, not many people come forward to take up work under this scheme, but this time, many youths have registered. We have about 40 people who are divided into teams to take up works related to de-silting. There have been instances of people earning up to Rs 600 per day,” he said. De-silting of ponds and madakas helps recharge groundwater. In places where de-silting was undertaken during the last couple of years, people have started growing vegetables. So far about 12 madakas and six lakes have been de-silted. The panchayat has identified a few more madakas for de-silting. “Rejuvenation of irrigation tanks (man-made) and madakas will solve the water problem in the district. Madakas recharge groundwater periodically,” said Narayana Shenoy K, professor, geology, department of civil engineering, MIT Manipal. Results by next year Appreciating the efforts undertaken by the panchayat, India’s rain water man Shree Padre said, “Immediate advantage of reviving the madakas will be noticed next year. People will realise how useful this exercise is and will start cultivating summer vegetables. Once de-silted, albeit partially, these madakas will act as recharge ponds. As madaka sites are intelligently located, during the rainy season a big amount of run-off gets collected. It will increase the groundwater table.” “Madaka recharge is like an entry point programme towards water conservation. This is a classic example of how you can easily take up water conservation measures in a small way, instead of sitting tight saying that it requires huge amounts,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-helps-revival-of-madakas-in-udupi/articleshow/76802873.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 6, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Bride’s throat slit in beauty parlour on wedding day||INDORE: A bride was murdered while getting her makeup done at a beauty parlour, just hours before her wedding, in Jaora town of MP’s Ratlam district on Sunday morning. Police suspect an alleged former lover slit her throat and fled to Rajasthan. A friend of the suspect, who is alleged to have aided in the crime and driven the suspect across the border, has been arrested. It would have been the victim, Sonu Yadav’s second marriage. A resident of Shajapur, about 160km from Bhopal, she arrived in Jaora town along with her family members at 7am on wedding day. Two hours later, she went to a beauty parlour, accompanied by a cousin, for her bridal makeup. Almost immediately, she started getting calls from the suspect, Ram Yadav, say police. Sonu ignored five of his calls. Then Ram called from the phone of his friend, Pawan Panchal, who is now in custody, say police. Since it was an unknown number, she took the call, and Ram managed to coax her into giving her the location of the beauty parlour, say investigators. Almost as soon as she ended the call, Ram allegedly barged into the parlour and cut her throat. She died on the spot. He then hopped on Pawan’s bike, who allegedly drove him to Rajasthan and dropped him off at a bus-stop. The border is barely 25km away. Pawan was arrested when he was on his way back to Ratlam. The bride’s murder had triggered an all-out search for the killer and Pawan drove into the dragnet. According to investigators, Pawan has claimed that Sonu had met Ram at a function in Ratlam three years ago and they had an affair. When Ram got to know that she was getting married, he decided to kill her and told this to Pawan three days ago, say police. The duo hatched a plan and arrived at Jaora early Sunday morning but Ram didn’t know where she was, so he started calling her, Pawan has told police. It was these calls that helped police zero in on the suspect so quickly. Ratlam SP Gaurav Tiwari said that as soon as they learned of the murder, they began going through CCTV footage. “Two men were seen stopping in the area and one of them went into the parlour. We got the vehicle registration number and both the phone numbers, and started tracking them,” he said, adding that they were very close to arresting Ram. Police said Pawan works at a furniture store and Raj is unemployed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/brides-throat-slit-in-beauty-parlour-on-wedding-day/articleshow/76803628.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||No Covid distancing in crammed prison worries inmates, kin||NAGPUR: It’s likely to rain, as two women continue to wait at the pavement near Central Jail trying to get a view of the premises inside. Husband of one of them, and the other’s father are inside, arrested in different cases. “We have all facilities like timely food, but corona has left all the inmates scared and the undertrials want to get out at the earliest,” said a youth accompanying them. He was out on bail a few days ago, and was witness to the chain of events that followed after one of the inmates was detected Covid positive. The women too expressed concern about their relatives’ well-being in the current scenario. TOI caught up with the former inmate outside the jail, as he narrated his experiences inside. “It all began with a robbery accused being detected corona positive,” he says. That day a team of doctors descended into our barrack and took swabs from our nose and throat. After that one person was found to be positive. He was taken away. His accomplices — 10 of them — were also separated. Some more inmates were also quarantined later, he said. A batch of inmates has been kept separately within the jail premises, he said. “Now, they have stopped the meetings with relatives too which is adding to their worries,” he said. “There was no Covid distancing in jail, till the cases were detected. The cells are crammed and there is hardly any distance between the beds. The inmates have their meals in close proximity and even share food from each other’s plate,” said the former inmate. “Again people rub against each other in the area where plates are washed, and the common bathrooms and toilets add to the chances of infection spread,” he said. The inmates are, however, helping each other. Those out are bringing the bail orders from court themselves and presenting it to jail authorities so that others are released, he said, highlighting the rising brotherhood among the inmates amid the Covid times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-covid-distancing-in-crammed-prison-worries-inmates-kin/articleshow/76804079.cms||Shishir Arya
July 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Just 0.1% of DK population have tested +ve; rate of infection is 5.5%||MANGALURU: Eight Covid-19 deaths in 4 days does not instil confidence in the public health system of Dakshina Kannada (DK), that like the rest of the world is battling a pandemic. Yet, if one ventures to see the larger picture of how the pandemic has panned out in this coastal district in terms of positivity rate vis-à-vis samples tested, there is some room for optimism. And if this is extended to the district population vis-à-vis those infected, the future is rosier. Sample these facts. For a population of 20 lakh, just 0.1% of the district’s residents are battling the pandemic. If the rate of infection vis-à-vis total samples tested so far is considered, it is 5.6%, that is 1,095 positive cases for 19,706 samples tested so far. The samples include 14,316 tested at the lab of Wenlock Hospital, the designated Covid-19 hospital for DK, and remaining 5,390 samples tested in private laboratories authorised by ICMR. Another fact gathered by the district disaster management authority monitoring the pandemic is that almost 50% of total positive cases reported in DK are those who landed on its shores from outside the state, as well as from abroad. The primary contacts of the 1,095 people who tested positive are 210, and secondary contacts 5. With the majority of the total positive cases asymptomatic, the district’s recovery rate is 98%, notwithstanding the 22 deaths reported as on Saturday. Two of these 22 deaths are due to non-Covid reasons. While one person committed suicide, another succumbed to liver cirrhosis. Eight of these were aged above 60, six between 50-60, five between 40-50, two between 30-40 and one in the age-group of 20-30. The last of them suffered from a debilitating kidney ailment. Most of the eight deaths since July 1 were patients with co-morbidities in the end stage of their lives. Only 25 out of 1,095 patients required to be admitted to the ICU, and 12 of them are on ventilator support. The rest of them were treated by administering them oxygen, and 516 patients have been treated and discharged from the general isolation wards so far. With the onset of monsoon, instances of cold, fever and cough are on the rise. Against 17,382 people tested, 7,208 of whom were tested in fever clinics and 10,174 in private hospitals/clinics, only 165 of them, or 0.9% have tested positive with influenza like illness (ILI). Even instances of people with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) testing positive is just 46. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said the scenario only reinforces the fact that early testing is key to full recovery, and despite the seeming spike in deaths, people can certainly keep the pandemic at bay by maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and washing their hands frequently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/just-0-1-of-dk-population-have-tested-ve-rate-of-infection-is-5-5/articleshow/76802904.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Waterlogging preparation: Workers to be present at 35 key spots||Gurugram: The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has appointed workers who will be present at all 35 ‘critical’ spots in the city during the monsoon to prevent waterlogging. According to GMDA officials, they have received many complaints over the past few years over waterlogging at several areas in the city. It is almost impossible, however, for workers to reach the spot after it is inundated, so this year, the metropolitan authority decided that workers will be present on the spots well in advance based on the weather forecast. “They will start pumping out the water immediately in case of a heavy shower,” said Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer, GMDA. At least 30 workers have been employed for this purpose. GMDA has also appointed 16 more workers for cleaning of debris, leaves and garbage that flow with rainwater onto roads and drains, choking them. Kumar added that machinery to remove excess water, including pumps and motors, have also been already set up at the 35 ‘critical’ points prone to waterlogging. GMDA had earlier identified and surveyed 50 ‘critical’ points in the city along with officials from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). However, after a couple of meetings and reviews, 35 points were identified as the areas needing special attention. “Earlier this week, GMDA chief VS Kundu visited these spots to check the arrangements and he has directed the departments concerned to plug the gaps wherever required,” said Kumar. He added that a flood control room has also been set up especially for monsoon-related issues and queries. TOI had earlier reported that GMDA, along with other government departments, had surveyed critical points and begun cleaning and desilting of drains and installing pumps in all underpasses in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/waterlogging-preparation-workers-to-be-present-at-35-key-spots/articleshow/76803962.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Powai lake overflows; big lakes get little rainfall||MUMBAI: Powai lake began overflowing on Sunday morning as Mumbai witnessed incessant rain through the weekend. Water from Powai dam is used for industrial purposes as it is too shallow to reserve potable water. However, most of the catchment area lakes that supply potable water did not receive heavy rainfall. Significant rainfall was reported in Tulsi and Vihar—346mm and 191mm, respectively—in the 24 hours ending Sunday, 6am. But the two lakes provide for only 2% of the city’s drinking water needs. The bigger lakes Bhatsa, Modak Sagar, Tansa, Upper Vaitarna barely received 60mm, 32mm, 34mm and 20mm rainfall, respectively. The total water quantum in the seven lakes stood at 1.15 lakh million litres, which is 8% of the total required quantum, on Sunday. The existing water stocks are less compared with the total on June 5, 2019—1.8 lakh million litres (12.3%).  The total required stocks is 14.47 lakh million litres by October 1 for the city to go without a water cut for the rest of the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/powai-overflows-big-lakes-get-little-rainfall/articleshow/76804084.cms||Richa Pinto
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||Fadnavis slams CM Uddhav for extending lockdown||NAGPUR: Devendra Fadnavis, leader of opposition in the state assembly, slammed chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for extending the lockdown up to July 31. According to him extending lockdown is not the solution to combat the Covid-19 menace. While talking to TOI he also flayed Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s repeated decisions to reduce government expenditure. “Lockdown is a stopgap arrangement and not a method to combat Covid. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed the lockdown, we were not prepared for the pandemic. Now our preparedness is much better and hence economy should not be sacrificed if you are unable to control the disease,” said the former chief minister. “The government must understand that the economy can survive under lockdown only for a limited time. It has a limited capacity for absorbing shocks. Beyond the break point, no amount of central government stimulus is going to help it. Even otherwise, the state government has not done anything to help small businesses, which are in a very bad shape and employ crores of people,” said the BJP leader. According to him, state government should do massive testing for Covid, home quarantine asymptomatic ones and hospitalize those with moderate or acute symptoms. “This is being successfully done in Delhi. In Maharashtra, the rate of testing is far below than that required,” he further said. Fadnavis claimed prolonged lockdown has damaged the relations between police and citizens. “The police personnel are tired after four months of lockdown duty. Many of them have contracted the disease. Now frustrated cops crack down hard on any violation and this antagonizes general people,” he said. The former CM slammed Thackeray for reducing spending during a recession. “The government has repeatedly turned down our demand for a relief package. I have pointed out to the government several times that the low revenue period is a temporary one and the state’s economy would bounce back along with that of the nation. This is the time to help people in economical trouble, not reduce the spending,” he added. “Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council will soon give revenue protection for seven years instead of five. This will take care of the lockdown shock. Even otherwise, central government and Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has created fiscal space for taking additional loans and helping the people,” said Fadnavis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fadnavis-slams-cm-uddhav-for-extending-lockdown/articleshow/76804082.cms||Ashish Roy
July 6, 2020||Varanasi||CM performs Guru Purnima prayers at Gorakhnath temple||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, on Sunday afternoon, reached Gorakhpur on a two-day visit. He reached Gorakshnath temple and took blessings of Guru Gorakhnath and performed special puja. The CM also took blessings of Mahayogi Mahant Ganbhirnath, Nauminath, Mahant Digvijaynath and his Guru Brahammleen Mahant Avaidyanath. Unlike every year, traditional programmes like Tilakotsav of Guru Purnima was not organised this year here due to corona pandemic, however, Gorakhnath temple sent CM Yogi’s blessings through cards to his pupils along wiyh an appeal made to celebrate celebrate Guru Purnima at home following Covid-19 protocols. As per the information department, on Monday, he is scheduled to flag-off hundreds of scooties to be used for police patrolling followed by an encephalitis prevention review meeting with the officials and an inspection of BRD Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-performs-guru-purnima-prayers-at-gorakhnath-temple/articleshow/76803512.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: 20% ILI cases from fever camps test positive for Covid||CHENNAI: One in every five people identified to have influenza like illness (ILI) in the corporation’s fever camps tests positive for Covid-19, official data released by the civic body shows. According to the data, Greater Chennai Corporation conducted 12,354 medical camps from May 8 to July 4, which more than eight lakh people attended. Of the 37,004 people who were found to have Influenza like Illness (ILI) symptoms, GCC doctors at the camps have collected swab samples of 32,861 for Covid-19 testing. As many as 20,433 of the ILI cases were detected till June 26. Swabs of 16,845 of them were collected and 3,489 of them have tested positive, showing that 20.7% of those with ILI symptoms tested positive for Covid-19 till June 26. Data of the remaining days will be made public in a few days, officials indicated. Analysis of the data has thrown up some interesting facts. For instance, the maximum percentage of ILI patients turning positive were in Manali, Madhavaram and Perungudi zones, which are zones with fewer Covid-19 cases. As per GCC data, more than 30% of ILI patients in these zones have tested positive. Data from other zones such as Ambattur and Alandur also shows that around 20% of ILI patients there tested positive. In comparison, less than 10% of ILI patients in zones such as Kodambakkam and Tondiarpet, which are among the worst-affected zones, had Covid-19. The number of ILI patients in Tondiarpet whose swabs were tested is many times higher than other zones, given that it is a hotspot. Details of ILI patients from Royapuram and Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar zones testing positive was not given in the data. GCC officials say medical camps have helped them pluck out Covid-19 cases, which were otherwise undetected and helping spread the virus quietly since the patients were unaware of the infection. “We will continue to run fever camps even after the lockdown is removed,” said a senior GCC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/20-ili-cases-from-fever-camps-test-ve-for-covid/articleshow/76803624.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
July 6, 2020||Delhi||ICU beds in state-run hospitals up 3-fold: Delhi government||NEW DELHI: The number of ICU beds for Covid patients in the city has increased by three-fold over the past few days in state-run hospitals, Delhi government has said. The combined number at Lok Nayak, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty and GTB hospitals is now 366 instead of the previous 136, said an official. While Lok Nayak now has 180 ICU beds, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital has 120 beds. GTB Hospital has 66 beds, up from 31. “The fatality rate is expected to further reduce due to the enhanced capacity to take care of critical patients,” the government said on Sunday. The daily count has already gone down substantially from over 120 per day to 55 per day on July 4, it added. The capital will get more ICU beds for Covid-19 patients with the Defence Research and Development Organisation’s new health facility at Delhi Cantonment. The Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid-19 Hospital has 250 beds reserved for critical patients, “which is much needed at the moment”, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said. He emphasised that there was no dearth of hospital beds with just 5,300 of over 15,000 beds currently being occupied by Covid patients. “There was a paucity of ICU beds. If there is any spike in cases, these ICU beds will be very critical for us,” Kejriwal said. Each bed is equipped with monitoring equipment and ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/icu-beds-in-state-run-hosps-up-3-fold-govt/articleshow/76804110.cms||Atul Mathur
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Telangana sees seven more deaths, 1,590 new cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday recorded seven deaths and 1,590 new cases of Covid-19 even as authorities said the virus was again spreading in districts near Hyderabad. With the latest numbers, the coronavirus case-load now stands at 23,902, the seventh-highest among all states, while the death toll rose to 295. State health authorities are concentrating on Medchal and Ranga Reddy districts, which have seen a jump in cases. On Sunday alone, 125 cases were recorded in Medchal district while 82 cases were registered in Ranga Reddy. Also, districts like Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda and Suryapet continue to see a surge, while the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area saw over 85% of the new cases recorded. Testing in the state was down by 1,000 samples on Sunday even as health authorities offered to help the 13 erring private laboratories testing Covid-19 samples to fix their flaws. Numbers from one of the testing laboratories which have been flagged by the state health authorities have been kept in abeyance meanwhile has refuted the state government’s claim that the positivity rate of the laboratory is as high as 71 percent. They instead clarified that the positivity rates are just above 30 percent and that they had previously not uploaded all reports but have now started doing so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sees-7-more-deaths-1590-new-cases/articleshow/76804413.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Vadodara||21 more PTS cadets test positive||Vadodara: Twenty one more cadets of Police Training School (PTS) at Lalbaug tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of infected on the campus to 40. Last week, 19 had tested positive following which 470 were put under quarantine. Some 25 cadets, who were suspected of being infected, were quarantined at SSG Hospital after they had submitted swab samples. Of these 25, 21 were tested to be positive. The school has already suspended training for a week. Meanwhile Vadodara recorded a new high on Sunday as 64 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the 24 hours ending Sunday evening. New cases have been reported from Karelibaug, Waghodiya Road, Chokhandi, Manjalpur, Kalali, Wadi, Atladara, Makarpura, Dabhoi Road, Tarsali, Fatehoura , Gorwa, Navapura, Danteshwar, Mandvi. In Vadodara rural, cases came from Padra, Dasrath, Bajwa, Shinor, Dhaniyavi and Dabhoi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/21-more-pts-cadets-test-positive/articleshow/76802619.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||84-yr-old among 3 die in separate accidents||NAGPUR: Three persons, including an 84-year-old man, were killed in separate accidents on Saturday. In the first incident, Motiram Kelvatkar, 84, was injured after autorickshaw driven by his son Krishna turned turtle near Asoli village after hitting a road divider. Kelvatkar was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital where doctors declared him dead. An offence has been registered at Pardi police station against Krishna. In another incident, 45-year-old Digambar Bahadure was killed after a trucker rammed his bike near Koradi naka. Koradi police have registered a case against truck driver Ramavatar Prajapati for rash and negligent driving. In the third incident, 24-year-old Vickky Machle, who was injured after his bike skidded near Telephone Exchange Chowk on June 28, breathed his last at a hospital on Saturday. A case of accidental death has been registered at Lakadganj police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/84-yr-old-among-3-die-in-separate-accidents/articleshow/76804086.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 6, 2020||Gurgaon||SARE Homes lifts defunct, builder may be booked||GURUGRAM: The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has written to Gurugram police seeking the registration of an FIR against the developer and maintenance agency of SARE Homes in Sector 92 for non-functional lifts in the township, which pose a safety risk to residents in case of emergencies. In a letter sent on Sunday, district town planner RS Batth said the annual maintenance contract (AMC) of 11 out of 16 lifts in the society has expired, while others have been malfunctional for the last 15 days. He said the builder was granted the licence to develop the society under provisions of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975, according to which it is responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of society. Any violation may result in penalties and imprisonment for up to three years. In a response submitted to DTCP, the developer said its directors have resigned and maintenance work of the township is being done by a private agency. Alok Verma, a resident, said he lived with his elderly mother on the 18th floor. “She is critically ill and needs to visit the hospital for dialysis two to three times a week. The lifts should be made functional on an urgent basis,” he said. “Most lifts have already stopped working or are working intermittently. They get stuck in between floors, or the doors don’t open. There is no trained staff for maintenance of lifts in the society. The AMC expired in February. All the lifts are running without approval from the authorities, said Aditya Jakhar, president of Sare Homes Phase 3 RWA. Abhijeet Gautam, the general secretary, said around 70% lifts are already not working and the remaining have no safety provisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/sare-homes-lifts-defunct-builder-may-be-booked/articleshow/76804414.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
July 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Random sampling adds to DK’s surge of 147 cases, Udupi records 45 cases||MANGALURU/UDUPI: Random samples taken from Ullal– 48 in all—tested positive for the novel coronavirus, which contributed to the 147 positive cases recorded in Dakshina Kannada (DK) on Sunday. This by far is the largest surge in a single day of people testing positive for the coronavirus that DK has seen, since the first Covid-19 case was recorded in Karnataka on March 8. Neighbouring Udupi on the other hand recorded 45 fresh cases, taking the active cases in the two districts to 849. Octogenarian former KPCC president B Janardhan Poojary and four of his family members, including his nonagenarian mother-in-law, wife and youngest daughter-in-law, tested positive and are undergoing treatment. The test report of his younger son is awaited. Trustees of Kudroli Sri Gokarnanatha Temple of which Poojary is the chief patron, said the family is doing well, and Poojary himself is largely asymptomatic, but tested positive during a random test. District health authorities discharged 37 patients on Sunday. Apart from the 48 cases that were detected during random sampling, 40 who tested positive had influenza like illness (ILI), 35 were primary contacts of infected patients, 15 were international and inter-state travellers, two patients had travelled from Malaysia by ship, two were SARI cases, and 2 were pre-surgery samples collected before delivery, and once sample was taken before surgery, and one before performing biopsy on a patient. The surge in cases also saw a steady rise in those undergoing treatment in the ICU of Wenlock Hospital. As on date, 10 patients with co-morbidities are undergoing treatment there. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said with the steady rise in positive cases, the state government has permitted home treatment for asymptomatic patients, and the same will be implemented in the district as per norms prescribed. In neighbouring Udupi, the 45 fresh cases took the total positive cases in the district to 1,321 and active cases to 183, keeping it third in list of districts afflicted by the disease, behind Bengaluru Urban and Kalaburagi. As on date, 1,136 people have been discharged, DC G Jagadeesha said. The district has recorded three deaths so far, the DC said. The ward and village level task forces are keeping a strict vigil on people referred to home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/random-sampling-adds-to-dks-surge-of-147-cases-udupi-records-45-cases/articleshow/76802916.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: ‘Drunk’ businessman fires at ex-armyman in Manesar||GURUGRAM: A special police officer was shot at by a local businessman in IMT Manesar Sector 1 around 10.30 pm on Saturday. Praveen Kumar (38) had gone out to buy medicines when the attack took place, police said. Kumar, a native of Rewari, has been living in Manesar for a while now. He had joined the Gurugram police after retiring from the Army. He was deployed at the MG Road police post. “My friend and I had gone to the market, in my car, to get a medicine. On our way back, Devendra Yadav blocked our way with his car. He was drunk and was hurling abuses at us. As I got out of my car to talk to him, he pulled out a pistol and fired at me,” Kumar said in his complaint. Kumar luckily escaped the shots, but things turned grim as Yadav called up his associates and asked them to join there. “All these men then beat me up with sticks,” said Kumar. He added that Yadav also fired at another car that was passing through the road. Some passersby made a PCR call and a police team was rushed to the spot. Kumar was then taken to a nearby hospital for treatment. During questioning, Yadav allegedly told police that he mistook Kumar for another person who had attacked Yadav a few days ago. “An FIR has been registered against Yadav and 4 others at the Manesar police station,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/drunk-businessman-fires-at-ex-armyman-in-manesar/articleshow/76803968.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kanpur||UP encounter: From Auraiya, Vikas Dubey may have crossed to Chambal||KANPUR: An abandoned dark grey Ford EcoSport car found on the highway near Auraiya on Sunday with an ignition key in place and ownership papers in the dashboard in the name of a certain Dubey raised suspicion it was the getaway vehicle of the Kanpur gangster. While police sounded a high alert on UP’s porous border with Nepal and are scouring border districts of Bahraich and Lakhimpur Kheri and Brahmin pockets in Kanpur’s vast hinterland, sources said, the don may have swerved south from Auraiya highway and crossed over to Madhya Pradesh, taking the Chambal trajectory of Gwalior-Bhind-Morena to reach Rajasthan, said a senior police official. The gangster’s last location was tracked to Auraiya, cementing suspicion the Ford was Dubey’s getaway car. Madhya Pradesh Police have also sounded an alert and set up check posts at Gwalior and Bhind to track down the gangster. UP Police confirmed to TOI about tipping off their counterparts in neighbouring states. Forensic experts are examining the abandoned Ford on the highway, which may have been dumped by the don to fox cops about his next movement. A blood-soaked handkerchief, three identity cards, a wallet, ID of an elite Lucknow school and an expensive footwear were found in the car, which are being scanned by the forensics team along with finger prints. “The car was recovered near Auraiya-Dibiyapur bypasss close to LG Garden guest house near the highway. Documents recovered from the car, bearing a Lucknow registration number, shows it belonged to an Amit Dubey. The gangster may have fled Bikru village in the car before or after the encounter. Investigators are corroborating facts,” said a senior police official. He said, the vehicle, which is 59-month-old is without an insurance cover or pollution certificate. “We are questioning locals to gather inputs. Many among them said the car was abandoned on Saturday. We are using the phone surveillance tower to scan mobile numbers active in the area. Also, informers have been roped in to see if anyone turns up at the site to search for the car,” said SP Auraiya, Suniti. “Vigil has been stepped up at district border and a round-the-clock vehicle checking drive is underway,” the SP said. Police sources said, the abandoned car was first spotted by a police patrol van. “The words, Sangh Parivar, was found inscribed on the number plate and ‘Prawakta Hindu Organization’ scribbled on the rear mirror,” said a police official. Meanwhile, vigil has been intensified at the Indo-Nepal border in Rupaidiha area of Bahraich district. “Posters of Vikas Dubey have been pasted at the check-post at Rupaidiha area of Bahraich district," said a senior STF official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/up-encounter-from-auraiya-vikas-dubey-may-have-crossed-to-chambal/articleshow/76803542.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 6, 2020||Jaipur||SMS Hospital emerges as major centre for plasma therapy in Covid treatment||JAIPUR: While multiple trials are being done across the world to assess the efficacy of various treatment strategies, Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital has emerged as a major centre of plasma therapy for Covid-19 treatment in the state. The hospital initially got permission for clinical trial for just 20 plasma therapies but the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has now allowed a greater number of plasma therapies to SMS Hospital. However, in Jodhpur, the plasma therapies are yet to take off, while the SMS hospital is planning to increase plasma therapies and has already screened 200 donors, who were earlier infected with the virus but have since recovered. “We have provided plasma therapies to 30 patients and the result has been quite encouraging,” said Dr Ajit Singh, one of the member of core group of Covid-19 treatment at SMS Hospital. SMS Hospital has identified more patients for plasma therapy for which they have screened 200 possible donors. SMS Hospital officials said not all Covid-19 patients who have recovered are eligible to donate their convalescent plasma. The donor should be more than 18 years of age and should weigh more than 55kg. The donor should complete resolution of symptoms at least 28 days prior to donation or should complete resolution of symptoms at least 14 days prior to donation and two negatives real time PCR test for Covid-19 from nasopharyngeal swab, collected 24 hours apart. SMS Hospital officials encourage donors to visit blood bank for further evaluation towards eligibility for blood donation. “We have screened 200 such people recovered from Covid-19 to find out eligible donors from them with their consent,” said the official. “Whenever we find a recipient (Covid-19 patient) suitable for plasma therapy, we add the eligible donor in our list,” said the official. However, in Jodhpur, only one Covid-19 patient has recovered from plasma therapy. MDM Hospital and AIIMS Jodhpur jointly made it successful. MDM Hospital sent plasma to AIIMS Jodhpur where doctors performed plasma therapy. “The plasma therapy was successful. We sent the plasma to AIIMS Jodhpur,” said Dr GL Meena, principal and controller, SN Medical College. He said, “In our hospitals, no suitable recipient (Covid-19) patient has been found for plasma therapy. There was no indication among patients for using plasma therapy. In Jodhpur, 45 people have died. Out of those, nine were brought dead and seven died within couple of hours of reaching the hospital. The rest 29 died as they were suffering from co-morbidities,” said Dr Meena. He said doctors remain in touch with the recovered Covid-19 patients even after their discharge from the hospital for encouraging them to donate plasma. He said doctors in Jodhpur treated patients following the treatment protocol issued by ICMR. What is plasma therapy: In plasma therapy, critically ill Covid-19 patients are treated with convalescent plasma containing neutralising antibodies, which is donated by a person, who himself was infected with Covid-19 and he recovered. Hospitalised Covid-19 patients fulfilling the inclusion and exclusion criteria, will be eligible for inclusion in the trial Inclusion criteria is that patients admitted with RT-PCR confirmed Covid-19 illness, age should be above 18 years along with other clinical symptoms Exclusion creteria, pregnant women, breastfeeding women, known hypersensitivity to blood products, reciepet of pooled immunoglobulin in last 30 days Critically ill patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome and others ---Covid-19 convalescent plasma is collected from recovered individuals if they are eligible to donate blood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sms-hospital-emerges-as-major-centre-for-plasma-therapy-in-covid-treatment/articleshow/76804089.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Varanasi||24 new Covid cases, one death in 24 hours||VARANASI: With the detection of 24 new cases, the Covid-19 tally of the district reached the mark of 600, while death of an infected person took the district’s toll to 22 on Saturday. As many as 75 cases have been detected only in past 72 hours. The number of COVID-19 cases in the neighbouring districts is still on a sharp rise. Varanasi DM Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “A total of 24 Covid positive cases came to light on Saturday. The district’s Covid tally has reached the 600 mark, of which 340 have been cured and 238 are undergoing treatment.” A 60-year-old woman of Dalmandi, who suffered from diabetes and respiratory problem, and had been tested Covid positive, died during the course of treatment at SSL hospital of BHU, said the DM, adding, the total number of Covid deaths is now 22. “Number of hotspot areas in Varanasi rose to 290, of which 158 are active. As many as 242 new samples were collected on Saturday, while test reports of 856 cases are still awaited,” said DM Sharma. Number of Covid positive cases in Jaunpur district also reached close to the mark of 600. Jaunpur DM DK Singh said that of the 301 test reports received from BHU lab, 31 were found Covid positive. Now, total number of positive cases in the district has reached 590, of which 482 patients have recovered and nine have died. Meanwhile, Ballia DM Hari Pratap Shahi said that 18 persons tested positive on Saturday, taking the district’s Covid tally to 172. Among them, 99 have recovered two have died. 67 active cases are being treated at different hospitals. In Chandauli, eight more persons including four women, a minor boy and three men tested positive on Friday, said DM Navneet Singh Chahal. Chandauli’s Covid tally has now reached 175, of which 84 are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/24-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-24-hrs/articleshow/76791494.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Varanasi||Four cops suspended in BJP zila panchayat member’s arrest case||VARANASI: Four policemen, including inspector Lanka were suspended, while CO Bhelupur was attached to police office on Sunday after a probe found that they had added irrelevant sections of IPC in the FIR lodged against Bharatiya Janata Party’s zila panchayat member and his brother and exaggerated the incident. On Friday night, BJP zila panchayat member Surendra Patel and his brother Virendra Kumar Patel alias Bindu Patel, a lawyer, were arrested from Sundarpur area under Lanka police station for allegedly misbehaving with police personnel and manhandling them. SSP Prabhakar Chawdhary said, “Inspector Lanka Ashwini Chaturvedi, Sundarpur police outpost in-charge Sunil Gaud and two constables have been suspended while CO Bhelupur Priti Tripathi has been attached to police office. Action has been taken against them for exaggerating the incident and adding irrelevant sections of IPC in the FIR lodged in this connection.” District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma had on Saturday asked ADM (finance and revenue) and ASP (security) to probe the matter and file a report by Sunday. Earlier, on Saturday morning, lawyers came face to face with police when Bindu and his brother were taken to the court. Both were granted bail by the sessions court. The incident took place on Friday when some policemen reached Sundarpur-Khojwa road to attend a complaint. Former students’ union leader of Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapeeth Ravindra Patel also reached the spot. A row erupted when cops asked Patel why he was not wearing a mask. Within minutes, more supporters reached the spot and attacked policemen after a heated argument. Inspector Lanka reached with heavy police force and arrested Surendra and Virendra while others escaped. Lanka police lodged an FIR under sections 147, 148, 149, 323, 504, 506, 341, 307, 392, 114, 188, 269, 270, 364, 353, 332, 333 and 186 of IPC and 7 CL Act in this connection. BJP’s Kashi president Mahesh Chandra Srivastava requested IG Varanasi range VS Mina and DM to review the matter. Sections 364, 392 and 307 were removed from the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/4-cops-suspended-in-bjp-zila-panchayat-members-arrest-case/articleshow/76803524.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kanpur||Gangster Dubey’s key aide arrested after encounter||KANPUR: In a significant breakthrough, police arrested Daya Shankar Agnihotri, a key accomplice of gangster Vikas Dubey who lived with him in his house in Bikru village, after a pre-dawn encounter in Kalyanpur area on Sunday. A country-made pistol of 315 bore and bullets were recovered from Agnihotri. Police laid a trap near Jawaharpuram Puliya in Kalyanpur area following a tip-off and tried to stop Agnihotri around 4.30am. “When the police team tried to stop Daya Shankar, he tried to flee and started firing at them. In the exchange of fire, he sustained bullet injury in his leg, fell down and was arrested,” said SSP Dinesh Kumar P. SSP had announced a reward of Rs 25,000 each on Dubey’s 21 aides named in the FIR. Police said Daya Shankar used to deal with land related disputes of gangster Dubey. “Three criminal cases, including two of attempt to murder and one under Arms Act, are registered against him at Kalyanpur police station,” the SSP said. Besides, Daya Shankar alias Kallu, other 20 named in the FIR are Shyamu Bajpai, Chotu Shukla, Monu, Jahan Yadav, Shashi Kant Pandit, Shiv Tewari, Vishnu Pal Yadav, Ram Singh, Ramu Bajpai, Amar Dubey, Prabhat Mishra, Gopal Saini, Viru Dubey, Bauwan Shukla, Shivam Dubey, Bal Govind, Bauwa Dubey and four others. Additional director general of police (ADGP) of Kanpur Zone, Jai Narain Singh said police have increased the prize money from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh on Dubey, who is on the run since Thursday midnight after the killing of eight policemen in Bikru village. Watch Kanpur encounter: Cop informed Vikas Dubey about police team, says associate||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gangster-dubeys-key-aide-arrested-after-encounter/articleshow/76803873.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 6, 2020||Bareilly||18-year-old girl nabbed for selling smack in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: An 18-year-old girl was arrested for allegedly selling smack from her house in Madina Shah locality under Pilibhit Kotwali police station on Saturday night. Police seized 65 grams of smack from her possession valued at over Rs 50,000 in the open market. Police said the girl’s father, Nasir Hussain, is a drug peddler and around 30 criminal cases are registered against him. At present, he is out on bail. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO, said a team raided the house after getting a tip-off. When the police team entered the house, four-five customers were present.They fled from the back door on seeing the police. The house was searched by a woman constable in the presence of the CO of Pilibhit city circle. While 60 grams of smack was found in a polythene bag, five paper sachets of 1 gm each were also recovered from the girl, who was alone at home. The girl was booked under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/18-year-old-girl-nabbed-for-selling-smack-in-pilibhit/articleshow/76800604.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Pune||Pune police book 900 in two days for traffic and lockdown violations||PUNE: Violation of traffic and lockdown norms within the jurisdiction of the Pune police commissionerate since Friday night has landed at least 900 people in trouble. The Pune police booked them after they breached the night curfew, travelled without e-pass for inter-district movement, moved around in containment zones without a valid reason, stepped out without masks, drove on the wrong side of the road and rode triple seat, among other offences. The police said most of the action was carried out around the containment zones of Pune city. People should have a valid reason to travel in the night time, like hospitalization or urgent medication, or some important family matter. The police said barring an emergency, people should not venture out of their residences and they must follow the norms of wearing masks, following social distancing and hand sanitization when they venture out. The police action comes in the wake of a noticeable surge in Covid-19 cases as the Pune Municipal Corporation limits have recorded 1,000-plus cases each day for the last four consecutive days, and the need to curb the spread of the virus. “People are roaming outside in the containment zones without any valid reason,” a police officer said. The government extended the lockdown till July 31in the state. On Friday evening, Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham issued a directive to all the police personnel to take strong action against violators of night curfew and other lockdown directives. Many people were not following the norms of social distancing and people were found walking or driving on the roads without wearing masks, he stated. In a Tweet on Saturday, he appealed to the people to follow the lockdown orders as the virus was spreading rapidly in the city. Following this, police patrolling was intensified in areas under the jurisdiction of various police stations and those in the vicinity of the containment zones and a strong nakabandi operation was implemented at 94 places. As many as 422 police officers and constables were manning these points. Police questioned motorists, who were found travelling on roads after 10pm, a senior officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-police-book-900-in-two-days-for-traffic-lockdown-violations/articleshow/76804093.cms||Gitesh Shelke
July 6, 2020||Pune||PMC fines 300 citizens for not wearing masks||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has taken action against 300 citizens for not wearing mask over the last week. The civic administration has collected fines amounting to around Rs1.5 lakh from defaulters. The action is being carried out across public places in the municipal areas. According to PMC officials, the usage of mask has been made mandatory for all citizens. The civic administration has decided to make it compulsory to wear masks in a bid to reduce the spread of coronavirus. The civic administration has issued public notices a few times, urging people to wear the mask or face action. The offender needs to pay Rs500 per offence i.e. every time s/he is caught without a mask. The civic administration had announced that it would impose the fine last month. The drive against offenders was further intensified in the last week of June. “The action is being undertaken at different locations in the city. Our staff members keep a watch on people present in public places, commuters and citizens visiting government or private offices,” said Dnyaneshwar Molak, head of PMC’s solid waste management department. As per officials, the fine is charged in accordance with guidelines issued by the union and state government to promote wearing masks. The 15 ward offices have been delegated powers to take action. Sanitary inspectors conduct the drive on ground, issuing and collecting fines. “The civic administration has tried to convince people through some innovative ways. Masks were gifted to offenders as a symbolic gesture to create awareness about the importance of masks. But many people are still not adhering to the guidelines. So, the fine has been imposed,” said a senior PMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-fines-300-citizens-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76804098.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Mysuru||Random sampling adds to DK’s surge of 147 cases, Udupi records 45 cases||MANGALURU/UDUPI: Random samples taken from Ullal– 48 in all—tested positive for the novel coronavirus, which contributed to the 147 positive cases recorded in Dakshina Kannada (DK) on Sunday. This by far is the largest surge in a single day of people testing positive for the coronavirus that DK has seen, since the first Covid-19 case was recorded in Karnataka on March 8. Neighbouring Udupi on the other hand recorded 45 fresh cases, taking the active cases in the two districts to 849. Octogenarian former KPCC president B Janardhan Poojary and four of his family members, including his nonagenarian mother-in-law, wife and youngest daughter-in-law, tested positive and are undergoing treatment. The test report of his younger son is awaited. Trustees of Kudroli Sri Gokarnanatha Temple of which Poojary is the chief patron, said the family is doing well, and Poojary himself is largely asymptomatic, but tested positive during a random test. District health authorities discharged 37 patients on Sunday. Apart from the 48 cases that were detected during random sampling, 40 who tested positive had influenza like illness (ILI), 35 were primary contacts of infected patients, 15 were international and inter-state travellers, two patients had travelled from Malaysia by ship, two were SARI cases, and 2 were pre-surgery samples collected before delivery, and once sample was taken before surgery, and one before performing biopsy on a patient. The surge in cases also saw a steady rise in those undergoing treatment in the ICU of Wenlock Hospital. As on date, 10 patients with co-morbidities are undergoing treatment there. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said with the steady rise in positive cases, the state government has permitted home treatment for asymptomatic patients, and the same will be implemented in the district as per norms prescribed. In neighbouring Udupi, the 45 fresh cases took the total positive cases in the district to 1,321 and active cases to 183, keeping it third in list of districts afflicted by the disease, behind Bengaluru Urban and Kalaburagi. As on date, 1,136 people have been discharged, DC G Jagadeesha said. The district has recorded three deaths so far, the DC said. The ward and village level task forces are keeping a strict vigil on people referred to home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/random-sampling-adds-to-dks-surge-of-147-cases-udupi-records-45-cases/articleshow/76811188.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 6, 2020||Bareilly||Thieves cut open ATM, flee with Rs 17 lakh cash in Moradabad||Bareilly: A group of four unidentified men stole around Rs 17 lakh from an ATM of a bank in Moradabad on Sunday morning. According to police, the criminals entered the kiosk installed in Civil Lines area, Kanth road, at 4:00 am, broke open the machine using a gas cutter and took the money. The CCTV footages are being collected and an investigation is underway. “The ATM was not being guarded and on the same day, two policemen had arrived at the spot and clicked pictures of the ATM and went. Thereafter, four men came in a white car and one of them, carrying a big bag, entered the ATM and even pulled the shutter from inside. We reached near the ATM to enquire what was going on and were told that they have come to fix the machine. As we tried to intervene, other men, who were sitting in the car, held us and did not let us move. This continued for around 20 minutes and then they left the spot,” said one of the security guard who witnessed the robbery. Speaking to TOI, Moradabad superintendent of police (SP city), Amit Kumar Anand said, “The thieves took Rs 17 lakh from the PNB ATM. We have filed an FIR and launched a manhunt.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/thieves-cut-open-atm-flee-with-rs-17-lakh-cash-in-moradabad/articleshow/76800597.cms||Maria Khan
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||Massive tree plantation drive launched for greening of city||NAGPUR: In a unique green initiative, the Rotary Club of Nagpur Vision, in association with the Times of India, has launched a massive plantation drive in and around the city. The first phase of the project was kick-started on Sunday at Nawarmari village, 35 kilometres from Nagpur, where a team lead by the club’s president Jatin Sampat planted over 100 fruit-bearing trees in the village and on its fringes. The idea was not just to increase the green cover of the area, but also provide economic support to the villagers from the fruit-bearing trees. “Under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) Yojna, we get to plant saplings of trees. However, these are mostly trees meant to green the environment and hence include neem, saptaparni, karanj, awra etc that are not eaten by cattle. Planting fruit-bearing trees will prove to be beneficial for us,” said Nawarmari village sarpanch Gajanand Bhagat. Highlighting other benefits, Sri Prakash from Niramay Bahu-Uddeshiya Seva Sanstha — which also took part in the drive — said, “A major problem in the rural areas of India is malnutrition. This is going to be a very good way to solve that problem. The village households will take care of the trees, knowing fully well that once they grow up and start to bear fruits, not only will they have plenty for themselves, but also to distribute among neighbours.” The club members encouraged children of the village to look after the planted trees. Apart from this, another project called the ‘Green Your Neighbourhood Challenge’ has been launched in the city. Under this, citizens will plant trees in their neighbourhood and take care of them. “There are various plantation drives but the survival rate is mostly poor due to lack of care. With our ‘one person, one tree’ concept, we expect to have great support from the citizens,” the club said. Under the ‘Green Your Neighbourhood Challenge’, citizens are encouraged to come forward and plant at least one tree in their house or neighbourhood. Saplings of various species, including saptaparni, karanj and amaltas are available with the social forestry department at a nominal price of Rs8 till July 31. “We appeal to all the citizens to actively take part in the challenge, so that the overall density of trees increases in the city,” Jatin added. Citizens across Nagpur are invited to take part in the green movement. Photographs clicked with the planted saplings should be e-mailed to nilanjanbhowmick@gmail.com, or sent on mobile number 9657552244. Selected photographs will be published in TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/massive-tree-plantation-drive-launched-for-greening-of-city/articleshow/76804115.cms||Manka Behl
July 6, 2020||Chennai||Civic body keeps more vehicles ready to move Covid positive patients to screening centres||CHENNAI: Identifying a crucial shortcoming, Greater Chennai Corporation has made available 107 more vehicles to transfer people tested positive for Covid-19 to screening centres present in every zone. With a limited number of vehicles available, moving patients from their homes to screening centres was delayed so far. The centres are important as every patient tested positive is first sent there for a thorough medical check-up. This involves taking an X-Ray of the chest, a blood test and checking other parameters like blood pressure and pulse oxygen levels, based on which GCC doctors advise whether the patient needs to be moved to a hospital, a Covid Care Centre or a Covid Health Centre for treatment. Of the 107 vehicles, 42 are 108 amublances and the rest hired vehicles like van, city riders and tempo travellers. This will be in addition to the 80 ambulances that were already in use. They will be made available in the core zones such as Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Thiru-vi-ka Nagar, Anna Nagar, Teynampet, Kodambakkam and Perungudi. Every ward in these zones will have at least one vehicle available, which will make it easy for the sanitary inspectors to send the patients immediately to the screening centre. Another measure planned by the authorities is increasing the number of screening centres. There are 12 currently. GCC commissioner G Prakash said screening one patient takes around one and a half hours. “From start to finish, the entire patient screening process should be completed within three hours, as per the chief minister’s instructions. But it is taking around four hours now. We found out that the issue lies in the availability of vehicles. So we have inducted more number of vehicles for quick transport,” Prakash said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/civic-body-keeps-more-vehicles-ready-to-move-covid-ve-patients-to-screening-centres/articleshow/76803643.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
July 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Jubilant bizmen demand fixing of deadline for completion of airport||Ludhiana: City businessmen are in a jubilant mood after deputy commissioner, Ludhiana, announced that work on the international airport at Halwara will start in two weeks. According to businessmen, the project is much needed considering the business point of view and therefore a deadline should be set to ensure that the work gets completed within the stipulated time and airport becomes functional at the earliest. Speaking on the issue, Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forums said, “This is a big development for the industry that finally the work on the international airport will begin in two weeks. The entire trade and industry is eagerly waiting for this project to take shape and for the start of domestic and international flights from Ludhiana. We request the state government and district administration that along with starting the project on time a deadline too should be fixed so that the project is completed on time and residents also come to know when their dream of having a fully functional airport will be realised.” According to Rajinder Singh Sarhali, media secretary of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, “The present Sahnewal airport has several limitations due to which only small airplanes can operate from here and due to this reason only one flight is operational from here, that too for Delhi. Once the international airport at Halwara takes wings, our city will be connected with so many other destinations in India and even abroad. As already Ludhiana’s industry has had to wait for so many years for a fully functional airport and beside, there were several claims by politicians and officials on when the airport would be made. So, this time the government should show its commitment and fix a deadline for completion of this project.” On July 2, Sharma had visited Halwara and announced that the work on the project would start in two weeks time and the road leading to the airport site would be widened. He had then directed the PWD officials to start the work on the boundary wall of the airport at the earliest. The DC had also claimed that 161 acres required for the construction of the airport had already been acquired and Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada) had taken possession of the said land. In lieu of the acquired land, the farmers had been paid a compensation of Rs 20,61,314 per acre besides, each eligible family would also be paid Rs 5.50 lakh as rehabilitation and resettlement amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jubilant-bizmen-demand-fixing-of-deadline-for-completion-of-airport/articleshow/76803650.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||Woman shares OTP, loses Rs 6.50 lakh; cops recover Rs 2 lakh||NAGPUR: A woman entrepreneur almost lost Rs6.50 lakh within a few minutes of sharing an One Time Password (OTP) with a cyber crook posing as a credit card executive of her bank. Acting on her timely complaint, Nagpur cyber complaint cell helped her get back Rs2.08 lakh. In similar manner, Nagpur cyber cell has helped citizens regain Rs19 lakh lost through online frauds this year. With rising white collar crimes, especially during lockdown, commissioner of police BK Upadhyay had reinforced the cyber cell with additional manpower, including an officer, and also approved use of the services of private experts adept in using different techniques and gadgets to detect cyber crime. Police sources said a businesswoman from Rana Pratap Nagar, had made the glaring mistake of sharing her banking details with a stranger on phone, resulting in the fraud. The crook had generated an OTP using her name, and asked her to share it with him after procuring her personal bank details on the pretext of upgrading the limit on her credit card. The woman was stunned after receiving a message from her bank about Rs6.50 lakh being debited. She had rushed to cyber cell of crime branch within an hour. Cyber cops under additional CP Nilesh Bharne and DCP Shweta Khedkar had immediately alerted the victim’s bank and also contacted the online wallet in which the cash was transferred. “It’s likely the bank may try to return her the rest of the amount too in the coming days,” said a cyber cop involved in the investigation. It’s learnt that the cyber fraudster had managed to establish a link with the woman’s money transfer app with his digital wallet, and used her banking details to get the cash transferred from her account. He had already transferred the bulk of the cash into various other accounts and also withdrew some of it, but some of the transactions were stopped by the cyber cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-shares-otp-loses-rs6-50-lakh-cops-recover-rs2-lakh/articleshow/76804103.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 6, 2020||Pune||90 booked for trips to Mulshi despite ban||Pune: The police booked 90 people from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad for going on picnics to Mulshi despite a ban. The previous weekend, 100 such revellers were similarly caught. All the violators are being booked for obedience under IPC section 188. “We have set up three checkpoints — at Bhugaon, Male village and on Lavasa Road,” Paud police sub-inspector Anil Lavte said. “We were checking all vehicles since early in the morning and, if people fail to give valid reasons for their travel, we send them back. Most of them had come for a picnic,” he said. “Some tried to enter Mulshi by telling us that they owned farms and farmhouses. We sent them back too,” Lavte said. “We told them not to unnecessarily land in trouble by violating the norms,” he said. Those who didn’t listen were booked.“On Saturday, we took action against 45 people, and as many on Sunday. They include people found without masks,” senior inspector Ashok Dhumal said. “We filed cases against 40 for not heeding,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/90-booked-for-trips-to-mulshi-despite-ban/articleshow/76804100.cms||Mihir Tanksale
July 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Work on temporary building of Halwara airport to start soon||Ludhiana: If all goes well, the work on the temporary building at the Halwara airport may be started in next one and half months as the local AAI officials are in the process of seeking approval about the same from their headquarters. Recently, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, who had visited the site, where the civil terminal is to come up, had said that work on the internal airport would start in two weeks time. On May 23, the then deputy commissioner, Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, had declared in the presence of additional chief administrator (ACA) Glada Bhupinder Singh that the 161.27 acres required for the construction of this civil terminal had been acquired at Aitiana village in Raikot and the possession of the said land had been taken. Giving details, a senior officer of AAI while asking not to be named said that though Glada had shared with them the draft coordinates of the land, which is a map related to four sides of the acquired land, they were still waiting for a signed copy of the same. He added that after they would send the same to the architecture wing of their planning directorate, it would make the drawing of the infrastructure to come up at the site. An AAI officer said that they had sought the approval for start of work on 2000 sq m porta cabin (which is a temporary terminal building) from the AAI board and expect to get the same next week. He added that after they get the designs, they would give the same to the state government so that work could get started. “We expect that we will get the necessary documents and approval in 10 days and in next one to one and half months, the work on porta cabin should start at the site. Once it is started, it takes roughly three months for the structure to come up. After the structure coes up, we will shift operations from Sahnewal to Halwara and we think it will take around five months from now to do that,” said the officer. He added that it will take around two to three years for the airport project to be completed. The deputy commissioner had said that the road leading to the airport site would be widened and the PWD, buildings and roads (B&R), officials have been directed to start the work on the boundary wall of the international airport at the earliest. He added that with the start of the international flights from Halwara airport, the area would develop as a business hub that would boost the economy of the state. A source in the district administration said that PWD is making the estimate of the boundary wall construction after which the construction work will be started. He added that most probably the concrete boundary wall would be constructed soon. The district administration said that with the construction of this international airport, the long pending demand of the Ludhiana residents will be fulfilled. “The Punjab government is making efforts to ensure that this airport becomes operational in next two and half years. The first phase of the project will include development of a new international civil terminal over an area of 135.54 acres for full-fledged operations of Code-4C type aircraft,” it added. The Government of Punjab and the Airport Authority of India had signed the agreement for a joint venture for setting up a new civil and cargo international air terminal on land of Aitiana village in Raikot tehsil at the IAF station, Halwara, Ludhiana. The coming up of this international airport will boost economic development and will generate employment opportunities and bring in tourism in the area. An AAI officer said the airport terminal complex will be state of art with latest equipments including CUTE (Common User Interface Terminal) system, inland baggage, face recognition system for walk through identification facility for passengers, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/work-on-temporary-building-of-halwara-airport-to-start-soon/articleshow/76803642.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 6, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Huge demand for digital gadgets as online classes begin||HUBBALLI: With the government allowing schools across the state to resume online classes for students from Class 1-10, demand for smartphones and tablets has gone up. There is a mad rush for android gadgets with capacity of 2 GB ram and 32 GB memory, costing Rs 10,000 to 12,000. Mahaveer Kothari, a smartphone dealer, said that people from surrounding villages are coming to Hubballi to purchase gadgets. “People are asking for devices in Rs 10,000 to 12,000 range. But currently devices are available for Rs 17,000 and above, leaving many people disappointed as it does not fir their budget.” Mohammed Zameer Madeen, ST Communication, said: “If a person books a tablet, it takes at least 10 days to get the delivery. Now that people have started avoiding China manufactured devices, demand for Samsung has gone up.” Santosh Chavan of Santosh Telecom said that people from Haveri, Gadag and other districts are coming to Hubballi to buy smartphones and tablets. “They ask for features like video calling, MS Word and adequate space. But there is short supply of affordable gadgets,” he added. Ramachandra Kurubar from Sonia Gandhi Nagar in Hubballi said that he went to purchase a smartphone because schools are insisting. “But I am not getting the device within my budget,” he said. Parvez Konnur, a social worker, said that the government should reconsider its decision of allowing online education, because huge network problems persist especially in rural areas and many families are not in a position to spend on devices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/huge-demand-for-digital-gadgets-as-online-classes-begin/articleshow/76802921.cms||J Abbas Mulla
July 6, 2020||Pune||Light to moderate rain in Pune till July 11: IMD||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday forecasted light to moderate rainfall over Pune region starting from Monday till July 11. On Sunday, maximum parts of the Pune district received light rainfall. The district experienced overcast conditions from Sunday morning. Towards the evening, the district had received a light spell of rainfall. Anupam Kashyapi, the head of weather forecast division of the IMD Pune, said, “Westerly winds are bringing moisture over Pune district from the Arabian Sea. The city and Pune district are expected to receive moderate rainfall for the next 48 hours because of this weather condition.” “From July 6 onwards till July 11, Pune district was likely to receive light to moderate rainfall,” he added. The Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded 1mm and nil rainfall respectively, till 5.30pm on Sunday. “Only ghat areas in the Madhya Maharashtra region is going to receive heavy rainfall for the next 48 hours,” the met official said. Meanwhile, Balasheb Palghadmal, the agriculture officer of Pune district, told TOI, “The current rainfall is useful for rice plantations in tehsils such as Bhor, Velhe, Maval, Mulshi, Khed, Junnar and Ambegaon. Moreover, the light to moderate rainfall is suitable for the sowing area, which is over 2 lakh hectares across the district.” The met officials said that Marathwada and Vidarbha regions were likely to get scattered light rainfall for the next five days. Konkan and Goa region would get heavy rainfall in the coming days, the met official said. “The low pressure area is formed over Kutch region in Gujarat. As a result, Gujarat and some parts of the northern areas of Konkan and Goa regions were going to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall in the coming days,” the met official added. All meteorological sub-divisions in Maharashtra have recorded normal or above normal rainfall this season, so far. Marathwada continues to retain the top position, having recorded 50% excess rain this season||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/light-to-moderate-rain-till-july-11-imd/articleshow/76804108.cms||Sandip Dighe
July 6, 2020||Pune||Vendors in PCMC areas bend norms||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Saturday cracked the whip against 457 people — including 10 roadside vendors — for violating lockdown norms. Police said the 10 vendors were found flouting social distancing norms and operating beyond the prescribed time limit and booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life). An officer from the Hinjewadi police said shops, under the latest order, were allowed to operate till 5pm in non-containment zones. “We received information that many roadside vendors and vegetable stalls operate even after 5pm,” the officer said. The police fanned teams and raided spots at Vinode Vasti and Laxmi Chowk in Hinjewadi. “We found 10 such vendors. They were also not following social distancing norms,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vendors-in-pcmc-areas-bend-norms/articleshow/76804112.cms||Mihir Tanksale
July 6, 2020||Hubballi||Low-key anniversary fete miffs Sharif enthusiasts||Hubballi: Santa Shishunala Sharif’s 200th birth anniversary went off as a low key affair. During the inauguration of the celebration last year, elected representatives had assured of inviting Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the valedictory. They had even aimed to re-print his philosophical songs and comprehensive literature and had planned to make a documentary. Sharif’s enthusiasts from North Karnataka allege that the government which intends to erect the statues of Kempe Gowda, Ambarish, and name a flyover after Veer Savarkar in Bengaluru, has forgotten Sharif. They term it as another discrimination towards North Karnataka. Satish Kulkarni, a poet in Haveri noted that Rastriya Santa Kavi Kanaka Samshodhana Kendra has published Sharif’s philosophical songs in one volume but comprehensive book on contributions of Sharif has not come. “Though home minister Basavaraj Bommai has taken up some development works at Shishunala, demand for a separate authority for Sharif, on the lines of Sarvajna Kshetra Development Authority, is yet to be fulfilled. If the authority is set up, then all works will start. Though coronavirus started in the state in March, no programme or initiative was done before the pandemic. Only the inauguration was done in a grand manner,” he said. Goolappa Aralikatti, a documentary film maker from neabry Mugali village recalled that the government announced Rs 5 crore for the development of Shishunala in this year’s budget. “Sharif always propagated communal harmony and his messages are imbibed in the daily life of commoners in the region. His messages are reflected in many folklore songs and bhajans. These messages are needed for today’s generation. I regret to say the governments always rake up personalities like Tipu Sultan, Kempe Gowda, Ambarish and Veer Savarkar, who have vote banks. But Sharif doesn’t own such vote bank as he always upheld humanity rather than any religion. Moreover, he hails from North Karnataka which always witnessed discrimination by all governments,” he said. Despite many calls and messages, home minister Basavaraj Bommai, who represents Shigaon-Savanur assembly constituency, under which Shishunala falls, was unavailable for comment. Can’t Sharif get due respect? A district level officer said the possibility of Sharif Development Authority being set up and funds being allocated for Shishunala is very low at the government level. “The district already has authorities or trusts in the name of Kanaka Dasa, Sarvajna, Ambigara Choudayya and Galaganath. The government is also observing jayantis in their name and the quota is already full for the district. Whenever, we go with a proposal, officials in Bengaluru ask us how many such trusts we need. Sharif continues to be unlucky,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/low-key-anniversary-fete-miffs-sharif-enthusiasts/articleshow/76802934.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 6, 2020||Kanpur||04k interlocking tiles from debris||Kanpur: Kanpur Municipal Corporation (KMC) will be using debris from houses, which lie at road sides in various localities of the city, in manufacturing interlocking tiles. The KMC besides using the tiles in its development works would also sell them in the open market. It will soon purchase a machine at a cost of Rs 1.5 crore for disposing of the debris. While carrying out renovation, the house owners in the city generally throw debris on road sides. Though KMC slaps fine on house owners for throwing debris on roads but it failed to deter them from doing so, therefore the municipal commissioner and other officials decided to use it in manufacturing interlocking tiles. Municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi said that the machine would be installed at Panki Bhau Singh village where KMC’s garbage disposal plant had been installed. He said the garbage disposal plant uses garbage for making manure and extracting RDF oil from it. “From this month will start disposal of debris too. The KMC will soon purchase machines for disposal of debris and manufacturing interlocking tiles”, he added. Executive engineer (environment) RK Pal said that a tender would soon be floated to purchase machines for disposing of debris. The machine would separate all ingredients of debris such as brick, cement sand and grit and thereafter would manufacture small size grit and the mixture would be used in manufacturing interlocking tiles. “The mall size grits could also be used in patch work, he added. The city, he said, generates around 200 tonnes of debris per day. Initially the machines would dispose of around 100 tonnes of debris per day but later their capacity would be increased. All government and semi- government departments would be asked to send their debris to the plant instead of piling it in their premises or throwing it at road sides. The KMC’s garbage disposal plant had not been in operation since the private sector companies raised their hands in garbage disposal but the municipal commissioner took interest and made the plant operative. At present, it is manufacturing manure and revised defused fuel (RDF) .The manure is provided free of cost to farmers through agriculture department while RDF is sold to Satna Cement Factory. According to an order of the National Green Tribunal, all power plants which are within a radius of 100 km from the garbage disposal plants should use RDF as fuel. As both Panki power plant and Ghatampur power plant are within the radius they have to purchase 5 percent RDF as fuel for their consumption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/04k-interlocking-tiles-from-debris/articleshow/76791780.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||In Ahmedabad, baby without food pipe survives on dadis’ love||AHMEDABAD: On July 3, Mohammad Umar Malek, 1, took his first spoonful of milk at a city hospital. His simple act brought tears to Khurshida and Sabera Malek, sisters and grandmothers to the child, as it was the culmination of their yearlong ordeal to ensure the child survives, even though he was born without an oesophagus. Dr Anirudh Shah, a city-based pediatric surgeon, said that Umar, the son of a fruit seller from Kheda, was born with a rare condition – oesophageal atresia (absence of food pipe) and duodenal atresia (blockage between intestine and stomach). “Having one of these conditions is unusual but presence of both is rare. In fact, we could find only 13 such recorded instances. It practically means that the child cannot have food from mouth as the food pipe is not developed at all,” said Dr Shah. Khursheda and Sabera, both in their 60s, and sisters married to brothers, took it upon themselves to ensure that the child does well even when the doctors said that he had slim chances of survival. On the second day of his life, Umar underwent a surgery where doctors removed the block between stomach and intestine. Doctors also inserted a pipe in his stomach through which he was to take food till his food pipe was constructed. Doctors said that the surgery would be possible only when he attains the age of eight months. “As his mother was busy with the other child, the two grandmas ensured that the child has his fill every two hours. They keenly learnt how to feed him at the hospital and followed it to the T. Whenever the tube got detached, they informed the family and accompanied the child to the hospital,” said Dr Amar Shah, paediatric surgeon who performed the surgery on Umar. “It was important to maintain his nutrition level and keep him healthy for the timely surgery.” The grandmas took turns to look after the child – Sabera would wake up early and prepare tiffins for the family and then take care of Umar throughout the day. From 8pm, it was Khurshida’s turn to look after Umar while Sabera got some rest. The surgery lasted for two and a half hours. The doctors made a tunnel from the abdomen though the chest behind the heart into the neck of the child. The stomach was then pulled up into the tunnel and was connected to the upper end of the food pipe. The team members, including Dr Anirudh Shah, Dr Amar Shah and Dr Pathik Shah, said that it was a high-risk operation, but the child responded well. Watch Ahmedabad: Baby without food pipe survives on dadis’ love||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/baby-without-food-pipe-survives-on-dadis-love/articleshow/76803657.cms||Parth Shastri
July 6, 2020||Chennai||277 people with Covid remain on the loose in Chennai||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation is still looking for the 227 people who tested positive for Covid-19 and then gone missing in the city. The civic authorities blame the situation on patients purposely giving wrong contact data and on clerical error in some cases. TOI had earlier reported that 277 people who tested positive went missing till June 10. The latest data shows 196 people went missing between June 10 and July 5. The good news is that 246 of all those missing have been located with police help. But that still leaves 227 people untraced. So how does the civic body keep track? By 6.30 every morning, ward officials get the list of those who tested positive the previous day. They then go to their houses based on contact details provided. The houses are barricaded, the patient is quizzed for contact tracing and the family is checked for symptoms. Then they are taken to the nearest screening centre. From the screening centre, based on the doctor’s advice, the patient is either shifted to a hospital in a 108 ambulance or to a covid care centre or they remain in home isolation. “We are testing about 11,000 samples every day now. It is difficult to verify everyone’s addresses. Some do not even mention pincode or name of the streets. Some provide wrong contact numbers. However, with police investigation, we are tracing them all,” said corporation commissioner G Prakash. Many patients have gone missing from covid care centres after which CCTV cameras and wire mesh gates have been set up on every floor. Meghanatha Reddy, deputy commissioner who is in charge of focus volunteers, said most of the cases are traced the next day itself. “It’s very rare we are not able to trace them.” The civic body had held meetings with lab owners asking them to ensure correct contact details are collected and contact tracing forms are also filled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/277-people-with-covid-remain-on-the-loose-in-city/articleshow/76803651.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Coimbatore||CPM seeks to resume bore well work at Valparai||Coimbatore: The CPM has urged the district administration to take steps to resume the bore well construction work at the municipality office in Valparai. Drinking water to Valparai town area is being supplied by the municipality from Akkamalai check dam, which is about 10km away, for a few hours daily. As the town falls under the animal tiger reserve, special permission should be obtained to dig bore wells. “At times, the water supply would be suspended when there is damage in pipelines or the municipal workers carry out repair works. During the summer season, the duration of water supply would be brought down considerably,” secretary of CPM Valparai V Paramasivam said. It has been one of the long pending requests of the public to construct a bore well to tackle the water shortage in the town, he said and added that the bore well construction work, which commenced at Valparai municipality office about a week ago and was stopped abruptly. As the bore well is being constructed for public use, the district administration should take immediate steps to resume the work, he added. Meanwhile, sources privy to the development said that the construction work was stopped after some people raised objection and a final decision was yet to be made. As the rainfall has commenced in the surrounding areas, there is no water shortage in the locality, the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cpm-seeks-to-resume-bore-well-work-at-valparai/articleshow/76804119.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board’s floodplain water storage project revived||NEW DELHI: With the Yamuna expected to swell in the coming days owing to the monsoon, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has decided to revive the project to create a sub-surface reservoir on the river’s floodplain at Palla to store excess water. This will help raise the groundwater level, apart from meeting the shortage of water during the lean summer months. The second edition of the project is being implemented over 35-40 acres and silt traps are currently being created on a war footing, a senior DJB official said. The project is expected to cost about Rs 8 crore. The aim of the project is to create a sandy recharge bed to allow floodwater to be arrested for 4-5 hours. This water will then seep underground up to 50 metres. Last year, the excavation work was carried out over 17.6 acres wherein 1.5m shallow pits were made near Sungurpur. Research findings showed that the project was able to recharge 923.9 million litres of water with the average rise in groundwater being 1-1.3 metres. In the long run, DJB plans to create a 1,000-acre recharge pond to store excess water for use during the lean period in summer when the city faces an acute shortage. A senior official associated with the project said, “Central Pollution Control Board and Central Ground Water Board agreed with our findings, but asked us to repeat the process as data of just one year was too small for a study. Therefore, we are repeating the process again on a wider scale.” “The digging work has started and we expect to cover the complete project area in time. Last year, the entire area could not be covered due to floods. We are making silt traps and erosion prevention features this time,” the official added. The fate of the project was uncertain for some time as the Delhi government finance department had issued a circular that no additional expenses would be made till June 30 in the wake of the corona-induced economic slowdown. In the pilot project last year, piezometer readings indicated that the flow of groundwater was towards the city, which allayed the fears that water would seep back into the river. The study observed a percolation rate of 85-95 mm/hr, which was favourable for groundwater recharge. However, some challenges were also highlighted. “Removal of silt from the recharge pond will be essential. It will also be unmanageable to control silt during high floods. Some good materials for construction of embankments need to be brought from suitable areas,” DJB’s research findings recommended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/djbs-floodplain-water-storage-project-revived/articleshow/76823092.cms||Paras Singh
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||160 Covid localities, 23 with super spreaders, 56 have only 1 patient||NAGPUR: In the 117 days since the district registered its first case of Covid-19, patients have been registered from 160 localities in the district. A single case has been recorded from 56 localities while 23 have seen super spreader patients giving rise to multiple cases, and remaining 81 areas witnessed between 1 and 9 cases. The number of corona positives is on the surge, with the district tally being 1,768 on Sunday. As per data from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and zilla parishad (ZP), cases were registered from 112 localities in the city and 48 in Nagpur Rural, for a total of 160 localities as on Sunday. The cases, and number of affected localities, have increased since easing of lockdown from June 1. From 16 cases in March, there have been 122 in April, 403 in May and 964 in June. July has seen 263 cases in just the first five days. As per ministry of health and family welfare, a patient who has spread the novel coronavirus to at least 10 or more contacts is a ‘super spreader’. Data from NMC and ZP shows 23 super spreaders, of which 17 are in city and 6 in Nagpur Rural. In city, super spreaders started from Satranjipura and followed by Takia Deewanshah at Mominpura, Gaddigodam and Naik Talao-Bangladesh. Then, super spreader were registered from Ganeshpeth, Chandramani Nagar, Timki, Golibar Chowk, Hansapuri, Khadan, Bhoipura, Sweeper Colony at Shanti Nagar, Tandapeth, Minimata Nagar and Lashkaribagh. Central Jail and Zingabai Takli have witnessed latest cases of super spreaders. In Nagpur Rural, super spreaders were registered from Chinchbhuvan in Kalmeshwar tehsil, Digdoh, Nildoh, Isasani, Wanadongri and SRPF in Hingna tehsil. At the same time, the district registered 61 cases which were single, and did not infect any family members or contacts from their localities. Of total 61, 38 are from city and 23 from Nagpur Rural. In city, all ten zones have registered Covid-19 cases. In Nagpur Rural, 10 of the 13 tehsils have recorded cases. Three tehsils — Bhiwapur, Mauda and Kuhi — have not registered a single case in last 117 days. In city, Mominpura and Naik Talao-Bangladesh have had the highest number of cases at 393 and 367 respectively. Satranjipura and Central Jail have recorded over 100 cases each. Areas with over 20 cases are Sweeper Colony at Shanti Nagar (44), Chandramani Nagar (34), Gaddigodam (24) and Zingabai Takli (23). In Nagpur Rural, Nildoh in Hingna tehsil has the highest cases at 49 followed by Kamptee cantonment area 32, and SRPF Colony and Digdoh at 14 each. Authorities and experts in medical field had predicted rise in cases in July with beginning of commercial and other activities. They said only way cases can be controlled would be if all realize their responsibility and follow Covid-19 guidelines of wearing mask when going out, no spitting in public places, report to nearest health centre in case of any symptoms, ensure washing of hands, and regular sanitization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/160-covid-localities-23-with-super-spreaders-56-have-only-1-patient/articleshow/76804129.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Ganesh Mahotsav to be a low-key affair this year||Ludhiana: This year it will be a disappointing affair for the devotees who wanted to celebrate Ganesha Mahotsav on a large scale as due to Covid-19 the organisers of these events are in a dilemma whether they should go ahead or not. Usually preparations start at least three months before the event, but this time nothing could be done as social gatherings are banned and in these religious events usually it remains very crowded. The organisers have made up their mind not to organise mahotsav in pandals and rather go ahead with simple rituals by bringing Ganesha idols at home. The mahotsav is starting from August 22 till 31 this year. In Mumbai too, Ganesha Mahotsav is one of the biggest festival and even there it has been dropped this year as in Maharashtra the number of Covid-19 cases are not coming down. However, in the city there are many organisations, apart from temples, which organise Ganesha Mahotsav on a grand level and for almost 10 days it is like a grand celebrations which ends with a grand immersion ceremony. Honey Bedi from Baba Ganpati Sewa Sangh said, “We were the ones who introduced this culture of celebrating Ganesha Mahotsav here in Ludhiana and had never brought a Ganesha idol even once at my house. But this year due to coronavirus as there are bleak chances of celebration on a grand level, so, this time I am planning to bring Ganesha at my house.” He said he is also planning to spend the collected amount on some noble cause. He said every year artists come from Odisha for preparing 108 idols for various temples and organizations but this time they did not even call those artists yet. Kumar Gaurav, one of the organisers of Ganesh Sewa Parivar, said, “We cannot take risk by organising it on a grand level this year and moreover, usually we start palki yatra three months in advance, which could not be done this time.” He said he was planning to keep Ganpati at home for 10 days and worship him as per rituals but the idol will be small. Gaurav said people could take blessings at his home. “On the last day before immersion we will organise a kirtan on a small level as we do not want to end the tradition of celebrating this festival,” he added. Meanwhile, a devotee, Kanchan Sharma, said, “For almost the past 10 years I have been visiting a pandal near my house in Haibowal, where it is celebrated at three locations on a grand level. So, it will be disappointing but at this time it is advisable to avoid gatherings if we have to control Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ganesh-mahotsav-to-be-a-low-key-affair-this-year/articleshow/76803661.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Two siblings die in Gurupura landslide, 4 houses destroyed||MANGALURU: A teenager and a child, who were siblings, were buried alive, and four houses were destroyed, and several houses were severely damaged, due to a massive landslide in Banglagudde, Gurupura, on Sunday afternoon. After four hours of continuous operations by the NDRF, the bodies of Safwan, 16, and Sahla,10, residents of Tarakariya in Gurupura, were removed from the debris. According to police, several relatives, including the deceased, had come to the house of Mohammed, a truck driver. Around 1.10pm, all the relatives were out in the front yard discussing constructing a small water channel, when all of a sudden, a hillock collapsed. At that time, the deceased were sleeping inside Mohammed’s house and got trapped, while others managed to save themselves. The father of the deceased, Sharif, is a daily wage labourer. Soon after Mohammed’s house was destroyed, another house situated adjacent to it also collapsed, but the occupants had safely evacuated themselves by then. Several vehicles too have been damaged in the incident. Police added that a total of four houses have been destroyed due to the landslide, and 20 houses are on the verge of collapse. All the residents have been given shelter at government schools in and around Gurupura, and some have moved to their neighbours’ houses. “The other houses may collapse any time,” said a police officer. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa has announced ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh for each deceased, which will be given to their family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/two-siblings-die-in-gurupura-landslide-4-houses-destroyed/articleshow/76802945.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Shravan month starts, temples gear up for devotee rush||LUDHIANA: Amid the increasing cases of coronavirus in the industrial town, it will be a challenge for the city people as Shravan month has kicked off and Monday will be an auspicious day to visit Shiva temples for seeking His blessings. This Monday will be the first fast of Shravan month and many devotees observe fast on Mondays of Shravan month. The organisers in the temples, however, claimed that they had made the required arrangements for maintaining social distancing and other safety measures. Mahant Narayan Das Puri from Sanglanwala Shivala temple said, “We have enough space to make queues in the temple and at one time not many people will be allowed to pray beside the Shivling. There will be regular monitoring of temperature of devotees coming to the temple and hand sanitisers are available on the premises.” He said they would take care of all necessary precautions for avoiding any problem. Meanwhile, Om Parkash Goswami from Shakteshwar Mahadev Ashram said, “There will be no problem in maintaining social distancing in the temple as we are aware of the ongoing disease and its effects. The devotees will be asked to ensure that there should not be any jostling for doing rituals but Mondays in Shravan month are very auspicious and people want to pay obeisance to Lord Shiva.” He said they would pray to Lord Shiva that coronavirus should come to end this month and humanity should get relief. A devotee, Shradha, who resides in Civil City, said, “I observe fast on Mondays in this month as I have firm belief that Lord Shiva fulfils every wish. Lord Shiva had given a promise that he will fulfil wishes of female devotees who will observe fast in this month on Monday as these five Mondays are equal to 16 Mondays.” She said she will go to the temple in her colony but will also keep in mind the precautions which needs to be followed. Gurupurnima celebrations The residents observed Gurupurnima on Sunday while in many temples it was celebrated. Earlier in the day, devotees visit Haridwar for taking a dip in the Ganges but now due to Covid-19 it could not take place on a grand scale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/shravan-month-starts-temples-gear-up-for-devotee-rush/articleshow/76803668.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Upset rural government school teachers set up exclusive association||HUBBALLI: Frustrated with what they deem ‘step-motherly’ treatment, teachers of government primary schools in rural areas across the state have decided to strike out on their own, forming the Karnataka Government Rural Primary School Teachers’ Association (KGRSPTA), which will be the voice of their cause henceforth. The teachers of government schools in rural areas have launched the new outfit owing to what they allege is the partisan attitude of the Karnataka State Primary School Teachers’ Association (KSPTA) towards those working in the urban areas. President of the newly formed KGRSPTA Ashok Sajjan pointed out that the tenure of the officebearers of the KSPTA was five years. “The term of the incumbent administrators ended on December 17, 2019, but it was extended by another six months. The extended tenure ended on June 17. Now, considering we are in the midst of the Covid-19 crisis, elections to the body cannot be held now. So, what we want is for the executive committee to be dissolved immediately. Officebearers of the association at the taluk and district level must be barred from communicating in an official capacity with the government,” Sajjan told TOI. Pavadeepa Kambale and LL Lakkammanavar, also teachers of government schools in villages, called on the government not to deduct Rs 200, which went towards membership fee of KSPTA, from their monthly salary. “The list of voters for the KSPTA elections must be drawn up according to the members’ list that existed in December 2019. Else, it will be unfair to the rural teachers, who constitute 85% of the members in the association,” they said. Sharanappagouda RK, Mallikarjun Uppin and SF Patil are among the rural teachers who have written to the chief minister, primary and secondary education minister, seeking speedy appointment of administrators to KSPTA. General secretary of KSPTA Chandru Nugli admitted that the tenure of the incumbent executive committee of the association had ended. “We have sought permission to hold elections to the body. But all elections have been postponed in Karnataka. We have already passed a resolution on conducting an election as and when the government permits,” Nugli added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/upset-rural-govt-school-teachers-set-up-exclusive-association/articleshow/76802946.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 cases spike by 1,100 in western TN in one week||At least 128 people were tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the western Tamil Nadu that comprises eight districts, taking the total number of cases in the region to 2,979. As was the trend over the past few days, Salem reported the highest number of new cases at 50, which included nine imported cases, followed by Erode and Coimbatore which reported 26 and 23 cases, respectively. Other districts in the region offered a solace by reporting only single digit cases. While Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri had nine cases each, Tirupur reported six fresh cases, breaching the 200-mark to record a total of 204 cases. Namakkal and Nilgiris districts had four and one added to their count, respectively. In a week’s time, the eight districts have added more than 1,100 cases. On June 28, the western districts had a total of 1,791 cases. As the days progressed, new cases started coming up in scores, particularly in Salem and Coimbatore. Within a week, Salem and Coimbatore almost doubled their Covid counts. However, health officials said the situation in western districts was much better than the rest of Tamil Nadu. While northern districts were going the Chennai way, recording dozens of cases daily since May, southern Tamil Nadu had joined the race in June, reporting a huge spike. Compared to the districts in north, south or central Tamil Nadu, the surge is far less in western Tamil Nadu, officials said. In fact, of the nine districts that had only single digit fresh cases on Sunday, five were in the western zone, where cases dropped from Saturday’s 174 to 128. Health officials are keeping their fingers crossed. “We are not sure if the numbers would come down immediately. But we have tightened the borders to prevent sneaking in of people, intensified testing and tracing efforts. So, we hope we could control the surge in due course,” said a health officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-cases-spike-by-1100-in-western-tn-in-one-week/articleshow/76804138.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||E-bus project: Kerala government ignored observations of task force||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Casting further aspersions on the e-bus deal, documents show that the government had decided to go ahead with purchase of 3,000 electric buses from Swiss company HESS AG, ignoring the opinion of state-level task force on e-mobility constituted by the state government. As per minutes of the first meeting of the task force chaired by Ashok Jhunjhunwala, principal adviser to Union railway minister, here on December 16, 2017, accessed by TOI, e-bus efforts of the state would be watched closely by the world as there are actually no real models available in the world for study and adoption. “The e-bus has been deployed mainly in China only and the rest of the efforts are tentative pilot programs. There are no clear-cut deployment models available for study and adoption,” the minutes said. Despite this, the government is going ahead with manufacture and purchase of 3,000 electric buses from the company at a cost of around Rs 6,000 crore. Interestingly, even when the government claims that no other bidder except HESS came up when it floated a tender, the minutes of the task force meeting mentions that discussions have been initiated with leading entities in the field like the Olectra-BYD buses that are already manufacturing electric buses in the country. Government sources said that when the government is going through a severe financial strain, purchasing 3,000 buses at a cost approximately one fourth of the state’s total Plan outlay for the ongoing financial year would be suicidal. Meanwhile, an office memorandum from ministry of external affairs (MEA) reinforces that the government had zeroed in on HESS to partner with Kerala Automobiles Ltd (KAL) for manufacturing and purchasing of e-buses. In a reply from Smita Patil, under secretary (states), to principal secretary (transport) K R Jyothilal, she said that the ministry has no objection from political angle towards signing the MoU between HESS and Kerala government for the assembly and manufacture of e-buses in the state. However, MEA laid a condition that MoUs or agreements should be between KAL and HESS and the state government should not be a party to it. The transport secretary had written to the Centre on July 4 last year seeking permission for going ahead with the joint initiative with HESS, and the reply was received on July 22. State government’s dealings with HESS began in 2018. As per a note on November 30, 2018, in the file in this regard (number 191/B2/2018/Trans), after HESS evinced interest in investing in e-bus manufacturing in the state, a team from HESS visited KSRTC, KAL and Kerala Electricals Ltd and held discussions with top government officials. The transport secretary recommended in the note that HESS submitted an MoU for a joint venture with the state and this would be helpful for implementing the electric vehicle policy of the state government. This note was endorsed by transport minister A K Saseendran, industries minister E P Jayarajan and finally by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/e-bus-project-govt-ignored-observations-of-task-force/articleshow/76802954.cms||K P Sai Kiran
July 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Seven members from mayor’s family catch the coronavirus||PUNE: A day after mayor Murlidhar Mohol was confirmed as a Covid-19 patient, seven persons from his family also came down with the virus, testing positive on Sunday. Eight family members were tested. “The tests for the high risk and those in close contact were carried out immediately. These included family members. The low-risk contacts, such as PMC officals, who attended the meeting chaired by the mayor will be tested soon,” Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said on Sunday. He said the protocols set by the government and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) are being followed.  “The low-risk contacts may show symptoms after four to five days. So, we will have to wait for a couple of days to conduct these tests of our officials who have met mayor in person,” he said. The tests of senior officials, health department officials will be conducted. “I too was present with the mayor for a meeting held under the chairmanship of the guardian minister. I will also take the test,” Gaikwad added. Since the outbreak of the virus in the city, Mohol has been active in mitigation measures. He visited health facilities, hospitals and quarantine centres. He has also participated in the delegations that went to containment areas, Naidu Hospital and Covid care centres. He also took up nCoV relief measures and drives carried out by social organisations. Meanwhile, Mohol took to Twitter to declare that he was a Covid-19 patient. “I felt feverish. So I conducted my Covid-19 test. It has come positive,” read the tweet. The communication has been shared on a mayor office’s media WhatsApp group. It added, “I am stable. I will join the mitigation service after recovering fully. I will be in touch with all the authorities and keep taking a review of the works.” "Mohol is recovering and responding to treatment," said a doctor from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital where he is undergoing treatment. Mohol had attended a review meeting of the pandemic on Friday which was chaired by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. He was also present at another meeting a few days ago where NCP leader Sharad Pawar, home minister Anil Deshmukh and health minister Rajesh Tope were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-members-from-mayors-family-catch-the-virus/articleshow/76804125.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur encounter: Will send back cops in coffins, Dubey had told gang||KANPUR: The pre-dawn encounter of an aide of the elusive gangster Vikas Dubey and his confessions to police during interrogation have blown the lid off moles in the police machinery, who tipped off the don about the midnight raid and even called Chaubeypur power station to enforce a blackout in the village, just 10 minutes before the police party walked into the ambush in pitch darkness. Dubey’s lieutenant Dayashankar Agnihotri was nabbed after a brief exchange of fire with police on the outskirts of Kanpur early Sunday. In a video, widely shared on social media, Agnihotri is heard admitting to STF personnel that Vikas received a call on his mobile from the local police station about the impending raid, allowing the gangster enough time to mobilise 60 men, position snipers on rooftops and launch a guerrilla-style strike on the police team. “At around 8 pm on Thursday, Dubey received a call from the Chaubeypur thana about his imminent arrest and movement of three police teams in next five hours,” said Agnihotri. He also said, after receiving the tipoff, the don ordered his gang to pull up their bootstraps and get ready for battle, while swearing “let the police come, they will go home in their coffins.” He, however, could not divulge information on who assisted the don in hammering out the ambush plan in his fortified palace, saying he was not present in the master control room of the house. To a query on how Dubey managed to kill so many of policemen, he said, “The gang members were trained and well-equipped with arms and ammunition and had taken up position at rooftops.” Agnihotri also told investigators that only villagers or panchayat members had access to Vikas’ fortified house in Bikru village. “He would meet outsiders at an orchard in the village outskirts,” he said. Inspector General (IG), Kanpur Range, Mohit Agarwal told reporters that the entire staff of Chaubeypur police station was on the radar. “The way Dubey and his aides were aware of minutest details of police movement points to moles in the force.” STF procured call detail report (CDR) of all cops deployed at Chaubeypur police station. A sub-inspector, a constable and a home guard from Chaubeypur police station are being investigated. “If guilty, they will be sacked and jailed,” the IG said. Police have also taken into custody the sub-divisional officer and another employee of the power sub-station from where power was snapped at the time of the police raid in Bikru village. A line operator at Shivli power station, Chhatrapal Singh confessed to police about enforcing the blackout on instructions of a caller from Chaubeypur police station, buttressing the conspiracy angle. Watch Kanpur encounter: Cop informed Vikas Dubey about police team, says associate||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dons-aide-nabbed-in-encounter-blows-the-lid-off-police-moles-will-sent-police-back-in-coffins-dubey-told-gang-after-tipoff/articleshow/76803990.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 6, 2020||Vadodara||Man who duped over 150 citizens arrested by SOG||Vadodara: The special operations group (SOG) arrested a fly-by-night Ponzi scheme operator who duped over 150 persons in 2018 of nearly Rs2.5 crore before vanishing from the city. Accused Hasan Khan Pathan was nabbed on Saturday when he came to meet his wife at their home in Navayard area of the city. According to the police, Pathan had started an office in a posh building on Dabhoi Road in 2017. He offered lucrative financial schemes to people and offered two times returns on their investment. Pathan told his victims that he would trade in bitcoins and double their money in 100 days. Many citizens fell for his offer and invested money in his firm. When the investors found that his office was locked in 2018, they tried to contact him but soon realized that they have been duped. They lodged a complaint of cheating at the crime branch police station. SOG police inspector, M R Solanki said that Pathan had been staying in Thailand and Indonesia for the past two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-who-duped-over-150-citizens-arrested-by-sog/articleshow/76802652.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Pune||Case surge may cause Khadki Bazaar closure||Pune: Khadki Cantonment Board chief executive officer Pramod Kumar Singh said on Sunday that the authorities may have to opt for complete closure of the Khadki bazaar area for a week if there was no effective check on the surge in Covid cases.Over 40 fresh cases have been recorded in the bazaar area in last four days alone, prompting the KCB to call an urgent board meet to assess the situation. “Elected members are not in favour of closure of the bazaar, arguing that it has reopened only recently. For now, we have created eight micro-containment zones in the area. Total closure would be an option if the situation does not get better,” said Singh. He said, “Many shopkeepers in the bazaar have been violating social distancing norms, disregarding our instructions. We pointed this out to the elected members.” Khadki cantonment has recorded a total of 218 cases ever since the outbreak in March. Of these, 131 patients have been discharged after recovery, 11 have succumbed to the contagion and 76 are still under treatment.Last month, there was a surge of cases in the Range hills and Sapras areas. “The condition of these localities have improved as we managed to trace the patients and their close contacts. But, the bazaar area is densely populated and is riddled with small lanes and bylanes. Till date, creating micro-containment zones has not proven to be effective here,” said Singh. Elected members of the board, however, said the traders and shopkeepers have been reeling from huge financial losses due to the bazaar’s closure for the past three month and it would not be appropriate to close the market again. A KCB health department official said, “The board’s hospital has a capacity of only 60 beds and it has sought help from the Pune Cantonment Board to admit their patients in case of an emergency. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/case-surge-may-cause-khadki-bazaar-closure/articleshow/76804140.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Health dept faces challenge of pregnant women testing positive||Ludhiana: As 20 pregnant women have tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana district, it has posed a challenge to the authorities concerned to ensure a check on such cases. Meanwhile, health department officials said they had been creating awareness among pregnant women and their family members to follow the guidelines. As per the data of the health department, 20 pregnant woman tested positive for Covid-19 from June 10 to July 4. Of these, 19 are from various parts of Ludhiana district and one is from Amloh in Fatehgarh Sahib district. The data suggests 11 of these cases were reported between June 10 and June 25, whereas nine cases were reported between June 25 to July 4. It suggested that four cases were reported between July 1 and 4. The health department officials said the department was taking on the challenge and was creating awareness among the people, including pregnant women about the ways to prevent the disease. Senior medical officer (SMO), Khanna civil hospital, Dr Rajinder Gulati said that they had been making the people aware about social distancing, wearing of masks, frequent washing of hands, etc. He added that the same precautions apply to pregnant woman and their family members. Experts say that there are multiple reasons for more number of Covid cases among pregnant women. City-based gynecologist Dr Vaneet Kaur said like the other population was getting infected with coronavirus, more pregnant women are also testing positive. She added that there were two reasons for it, one is that the detection rate of such women was more as their test was being done at the time of delivery and the second reason was that there immunity was slightly less as compared to other women. Dr Vaneet said that they advise pregnant women to not go out of home unless there is an emergency. She added that they were being advised to come for check up with a single attendant instead of multiple ones. box: Covid case count June 11: 27-year-old pregnant woman from New Janta Nagar June 12: 22-year-old pregnant woman from New Shakti Nagar June 18: 20-year-old pregnant woman from Jamalpur June 25: 21-year-old pregnant woman of Habib Ganj June 28: 20-year-old pregnant woman of Islam Ganj June 29: 26-year-old pregnant woman of Jamalpur June 30: 34-year-old pregnant woman of Bhamian Kalan July 1: 24-year-old pregnant woman of Dhillon Nagar July 3: 29-year-old pregnant woman of Doraha  July 4: 29-year-old pregnant woman of Janakpuri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/health-dept-faces-challenge-of-pregnant-women-testing-positive/articleshow/76803672.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||CA Foundation exams deferred till November||Ahmedabad: The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) has deferred all exams including the one for the CA Foundation and decided to merge them with the exams that are scheduled in November.The normal schedule for exams for CA Foundation course was in May, but ICAI had postponed it till July. Now looking at the aggravating Covid-19 pandemic, all the exams have been postponed till November. Those students who were expected to take exams in May will not have to pay registration fee in November. However, the students will be required to apply afresh for exams in November and they could opt for exam centre once again.The exams for foundation, intermediate and final were scheduled in May. The tests were first deferred till June and later again for one more month. At present, the Centre has ordered to close all education institutes till July 31. This practically put an end to possibility of holding exams in July. There are nearly 3 lakh students who take CA exams every year across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ca-foundation-exams-deferred-till-november/articleshow/76791468.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Patient count rises to 608 in Bidhannagar civic area||KOLKATA: The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is reeling under a massive spike of Covid-19 cases. From 480 cases on June 30, the figure crossed the 600 mark on Sunday, coming to 608 now with 29 cases being reported on Sunday. In the last week, Covid cases increased across Salt Lake and Rajarhat with a daily average of around 25 cases. Multiple Covid cases are now getting reported in a single block or locality in Salt Lake and Rajarhat, with many from the same family getting infected. As per the new protocol, houses from where Covid cases are reported are being declared as single-isolation units. If residents from multiple houses on a street or lane gets affected, the entire stretch of the street or lane, including the non-affected buildings, may be considered as a ‘containment zone’ for 14 days. Many residents now fear visiting the markets and are opting for vendors to deliver items at home. “I have stopped going to the markets and opted for home delivery of essentials and groceries,” said Kaushik Dasgupta, a resident of AL Block. Shyamal Kanti Roy, secretary of Bidhannagar Kendriya Bazar Byabosayee Samity, said a few markets in Salt Lake were yet to be sanitized. “We want all market complexes in Bidhannagar to be sanitized at least once a week,” he said. Civic officials said conservancy and health workers, along with councillors, were conducting sanitization drives, hosting health camps and keeping contact with the Covid-affected families for any kind of help. Officials said that home quarantine arrangements are being done for people coming from outside. Mayor Krishna Chakraborty assured that all precautionary measures were being taken and urged people to follow safety guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/patient-count-rises-to-608-in-bidhannagar-civic-area/articleshow/76803676.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Don’t need Jose K Mani faction’s help to retain power, says CPI||THIRUVNANATHAPURAM: CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran is continuing his tirade against the CPM move for truck with Kerala Congress faction led by Jose K Mani which has drifted away from the UDF. He made it clear that the LDF does not need the support of Mani faction to come back to power. “Has Jose K Mani left the UDF? This party is negotiating with all the three fronts,” the CPI leader said. The LDF is all set to achieve a second term and the LDF should not do anything that would weaken such a favourable political situation, he added. When Veerendra Kumar’s Lokatantric Janata Party came to the LDF, they had renounced all posts they had secured with the help of UDF, including the Rajya Sabha seat. Mani faction leaders are now functioning as MPs of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance. “Let them also surrender these posts and then we will think of it,” Kanam said. There is no difficulty for the LDF to come back to power again. If the LDF wants to strengthen the front, then it should align with democratic and political parties having a mass base. If UDF disintegrates it will benefit the LDF. But that doesn’t mean that the LDF should keep the doors open to all those leaving UDF, he said. Kanam had earlier flayed CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s statement that the Mani faction had a mass base. Kanam had said this party’s mass base became evident when their candidate lost the Pala by-elections in 2019. While commenting on Kodiyeri’s statement that no party would be a force to reckon with if it fought alone, Kanam said, “Who said the CPM had fought the 1965 elections alone. It will be good if Kodiyeri could read the 1965 history once again. The CPM fought by tying up with other parties, including the Muslim League. It will be pointless to claim they fought the polls alone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dont-need-mani-factions-help-to-retain-power-cpi/articleshow/76802982.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Politics being played on Covid-19 issue as well’||Known as a maverick leader who has been taking on those in power for their improper handling of any issue, Lok Insaf Party (LIP) chief and MLA Atam Nagar Simarjit Singh Bains has been criticising the state government for not addressing the Covid-19 related issue properly. He talks to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on various issues related to the Covid-19 related scenario in Ludhiana and the state as a whole. Q:How do you see the current scenario? A: No doubt, Covid-19 is a disease but politics is being played on this issue as well. There are incumbent Prime Ministers and chief ministers from India to the USA who are using the present crisis to return to power. If the opposition leaders here speaks on such an issue, cases are registered against them to silence them. In Punjab, they speak of ensuring social distancing but there is a complete opposite picture in buses, 80% of which are of Badals. Is there no impact of no social distancing there? Besides, labour in lakhs is stuck in Arab countries. With our efforts, 116 such persons returned to the state recently. But is not my purview and its the state government’s and the CM’s responsibility to bring back lakhs of Punjabis stuck there. He (CM) is under self quarantine. He should appoint a deputy CM to tackle this issue and take the matter with the ministries concerned to bring them home. Elderly person are roaming around and the CM is holding only video conferencing. If those ruling step up action, then the administration will work. Ludhiana scenario is no different. No one came to listen to the Hazur Sahib pilgrims who returned. We made effort to take care of them. Q: How do you rate the government’s handling of the Covid scenario? A: On one side the state government is talking of Mission Fateh and on other hand, the health minister is saying that a lockdown can be imposed again. Since there is no vaccine or medicine for the disease, it is important to have strong immunity. I told Ludhiana DC and special principal secretary Suresh Kumar that why they are not implementing the central government’s ayurvedic scheme, which is free of cost. This speaks of the sincerity of the government. They are giving ration to few, getting pictures clicked and even those ration bags have the chief minister’s picture. Q: What should be done under the present circumstances? A: People are being pushed into quarantine centres like chicken. Those returning from Arab countries had to pay four times the cost of the ticket even as they hadn’t got salaries for months. They are paying Rs 500 or more per day in such quarantine centres. They should be home quarantined as I think that they can improve immunity there. So far, as other people are concerned, Punjab government should start that central government free ayurvedic remedy scheme in the state. Q: What about the migrant workers issue? A: If people from Punjab are coming from outside, then what is wrong if they (migrants) also wanted to go to their native places to meet their families. Not sending them would have been human rights violation and we cannot make them bonded labourers. Now, industrialists are getting calls from them to bring them back. With the help of employers, they are coming and 50% industrial activity has already been restored. I just want to ask the government where are the orders to waive power bills which they had announced during the curfew/lockdown. Q: How do you see the government handling of school fee issue? A: They had announced that no fee will be charged from students but in the Punjab and Haryana high court they gave a weak reply to favour schools and go against parents of the students. They have a nexus with educational institutes and take donation from them. So to protect their interest, they gave a weak reply, which was against the facts. Q: What is the way ahead to check the spurt of cases? A: I think testing kits of same company give different results in two different hospitals and even the company making those agrees that those are not 100% accurate. We should follow the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs and ministry of health, so that a lot of such cases can be checked by having powerful immunity. Precautionary measures should be taken like social distancing and masks also should be worn. Q: How do you rate your role during this whole crisis? A: I think LIP volunteers and teams were the only ones to rise to the occasion and encouraged those with disease and suspects as well. Our volunteers provided electric kettles, nebulisers, fruits and food, etc. to them. Daily our teams go to see them at the civil hospital, Mother and Child Hospital in Jamalpur, Meritorious School and PAU quarantine centres. We fulfilled our duty towards humanity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/politics-being-played-on-covid-19-issue-as-well/articleshow/76803684.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Delhi||Covid Care facility with 10,000 beds starts functioning with 21 patients in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre and Hospital, Delhi’s biggest health facility for novel coronavirus-infected people, became operational at Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Chhatarpur on Sunday with 21 patients. The 10,000-bed facility, built in 10 days under the direct supervision of the Union home ministry, was inaugurated by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal. The patients who were admitted included both men and women in the age group of 20-50 years. Officials said a few of them even had minor comorbidities. The facility, set up by the South Delhi district administration, will function as an isolation centre for mild and asymptomatic Covid patients, with 10% of the beds having an oxygen facility in case anybody develops severe breathlessness and requires tertiary hospital care. After inaugurating the centre, Baijal tweeted, “Reviewed with agencies concerned availability of facilities like beds, oxygen cylinders/concentrators, ventilator, ICU and medical staff. Advised to keep special focus on severely ill patients & if required, shift them to dedicated Covid hospitals. Instructed SDMC to ensure cleanliness & sanitation at the centre. Management of Covid centre by ITBP is greatly appreciated.” Initially, 2,000 beds with ITBP’s 170 doctors and specialists and more than 700 nurses and paramedics have been made operational. The centre has been linked to Deen Dayal Upadhyay and Madan Mohan Malviya hospitals while Lok Nayank and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospitals have been linked as referral tertiary care facilities. To manage 10,000 beds in a single campus, the e-Hospital software of National Informatics Centre is being used to manage all medical operations, right from admission to treatment, investigation, progress, referral and discharge, said district magistrate (south) B M Mishra. “The patients will be admitted from all over Delhi through respective district surveillance officers.” The basic infrastructure, said an official, such as beds, mattresses and linens have been donated by various civil society and non-governmental organisations. A recreational centre for patients has a library, board games and skipping ropes. The patients will be provided five meals a day along with immunity boosting juices and hot kadha. A team of Sulabh International is likely to visit the centre on Monday to explore the facility for placing more hygienic toilet blocks. The BSES disocm, which completed electrification work in a record time, has stationed a huge team to ensure round-the-clock power supply at the facility. “Twenty-two kilometres of underground cables and 24 transformers have been laid to power the centre, which has a load of 23,000kW,” said an official. Watch Delhi: Covid Care facility with 10,000 beds starts functioning||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10000-bed-facility-starts-functioning-with-21-patients/articleshow/76804158.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE, Facebook tie-up to help students fight fake news, cyber bullying||NAGPUR: From fake news to cyber bullying, CBSE students and teachers will learn skills to deal with cyber issues thanks to a partnership between the board and Facebook. A free online course for both teachers and students will equip them with digital safety tools, as there is a sharp increase in the time spent online nowadays due to the lockdown. Facebook will be providing training through two sets of courses. First will be for digital safety called Digital Safety and Well-Being, and Instagram Toolkit for Teens: Building Healthy Digital Habits’. The second course will be on Augmented Reality, and for now it is open only for teachers. Registration for the courses will continue till July 20 and those interested can reach out to their schools for more details. The digital safety course will start on August 6 while the one on AR/VR will start from August 10. Information provided by Facebook For Education, the platform through which the courses will be run, said the digital safety toolkit course will equip students to navigate the cyber environment in a safer manner. During the course students will learn about misinformation and accountability, especially in the midst of the pandemic, and how misinformation contributes to the spread of panic and anxiety. The programme will help students differentiate between various kinds of information available on digital platforms and explore options available to identity misinformation, report and reduce its spread. The programme details also mention that students will learn how to identify and respond to threats and harassment, and the tools with which they can empower themselves to stay safe and secure online. In the first phase, the course on AR/VR will be limited to 10,000 teachers whereas for the second course schools have to send requests for batches to attend the virtual training. In the second phase, CBSE will allow almost 30,000 participants for the AR/VR course too. Once schools have nominated their students and teachers for the training, CBSE will allot ‘virtual seats’. The central board will shortlist participants and make the list public on its website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbse-facebook-tie-up-to-help-students-fight-fake-news-cyber-bullying/articleshow/76804156.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Beniks was soft-spoken and gentle, recall his collegemates in Pollachi||COIMBATORE: Days after the custodial torture and death of Beniks, his collegemates in Pollachi on Sunday recalled that he was a taciturn person, with a helping mentality. Beniks had done his postgraduate studies at a private college in Pollachi. His friends are planning to visit his family at Sathankulam in Thoothukudi district and console them. Beniks had done master’s in social work at Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja College at Thippampatti in Pollachi in 2009-2011. His sudden death has left his classmates in deep grief. P Manoranjitham, of Pattiyagoundanur near Pollachi, said Beniks used to be very calm and studious. “I haven’t seen him angry during the college days. Once he acted in a drama when our department organized a social work training camp at Kanjampatti village near Pollachi. His character was called Paulpandi and he acted well. He had won the hearts of villagers during the camp.” Recalling that there was a fight in the college during one of the Pongal celebrations, Manoranjitham said it was the timely intervention of Beniks that facilitated the release of students who were picked up by police for inquiry. “A few students were picked up by Pollachi police for inquiry. Bennix acted swiftly and politely explained everything to police and brought them back to college.” She said his batchmates were grief-stricken over his death. “It was gruesome.” Another classmate G Arun Prasad, a businessman from Negamam, said Beniks hadn’t mingled with anyone in the first six months of joining the college. “He hailed from a poor family and his only objective was to work hard and earn good. He often told us that his parents and sisters were making a lot of sacrifices to educate him, and that he wanted to take care of them.” He said Beniks used to often go to forests along with the classmates. “While returning from Valparai on motorcycles once, we came across a herd of elephants crossing the roads. We were afraid, but Beniks asked us to remain calm and requested us not to disturb the elephants. He knew how to handle a situation.” Around 40 days ago, Arun said, Beniks had called him and chatted for a while. “He told me that his parents were searching for a bride for him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/beniks-was-soft-spoken-and-gentle-recall-his-collegemates-in-pollachi/articleshow/76804157.cms||A Subburaj
July 6, 2020||Coimbatore||360 families to be provided housing units||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu slum clearance board (TNSCB) has identified about 361 families to provide alternative accommodation at its housing units in the city. “The corporation would be demolishing about 245 houses at CMC Colony in South Ukkadam to pave way for the construction of Ukkadam flyover. Thirty-eight houses near Kannapiram Mills bus stop and 78 houses near Sungam Junction, which were constructed illegally on road margins, would also be removed as a part of our encroachment eviction drive,” an official from the TNSCB said. While tokens for alternative accommodation were already distributed to the families at CMC Colony, the procedure to distribute tokens for others is in process, the official said, adding that their houses would be demolished as soon as they shift to the housing units. Explaining that the city corporation is in the process of identifying the encroachers along the Sanganoor Pallam, the official said with the completion of work, most of the encroachments in the city has been identified and removed. more than 5,000 encroachments are removed in the city so far, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/360-families-to-be-provided-housing-units/articleshow/76804167.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Markets take safety steps to fight coronavirus||KOLKATA: With markets emerging as major points of social gatherings even as Covid numbers are on the rise, individual traders are coming forward and shutting down local markets for a few days as a preventive measure. The Kolkata Police, too, has launched several experiments to ensure safety of the traders and buyers across major markets. The local markets are perhaps the best examples of how traders themselves are unwilling to take chances. Reports of fresh Covid infections have led to Bijoygarh Market staying shut for the past few days. Though there are chances of it reopening early next week, the market association said they would take a decision only through consensus. In Behala, a portion of the local market and shops at Unique Park and Manton were shut after reports of Covid deaths. At the Behala Bakultala Market, a day’s disinfection drive led to it being shut for a day. The police, meanwhile, introduced changes in parking and imposed entry restrictions at Posta and Koley Market to ensure social distancing. At Koley Market, only 10 buyers are being allowed in at a time after multiple cases were reported from the area. The parking, too, has been streamlined with no mini trucks being allowed to park near the main entrance. At Posta, truck drivers have been asked to park in the special parking zones near Posta flyover while the local three-wheelers and vans have been asked to park elsewhere. According to an officer, the civic body had asked superintendents of all major municipal markets to ensure that no temporary stalls are allowed on common passages inside markets and the proposal is being worked on. “The virus threat has entered a crucial stage in Kolkata. While we have achieved some success in maintaining basic Covid norms, some private markets are stepping up the efforts to educate buyers,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/markets-take-safety-steps-to-fight-virus/articleshow/76803699.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Oxygen crew: They provide breather to Covid patients at Ahmedabad's Civil Hospital||AHMEDABAD: April and May were unforgettable for all the staff members at Civil Hospital, the biggest Covid treatment facility in Ahmedabad. There, at the peak of the crisis, more than 1,000 patients were getting care. The experience has been particularly extraordinary for medical engineers who had to work with oxygen supply, Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP) and of course ventilators. Bhumi Sankhala, a medical engineer, said that her team lost count of the hours they clocked in. “It was often a blur — from one ward to another and from one floor to the next,” she says. “Somewhere our team member is checking the optimum air pressure at one of the beds while another is gauging the ventilator for an incoming patient.” The medical engineers’ team at Civil Hospital is run on woman power. Of the 18 engineers, 12 are women. They formed the backbone of the emergency services provided at the hospital. “We worked with several technologies and understood their functioning within days,” said Shefali Patel, another engineer. Moving around in PPEs was not easy. “In one instance, our team worked overnight to calibrate new machines,” said Ankita Rathod, a member of the team. Another engineer, Shivani Bhatt, said that as the viral infection primarily affects lungs, maintaining oxygen supply was a crucial duty. “It was truly team work with doctors and nursing staff,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/oxygen-crew-they-provide-breather-to-covid-patients/articleshow/76803700.cms||Parth Shastri
July 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fees payment plaints reach PCMC education department||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The education department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has received more complaints from parents about fees payment in the private schools. In the second week of June, the department had nine complaints which rose to 19 last week. Even though the state government has told schools to adopt a flexible fees approach this year sighting the pandemic situation, private schools reportedly are insisting that fees be paid upfront. The state government on March 30 had told schools to be considerate while demanding fees this academic year. Education minister Varsha Gaikwad had announced that parents can complain if they were told by schools to pay the fees. An official from the education department, on the condition of anonymity said several schools have flouted the state government’s instructions. Parents are being burdened for payment of fees. To avoid any issues with the ward’s academics, some parents comply with the schools’ demands, but not all parents can afford the hefty fees now. Some have been rendered jobless and those with jobs are waiting for the economic sector to begin functioning. The official said when schools are served notices, some did roll back their demands, while others were adamant. A report of such schools will be sent to higher authorities, he added. He added that the parents can lodge complaints to the education department if they come across any kind of extra-ordinary demands from private schools. According to the official, the schools cannot increase the fees or demand upfront payment considering the current pandemic situation and the same has been conveyed by the state government’s education department as well as the corporation’s education department. A TOI report in April said Gaikwad had tweeted a video in March in which she said: “In the backdrop of coronavirus, a government decision has been taken regarding the demand of school fees from parents...If you have a complaint about this, please contact your district education officer. Parents can either sent an email or call. Officials said they are also tracking complaints on social media and have spoken to the schools concerned, and they have agreed to keep fee collection on hold. Another TOI report on May 30 said after appeals from parents, the education department released a list of nodal officers to receive fee related complaints during the Covid-19 lock down. The department had continued to receive several complaints even after their circulars to schools that asked them not to force parents to pay during the lock down or hike fees this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fees-payment-plaints-reach-pcmc-edu-dept/articleshow/76804170.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: MAKAUT committee to decide on fee waiver to ease hardship||KOLKATA: Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (MAKAUT) has formed a committee to look into the ‘financial hardships’ faced by students during Covid and has recommended measures to ease their burden. The panel is considering various scenarios to waive fees. The committee will prepare a report within a fortnight for an ‘appropriate decision’ and ‘action’. MAKAUT is the affiliating university for private engineering, management and professional degree colleges in Bengal. The move comes in the wake of a state higher education department missive on May 30 that urged all universities and colleges to be lenient with students’ fees in view of ‘the prevailing extraordinary difficult circumstances’. While all engineering colleges charge Rs 1,200 as exam fee, most take it in advance. “We have formed a committee to look into the possibility of offering financial relief to students. We are yet to decide if there will be a standard waiver equal for all or criteria will be laid down to restrict the concession to those who need it. It could also be a full fee waiver for all. These are three options that the committee is considering and there will be no fee hike as the government has barred the same,” a senior MAKAUT official said. Other private universities, too, are considering a similar fee waiver. Most have offered a gradual fee payment option and announced that there will be no late charge. Dhrubajyoti Chattopadhyay, VC of Sister Nivedita University, said: “We have allowed every student who approached us with relevant documents to pay fees in three instalments. No late fee has been charged.” The government had advised the state-run varsities to evaluate the terminal semester students based on 80-20 weightage, where 80% weightage would be considered from the best score in previous semesters and 20% will be awarded as per the current semester assessment. MAKAUT has decided that the 20% evaluation will be done based on home projects from the current semester.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/makaut-committee-to-decide-on-fee-waiver-to-ease-hardship/articleshow/76803692.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 6, 2020||Delhi||Rush starts to ease at crematorium for Covid patients only in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With the number of bodies of Covid-19 victims received at the Punjabi Bagh crematorium falling drastically over the past couple of weeks, it may soon start receiving non-Covid bodies too. A decision in this regard is likely to be taken next week, sources said. A civic official said the number of Covid protocol-based dead body processing load has come down from about 60 a day to less than 20 a day at the city's only Covid-exclusive crematorium. It is an encouraging sign of things gradually falling under control, the official added. “During the last five days, a total of 79 bodies have been cremated. This translates to an average of about 16 Covid protocol cremations being conducted daily. While the number varied between 10 and 20 bodies in the last week, Punjabi Bagh, which is the biggest crematorium in West Delhi, hosts as many as 70 traditional wooden pyre platforms and four functional CNG furnaces.” Another south corporation official said that there has been a steady fall in the number of bodies being received at Punjabi Bagh from June 20 onwards. With the number of Covid deaths rising sharply in May and June, Pujabi Bagh was declared to be the first corona exclusive cremation site in the capital on June 8. The facility was receiving about 50 bodies daily at that point of time. Later it also faced a situation wherein the daily cremation capacity was breached and bodies had to be diverted to Nigambodh Ghat and the Lodhi crematorium. “The decision barring non-Covid cremations at the Punjabi Bagh site was taken to prevent crowding and mixing of people who might have come in contact with Covid-19 patients. At present, non-Covid bodies are taken to the facilities at Keshopur, Subhash Nagar or Bindapur Pankha Road,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rush-starts-to-ease-at-crematorium-for-covid-patients-only/articleshow/76804168.cms||Paras Singh
July 6, 2020||Agra||Taj Mahal and other Agra monuments to remain closed||AGRA: While all major historical monuments across the nation are set to open on Monday, Taj Mahal and other world-famous monuments in Agra will not reopen till further orders as they fall in the buffer zone areas outside the containment zone. Issuing an order in this regard, Agra DM Prabhu N Singh said that at present there are 71 active containment zones in the city and Taj Mahal and some other monuments, including Agra Fort, Fatehpur Sikri, Akbar tomb Sikandra, Mariam Tomb Sikandra, Ram Bagh, Itimad-Ud-Daulah tomb and Mehtab Bagh, fall in the buffer zone. Any movement of tourists in these areas could spread coronavirus infection. Referring to the MHA latest unlock 2.0 guidelines, implemented after June 30, the order states that within the buffer zone, restrictions that are considered necessary may continue by the district authorities. According to officials, though Agra has more or less controlled the spread of Covid-19 in the city for now with only 3 percent of total tested samples turning out positive, the situation continues to be bad in Delhi and NCR from where a rush of tourists is expected. “We expect crowds only from NCR and Delhi as trains and flights from other places remain suspended and this could prove a threat to the city,” said a senior official. The union ministry of culture had last week announced reopening of ASI protected properties from July 6 with SOPs and safeguards in place. The Archeological Survey of India (ASI) has, however, made all arrangements to follow social distancing norms by making circles outside the monuments in Agra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/taj-mahal-and-other-agra-monuments-to-remain-closed/articleshow/76802978.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Delhi||Ramlila organisers will help in Delhi’s epic battle||NEW DELHI: As the novel coronavirus cases continue to rise, Ramlila celebrations are likely to remain a low-key affair this year. In this time of crisis, Ramlila organisers have decided to extend help with funds in the Covid-19 fight. Balakram hospital, which is soon likely to be turned into an isolation centre, will be funded by the Ramlila committees, said a senior corporation official. “North Delhi Municipal Corporation is facing a financial crisis but the situation demands that people need to be protected at every cost. We are glad that several social organisations and Ramlila organisers have evinced interest in adopting isolation wards and Covid facilities,” said Jai Prakash, mayor of the north corporation. The mayor added that the corporation was also writing letters, appealing to major organising committees to divert the Ramlila funds for pandemic preparations. “We have urged Luv Kush Ramlila Committee and Nav Sri Dharmic Ramlila Committee, which organise Ramlilas at Red Fort, to adopt Balakram hospital and help in its day-to-day running expenses. It is difficult that Ramlilas will be organised this year but this will be another tribute in the name of Lord Ram,” the mayor said. Ashok Agarwal, president of the Luv Kush committee, confirmed that they were in touch with the north corporation and a meeting had been called to work out the modalities. “We will examine what kind of help is required by the civic body and if donation money can be used. Ramlila committees have always helped in the time of crisis and during this pandemic too, we will extend our helping hand,” he added. Jai Prakash said that there are around 100 big and small Ramlila committees in Delhi. A scheme is being worked out so that each isolation centre is adopted by either one of these or any other social organisation. “I am writing letters to all the major Ramlila committees in Shalimar Bagh, Narela, Old Delhi, Karol Bagh, Bawana and Rohini. Under prevailing situation, big gatherings and melas can’t be permitted in next 2-3 months and it is unlikely that Ramlilas will be organised. They can instead financially adopt the isolation centres. We will provide space and doctors, but the routine expenses can be borne by them. Two Ramlila committees from Red Fort have already responded positively,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ramlila-organisers-will-help-in-citys-epic-battle/articleshow/76804189.cms||Paras Singh
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Eight found partying, booked||HYDERABAD: A case was registered against eight persons, including the relative of a minister and a woman from Ukraine, for alleged lockdown violations. They were found partying in a room of a prominent hotel in Banjara Hills on Saturday night. Based on a tip off, task force sleuths raided the hotel room and found eight persons in it. Some of them were consuming alcohol. “The room was meant for three persons but the others joined them as guests. They were partying and not maintaining any physical distance. A case was booked and they were served notices,’’ Banjara Hills inspector Kalinga Rao told TOI. They were booked under section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC. After the raid, the Task Force police handed over the case to Banjara Hills police. According to police, the Ukraine national works in Goa and is associated with the hospitality industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eight-found-partying-booked/articleshow/76804465.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Delhi||After shots fired, cop chases down goons in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A policeman braved shots fired at him to catch hold of two contract killers who were trying to kill two transgenders in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur. Probe revealed that the killers were hired by another eunuch, who was trying to avenge the murder of her friend at Maulana Azad College last year. After firing at the policemen, the killers tried to flee in an autorickshaw, but the cop chased the duo till Ambedkar Nagar before nabbing them. Constable Kamal Prakash, posted at Maidan Garhi police station, had gone to Bhati Kalan village on Chhatarpur Main Road to investigate a case. “Prakash had gone to check the footage from a CCTV camera with regard to another case when he saw two men opening fire at the transgenders. One of the accused pointed a pistol at the eunuch as she ran towards the constable to save herself. Prakash chased the killers and managed to catch them.” DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. The accused were identified as Mukesh (24) and Kapil (21). The cop first pushed the motorcycle of the accused as the duo fell down. One of them fired at the policeman, but his pistol jammed. The men then forcefully stopped an autorickshaw and fled. Kamal alerted his seniors and gave the auto a chase. Meanwhile, another team started moving in the direction of the accused and nabbed them near Ambedkar Nagar. Two pistols were recovered from them. The accused told the police that a transgender, identified as Pinky, had hired them for Rs 5 lakh to murder her rival, Shalu and Aaliya. An initial payment of Rs 20,000 was also made to the accused by Pinky. Last year, Shalu had opened fire at Pinky, her friend Ganesh and her driver near Maulana Azad College. While Pinky and her driver sustained bullet wounds, Ganesh was shot dead. Shalu was arrested for the murder and released on interim bail on April 30. Due to lockdown, the bail was later extended for another 45 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-shots-fired-cop-chases-down-goons/articleshow/76804176.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Agra||Paediatrician describes ‘hellish’ condition of barrack in a letter, Mathura jail administration says it is fake||AGRA: A purported 4-page hand-written letter by paediatrician Kafeel Khan, narrating the “hellish” conditions of his prison barrack where he said about 150 inmates are sharing a toilet, has stirred a row on social media platforms. However, springing a surprise, Mathura prison authorities, where the suspended UP government doctor is lodged, have raised a question mark over the authenticity of the letter itself. When contacted, Mathura jail senior superintendent Shailendra Maitri, said, “Kafeel is sitting in front of me and he denies having written any letter.” He added after a brief pause, “We screen all the outgoing mails, and didn’t notice any such letter written by Kafeel. And after the lockdown started, no one is allowed to meet the inmates. So, from where did it go out?” Khan was booked for his alleged inflammatory remarks at an anti-CAA protest at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) on December 13, 2019. He was arrested from Mumbai on January 29 this year and was granted bail on February 10 by a court in Aligarh. But, on February 13, the UP government imposed the National Security Act, 1980 against him just hours before he was to come out of the jail. Now, after over five months in jail, Kafeel allegedly chose to write to his family about the condition in which he is living. “With just one attached toilet and 125-150 inmates, the smell of their sweat and urine mixed, with unbearable heat due to electricity cuts, makes life hell over here. A living hell indeed,” reads the letter written in Hindi. “I try to read but cannot focus due to suffocation. Sometimes I feel that I might fall due to dizziness caused by it, hence drinking a lot of water,” it says. “The entire barrack seems like a fish market full of all kinds of smells. People are coughing, sneezing, farting, urinating and sweating. Some people snore, some fight, some scratch themselves,” the letter reads. In the letter purportedly written by Kafeel, the doctor also questioned his detention. “Why am I being punished? When will I be able to see my children, my wife, my mother and my brothers and sister? When will I be able to fulfill my duties as a doctor by fighting the menace of coronavirus?” he writes. Kafeel’s brother Adeel Ahmad Khan, however, claimed that the letter was written by Kafeel on June 15 and had reached them on July 1. He has also sent a copy of the said letter to TOI . Adeel claimed that the letter was sent by post and the envelope is kept in his office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/paediatrician-kafeel-khan-describes-hellish-condition-of-barrack-in-a-letter-jail-admin-says-it-is-fake/articleshow/76802990.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
July 6, 2020||Pune||Pune University to develop app for online lectures||PUNE: Students of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will soon be able to participate in online lectures through their own platform. Vice chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said an app is in the development stage and once ready, over 800 affiliated colleges will benefit. The app will be completely developed by students and faculty members and will have all security aspects in place. The students, colleges and university departments have been using MicrosoftTeams, Zoom, Google Duo and other applications for live classes at present. The university has diverted the budget for quality improvement programme for development of this software. The state government-appointed task force for digital and online policy for educational institutions has Karmalkar as one of the members. Suggestions from medium-range colleges on how this e-content can be developed, what nature of content should be part of digital learning, the facilities that colleges would require for e-learning among others have been sought, Karmalkar told TOI. “This software application once developed can be replicated and used by all universities in the state. The private platforms currently in use has several issues with respect to connectivity and security. We want to have a homegrown indigenous software application which would eliminate all these hurdles on network issues, security aspects, reach among others for the students,” he said. Various departments of the university including the information and technology and the Educational Media Research Centre will help develop the content. Due to a ban on gatherings, there will not be any scope for conducting seminars and conferences. This fund given to colleges by the university will be saved and shall be utilised for e-content development, Karmalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-varsity-to-develop-app-for-online-lectures/articleshow/76804175.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
July 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Gold worth Rs 13cr seized at airport||Thiruvananthapuram: In a major haul of gold smuggled into Kerala, customs officers at Trivandrum International Airport on Saturday seized gold worth more than Rs 13 crore. The gold brought in the cargo was addressed to a consulate office in Manacaud, Thiruvananthapuram. Around 30 kilograms of gold was seized from the cargo. According to commissioner of customs Sumit Kumar, the parcel for the consulate office reached the airport in cargo flight a few days ago and the seizure was made based on intelligence information. During examination of the cargo, the customs found that certain items which were formally declared were not present in the cargo. “After we verified the intelligence input, we contacted higher authorities and appraised them. The consignment was diplomatic cargo and was examined in presence of the consignee. The parcels contained household items such as frames and door handles,” said Sumit Kumar. The gold was found concealed in the articles. “The consignee or diplomat in question disowned the cargo saying that it does not belong to him. He has been helping us get clarification on the consignment. The team of officers nabbed one person and are tracking other scamsters and smuggling syndicate members who are on the run,” added Kumar. The customs unit is questioning the detained person and collecting details of the person who has sent it from abroad. As per Customs Act and Diplomatic Relations (Vienna convention) Act, two kinds of objects of the diplomats are exempted from inspection: articles for official use and the personal baggage of a diplomatic agent. In this case, the consignment was brought as personal baggage and customs officers had to seek permission from higher authorities for examination of the consignment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/gold-worth-rs-13cr-seized-at-airport/articleshow/76803013.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Coimbatore||MLA tests +ve; virus toll up in dist, Tirupur||Coimbatore: AIADMK MLA Amman K Arjunan tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted in ESI hospital on Sunday, the same day when both Coimbatore and Tirupur districts recorded two Covid-19 deaths each, taking the toll in Coimbatore to five and in Tirupur to three. The 58-year-old MLA’s daughter, son-in-law and granddaughter, 11, had tested positive on June 30, soon after their return from Madurai where they had gone to participate in a private function. The three were hospitalised and the health department collected samples from Amman K Arjunan immediately. The MLA was rushed to ESI hospital as soon as his test results came. Officials have now started gathering information on the places he visited. With respect to Covid-19 casualties, the two patients who died in Coimbatore include a 57-year-old man from Ganapathy and a 65-year-old man from Big Bazaar Street. The 57-year-old man had tested positive on June 28 and was admitted to ESI Hospital. “The patient had a known history of hypertension, type 2 diabetes and heart issues. He had fever and breathing difficulty on admission itself. He was given oxygen from the beginning. He initially stabilized, but sank on Saturday evening,” said a senior health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mla-tests-ve-virus-toll-up-in-dist-tirupur/articleshow/76804172.cms||---
July 6, 2020||India||Noida couple dies as car falls into Doon gorge||Neeraj Tyagi (56) and his wife, Shagun (50), residents of Sector 40 in Noida, died and their 27-year-old daughter and driver sustained grievous injuries when the car they were in plunged into a 300-metre-deep gorge on Dehradun-Mussoorie road on Sunday. The family was returning from Mussoorie, reports Gaurav Talwar. The couple used to run a construction business and owned a house on the upscale Rajpur Road in Dehradun. Their daughter and the driver are in hospital. “After several hours of search operation, we found the mangled remains of the car in the gorge,” Mussoorie police station in-charge Devendra Aswal said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/noida-couple-dies-as-car-falls-into-doon-gorge/articleshow/76804626.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 6, 2020||Bareilly||45 Covid +ve cases in Bareilly, 43 more infected in Meerut||AGRA: Covid-19 positive cases continued to pour in from various parts of western Uttar Pradesh with the highest single-day jump since its outbreak witnessed in Bareilly district. A total of 45 positive cases were reported from Bareilly district on Sunday. There was a spike in Budaun district as well. At least 21 people were found infected there. The Covid-19 tally in Meerut reached 1,160, including one found in Kanpur, after 43 new cases were reported on Sunday, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO. One more death took the toll to 70. In Agra district, 13 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday, taking the tally to 1,295. The cases included four patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, two of severe acute respiratory syndrome and a patient with diabetes. Six Covid-19 patients were also discharged on Saturday. Of the 1,295 cases, 81.78% have been declared cured and discharged. There are 146 active cases left. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,059 people have recovered.” On Sunday, three fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Firozabad, taking the district tally to 534. A sub-divisional magistrate in Shikohabad was found positive. The officer has been admitted to an isolation ward. His sample has been sent to Saifai medical college for further tests||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/45-covid-ve-cases-in-bareilly-43-more-infected-in-meerut/articleshow/76811949.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Agriculture dept to revive fallow lands||COIMBATORE: The district agriculture department plans to bring back 650 acres of fallow lands, which have been lying idle for a minimum of five years, into cultivation. The department will provide subsidies to farmers to process the land and grow pulses or millets. The project, taken up under the National Agriculture Development Programme (NADP), will be implemented across all the 12 agricultural blocks in the district. The department will group farmers and form 25-acre clusters for the purpose, said an official. “Irrespective of acreage, we will club and form clusters of 25 acres each. For every hectare, we will provide 50% of the cost incurred in processing the land for activities such as clearing bushes, ploughing and levelling. We will also give the farmers 50% of the cost for buying seeds and inputs like biofertilisers from input depots. The amount will be deposited in their bank accounts,” he said. The maximum subsidy for cultivating millets is Rs 10,000 per hectare or Rs 4,047 per acre and that for cultivating pulses is Rs 9,250 per hectare or Rs 3,743 per acre. The project aims to extend the area under cultivation in the district, said the official. “Currently, the area under millet cultivation in the district is around 40,000 hectares and that under pulse cultivation is around 10,000 hectares. By providing subsidy, we are encouraging farmers to cultivate fallow lands and subsequently increase the area of land under cultivation.” “As farmers may not have funds to convert fallow lands by themselves due to the pandemic situation, the subsidy will benefit them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/agriculture-dept-to-revive-fallow-lands/articleshow/76804185.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Agra||45 Covid +ve cases in Bareilly, 43 more infected in Meerut||AGRA: Covid-19 positive cases continued to pour in from various parts of western Uttar Pradesh with the highest single-day jump since its outbreak witnessed in Bareilly district. A total of 45 positive cases were reported from Bareilly district on Sunday. There was a spike in Budaun district as well. At least 21 people were found infected there. The Covid-19 tally in Meerut reached 1,160, including one found in Kanpur, after 43 new cases were reported on Sunday, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO. One more death took the toll to 70. In Agra district, 13 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday, taking the tally to 1,295. The cases included four patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, two of severe acute respiratory syndrome and a patient with diabetes. Six Covid-19 patients were also discharged on Saturday. Of the 1,295 cases, 81.78% have been declared cured and discharged. There are 146 active cases left. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,059 people have recovered.” On Sunday, three fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Firozabad, taking the district tally to 534. A sub-divisional magistrate in Shikohabad was found positive. The officer has been admitted to an isolation ward. His sample has been sent to Saifai medical college for further tests||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/45-covid-ve-cases-in-bareilly-43-more-infected-in-meerut/articleshow/76803007.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Water level inches up in Siruvani dam||COIMBATORE: The water level in Siruvani reservoir touched 2.5ft above the dead storage level on Sunday following rainfall in its catchment areas for the past two consecutive days. The full storage capacity of the dam is 49.53ft. An official with the Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board (TWAD) said, “About a few days ago, the water level had gone below 2ft. After two consecutive rainfalls measuring 78mm and 49mm since Friday, the water level has started rising gradually. At least 45 million litres per day (MLD) is drawn from the reservoir.” While 6MLD water is supplied to villages such as Alandurai, the remaining is supplied to the city corporation limits. Explaining that the rainfall was comparatively lower than previous year and they were expecting good showers in coming days, the official said they could supply water for another couple of weeks with the existing quantity. A city corporation source said, “We have been supplying water from Pillur reservoir to Sirvuani water-fed areas to address the shortage. Drinking water is supplied once in eight to 10 days for a duration of seven to 10 hours.” About 125MLD water from Pillur reservoir is supplied to the city. Pointing out that the city’s water requirement was about 250 MLD, the source said they have so far managed to supply about 180MLD water through pipeline and the quantity would be increased considerably if the water level goes up in the reservoir. “Drinking water is also supplied through trucks.” R Deepa, a resident of Venkatapuram, said they had of late been receiving water only once in 12 to 15 days against once in four days about four months ago. “Whenever we run out of water, we collect water from a public tap that is located half a kilometre away from our house. The situation is manageable as there is daily supply of bore water.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/water-level-inches-up-in-siruvani-dam/articleshow/76804178.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 6, 2020||Dehradun||Noida couple killed as car falls into gorge near Dehradun||DEHRADUN: A couple from Noida was killed and their daughter and driver sustained grievous injuries when the car in which they were travelling plunged into a 300-metre-deep gorge near Kimadi village on Dehradun-Mussoorie road early on Sunday. The family was returning from Mussoorie when the accident occurred. According to police, the deceased, Neeraj Tyagi (56) and Shagun Tyagi (50), residents of sector 40 in Noida, used to run a construction business and even owned a house on the upscale Rajpur Road in Dehradun. Their 27-year-old daughter Arushi Tyagi and driver Ashok are now undergoing treatment at a hospital. Police said that the entire family, including son and daughter-in-law, had gone to Mussoorie from Noida on Saturday. While the others left for Dehradun on Sunday, the son and daughter-in-law chose to stay back at the resort. Mussoorie police station in-charge Devendra Aswal said that they received information about an accident near Kimadi village in the wee hours of Sunday and immediately launched a search operation along with the state disaster response force (SDRF). “After several hours, we found the mangled remains of the car in a gorge. We immediately shifted the injured to a hospital and recovered the bodies,” he added. The inspector said, “It seems that the driver took the route via Hathipaon to reach Dehradun while on the way back from Mussoorie. The accident took place near Bata Ghat bridge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/couple-from-noida-killed-as-car-falls-into-gorge-on-dehradun-mussoorie-road/articleshow/76802116.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 6, 2020||Pune||Pune’s Covid-19 waste still being sent to Mumbai as incinerator awaits repairs||PUNE: For more than a month now, Pune has been leaning on facilities in Mumbai to safely dispose of hazardous biomedical waste linked to the coronavirus pandemic. The decision to transport the waste over 100 km away was made after Pune’s only incinerator — capable of processing biomedical waste — broke down on May 31. Its repairs, the plant operator said, are set to take another 15 days. Until then, Covid-19 waste from Pune and its outskirts — including masks, gloves and other PPE items — will continue to be transported inside closed vehicles to a common biomedical waste treatment facility (CBWTF) in Taloja, Mumbai, for incineration. The city’s daily generation of Covid-linked biomedical waste has now hit 5,000kg — there are concerns this volume will increase as the number of cases climbs. Another 3,000kg of daily non-Covid biomedical waste is currently being transported to a facility in Baramati. Sunil Dandawate, who operates Pune’s incinerator facility (at the Kailas crematorium near Naidu hospital, said the plant broke down under strain from Covid-19 waste, which is high on materials made from plastic. “The massive strain of burning Covid-19 biomedical waste, which comprises a large amount of plastic, eroded the rubber inside the plant’s chimney. That caused it to break down. We have to now dismantle the chimney and replace it with a new one,” he said. The chimney stands 30 metres high and weight about 1,000 tonnes. “It’s made as per specific design instructions. There is a lot of engineering involved in its installation as well,” Dandawate said. He added that the total repair cost is an estimated Rs 25 lakh. Covid-19 waste from hospitals and isolation centres has been particularly difficult to deal with. Discarded protective kits used by patients and doctors are high on plastic which has a very high calorific value of approximately 7,000 +Kcal/kg. The incineration generates a lot of heat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-ncov-waste-still-being-sent-to-mumbai-as-incinerator-awaits-repairs/articleshow/76804182.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 6, 2020||Amritsar||Thickly populated industrial districts keep Punjab on tenterhooks||CHANDIGARH: Even as there has been a constant surge in number of Covid-19 cases in Punjab, the outbreak has largely been concentrated among the big districts of the state having large urban population, keeping the government on tenterhooks. The five districts — Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Sangrur — account for 61.6% of total cases and 71.6% of deaths, according to data of the health department. The high number of cases in these districts are primarily because of high density of population, heavy movement of people in the manufacturing clusters producing hosiery, auto parts, small tools, apparel products, sports and leather products. High rate of testing in these districts is also seen as a reason for high detection volume of cases. The trend picked up pace since Unlock 1.0 commencing from June 1. The growth rate of cases in the state from June 1 to June 4 ranged between 1% to 6% against the national growth rate of 3-4%. Sample this: From June 28 to July 7, a total of 1,053 cases were added to the overall tally, of which 742 (70.46%) were from these five districts, which also accounted for 67.64% of deaths recorded during these seven days. Ludhiana, the industrial hub and most populated district of the state, reported 275 cases in one-week period followed by Sangrur where 164 people were found to be positive for Covid-19. As many as 148 cases surfaced in Jalandhar, 79 in Patiala and 76 in Amritsar during the same period. Amritsar accounted for 10 deaths out of total 34 in the past one week, while five people succumbed to the pandemic in Ludhiana. Four infected people in Patiala and two people each Sangrur and Jalandhar died. In Ludhiana, around 80% of the infected people were residing in urban areas while the number of such people in Jalandhar stood at around 70%. To contain the spread of virus, the health department has identified high priority zones — clusters, micro containment zones and large outbreak zones — across the state, and not surprisingly majority of them are in these five districts. Of 150 high priority areas, 110 are in these districts. Spokesperson of Punjab health department for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, said besides being densely populated, these districts also witnessed heavy movement of people which make transmission of infection easy. He, however, said that the government was taking every required measure to contain the spread in these districts. Testing in these districts had been high as compared to other parts of the state, he added. Till July 4, 1,65,964 people — migrants and locals stranded in other parts of the country and aboard — entered Punjab of which 51,460 were tested and 1,029 were found positive. Of the total, 32,129 people entered Ludhiana, 18,198 Jalandhar, 14,359 Amritsar and 9,188 Patiala. As on June 3, as many as 39,335 people were tested in Ludhiana, highest in the state, followed by Amritsar were 25,506 people have been tested for the virus so far. In Patiala, 23,879 tests have been conducted and 23,979 in Jalandhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/thickly-populated-industrial-dists-keep-pb-on-tenterhooks/articleshow/76809836.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Thickly populated industrial districts keep Punjab on tenterhooks||CHANDIGARH: Even as there has been a constant surge in number of Covid-19 cases in Punjab, the outbreak has largely been concentrated among the big districts of the state having large urban population, keeping the government on tenterhooks. The five districts — Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Sangrur — account for 61.6% of total cases and 71.6% of deaths, according to data of the health department. The high number of cases in these districts are primarily because of high density of population, heavy movement of people in the manufacturing clusters producing hosiery, auto parts, small tools, apparel products, sports and leather products. High rate of testing in these districts is also seen as a reason for high detection volume of cases. The trend picked up pace since Unlock 1.0 commencing from June 1. The growth rate of cases in the state from June 1 to June 4 ranged between 1% to 6% against the national growth rate of 3-4%. Sample this: From June 28 to July 7, a total of 1,053 cases were added to the overall tally, of which 742 (70.46%) were from these five districts, which also accounted for 67.64% of deaths recorded during these seven days. Ludhiana, the industrial hub and most populated district of the state, reported 275 cases in one-week period followed by Sangrur where 164 people were found to be positive for Covid-19. As many as 148 cases surfaced in Jalandhar, 79 in Patiala and 76 in Amritsar during the same period. Amritsar accounted for 10 deaths out of total 34 in the past one week, while five people succumbed to the pandemic in Ludhiana. Four infected people in Patiala and two people each Sangrur and Jalandhar died. In Ludhiana, around 80% of the infected people were residing in urban areas while the number of such people in Jalandhar stood at around 70%. To contain the spread of virus, the health department has identified high priority zones — clusters, micro containment zones and large outbreak zones — across the state, and not surprisingly majority of them are in these five districts. Of 150 high priority areas, 110 are in these districts. Spokesperson of Punjab health department for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, said besides being densely populated, these districts also witnessed heavy movement of people which make transmission of infection easy. He, however, said that the government was taking every required measure to contain the spread in these districts. Testing in these districts had been high as compared to other parts of the state, he added. Till July 4, 1,65,964 people — migrants and locals stranded in other parts of the country and aboard — entered Punjab of which 51,460 were tested and 1,029 were found positive. Of the total, 32,129 people entered Ludhiana, 18,198 Jalandhar, 14,359 Amritsar and 9,188 Patiala. As on June 3, as many as 39,335 people were tested in Ludhiana, highest in the state, followed by Amritsar were 25,506 people have been tested for the virus so far. In Patiala, 23,879 tests have been conducted and 23,979 in Jalandhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/thickly-populated-industrial-dists-keep-pb-on-tenterhooks/articleshow/76803728.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 6, 2020||Vadodara||Godhra residents back home||Vadodara: The 26 Indians who had been stranded in Pakistan for almost four months due to the lockdown finally returned to their homes in Godhra on late Saturday night. The stranded residents had crossed over to India through the international border at Wagah on June 26 and were under a week-long quarantine at an Indian Army camp in Amritsar. “There were around 748 people from across India who had crossed the border from Pakistan in batches but there were no troubles. We got three meals in a day and whatever we wanted was provided by the authorities,” said Ishaq Bokda, one of the members of the group. Bokda added that all of them were put to coronavirus test at the camp and that they all had tested negative. On reaching Godhra railway station their body temperatures were checked using thermal guns and they were asked to remain quarantined at home for three days. The group had gone to Karachi for a wedding in March as the groom was from Godhra and the bride from Karachi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/godhra-residents-back-home/articleshow/76802798.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Thickly populated industrial districts keep Punjab on tenterhooks||CHANDIGARH: Even as there has been a constant surge in number of Covid-19 cases in Punjab, the outbreak has largely been concentrated among the big districts of the state having large urban population, keeping the government on tenterhooks. The five districts — Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Sangrur — account for 61.6% of total cases and 71.6% of deaths, according to data of the health department. The high number of cases in these districts are primarily because of high density of population, heavy movement of people in the manufacturing clusters producing hosiery, auto parts, small tools, apparel products, sports and leather products. High rate of testing in these districts is also seen as a reason for high detection volume of cases. The trend picked up pace since Unlock 1.0 commencing from June 1. The growth rate of cases in the state from June 1 to June 4 ranged between 1% to 6% against the national growth rate of 3-4%. Sample this: From June 28 to July 7, a total of 1,053 cases were added to the overall tally, of which 742 (70.46%) were from these five districts, which also accounted for 67.64% of deaths recorded during these seven days. Ludhiana, the industrial hub and most populated district of the state, reported 275 cases in one-week period followed by Sangrur where 164 people were found to be positive for Covid-19. As many as 148 cases surfaced in Jalandhar, 79 in Patiala and 76 in Amritsar during the same period. Amritsar accounted for 10 deaths out of total 34 in the past one week, while five people succumbed to the pandemic in Ludhiana. Four infected people in Patiala and two people each Sangrur and Jalandhar died. In Ludhiana, around 80% of the infected people were residing in urban areas while the number of such people in Jalandhar stood at around 70%. To contain the spread of virus, the health department has identified high priority zones — clusters, micro containment zones and large outbreak zones — across the state, and not surprisingly majority of them are in these five districts. Of 150 high priority areas, 110 are in these districts. Spokesperson of Punjab health department for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, said besides being densely populated, these districts also witnessed heavy movement of people which make transmission of infection easy. He, however, said that the government was taking every required measure to contain the spread in these districts. Testing in these districts had been high as compared to other parts of the state, he added. Till July 4, 1,65,964 people — migrants and locals stranded in other parts of the country and aboard — entered Punjab of which 51,460 were tested and 1,029 were found positive. Of the total, 32,129 people entered Ludhiana, 18,198 Jalandhar, 14,359 Amritsar and 9,188 Patiala. As on June 3, as many as 39,335 people were tested in Ludhiana, highest in the state, followed by Amritsar were 25,506 people have been tested for the virus so far. In Patiala, 23,879 tests have been conducted and 23,979 in Jalandhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/thickly-populated-industrial-dists-keep-pb-on-tenterhooks/articleshow/76809835.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 6, 2020||Jaipur||Part of Udaipur’s ancient wall, Surajpole, collapses||UDAIPUR: A portion of the 300-year-old heritage gate — Surajpole, part the city wall — collapsed in the wee hours on Sunday. Following the incident, heritage lovers and activists were up in arms and blamed the Udaipur Municipal Corporation and Smart City Ltd (USCL) company for the accident. The debris of the iconic gate was seen spread around in one of the busiest junctions of the city. The Udaipur Nagarkot, the city wall or bastion, is part of the history of Mewar and was completed in 1733 by Maharana Sangram Singh-II. It has 12 gates, four of which are on the main roads with double-gated entries, i.e Sinvha Dwaar. The gates were built for security after Aurangzeb’s attack in February 1680 when the Mughal ruler destroyed over 172 big and small temples in Udaipur. Experts: Authorities neglected centuries-old masonry workUdaipur:While the city’s activists held unmindful developmental activities, undertaken under the Smart City project, responsible for the collapse, experts said that authorities had neglected the centuries-old masonry work which required careful upkeep and handling. Currently, a deputy SP’s office and a police chowki function inside the gate. A sewage pipeline drilling work as well as gate restoration are simultaneously in progress in the area. “This collapse before heavy rains can mainly be attributed to vibrations (tremors) cause by heavy machinery used for sewage pipeline work. But the collapse of the gate will reveal the building material that was used for construction in the 18th century,” said P S Ranawat, an expert in geo-heritage and a retired professor of geology. “They built manholes on the three sides of the Surajpole gate and were carrying out underground drilling to connect the lines, which damaged the foundation of the heritage structure. The rock and soil around Surajpole is quite soft which should not be drilled by heavy machinery. But the construction team may not have bothered to do a proper analysis before doing the drilling work near the sensitive heritage building,” said R S Sameeja, an activist. Meanwhile, Qummer Ul Zaman Chaudhary, CEO of USCL, brushed aside the charges of negligence and said that the old building was in a dilapidated condition and was the main reason for collapse. “We have already restored three of the total 12 gates and there are vertical cracks on all of them. We have tendered the restoration works of the heritage structures keeping in mind the minute technicalities and roped in experienced hands. The drilling work, too, is being done with utmost care and no private buildings have been caused any harm. However, we will be more careful next time and if needed, a committee will be formed to enquire into this collapse,” the officer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/part-of-udaipurs-ancientwall-surajpole-collapses/articleshow/76804190.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Dehradun||‘No entry’ signs crop up at India’s last village Mana as locals fear exposure to Covid-19||Dehradun: Mana, the last Indian village before the China border adjoining Uttarakhand, has become out of bounds for Char Dham pilgrims and other tourists, as local residents have put up “no entry” signs banning outsiders at the village entrance. Pilgrims visiting Badrinath or Joshimath usually also visit Mana, which is popular for its ancient “Vyas Gufa”, believed to be the cave where Ved Vyasa wrote the epic ‘Mahabharata’, and the Ghantakarna temple. Mana village pradhan Pitambar Molpha told TOI that the remote area cannot risk contracting Covid-19. “Our village is extremely remote and has barely any access to a good healthcare facility. There is a small temporary clinic at Badrinath but that doesn’t have even an isolation ward or staff dedicated to Covid-19 patients. The decision to not let in outsiders was taken in a joint meeting held with all villagers, since we cannot afford to be exposed to the disease,” Molpha said. The posters at the village’s main gate read “entry to the village complex is restricted” and “outsiders not allowed”. Mana receives lakhs of tourists every year, and tourist visits is also the major source of income for the residents. “We spend six months in our winter homes in Joshimath and stay in Mana for the remaining six. Almost every household here earns from tourism. They either own eateries or sell woollens. They won’t earn anything this year but life is more important than income. We will be following the pradhan’s order strictly,” said Vasanti Devi, a village resident. Meanwhile, sub-divisional magistrate of Joshimath Ajay Chaniyal clarified that tourist movement has not been restricted in the village at the administrative level. “As far as the administration is concerned, tourists are allowed at Joshimath, Badrinath and Mana. We are not sure if they (locals) have come to this decision at the village level,” Chaniyal said. In the first four days of the commencement of the Char Dham Yatra for Uttarakhand residents, the Devasthanam Board has issued over 3,800 passes for the pilgrimage, around 1,000 of which have been for Badrinath and Kedarnath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-entry-signs-crop-up-at-indias-last-village-mana-as-locals-fear-exposure-to-covid-19/articleshow/76802123.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 6, 2020||Vadodara||Grain shop in Mahisagar district sealed over spitting video||VADODARA: A grain shop at Lunawada town in Mahisagar district was sealed after a video of its workers spitting on open grains went viral on the social media. Divyang Darji, the owner of a gas agency, had shot the video on July 3 when he was visiting a showroom near Charkoshiya crossroads. Darji said that when he got out of his car, he saw a labourer outside the grain shop spitting tobacco in open. “I could not believe when he spat so I went near the shop. He again spat on the stock of moong which was lying in the open,” said Darji. He confronted the labourer for spitting, but he spat again. When Darji started shooting a video on his mobile phone, the worker quickly gathered the moong stock on which he had spat and moved it away. “Later I shared the video on Facebook and also sent it to the sub-divisional magistrate and the executive magistrate to bring the issue to their notice,” Darji told TOI. Watch Gujarat: Workers spit on grains, shop sealed after video went viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/grain-shop-sealed-over-spitting-video/articleshow/76802817.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Udaipur||Part of Udaipur’s ancient wall, Surajpole, collapses||UDAIPUR: A portion of the 300-year-old heritage gate — Surajpole, part the city wall — collapsed in the wee hours on Sunday. Following the incident, heritage lovers and activists were up in arms and blamed the Udaipur Municipal Corporation and Smart City Ltd (USCL) company for the accident. The debris of the iconic gate was seen spread around in one of the busiest junctions of the city. The Udaipur Nagarkot, the city wall or bastion, is part of the history of Mewar and was completed in 1733 by Maharana Sangram Singh-II. It has 12 gates, four of which are on the main roads with double-gated entries, i.e Sinvha Dwaar. The gates were built for security after Aurangzeb’s attack in February 1680 when the Mughal ruler destroyed over 172 big and small temples in Udaipur. Experts: Authorities neglected centuries-old masonry workUdaipur:While the city’s activists held unmindful developmental activities, undertaken under the Smart City project, responsible for the collapse, experts said that authorities had neglected the centuries-old masonry work which required careful upkeep and handling. Currently, a deputy SP’s office and a police chowki function inside the gate. A sewage pipeline drilling work as well as gate restoration are simultaneously in progress in the area. “This collapse before heavy rains can mainly be attributed to vibrations (tremors) cause by heavy machinery used for sewage pipeline work. But the collapse of the gate will reveal the building material that was used for construction in the 18th century,” said P S Ranawat, an expert in geo-heritage and a retired professor of geology. “They built manholes on the three sides of the Surajpole gate and were carrying out underground drilling to connect the lines, which damaged the foundation of the heritage structure. The rock and soil around Surajpole is quite soft which should not be drilled by heavy machinery. But the construction team may not have bothered to do a proper analysis before doing the drilling work near the sensitive heritage building,” said R S Sameeja, an activist. Meanwhile, Qummer Ul Zaman Chaudhary, CEO of USCL, brushed aside the charges of negligence and said that the old building was in a dilapidated condition and was the main reason for collapse. “We have already restored three of the total 12 gates and there are vertical cracks on all of them. We have tendered the restoration works of the heritage structures keeping in mind the minute technicalities and roped in experienced hands. The drilling work, too, is being done with utmost care and no private buildings have been caused any harm. However, we will be more careful next time and if needed, a committee will be formed to enquire into this collapse,” the officer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/part-of-udaipurs-ancientwall-surajpole-collapses/articleshow/76805643.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Pune||Home-grown mobile apps crop up to replace banned Chinese creations||PUNE: Within eight days since the ban on Chinese mobile apps, developers have jumped into the market with desi replacements. Be it Dhak Dhak, a replacement for TikTok, Scan Karo for CamScanner, or ShareChat for Shareit, users have also quickly moved on to Indian apps. Developed by Desktop Infosolution jointly with Kuausmedia Entertainment, Dhak Dhak is a step ahead of TikTok. Sagoon and Sridevi Wagh, partners at Kuausmedia, said the app will help people showcase their talent. Sridevi said, “We will select artists from the videos and users must upload 15-30 seconds of video on the app. The best will be given an opportunity in our projects.” Cyber expert Anand Ahuja said, “People are now consciously looking out for desi apps. Internet search data shows that users want to subscribe only to Indian apps. They are even looking for replacements for online meeting apps like Microsoft Teams, Zoom, Skype, and others.” Another app called Togethring, developed by a start-up Togethring Media Labs, is an indigenous production offering features of banned Chinese apps like WeChat, Help, and Shareit. Chief executive officer Madhav Bhide said, “The app will be a great experience for all types of users be it for entertainment, shopping, ordering food, watching sports together, listening to music or even reading books.” Founded by computer science engineers Shivank Agarwal and Anish Khandelwal, Mitron lets users upload, view, and share short videos. Agarwal said, “We crossed the 10 million milestone in 70 days. In three days after the ban on Chinese apps, our total downloads more than doubled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/home-grown-mobile-apps-crop-up-to-replace-banned-chinese-creations/articleshow/76804188.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
July 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Total lockdown keeps city residents indoors||COIMBATORE: The total lockdown on Sunday saw most of the arterial roads and streets in the city completely deserted. All shops and commercial establishments were closed and activities came to a halt, barring a very rare two-wheeler or a pedestrian. To a large extent, residents stayed indoors. Main areas in the city limits, such as Oppanakkara Street, Ukkadam, Vada Kovai, Crosscut Road, Flower Market and R S Puram were empty. Volunteers and social workers provided food packets to homeless people. Pharmacies were open but didn’t see much business. A Karuppaiah, president of the Coimbatore Chemists and Druggists Association, said 600 pharmacies in the city limits were open. “As we had to be available for people in emergency medical needs, we opened our shops. But as there were no people outside, we had less than 20% business,” he said. Police personnel were present at all junctions and traffic signals in the city, and were seen asking those who ventured out to return home, unless they had to travel for absolutely essential work. As per police sources, as many as 1,200 police personnel were deployed in the city limits to ensure that people did not violate the lockdown. Security at the 25 checkposts in the district was tightened. Those who ventured out in the morning for walk said they were asked to go back by police personnel. A Peelamedu resident said that when she and others from her street went out for morning walk as usual, cops asked them to return. When he ventured out in the morning to buy newspapers, police personnel stationed on the Thadagam Road asked him to go back, said a Venkatapuram resident. In Tirupur district, police filed 61 cases against those who violated the lockdown rules and seized 57 vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/total-lockdown-keeps-city-residents-indoors/articleshow/76804195.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Pune||Karvenagar man in net for stalking||Pune: The Chinchwad police on Saturday registered an offence against a man from Karvenagar in Pune for stalking an interior designer for the past three months. A 25-year-old woman stated in her complaint that she had known the suspect for the past few years. In April, the suspect had sent her some obscene photographs and she had reciprocated. “The suspect then threatened the woman that he would post these photographs on social media platforms if she did not send him more photographs,” said an officer from the Chinchwad police. The officer said, out of fear, the woman then sent him some photographs again. “When the suspect started demanding more, the woman on Saturday approached the police and lodged an FIR,” the officer said. “We are yet to make an arrest,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/karvenagar-man-in-net-for-stalking/articleshow/76804192.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Dehradun||Crocodile enters house in US Nagar, rescued||Rudrapur: five-foot-long crocodile was rescued from a house in Dohra village of US Nagar district’s Sitarganj on Saturday night after a three-hour operation. The reptile was later released into the Nanak Sagar dam by the forest department officials. The crocodile had entered the house of a man on Khatima Road near Bateshwar from the Dohra canal in Barakoli forest range of eastern Terai division. Dhirendra Pant, deputy ranger of Barakoli forests, said, “We were informed around 11pm about the presence of a crocodile in a house. It took us almost three hours to rescue it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/crocodile-enters-house-in-us-nagar-rescued/articleshow/76802134.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 6, 2020||Pune||2 women murdered by their husbands||Pune: Two women were murdered by their husbands in separate incidents in Chakan and Dehu Road in the last 24 hours. In both the cases, the men suspected their wives of infidelity, police said. In Chakan, a 27-year-old woman was strangled to death by her husband inside their flat on Saturday morning, while on Sunday, a man from Dehu Road hacked his 32-year-old wife to death when the woman was on her way to work. The suspect in the Chakan case, Vaibhav Kale (27), has been arrested by the police. The suspect in the Dehu Road murder case is on the run. Kale was produced before a court on Sunday. He has been remanded to police custody for two days, Kathore said. Sub-inspector Pramod Kathore of the Chakan police told TOI, “On Saturday morning Kale first hit his wife with a stump and then strangled her to death with a rope.”  In Dehu Road, the woman was hacked to death with a sharp weapon by her husband around 8am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-women-murdered-by-their-husbands/articleshow/76804194.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Jaipur||Active cases touch record high, rise for 3rd day in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The graph of active Covid-19 cases has been rising for the third consecutive day on Sunday. The state had 3,780 active cases, the highest-ever reported in this alarming category, on Sunday morning. The number of single-day spike in virus cases too has gone up for the second consecutive day on Sunday. In May, the spike in active cases had hit a peak of 3,092 cases on May 26. Since then, the active cases graph had either remained flat or taken a dip. On June 5, the state reported 2,507 active cases, which was its lowest in past one-and-a-half months. Since then, the graph has been continuously moving upwards, reaching new highs over the past three days. The graph began moving up after the state government allowed more relaxation in the movement of people with an aim to give the much-needed boost to economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/active-cases-touch-recordhigh-rise-for-3rd-day-in-raj/articleshow/76804196.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Dehradun||Four Delhi residents arrested for brandishing pistol in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: Four residents of Delhi, two of them property dealers and one the owner of an event management company, were arrested by Haridwar Police on Sunday for brandishing an illegal weapon in a public place near Har-ki-Pauri area. Station house officer (SHO) city Amarjeet Singh told TOI, “Praveen Singh, Shviam, Sharvan and Suber, all residents of Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar, have been arrested under section 336 (Act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Disaster management act and Arms act. A pistol has been seized from them and further investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-delhi-residents-arrested-for-brandishing-pistol-in-haridwar/articleshow/76802149.cms||MS Nawaz
July 6, 2020||Delhi||Jamia Millia Islamia case: Solicitor general objects to Amit Shah’s name in plea||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Monday raised a strong objection to certain statements made in a plea related to the violence in Jamia Millia Islamia last year where the petitioner dragged Union home minister Amit Shah’s name. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing Delhi Police, took a strong exception to the language used in certain paragraphs of the rejoinder filed by one of the petitioners and said, “You cannot malign constitutional authorities like this.” Mehta pointed out that, “Irresponsible pleading is becoming an order of the day... This is more of a political statement made at a protest site and cannot be a pleading before the highest court of the state.” He sought immediate deletion of the reference to Shah in a document filed by, Nabila Hasan, who has sought action against police for allegedly attacking the petitioners, students and residents of Jamia. “The police were utterly lawless, obviously with clearance from the top. It is very probable that the order to mercilessly beat the students and break their bones as they began to assemble outside the university to begin a peaceful march to the Parliament came from the home minister,” claimed Hasan’s plea. It added that the police force behaved as if they were criminals. “Their conduct was such that it appeared that it had been given instruction from the home minister to break the law at will and cause as much pain and damage and loss to the public as possible,” the petition added. Protesting against the statements, Mehta said, “This brings the cat out of the bag. I have been saying this since the beginning that there is an agenda behind these petitions, which are being pursued so vigorously.” Taking note of the objections, a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, representing Hasan, why he was making such allegations. Gonsalves agreed to delete the lines and said he would file a fresh rejoinder. However, he maintained that he agreed to delete not because the allegations were wrong, but because they were not worth the court’s or his time. The hearing had its fair share of lighter moments, too, when senior advocate Salman Khurshid, representing one of the petitioners, in a lighter vein said the SG has a huge collection of Urdu gazals and should respond to the issues with an Urdu couplet. To this, Mehta responded with a Mirza Ghalib couplet, “kaasid ke aate aate khat ek aur likh du, main janta hu kya wo likhege jawab me” (Let me write one more letter, before the messenger comes, I know what he/she is going to write in answer). “Like Ghalib, I will also keep my issues ready for consideration since I know what your issues are going to be,” he added. The court then listed the matter for July 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jamia-case-sg-objects-to-shahs-name-in-plea/articleshow/76823219.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Dehradun||Man’s decomposed body found in his house||Rudrapur : The decomposed body of a 30-year-old man, who is suspected to have committed suicide, was found hanging from a ceiling fan at his house in Mohalla Lohariyan of Kashipur town in Udham Singh Nagar district on Sunday. The body was highly decomposed. The victim has been identified as Amit Kumar Agrawal. He was living alone in Kashipur as his wife works as a government school teacher in Almora and his younger brother had shifted to Odisha with his mother, a police official said. Probe is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mans-decomposed-body-found-in-his-house/articleshow/76802160.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Tadiwala Road residents hope to restart livelihoods||PUNE: For over 70 days now, nearly 50,000 residents of the Tadiwala Road area have been under extensive Covid-19 restrictions. The neighbourhood was declared a containment zone on April 19, when a 50-year-old man, a vegetable vendor, tested positive for Covid-19. But the area seems to have flattened the infection curve, with officials saying there has been a significant drop in cases. Residents told TOI that they can’t wait for life to return to normal. Anil Kamble, who ran a tiny tea stall, said can't wait to start having customers again. “My earnings came to a dead stop when this area was declared a containment zone. I started selling vegetables to make ends meet. The cases here have dropped considerably and I hope to restart my tea stall soon," he said. Other residents said they are hoping to shake off the 'containment tag' as soon as possible. Shobha Bhagat, who is a domestic help, said she is not being allowed to return to work because she is a resident of Tadiwala Road. “I have three daughters — my husband is of no support to us. Both my eldest daughter and I are ready to get back to work, but the police and some housing society members are stopping us because we are in a containment zone.” Most residents of Tadiwala road rely on a daily wage. “Many sell vegetables and fruit. Several households now have substantial debt,” said Nagesh Chavan, a real estate agent in the area  There have been sporadic cases in the slums near Tadiwala road over the past few days. The area, which comes under the Dhole Patil Road ward, has seven to eight slums pockets. “We cannot relax curbs entirely as Tadiwala road is a densely populated neighbourhood,” said Dayanand Sonkamble, the assistant commissioner of the Dhole road ward office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tadiwala-road-residents-hope-to-restart-livelihoods/articleshow/76804198.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 6, 2020||Pune||3-year-old boy hit by crane, dies||Pune: Subhas Bharadwaj (3) died while his mother, who is visually challenged, sustained minor injuries after a speeding heavy duty crane hit them at Samvidhan chowk in Wanowrie on Sunday afternoon. The boy was helping his mother cross the road but the crane operator failed to spot them at the junction. The boy sustained serious head injuries in the accident. Senior inspector Krantikumar Patil of the Wanowrie police station said, “The boy’s family lives in a small hut located close to the accident spot. The accident took place when the two were crossing the junction. The crane had come from the Wanowrie bazaar area.” Patil said that the operator has been detained by the police, whereas the crane has been impounded. “The boy’s mother has sustained minor injuries in the accident and she is fine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-year-old-boy-hit-by-crane-dies/articleshow/76804204.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Collector visits containment zones in city||COIMBATORE: Collector K Rajamani on Sunday inspected the containment zones on Edayar Street, Savitri Nagar, Thirumurthy Nagar, Thirunavukkarasu Nagar and Mill Street in the city. As many as 27 areas within the city limits and three in rural limits have been declared as containment zones. Area-wise medical check-up camps are being held in various parts of the district, the collector said. “On Sunday, a medical camp was held on the Rice Mill Street in Kuniamuthur, where samples were collected from residents to test for Covid-19. The results of the tests will be given in 24 hours. Through these measures, people with Covid-19 are being identified and isolated, thereby stopping further infections,” he said. The district administration is working diligently to stop further spread of the infection, Rajamani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/collector-visits-containment-zones-in-city/articleshow/76804201.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||In a first, Middle East, Gulf flights to land at Chandigarh International Airport||MOHALI: In a first, the Chandigarh International Airport is all set to host arrival and departure of foreign-based airline operators like Qatar Airways, Kuwait Airways, Air Arabia, Jazeera Airways, and SalamAir. The Covid-19 pandemic has opened corridors for air connectivity of Chandigarh with various countries, primarily in the Middle East and the Gulf. The government of India has given permission to airline operators from the Middle East and the Gulf to bring back stranded Indians. The permission has been recently notified by the director of the civil aviation, Punjab, as the final policy for landing of foreign countries-based flights, carrying stranded Indians abroad, at Mohali. Girish Dayalan, director, civil aviation, Punjab, said during the Unlock 2.0, permission will be granted to Airlines Deportation Flights to land on the subject to certain conditions. Qatar Airways is a national carrier of Qatar, Kuwait Airways is national carrier for Kuwait, Air Arabia is an Emirati low-cost airline based at Sharjah, SalamAir is the first low cost airline in Oman and Jazeera Airways is Kuwait-based airlines. Such flights have never arrived and departed from the Chandigarh International Airport till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-a-first-middle-east-gulf-flights-to-land-at-city-airport/articleshow/76803739.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 6, 2020||Delhi||As Delhi tally nears 1 lakh, 24x7 ‘war room’ to monitor status||NEW DELHI: With 2,244 new patients, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the national capital stopped just short of the one-lakh mark at 99,444 on Sunday. According to the health bulletin, 63 people lost their lives fighting the deadly viral infection, taking the death toll to 3,067. With the number continuing to increase, Delhi government has decided to set up a 24x7 Covid-19 War Room to monitor the city’s fight against the novel coronavirus and suggest measures to effectively deal with the pandemic. According to officials, the war room will be manned by around 25 experts and operate from Delhi secretariat, where all ministers and top bureaucrats in AAP government work. Sources said that the new facility will cover all aspects of fight against the coronavirus such as testing, bed strength, medical equipment, ambulance infrastructure and containment zones. The war room will also flag discrepancies in areas wherein authorities can take steps to prepare a robust system. Officials said that the district administrations were currently working in silos and a centralised system was required for better coordination among various agencies and departments of the government. “An IAS officer has been given the charge of this war room for better coordination with higher authorities in the government,” said an official. With 3,083 patients recovering or getting discharged from hospital after two consecutive negative test reports, the cumulative number of patients who managed to get over the viral infection now stands at 71,339. On Sunday, there were just 25,038 active patients of Covid-19 in the national capital, which is a little less of one-fourth of total positive cases till date. Delhi currently has 456 active containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-delhi-tally-nears-1-lakh-24x7-war-room-to-monitor-status/articleshow/76804203.cms||Atul Mathur
July 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab hopes to cut subsidy bill with solar power to farmers||PATIALA: Punjab has high expectations from the new version of Kisan Urja Suraksha Evam Uhaan Mahaabhiyan (KUSUM), which the Union government plans to launch. Authorities hope that the new initiative, under which solar power will be provided to agricultural feeders, will reduce Punjab’s agriculture subsidy bill of Rs 6,801.51 crore. Under the scheme, which was initially launched in January, the government planned to offer up to 90% subsidy on setting up solar units to run agricultural power connections of individual farmers. Punjab government pays Rs 6,801.51 crore to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for around 14 lakh tubewell connections provided to farmers with free electricity. However, previous efforts to launch similar plans made by the state and Union government failed to generate desired response from farmers due to the high cost of solar energy. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Prasad said the new version of KUSUM scheme has the potential to mitigate the financial burden being faced by the state government by eliminating or at least reducing the subsidy burden. Punjab’s total power subsidy bill (including agriculture) stands at Rs 16,400.26 crore, which is almost 53% of the annual revenue requirement of the power corporation. According to calculations made by the Union government, cost of running agricultural feeders with solar power can be recovered in about three years. Therefore, instead of bearing the subsidy bill year after year, the government can spend a consolidated amount on installing solar power plants that can be connected to agricultural feeders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pb-hopes-to-cut-subsidy-bill-with-solar-power-to-farmers/articleshow/76803743.cms||Manish Sirhindi
July 6, 2020||Jaipur||Ex-chief secy DB Gupta to be Gehlot’s advisor||JAIPUR: Former chief secretary D B Gupta has been appointed as an advisor to chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday. The move comes three days after a major bureaucratic reshuffle in the state when Gupta was removed as the chief secretary barely three months before his retirement in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ex-chief-secydb-gupta-to-begehlots-advisor/articleshow/76804202.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Railways sacks 72 sanitation, 16 technical workers||CHANDIGARH: The Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Limited (IRSDC) has laid-off 50 per cent staff deployed for cleaning and technical support at the Chandigarh railway station. Sources in the IRSDC said the decision has been taken due to the announcement of suspension of railway services till mid-August. Around 72 sanitation workers deployed by the IRSDC for cleaning of platforms, foot-over bridge, escalators, lifts, front area of both Chandigarh and Panchkula side of the station, who worked in three shifts, have been laid-off. At present, only two trains are passing to and from the Chandigarh railway station and only one platform is being used by commuters. Sources said each sanitation worker was paid Rs 13,078 per month salary. The technical support team has also been affected. Records revealed that 16 technical staff was deployed with a monthly salary of Rs 18,000 per month. The staff was told that due to less turn out of passengers at the station, their services were not required. In April, the IRSDC sought financial help from the Centre for paying salaries to employees for the month of April. These employees were hired for various passenger services. The IRSDC has suffered huge revenue loss due to the coronavirus lockdown. Officials said the staff has been asked that as and when the situation improves, they would be hired back by the authorities and that the contact numbers and list of all employees was with them. The IRSDC has taken the step as they were working on earning and investing models at the railway stations, but from April, there has been no earning after the railway services were closed due to the pandemic. Owners of seven catering stalls and six counters related to tour and travel denied to pay 10 per cent rent for the month of June, which the IRSDC was asking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rlys-sacks-72-sanitation-16-technical-workers/articleshow/76803731.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Infected teen runs away from hospital in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: A person, who voluntarily got himself admitted to the District Wenlock Hospital on July 1 when symptoms of Covid-19 surfaced in him, gave hospital authorities the slip on Sunday. His test reports came out positive for coronavirus on Sunday. He escaped from the Covid block of the designated hospital for the pandemic in DK around 4pm. A case has been registered against the patient in Mangaluru South police station at Pandeshwar. City police chief Vikash Kumar Vikash said steps have been taken to trace the 18-year-old the patient, and bring him back to the hospital. People with knowledge of the youth’s presence in their area, who had given his address as the resident of Darbe in Puttur (and was residing at his grandmother’s place in the city) to contact the city police control room on 9480802300 or call 0824-2220530. This is the first such instance reported in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/infected-teen-runs-away-from-hospital/articleshow/76803070.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ludhiana||‘India’s 1st war of freedom was in 1849’||Patiala: Challenging the history books that describe the uprising of 1857 as the first war of independence in India, Sikh historians and scholars have claimed that first such mutiny took place in Punjab in December 1849, when Bhai Maharaj Singh, who had planned a war for January 3, 1850 at British cantonments in Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur, was arrested. Maharaj Singh of Rabbon village in Ludhiana was tortured to death on July 5, 1856 in the jail of Singapore. According to some Sikh historians, it was the first freedom movement, though unsuccessful, against the British Raj. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/indias-1st-war-of-freedom-was-in-1849/articleshow/76803744.cms||Bharat Khanna
July 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Kerbetta woman’s 100 contacts test negative||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Health officials in the Nilgiris heaved a sigh of relief after 100 primary and secondary contacts of the woman patient from Kerbetta village in Kotagiri taluk tested negative for Covid-19. The 50-year-old woman had visited a private hospital in Mettupalayam in connection with the delivery of her daughter-in-law. She tested positive on July 1. The cause for concern was that after her return, she had visited nearby villages. Around 100 contacts were identified and throat swabs were lifted from them. “All contacts of the Kerbetta woman tested negative. She is doing fine at the Ooty government hospital”, said Dr P Balusamy, deputy director of public health. On Sunday, the Nilgiris recorded one positive case with a man, 52, from Coonoor testing positive. He is a secondary contact of an official of a private needle manufacturing company. With the one new case, the district accounts for 124 Covid-19 cases. Officials said 83 active cases are being treated at Ooty government headquarters hospital and ESI hospital in Coimbatore. As many as 230 test results of the secondary contacts of the official are still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kerbetta-womans-100-contacts-test-negative/articleshow/76804205.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Pune||Fraudster siphons off Rs 11.17 lakh||Pune: A tele-caller, who represented himself as an executive of a cellphone company, obtained the sim card details of a 57-year-old private company executive in Camp on May 5, by offering a ‘service upgrade’ on his existing sim. Later, the caller siphoned off the Rs2.17 lakh balance amount from the executive’s acccount in a private sector bank and also used his cellphone number to avail a Rs9 lakh loan via phone banking. He siphoned off that amount as well. Sub-inspector Kiran Aute of Pune cyber crime police said, “The suspect kept requesting the victim to upgrade the services on the victim’s existing sim card. During their conversation, the caller obtained details of the sim card and later told him to share the OTP.” The caller then gained control of the victim’s sim card and other details. He used the e-banking facilities to transfer Rs2.17 lakh. He then applied for a Rs9 lakh personal loan. The victim got to know of the incident from the bank after his sim was restored. “He lodged complaints with the bank. He then lodged a complaint application with the police on June 10. On Saturday, the cyber crime police registered an FIR,” Aute said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fraudster-siphons-off-rs-11-17-lakh/articleshow/76804207.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Cash reward for info on bank robbers||By: Piyush Sarna MOHALI: It has been three weeks since two armed men robbed the Punjab National Bank at Phase 3A in broad daylight, but the Mohali police are still baffled about the miscreants. The police have now sought help from public through their social media platform and are also willing to reward if anyone provides information about the miscreants. The Mohali police in its verified Twitter handle, ‘SAS NAGAR POLICE’, tweeted, “Accused involved in bank robbery at PNB Bank Phase 3A in Mohali on 17-6-2020. Please share information with us regarding the accused. Details of the informer will be kept secret and a suitable reward will be given.” Not only this, they also mentioned the contact number of the SP (detective), DSP (city-1) as well as the SHO of the area and shared their pictures. The incident dates to June 17, when two armed men entered the Punjab National Bank here in Phase 3A and decamped with Rs 4.8 lakh in two minutes. One of them was armed with a pistol and one was armed with a knife, but they didn’t hurt anyone. The miscreants came in a car and did the recce of the area earlier before committing the crime. The act was captured in CCTV. Face of one of the miscreants was captured in the CCTV when his mask fell off while he was escaping. Superintendent of police Harmandeep Singh Hans said, “Cash reward as per the government policy will be given to informants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cash-reward-for-info-on-bank-robbers/articleshow/76803747.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Business||India may see first monthly trade surplus in 18 years||NEW DELHI: India may register its first monthly trade surplus in over 18 years in June as the pace of contraction of exports is estimated to have slowed down to around 12%, while imports are seen to have fallen almost 49% during the month. Initial estimates for June, available with the commerce department, show a trade surplus of around $786 million, with imports pegged at $21.1 billion and exports at $21.9 billion. The last time India had a positive balance on the trade account was in January 2002 when it had a surplus of $10 million with exports of $4.3 billion. On Friday, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal had said that exports in June 2020 had touched 88% of June 2019 level due to unlocking of the economy and resumption of activity. The latest numbers, which will be officially released on July 15, indicated that the pace of export contraction has moderated as industries opened up (see graphic). Policy makers, however, said that the overall pace will pick up as there is greater unlocking. Even now, given the fast growth in the number of Covid-19 cases, businesses are not fully open and discretionary spending has remained weak due to the adverse sentiment. Several sectors, including iron ore, which may have gone to China, food products such as rice, other cereals, fruits and vegetables and oil seeds reported healthy growth, the initial data shared by customs authorities showed. But imports remain an area of concern, as it is a barometer of overall economic activity. The initial numbers suggest that the sharp decline in imports was led by gold, silver and precious & semi-precious stones, which are also linked to exports. During crises, demand for jewellery drops significantly as people look to conserve cash. Similarly, the value of oil imports was down over 55% due to a fall in global crude prices. Imports related to the textiles sector — including cotton, fabric and made-ups — are also down sharply along with transport equipment, chemicals, iron & steel, machine tools and electronics, indicating a slump in economic activity. Some of it may also have had to do with customs going slow on clearances at ports towards the end of the month. Watch India may see first monthly trade surplus in 18 years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-may-see-first-monthly-trade-surplus-in-18-years/articleshow/76804667.cms||Sidhartha
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Give reasons for not leaving campus, Panjab University to ask scholars||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University (PU) is planning to issue a notice to research scholars staying in hostels, asking to give reasons for not leaving the campus when laboratories are closed owing to the coronavirus pandemic. Students are arguing that they cannot return home as they have to complete their thesis and use laboratories of their departments. S K Tomar, dean student welfare, held a meeting with wardens on Sunday, discussing the issue that when the registrar passed instructions that faculty and scholars should not access laboratories and department, how hostellers were visiting the labs. The vice-chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, has already extended the deadline for synopsis and thesis submission up to December 31. Tomar said they are planning to issue a circular on Monday that no research scholar is allowed to visit the department laboratory till the campus opens. He said only international students who cannot leave the campus till air traffic resumes and those who from contaminated zones will be allowed to stay back. The rest will be asked to leave by next week, he said. Sources said the mess contractors has informed the authorities that it is not financially feasible to continue services as a majority of students has not cleared dues of three months. As many as 141 students, most of them research scholars, are residing in 13 hostels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/give-reasons-for-not-leaving-campus-pu-to-ask-scholars/articleshow/76803751.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: GMCH to use GeneXpert for Covid-19 test before C-sections||Chandigarh: The pressing need for Caesarian section and emergency surgeries has spurred Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, to procure GeneXpert diagnostics for Covid-19 test. Only PGI has this machine which gives the report within 45 minutes and an hour as compared to RT PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase chain reaction) test that takes six to eight hours. “We have GeneXpert for tuberculosis. We do some 14-15 samples under the tuberculosis control national programme. For Covid, the software is different. We do not want to hamper the TB programme, so we are working on procuring another machine only for Covid testing,” said Prof B S Chavan, director-principal, GMCH. He said, “For delivery cases, we cannot wait for Covid reports and have to conduct the surgery without that. However, we follow strict protocols until the reports are out.” The GeneXpert is 99% accurate molecular diagnostic kit. Unlike the RT PCR test, the GeneXpert is safer as there is no need to deactivate the sample. The GeneXpert does not involve lot of tests and thus within no time results are out. Even for the normal deliveries due to the body fluid secretions, precautions have to be taken. “With the rapid kit, even when we wear PPE kits, we can be at ease once the rapid test is there, as it is very tough to be in those suits,” said a gynaecologist. As per the ICMR guidelines, all C-sections must get tested for the virus, at least five days prior to the surgery. “We have two slots one in the morning and another in the evening for testing of the C-section deliveries. But in case the surgeries do not fall in that schedule, surgeries are done, and tests reports come later,” said another doctor at the GMCH 32. Main challengesC-section takes two more hours due to PPE kits. A coverall is worn to avoid body fluids. There is a dedicated operation theatre for Covid surgeries. But for deliveries, the OTs are regularly fumigated as a routine practice. Also, all the instruments have to be kept for two hours in sodium hypochlorite solution and then autoclaved. This is similar to all other infectious diseases, like HIV and hepatitis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gmch-to-use-genexpert-for-covid-test-before-c-sections/articleshow/76803750.cms||Shimona Kanwar
July 6, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: No relaxation for local kanwariyas to fetch Ganga water||HARIDWAR: In the wake of the cancellation of the Kanwar Yatra this year, the Haridwar district administration has said that even locals will not be allowed to fetch Ganga water from Har-ki-Pauri and nearby areas and the same will be supplied to them instead. They added that if a person wishes to take water from the river individually, it will have to be from the other banks. Kanwar Mela begins in the month of July every year and it started on Sunday this time amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. Haridwar senior superintendent of police Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S said, “Kanwar Yatra has been suspended this year not only for those from other states but also for locals. We will not allow even local kanwariyas to take Ganga water from Har-ki-Pauri. We will provide it to them. If they want to do it themselves, it should be from the other areas while maintaining proper social distancing norms.” He added that no gathering of locals would be allowed at Har-ki-Pauri and nearby areas, and extra force would be deployed at major shrines in the city where devotees are likely to offer Ganga water as part of the rituals. Notably, the district administration had earlier banned the entry of kanwariyas from other states and also announced that those entering the city without permission would be shifted to paid quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-relaxation-for-local-kanwariyas-to-fetch-ganga-water/articleshow/76802185.cms||MS Nawaz
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: 175 more positive, 2 casualties||CHANDIGARH: Fresh 175 cases of Covid-19 were added to Punjab’s tally, along with two deaths, on Sunday. Of the total cases reported in the last 24 hours, as many as 114 were from the most populated five districts — Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Sangrur — of the state. The overall tally of the state stands at 6,283, out of which 4,408 patients have been discharged. In addition, the total number of deaths in the state rose to 164. Ludhiana contributed the highest number of cases to the tally with 70 people testing positive, followed by Patiala with 26 people getting infected. As many as 16 cases were from Mohali and 11 from Ferozepur. Amritsar and Faridkot reported 10 and eight cases, respectively. Seven people got infected in Jalandhar while six cases were from Sangrur and five from Gurdaspur. Four cases each were reported from Pathankot, Mega and Bathinda and one case each from Tarn Taran, Fatehgarh Sahib, Mansa and Fazilka. Two more people died of Covid-19 — one each Patiala and Tran Taran. The death toll is expected to rise in the next few days as 26 patients are on oxygen support and three on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/175-fresh-cases-2-ve/articleshow/76803755.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Dehradun||Protest staged in Nepal’s border district to restore monarchy||Pithoragarh: A demonstration was organised in Nepal on Sunday to press the demand for restoring monarchy. The protest was held under the banner of Rastriya Sarokar Manch in Mahendra Nagar city of Nepal’s Kanchanpur district, which shares a border with India. The protest witnessed participation of many local seers. The protesters demanded that monarchy be restored in the Himalayan nation to ensure “better development and political stability.” They also added that Hindu religion is in “danger” in Nepal since the country became a democracy and that only a monarch can save the nation which is the only "Hindu Rashtra" in the world. Meanwhile, the suspension bridge at Jhulaghat in Pithoragarh was opened for about 20 minutes on the day. “Thirteen people, including three children, were allowed to enter India. A relative of these people who lived in the Bazang district of Nepal had died on Saturday and they all had gone to Nepal to attend his funeral.The movement of these people on Saturday and Sunday were allowed after consultation with the chief district officer of Nepal’s Baitadi,” Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande told TOI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/protest-staged-in-nepals-border-district-to-restore-monarchy/articleshow/76802202.cms||Prem Punetha
July 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: 5,000 non-Covid patients operated upon during lockdown didn’t catch coronavirus, say doctors||PUNE: Scores of non-Covid patients at major hospitals in the city emerged from surgeries without contracting the coronavirus during three months of the lockdown. At Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital (DMH), one of the city’s largest private hospitals, doctors said they performed surgical procedures on as many as 1,723 patients between March 22 and June 22. None of the patients contracted Covid-19, hospital authorities said. Doctors with the Sahyadri group of hospitals said 1,635 non-Covid patients underwent surgeries across their three branches in the city during the same period. None of these patients contracted the infection during hospital stay, the doctors said. Specialists at DMH said their data — from 1,723 patients — suggests that the risk of coronavirus infection among hospitalised patients is “overrated”. They also urged people not to postpone planned surgical procedures over fear of Covid-19 infection at hospitals. Delayed elective surgeries can turn into emergency operations later, they warned. Many doctors attributed the absence of infection to a simple technique: all hospitals are now assuming every patient coming in has the coronavirus. Automatically, the patient is blanketed with all infection control measures, without waiting for a Covid-19 test. 5,000 non-Covid patients didn’t catch virus: Docs Dhananjay Kelkar, senior surgeon and medical director of DMH, said the data provided by the hospital is “statistically significant”. “Patients undergoing surgery are a category considered vulnerable to Covid-19 infection. But our experience — after operating on over 1,700 people in the last three months — has shown that this fear is overrated. If we adopt universal infection control measures, we can safely carry out all elective surgeries,” he said. Immediately after the Covid-19 lockdown was announced, hospitals were asked to operate only on emergency cases. “So between March 22 and April 30, we performed only emergency or emergent cases (like cancer). Early literature from China had showed a 21% mortality among operated patients. But we soon found out the situation was not as alarming as the research had suggested.” Doctors at DMH said they perform a risk assessment of non-Covid patients before surgeries. The assessment includes estimating fitness levels and even place of residence. Surgeries can be cancelled if the patient is deemed high-risk. At other city hospitals too, doctors said they have had no instances of infection among patients. “None of our 1,635 patients who underwent surgeries contracted Covid-19,” said neurosurgeon Charu Apte, head of the Sahyadri group of hospitals. “We now have enough experience to firmly say the worry that hospitalised non-Covid patients might contract the infection is mostly unwarranted.” Bomi Bhote, CEO of Ruby Hall Clinic, said, “We haven’t had any case of Covid-19 infection among 1,650 non-Covid patients who underwent surgery at our hospital in the last three months. Hospitals maintain segregation while treating Covid-19 and non-Covid patients.” Orthopaediac surgeon Parag Sancheti of Sancheti hospital said, “We have adopted stringent infection control measures. Surgeries for functional improvement, if delayed, can affect quality of life. Even if it is elective surgery, people should seek it in time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5000-non-covid-patients-who-underwent-surgeries-have-no-virus-docs/articleshow/76804213.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Ambala woman dies, Mohali records 15 new Covid-19 cases||AMBALA/MOHALI: Ambala recorded its fourth death from Covid-19, with a 51-year-old woman succumbing to the virus at a Covid hospital at MMIMSR, Mullana, on Saturday night. Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The woman was a resident of Housing Board Colony, Ambala Cantt. She was a patient of diabetes from 2011 and was suffered from blood pressure and asthma from 2013.” “The woman and her husband (54), a superintendent at Ambala Cantonment Board office, was found with influenza illness symptoms during a survey on June 30. The couple tested positive for Covid-19 on July 2. Her husband is still undergoing treatment,” Singh said. At the same time, 13 people, including an official of Central Jail, Ambala, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total count to 371, with 52 active cases. In Mohali, 15 new Covid-19 cases were detected on Sunday in one of the highest single-day spikes that saw 11 patients alone from a meat plant in Behda village of Derabassi which was sealed and declared a micro-containment zone, said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. The others are a 57-year-old woman and a 23-year-old man from Lalru, a 26-year-old man from Derabassi and a 36-year-old woman from Phase IV. All of them reported at flu clinics, said Singh. The 11 cases from Behda are contacts of old patients. They are 14-year-old and 17-year-old girls and 18-year-old, 28-year-old, 32-year-old, and 45-year-old women and 24-year-old, 27-year-old, 40-year-old and 51-year-old men and a 17-year-old boy. Singh said 50 to 60 more samples from Behda were taken and the report is expected by Monday evening. Behda has so far seen 32 cases — either family members or direct contacts of employees of the meat plant. Earlier, 16 plant employees had tested positive, of which 80% were women. Singh said Behda has a population of 1,500 people, was declared a micro-containment zone and houses of the positive patients sealed. All asymptomatic people were home-quarantined. The district witnessed as many as 6 coronavirus positive patients being discharged. The total count is 302, with 79 active cases. A total of 218 patients have recovered. Five have lost their lives to the virus. Singh said the administration is ramping up the healthcare facilities, providing assistance to the health department to effectively combat the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ambala-woman-dies-highest-spike-of-15-new-cases-in-mohali/articleshow/76803757.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||Last-minute schedule tweak by passengers after flight ban||Kolkata: Paediatrician Arijita Chatterjee (30) and her sister Ananya (28), who is a film production professional, were scheduled to take a July 8 flight back to Kolkata from Mumbai. But minutes after the news broke on Saturday evening that direct flights to Kolkata from the Maximum City and five other airports would be stopped from Monday for a fortnight, the sisters quickly purchased two tickets for a Sunday flight and advanced their journey to beat the ban. “I was initially scheduled to return home on March 31 but the lockdown was announced and we got stuck. Post the resumption of domestic flights, we booked tickets but then the Bengal CM wanted flights from states with high Covid figures to be stopped to check the rising infection graph. The home-bound journey appeared jinxed but my sister acted swiftly and ensured we could board a flight on Sunday. Her prompt action meant we got tickets at a reasonable rate as well,” said Arijita. Like the Chatterjee sisters, hundreds of flyers from across the country scampered to arrange for alternative flights. While some managed, most couldn’t, as the seats quickly filled up. Airline officials said their offices as well as customer care hubs were flooded with queries from anxious flyers, asking to reschedule their tickets for anytime on Sunday or looking for alternative options. Several others also called, inquiring about the fate of flights from Kolkata to these cities. “The calls have been incessant. Rescheduling is not an easy task in this current situation of pandemic and especially on a Sunday when the load is high with most flights operating near capacity. Many passengers are requesting that they be re-routed through other airports,” said an official of a private airline. Though there are no curbs on flights from Kolkata to the six cities in focus, airlines have ruled out one-way flights citing logistics and viability constraints, effectively snapping any direct connections with Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad. Consequently, many fliers from Kolkata booked to travel to these cities on Monday and the fortnight that followed received SMS from airlines announcing the flight cancellations. Social media was also flooded with passenger queries on outbound flights. “Is anyone thinking about the passengers? I booked my flight ticket from Delhi to Port Blair. My date of journey is July 16. On Sunday, my ticket has been cancelled by Indigo as Kolkata airport is not operating for six cities. I have to join duty there. Now what should I do?” a flyer wrote on Twitter. Another flyer wrote: “Even after the ban on incoming flights to Kolkata airport and after all airlines are cancelling direct outbound flights from CCU to BOM, Spicejet has not made it clear whether they are going to operate outbound direct connections! At least confirm whether SG366 is flying tomorrow.” Such was the rush of queries that Kolkata airport had to issue replies from Twitter account. “There is no restriction on flights departing from Kolkata. However, you may contact the concerned Airline for any changes in flight schedule.” Travel agents have assured flyers that even as the ban from six cities kicks in, they can still reach Kolkata via alternate routes. “Those travelling from Chennai can come to Vizag and take a flight from there to Kolkata. Those travelling from Delhi, Mumbai and other cities can come to airports like Raipur, Patna, Bhubaneshwar or Guwahati before taking a flight from there to reach Kolkata,” said a travel agent in Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/last-minute-schedule-tweak-by-passengers-after-flight-ban/articleshow/76803768.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Vendors clash at illegal mandi, scare residents||MOHALI: Fruit and vegetable vendors holding an illegal mandi along a road side clashed over stationing of rehris in Phase XI on Sunday, leaving one injured and causing a scare among residents. A social welfare association constituted by residents of HIG colony in Phase XI alleged their complaints filed with governor, chief minister, MLA, deputy commissioner and municipal commissioner about vendors posing a threat to their security have made no difference, calling such fights common. Association president Maninder Kaur, general secretary Gurjit Singh Kalsi and treasurer Jagjit Kaur said they if tell vendors that they will lodge a complaint against them, they threaten them of dire consequences claiming to be owners of the place. “They claim that they pay Rs 5,000 collectively as fee daily to officials,” alleged a resident who witnessed the clash. Residents living in the vicinity of these illegal mandis fear community spread of coronavirus as none of the vendors takes precaution, maintains social distancing or wears masks. “The administration is either unaware or deliberately ignoring the problem,” alleged residents. Illegal mandis have come up in Sector 68, Phase II, and Zirakpur, running for three hours in the morning and three in the evening. Rajiv Kumar, a resident of a housing society in Sector 68, said, “Fruit and vegetable vendors line up along a road opposite our society near the law institute. They do not maintain social distancing or wear masks or gloves. People rush there to buy vegetable leaving no space for vehicles to move through.” Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “The matter has been conveyed to officers and orders issued to remove these vendors.” Vendors have also occupied parts of state highways, where maximum speed limit is 90 kmph, making the spots accident-prone. They are Mohali-Kharar national highway number 95 (NH-95), near Balongi, NH-21 on Zirakpur-Derabassi highway and Kharar-Banur connecting highway near Mote Majra village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vendor-clash-scares-mohali-locality/articleshow/76803762.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 6, 2020||Dehradun||31 fresh Covid cases found, recovery rate over 80% in U’khand||Dehradun: With 22 patients recovering from the Covid-19 infection, the recovered cases have now shot up to 2,524 in the state. Till Sunday, the state’s recovery percentage was 80.79%. In some good news, Tehri reported 100% recovery rate as the last patient of the infection was discharged from the hospital on Sunday. Notably, Tehri had reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases among the nine hill districts of the state. Dr Jagdish Joshi, from the district surveillance team, told TOI that Tehri district had reported 421 Covid-19 cases in the last 40 days. However, 419 cases had fully recovered till Sunday and now, there are no active cases left in the district. The remaining two Covid-19 positive patients, found in Tehri in the last one month, had died. Rudraprayag and Pithoragarh, with five and six active cases respectively, are also among the districts which have managed to record 90% recovery rate in the state. Nainital, with 188 Covid-19 patients still under treatment, is the district with maximum active cases followed by 122 cases in Dehradun. According to the health department, Dehradun reported 12 new cases on Sunday of which one patient has already migrated to Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh. While eight new cases were the contacts of earlier detected cases, one had arrived in the capital city from Yamuna Nagar, and the travel history of other two cases was not available till the time of filing this report. “Nainital reported seven new cases and all were returnees from cities where Covid-19 outbreak is more severe. Udham Singh Nagar and Uttarkashi districts also reported four new cases, followed by one case each from Haridwar, Pauri, Bageshwar and Almora,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room.Meanwhile, chief minister (CM) Trivendra Singh Rawat said that “the state has achieved a good recovery rate but officials must focus on contact tracing and surveillance to control Covid-19 infection.” The state has done over 10,000 tests in the last one week but piling up of samples has increased as the health department was awaiting 6,171 reports till Sunday. Over 78,000 samples have been collected in the state so far. Among these, close to 67,000 samples were tested for coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/31-fresh-covid-cases-found-recovery-rate-over-80-in-ukhand/articleshow/76802209.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Booze manufacturers get permits online||CHANDIGARH: The excise and taxation department of the UT administration has started issuing online permits to manufacturers of whisky, beer and wine from July 1 to avoid physical contact during the coronavirus pandemic. As many as 100 companies from the different states registered with the department are supplying whisky, wine and beer in the city, according to records with the department. As the offices of the manufacturers were in the city, they used to physically visit the department for a permit. “We have generated a link on the official website of the department. After opening the link, a manufacturer will have to first register and then will get a password. After filling all the required details, a permit will be issued. Since there is a cap on the availability of liquor in the city, the permit will be issued accordingly,” sources said. “The payment will be deposited online. Since companies and wholesalers are registered with us, we have all the record to keep a check. In this manner, we are trying to stop the man-to-man contact and facilitate people in a more systematic manner,” an official said. E-token for buying whiskyIn June, the excise and taxation department had begun e-token facility to purchase liquor from shops to avoid overcrowding during the coronavirus pandemic. The department had developed a mobile application, through which customers got e-tickets or slips with specific timings to buy liquor from shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/booze-manufacturers-get-permits-online/articleshow/76803765.cms||Deepak Yadav
July 6, 2020||Meerut||Cops rescue couple after their car gets stuck on submerged road||Bijnor: A man and his wife were rescued by the local policemen after their pickup van was almost swept away by the river that had submerged the unpaved road.The van, loaded with water tanks, was coming from Haridwar. The incident happened near Bhaguwala outpost under limits of Mandawali police station in Bijnor on Sunday morning.According to sources, the dirt road was put to use by the commuters after a nearby bridge went defunct over two years ago.One of the witnesses, Harpal Singh, said, “The current of the river was so strong that it swept away the van, in which the couple was travelling. There was Bhaguwala outpost near the defunct bridge where four constables were posted. They spotted the drowning van and rescued them.”According to Mandawali station house officer, Sandeep Tyagi, “Police have rescued two persons on Sunday morning. Their vehicle was also fished out of the river.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cops-rescue-couple-after-their-car-gets-stuck-on-submerged-road/articleshow/76802225.cms||Harveer Dabas
July 6, 2020||Meerut||Bhim Army gen secretary gets bail after nine months in violence case||Meerut: Kamal Walia, the national general secretary of Bhim Army, was released on bail from Saharanpur jail after nine months in a violence case in which he had surrendered last year. Walia along with national president Manjeet Nautiyal, both booked in separate cases, had surrendered in a CJM court in Saharanpur after which they were sent to jail. Violence had erupted in Saharanpur in September last year following desecration of a statue of Baba Bhimrao Ambedkar in Ghunna village under Kotwali Dehat police station. Three FIRs against named and over 700 unnamed suspects were registered. Walia was named in two FIRs following which he surrendered in court last October. Several cases related to violence have been registered against Walia in Saharanpur which has witnessed frequent caste clashes since 2017. He was also booked under the Gangsters Act last year. On Saturday evening, Walia was welcomed by scores of his supporters upon his release where he stated his resolve to work in the same way as in the past. "This is a victory of the judiciary. This is also a victory of the people from the Bahujan community who have kept faith in our work," Walia said. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad was also present during Walia's release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bhim-army-gen-secretary-gets-bail-after-nine-months-in-violence-case/articleshow/76802232.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana tally crosses 17,000, Gurugram death toll now 100||CHANDIGARH: Haryana recorded 457 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths on Sunday, taking the state’s tally for the virus to 17,005 cases and casualties to 265. However, there was good news too as 687 people recovered from the virus and the total number of people in the state who have overcome the virus reached 12,944. Haryana has 3,796 active cases. Of the five deaths, three were in Faridabad, and one each in Ambala and Gurugram districts. The state’s testing rate rose to 12,117 per million of population, with the number of tests carried out so far reaching 3,07,189. This testing is of RT-PCR kits only. The health department is yet to compile the details of tests conducted through antigen kits. Faridabad recorded the highest number of cases during the day, 161, taking the district’s overall count to 4,525. There are 824 active cases in the district. Gurugram got 120 new cases, with which its tally reached 5,949. The latest death took the district’s casualty count to 100. There are 1,020 active cases here. No new case was reported in Sonipat, Rohtak, Nuh, Panchkula, Jind, Kaithal and Charkhi Dadri districts. Rewari emerged as new hotspot with 34 cases, taking the district’s count to 386 cases. It was followed by19 cases each in Kurukshetra and Panipat, 18 in Hisar, 16 in Bhiwani, 15 in Karnal district, 13 each in Ambala and Jhajjar, 12 in Sirsa, six in Mahendergarh, five in Palwal and Fatehabad, and one in Yamuanangar. In all, 61,445 persons had completed quarantine. Of the total 3.07 lakh people who have been tested so far in the state, 2,84,570 have been found to be negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/hry-tally-crosses-17k-ggn-death-toll-now-100/articleshow/76809891.cms||Manvir Saini
July 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Police stations, posts lack facilities to arrest Covid-19 spread||Ludhiana: Even as several cops have tested positive for Covid-19, Ludhiana commissionerate police stations and posts lack facilities to check its spread.Though the 30 police stations and as many police posts here have foot-operated sanitizers, most of them do not screen visitors.As a precautionary measure, some of the senior cops have set up cabins at their offices to maintain distance. Assistant commissioner of police (Central) Waryam Singh said, “I have made a glass cabin at my office. While I sit in it, visitors are chaired at a distance and given a mic to speak. I am also installing a sanitization tunnel at the entrance of my office.”The ACP claims to have spent money for his pocket to make these arrangements. Assistant commissioner of police (Industrial Area-B) Sandeep Vadehra, too, has installed a same set-up at his office. A TOI team checked a few police stations and posts and found them lacking arrangements despite receiving more footfall. At Division 7 police station, a volunteer was checking the temperature of visitors with an infrared thermometer. However, while doing so, he failed to ensure social distancing. And at a room there, a cop and a visitor were without a mask.At Kochar market police post, no cop was standing at the entry gate to check visitors. And inside the post, a mask-less cop was seen sitting with visitors without maintaining distance. The police post in-charge said, “We don’t have an infrared thermometer, but we ask visitors if they have fever. We accept their applications after sanitizing their hands and ensure they maintain distance.” At Shimlapuri police station, a sanitization tunnel has been installed at the entrance. An SHO said, “A glass wall between cops and visitors is not feasible. The department cannot spend so much to make the necessary arrangements in all police stations and posts. We will have to spend from our own pockets for this. Our work requires public dealing, therefore, we have to rely on awareness, daily exercises, a good diet and a strong immune system to escape Covid-19.” Deputy commissioner of police (Headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said, “Besides masks and sanitisers, thermal scanners have been provided to each police station for temperature checking. SHOs have been directed to ensure social distancing. I will get it checked if norms are not being followed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-stations-posts-lack-facilities-to-arrest-covid-19-spread/articleshow/76803124.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||More curbs in Thiruvananthapuram amid red-flag signs||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With 36% cases that were reported since May 4 getting infected through contacts and signs of community transmission looming large, the state government has imposed triple lockdown in the capital city on Sunday. A series of red-flag signs prompted the extreme step for containment in the city: Single highest day spike in cases, highest number of contact cases and emergence of super spread after a person was identified as source of infection for nine positive cases in the district. A fish vendor who tested positive on June 30 is believed to have transmitted disease to nine persons across three wards. Previously, an auto driver had transmitted the disease to six persons. For the first time in the district, disease transmission occurred beyond family members in a case where there was no source of infection. Basic reproductive number (R0) also went above 6 for the first time in the district. The R(O), often pronounced as ‘R nought’, is the basic reproduction number of an infection or simply, the average number of people expected to be infected by an individual. It’s widely believed an outbreak can be contained if its R0 is less than one, or R(1). As per WHO definition on various degrees of transmission, clusters of cases are defined as those clustered in time, geographic location or by common exposure. Such clusters have developed mainly at Poonthura and partially at Manacaud in the city. Clustering is regarded as the impending sign for community transmission, where an area could experience large outbreak of local transmission which may not be linked to transmission chains or could result in multiple unrelated clusters. Over 200 samples of primary contacts are also being expected in the coming days in cases where there have been no sources of infection. There has been serious difference of opinion over occurrence of community spread in the city with a section arguing that larger outbreak across many wards or unrelated multiple clusters have not happened in the city so far. Another view goes by the definition of centre for disease control and prevention according to which when people who are infected with virus in an area do not know how or where they got infected, it is community spread. District collector Navjot Khosa said that cases have been reported from high density areas and there are sources of infection but couldn’t be traced. “We took measures to stop further spread in containment zones. We have not reached a stage where we are unable to check the chain of transmission. We are on the verge of community spread,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/more-curbs-in-tvm-amid-red-flag-signs/articleshow/76803160.cms||Aswin J Kumar
July 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Cycle valley land auction: Small units feel slighted||Ludhiana: Days after Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) initiated online auction for 50 acres at Focal Point-cum-cycle valley site at Dhanansu village, micro and small unit owners are up in arms against the department. They want it to start the process of allotting land to the small industries as well. Representatives of various business associations said regardless of the promise made by the government, till now only the interests of big industries have been taken into consideration and nothing concrete has been done for the small units in the project. Speaking to the TOI, Narinder Bhamra, president of Fasteners’ Manufacturers’ Association of India, said, “Last month, PSIEC initiated online auction of 50 acres, while 100 acres have already been allotted to a company. Unfortunately, till now the micro and small industries have got nothing. Small units, especially the ones located in mixed land use areas, were promised plots at reasonable rates at the project. Time and time again we have been reminding PSIEC and the state government about their promise, but our requests have yielded no results. If the government and officials think they can overlook the interests of the small industry and we will keep silent, then they are mistaken. We know how to fight for our rights. The process of allotment of land to the small businesses should start at the earliest.”Inderjit Singh Navyug, former president of United Cycle and Parts’ Manufacturers’ Association (UCPMA), said, “Recently, they advertised for the auction of 50 acres for setting up of industrial park on freehold basis, for which the reserve price was Rs 69 crore. It is impossible for small industries to participate even by pooling, as not only the area, but the reserve price too is huge. During the past three years, there have been several meetings of the small unit owners with various government departments and they were even asked to file expressions of interest for purchase of land. But till now we have received no response or update on our requests. PSIEC is auctioning big chunks of land, which are out of our reach. We are unable to understand why PSIEC is ignoring small industrialists for allotting plots as they are in dire need of land in designated industrial areas.” PSIEC chairman Gurpreet Gogi said, “We are well aware of the land requirement of small industry, especially those with factories in mixed land use areas. Their deadline of 2022, when they are supposed to shift to designated industrial areas, is coming near. We are doing our best to speed up the process of finalising the blueprint of land allotment to small industries in Dhanansu Cycle Valley project. Last minute formalities, like eligibility criterion and the size of the plots, are being decided. In addition to this, I also want to let the MSME industry know that we are also identifying 100-150 acres for another focal point and preference will be given to those who have their factories in the mixed land use areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cycle-valley-land-auction-small-units-feel-slighted/articleshow/76803129.cms||Mohit Behl
July 6, 2020||Dehradun||Residents want Kumbh dates deferred||Haridwar: With the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases and the preparations for Kumbh Mela 2021 allegedly moving at a snail’s pace, locals and various sections of seers have demanded that the event should be rescheduled keeping in mind the health concerns. Retired professor BD Joshi said, “Kumbh should not be held in 2021 considering the larger public interest. It was due to the pandemic that the priests of the four Char Dham shrines opposed this year’s pilgrimage. The Kanwar Yatra has been cancelled too. Let the priests perform the rituals on the said date with a limited number of people in attendance.”Another resident said, “The Kumbh Mela administration and seers are merely putting on a brave face. Even they know that holding Kumbh in January is not feasible.” Echoing similar views, Juna Akhara seer Swami Yatindranand Giri opined that the event can be celebrated “symbolically” in 2021 with a full-fledged affair the next year. However, the view was opposed by the others stating that religious events cannot be arbitrarily held at any time. Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti’s national spokesperson Baba Hathyogi said, "There is hardly any possibility of the Kumbh being held as per schedule in 2021 due to the Covid-19 threat. The scenario will change only if a vaccine is discovered in time." SIDCUL Industrial Association’s chairman Arun Saraswat said he has reports suggesting that “the Kumbh administration is already trying to convince seers about the infeasibility of the event”. Meanwhile, Akhara Parishad, the apex body of seers, has maintained that the religious event would be held as per schedule, starting January. Refuting all claims about the infeasibility of the event, Ganga Sabha general secretary Tanmaya Vashishth said, “The mela will be held, though nothing can be said about its scale. If the government permits assembly of pilgrims, they will definitely gather in large numbers on the Kumbh bathing days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/residents-want-kumbh-dates-deferred/articleshow/76802223.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
July 6, 2020||Meerut||Three persons found murdered in as many districts of Meerut zone||MEERUT: Three persons were found murdered in separate incidents in the districts of Meerut zone. In the first incident, the body of a youth who was bludgeoned to death with an iron rod was found from the roof of his house in Bulandshahr’s Shikarpur area. In Meerut, the body of a youth who was missing from Milak village of Sardhana area was found dumped in a field. He was missing for the last two days and his family has raised suspicion against three persons from the village. In Hapur, the body of a farmer in Kotwali Dehat area was recovered from his field on Sunday morning. All the bodies were sent for post-mortem examination to ascertain the cause of death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-persons-found-murdered-in-as-many-districts-of-meerut-zone/articleshow/76802228.cms||Piyush Rai
July 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana tally crosses 17,000, Gurugram death toll now 100||CHANDIGARH: Haryana recorded 457 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths on Sunday, taking the state’s tally for the virus to 17,005 cases and casualties to 265. However, there was good news too as 687 people recovered from the virus and the total number of people in the state who have overcome the virus reached 12,944. Haryana has 3,796 active cases. Of the five deaths, three were in Faridabad, and one each in Ambala and Gurugram districts. The state’s testing rate rose to 12,117 per million of population, with the number of tests carried out so far reaching 3,07,189. This testing is of RT-PCR kits only. The health department is yet to compile the details of tests conducted through antigen kits. Faridabad recorded the highest number of cases during the day, 161, taking the district’s overall count to 4,525. There are 824 active cases in the district. Gurugram got 120 new cases, with which its tally reached 5,949. The latest death took the district’s casualty count to 100. There are 1,020 active cases here. No new case was reported in Sonipat, Rohtak, Nuh, Panchkula, Jind, Kaithal and Charkhi Dadri districts. Rewari emerged as new hotspot with 34 cases, taking the district’s count to 386 cases. It was followed by19 cases each in Kurukshetra and Panipat, 18 in Hisar, 16 in Bhiwani, 15 in Karnal district, 13 each in Ambala and Jhajjar, 12 in Sirsa, six in Mahendergarh, five in Palwal and Fatehabad, and one in Yamuanangar. In all, 61,445 persons had completed quarantine. Of the total 3.07 lakh people who have been tested so far in the state, 2,84,570 have been found to be negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hry-tally-crosses-17k-ggn-death-toll-now-100/articleshow/76803770.cms||Manvir Saini
July 6, 2020||Trichy||NIT-Trichy CoE to design gem polishing machine for half price of Chinese make||Trichy: Siemens Centre of Excellence (CoE) in Manufacturing located at National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy has come forward to design an indigenous artificial gem polishing machine to revive the dormant artificial gem making industry. The artificial gem makers have been depending on Chinese machines to produce artificial gems. Covid-19 lockdown restrictions have pushed the gem makers to develop a low-cost indigenous machine with the support of NIT Trichy.Trichy, considered as the artificial gem cutting capital of the country until late 1990’s, faced severe blows with the foray of cheap Chinese artificial stones and China-made gem cutting and polishing machines. The imported semi-automatic machines with high productivity swept the livelihood of artificial gem industry in the region. The recent lockdowns in China and India have stalled the business of the gem makers who supply artificial stones to jewellers for value addition. As procuring spare parts became difficult, gem makers have been thinking of developing indigenous gem cutting and polishing machines to overcome China’s dominance. Subsequently, industrial bodies such as Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Young Indians (Yi) Trichy chapter pitched in and linked the gem cutters to NIT Trichy for technical support. A feasibility study carried out by NIT Trichy’s Siemens CoE in Manufacturing has said that Chinese semi-automatic gem polishing machines can be indigenously produced at less than half the cost of the imported polishing machine.The NIT team studied a Chinese gem polishing machine available with a local gem maker for reproducing it locally. “We can re-engineer the gem polishing machine and make certain design improvements also to improve its accuracy. Since Trichy is a manufacturing hub, the machine can be produced locally,” Dr M Duraiselvam from NIT Trichy Siemens CoE said. The work on designing the machine can be completed in a month, said CoE NIT Trichy which has re-engineering expertise and resources. “CII-Yi will support the revival of gemstones industry by facilitating industrial consultancy. We have requested support from governments,” Ketan J Vora, chair, Young Indians (Yi-CII), Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-trichy-coe-to-design-gem-polishing-machine-for-half-price-of-chinese-make/articleshow/76804235.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 6, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh gets 17 new cases, 28 recover||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported 17 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 1,063. Also, 28 patients recovered in the state, with which the number of patients who have been cured of the virus in the state has reached 724. The state’s recovery rate is 68.1%. Seven of the new cases are from Una, five from Kangra, two each from Kullu and Solan, and one from Mandi. Among the patients who recovered, eight each are from Hamirpur and Solan, seven from Kangra, three from Bilaspur, and one each from Una and Mandi. So far, 315 cases are active in the state, 13 have migrated out of state, nine have died of Covid-19 and two died of reasons other than Covid. A total of 59,959 persons had been put under surveillance in the state till Sunday. Of them, 41,602 had completed the 28 days of surveillance. Also, 88,549 persons had been tested for Covid-19, of whom 87,369 had tested negative and results of 27 samples were awaited. In Kangra, 61-year-old man from Rajot village of Baijnath tehsil, who had returned from Mumbai by air on June 27 and was in institutional quarantine at Parour, was among those who tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hill-state-gets-17-new-cases-28-recover/articleshow/76803779.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Meerut||Amroha nervous over frequent leopard sightings||Bijnor: Leopard sightings have increased post-harvest in many parts of Amroha district, creating panic among rural people. Two women have been killed by leopards in a span of one month. Forest department has been on its toes, trying to capture the leopards. On Sunday, foresters rushed to Chhoya village, where a calf was killed by a leopard. A villager found its carcass in his courtyard. Villagers tried to find it but failed. A forest department team found a big cat's pugmarks in the village.Ramesh Chandra, Amroha divisional forest officer, instructed the team to set up a cage to catch the leopard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/amroha-nervous-over-frequent-leopard-sightings/articleshow/76802245.cms||Harveer Dabas
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal nixes airline’s Andal plan to bypass restrictions||KOLKATA/DURGAPUR: Hours after the civil aviation ministry announced the cancellation of flights to Kolkata from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and three other cities with high prevalence of Covid cases, SpiceJet applied to the ministry for flights from the three metros to Kaji Nazrul Islam Airport (KNIA) in Andal near Durgapur to bypass the curbs. Flight schedules were drawn up starting Tuesday, a day after the ban would kick in. The air traffic control was asked to be ready for operations. But the plan was nixed by the state government on Sunday evening with both the airline and airport operator being told that flights would not be allowed. According to sources, SpiceJet officials set the alternate plan in motion immediately after the decision to suspend all flights to Kolkata from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur between July 6 and July 19. Officials of Bengal Aerotropolis Pvt Ltd (BAPL), the private airport operator at Andal, said SpiceJet officials called on Saturday evening and disclosed the plans to start daily flights connecting Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai from July 7. “We have been ready to operate since domestic flight operations resumed on May 25. But SpiceJet that flew daily from here to Mumbai and Chennai prior to the lockdown postponed the restart. On Saturday, we learned that it would resume operations from Tuesday. I called up the airport staff to report to duty on Monday. As per protocol, we also informed the district administration. However, the West Burdwan DM called up on Sunday evening and said the state government had denied permission to the flights,” said KNIA director Apurva Sharma. Sources said the DM immediately alerted the state chief secretary. In the evening, the DM was asked to inform the KNIA director that the ban on flights from Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu was applicable to all airports in Bengal and not just Kolkata. The SpiceJet spokesperson did not respond to messages over the flight plans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-nixes-airlines-andal-plan-to-bypass-restrictions/articleshow/76803773.cms||Subhro Niyogi
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 hotspots shift to western Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Residents of the western part of the city now need to scrap their easygoing attitude to wearing masks and get into battle mode as the intensity of Covid outbreak in city has shifted there. In mid-May the cluttered areas of Jamalpur, Khadia, Dariyapur, Shahpur used to account for nearly 74% of the total Covid infections in the city. But over the last fortnight, the tony areas of Bodakdev, Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Navrangpura and Paldi seem worse off. Today, these very posh areas in the western part are reporting 12 to 15 times the number of cases reported from Jamalpur, which was the worst-affected area when the pandemic hit the city initially in April. The reason for this rapid growth in the western part of the city is the population’s aversion to wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. A worried civic official told TOI that the symptoms are changing and are not the usual cough, cold and fever. “We are beginning to see cases with diarrhoea and vomiting too,” said the AMC official. The civic official also referred to the growing numbers of cases in Bodakdev, Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Naranpura and Navrangpura. “If you take Jamalpur was the worst-affected ward by mid-May, then Nikol and Naranpura have attained that status over the last fortnight ending July 1. Naranpura has 15 times the number of cases than reported from Jamalpur (11 cases) in a fortnight, similarly, it is 13 times for Bodakdev, 12 times for Jodhpur and Navrangpura,” says the civic official. Of the total 4,018 Covid-19 cases reported over a fortnight till July 1, the posh municipal zones of North West, South West And West accounted for 45% of the cases — which is nearly half of the cases. The West Zone of the city which includes the wards of Sardar Patel Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangura, Ranip, Paldi, and Vasna has recorded the highest cases — 941 of the 4,018 cases. This was 25% of the total cases registered in city from a single zone. The North West Zone reported 416 fresh cases or 11.47% of 4,018 cases. The North West Zone spans areas such as Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia, and Gota, while the South West Zone, which includes Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Maktampura, and Sarkhej reported 410 cases during the same period. This was 10.20% of the total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hotspots-shift-to-western-abad/articleshow/76803788.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Tragedy averted as busy road sinks fourth time||Ludhiana: In the fourth incident of this kind on busy Kaka Marriage Palace road, a portion of the road caved in outside Hotel Onn on Sunday. A deep crater was created as a loaded truck passed through the road around 1.15pm. No one was injured in the incident.As the road gave in, the hotel staff informed the police, who stopped the traffic movement on the road to avert any mishap.On getting information, ward councillor Gurpreet Gogi reached the spot and informed civic officials, who came with machinery and dug up the road to check the exact reason behind this incident.The officials blamed the digging of road for laying of underground cables for the incident, which could have caused a major tragedy. They said during the digging, the pipeline in road gulley got damaged and water leaked from there.Operation and maintenance cell SDO Anshul Garcha said, “I checked the CCTV footage of this site. A loaded truck passed through the road, after which it caved in. Luckily, the truck did not sink in the crater, otherwise it would have been a major incident.” He said they would seal the leakage and the road would be repaired at the earliest. An eyewitness said initially, there was a deep hole in the road and it was all empty inside. They had placed pieces of stone around that hole to avoid any untoward incident. They claimed that there are more such patches on the road.Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who is MLA from Ludhiana West constituency, along with Congress councillor Gagandeep Bhalla, visited the spot soon after the incident took place. He instructed the officials to close road completely till it is repaired to avoid any tragedyPast incidentsAugust 13, 2011: A truck had fallen into the crater created due to caving in of the road and the driver had diedJune 2013: An 80-feet stretch of the road was washed away after sewer line burst near Dhami Eye Care HospitalJuly 16, 2018: A portion of the road had got sunk near Yes Bank due to similar reasons||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tragedy-averted-as-busy-road-sinks-fourth-time/articleshow/76803177.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||15 deaths daily in Ahmedabad in 100 days||AHMEDABAD: On March 26, the demise of an 85-year-old woman from Ahmedabad with travel history to Saudi Arabia was recorded as the city and the district’s first Covid death. She became the third Covid positive patient to succumb to the ‘new disease’ in Gujarat. Two men — one from Surat and the other from Bhavnagar — had died on March 23 and 25. From that time the district, propelled by the city, has remained a Covid hotspot as far as patient deaths are concerned. The district on Saturday completed 100 days since its first death. An analysis reveals that Ahmedabad recorded 14.7 or 15 deaths daily on average since its first death. However, the death rate has dropped over the past 10 days, according to the analysis of data from 10-day intervals since the first death. The peak death rate was recorded between May 26 and June 4, when against 2,764 positive cases, 216 patients died. The death rate was 7.8% at this stage. Between April 26 and May 5, the district recorded 187 deaths at the rate of 7.7%. Most deaths in a 10-day period were recorded between June 5 and 14 when 249, or on average 25 patients, died daily in the district. Compared to that, between June 25 and July 4, the district recorded 97 deaths or close to 10 deaths daily. The district had recorded the highest single-day death toll on May 5 when 39 persons succumbed to the viral infection. “There are a few factors responsible for the drop in the death rate. We understand the viral infection better now compared to the initial two months,” said an Ahmedabad intensivist who has treated Covid patients. 25% deaths from Central ZoneAn analysis of city areas reveals that 25% of the deaths were recorded from the Central Zone. North, South, and East zones recorded 19.5%, 18%, and 17%. Western city parts cumulatively contributed rest of the 20.5%, where the Northwest Zone has recorded the lowest (3%) of deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/15-deaths-daily-in-ahmedabad-in-100-days/articleshow/76803792.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||Xavier’s alumni brings back 174 stuck in UAE||Kolkata: One hundred and seventy-four people from Bengal — including many jobless migrant labourers, three pregnant women, five senior citizens and four persons in need of emergency medical treatment — were flown back home in a repatriation flight from Dubai on Sunday evening.The chartered flight was arranged and facilitated by St Xavier’s College Alumni Association (SXCAA) of Dubai in coordination with its parent body St Xavier’s College Calcutta Alumni Association and Purvanchal Pravasi Milan (PPM) — a UAE-based committee, with active support of the Indian embassy in UAE, Indian High Commission of Dubai and the government of West Bengal.“The Covid-19 pandemic has paralyzed the world economy. Thousands of skilled and unskilled labourers in the construction and jewellery enterprises have lost their jobs in UAE. We took this initiative to help these jobless workers return home as part of the CSR programme of St Xavier’s alumni and PPM. We are also providing assistance with food and shelter to jobless labourers in the UAE,” said Kalyan Bhattacharya, president, SXCAA, UAE Chapter.The special flight,6E9121 from Dubai, landed at 6.15pm at Kolkata airport and all the repatriates were sent to 7-day mandatory quarantine. Ninety-five of them, mostly labourers, were sent to government quarantine centre and the rest were shifted to hotels. The pregnant women and flyers in need of urgent medical attention were allowed home quarantine.Rev father Dominic Savio, Principal of St Xavier’s College (autonomous) Kolkata, said: “Any Jesuit Institution throughout the world teaches its students the values of supporting others apart from imparting formal education. I am glad that Alumni Association of our college, based both in UAE and Kolkata, have come forward to help by arranging repatriation for the stranded Indian labourers, especially belonging to eastern part of India, from UAE to Kolkata. This has been an international repatriation matter and we are thankful to the concerned ministries and departments of both the countries especially government of West Bengal, who allowed us to take this initiative forward by following the stipulated government protocols of both the countries in letter and spirit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/xaviers-alumni-brings-back-174-stuck-in-uae/articleshow/76803778.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 6, 2020||India||960 hectares of Yamuna floodplain taken over by squatters: Monitoring panel||NEW DELHI: Almost 959 hectares of Yamuna’s floodplain is currently encroached on and needs to be secured by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), the final report by Yamuna Monitoring Committee to National Green Tribunal (NGT) has stated. The tenure of the committee, which was formed by NGT to oversee the rejuvenation of the river, got over on June 29. Its final report stated that an area of 954.24 hectares was encroached on or in agricultural use, while another 5.26 hectares was currently under litigation. It added that the Millennium Park bus depot, which was under the Supreme Court and NGT’s scanner, was indeed a part of the river’s “O” zone where construction and commercial activity was prohibited. From 2018 till September 2019, DDA cleared 352.36 hectares from encroachment, but a larger tract was yet to be reclaimed. Another 279.23 hectares was, meanwhile, transferred to the forest department for plantation purposes. “A considerable portion of the reclaimed land is related to 10 projects being undertaken by DDA. While this has been achieved, a much larger tract remains to be reclaimed,” said the report. “DDA has stated that the encroached area is proposed to be vacated when the implementation of the projects starts, as has been done previously. The committee feels this is only a means of parrying what was directed to be done by NGT. With delays in project execution, which DDA itself has referred to repeatedly, and non-availability of labour, the timelines for commencement of all projects and their completion appear to be quite elastic. To allow private agriculturists to continue to use publicly owned land doesn’t appear to be defensible,” the report added. Talking about the Millennium Park bus depot, the report said, “There is no convincing documentation or other kinds of evidence advanced by DDA or DTC to show that this is not an integral part of the floodplain. The argument made that no other land was available is not acceptable. The pressure being mounted to support change of land use seems to rest on tenuous arguments and mere references of meetings, minutes and affidavits. They are not enough to make the committee conclude that the land is outside the “O” zone of the floodplain or that its use as a bus depot is an urgent necessity because of the impending arrival of new buses in 2021 and 2022.” The committee also observed that much of the demarcation of the floodplain only existed on blueprints and maps, but there were no physical landmarks on the ground that could act as a deterrent to encroachers. “The occasional signage boards that had been erected were mostly dilapidated and rusted at most places. They were not acting as a deterrent to prevent encroachment or pollution and the fact that violation would lead to no punitive action was widely known,” stated the report. It added that 591 bollards made of cement had been erected on the floodplain, while a tender for installing signage had also been awarded. “The whole exercise of demarcating the floodplain with boundary pillars would be rendered futile if DDA doesn’t reclaim the land. NGT may consider giving the new vice-chairman three months to review the status of all pockets of land that are not under litigation and prepare a detailed action plan to retrieve the land and to either hand it to the forest department or take up plantation,” said the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/960-hectares-of-yamuna-floodplain-taken-over-by-squatters-monitoring-panel/articleshow/76804672.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Micro-containment areas in Ahmedabad cross 100-mark||AHMEDABAD: The city now has 110 micro-containment areas. The corporation on Sunday declared its fifth list of such areas; it contained 11 new entries. The list has six societies from the western part of the city. The AMC said that health check-ups will be conducted in the new micro-containment areas. In all, 332 families and a population of more than 1,500 fall within the 11 newly declared micro-containment areas. The AMC had on Saturday night marked out 19 such areas, which had taken the total in the city to 99. Two of the 11 areas declared on Sunday are in the South West Zone: Anamika Flats and Rabarivas. In the West Zone, the societies or their sections are Aakash-3 (Block-A), Naranpura; Trishal Duplex, Paldi; Diamond Green (Block-A), New CG Road in Chandkheda; and Aarasuri Society, Nava Vadaj. The other areas are 15/New Karnavati Nagar (Bhaipura) and Chippa ni Chali (Raipur). Both lie in the East Zone. The South Zone inclusions on the list are Sahajanand Society (CTM); and C-29 and C-220 to C-245 of Punitnagar. The only micro-containment area in the Central Zone on Sunday’s list is Block-12 of Juli Apartments (Girdhar Nagar). Officials said that the number of cases in the western and eastern parts of the city were increasing. Hence the majority of the micro-containment areas are in those parts. The officials said that the AMC was pulled up by a central team during its visit to Ahmedabad on June 26. The team, which was taking stock of the Covid response, had directed the AMC to set up micro-containment areas for effective management of cases. Since then, the AMC has been regularly declaring micro-containment areas after analyzing the occurrence of cases. The official said that instead of declaring an entire society as a micro-containment area, the AMC has been designating only the affected sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/micro-containment-areas-in-ahmedabad-cross-100-mark/articleshow/76803795.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Ex-SHO, cop booked for stripping, assaulting 3 in Punjab||LUDHIANA: More than two months after Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta ordered an inquiry into an alleged assault of three persons and making them stand nude at a police station in Khanna, the police have booked a former SHO and a constable in connection with the case. The accused, inspector Baljinder Singh and constable Varun Kumar, were posted at Khanna Sadar police station when the incident took place. Taking note of a viral video that showed the then SHO allegedly assaulting and making three persons stand nude at the police station, DGP Gupta had directed IGP (Ludhiana Range) Jaskaran Singh to conduct an inquiry. Later, Khanna SSP Harpreet Singh had marked the inquiry to Khanna SP (headquarters) Tejinder Singh. The SSP Khanna confirmed that a case under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the IPC, and under the provisions of SC/ST Act and IT Act has been registered against the duo. The accused would be arrested in a day or two, he added. The SSP said constable Varun has been booked under the IT Act, as his mobile phone was used to make the video. Another police officer said a special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted, comprising the Ludhiana Range IG, Ludhiana Rural SSP and a SP-rank officer, for further probe into the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ex-sho-constable-booked-over-stripping-assault-of-3-in-khanna/articleshow/76803190.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kochi||All symptomatic patients in Ernakulam to be tested soon||KOCHI: Sheer negligence on the part of a few people has resulted in the spurt in Covid-19 infections through contact in Ernakulam district. Their failure to comply with instructions and unnecessary travel are proving to be the bane of authorities. Take the case of a truck driver from Paingottoor. He had transported pineapples from Vazhakulam to Bengaluru last month. On learning of his journey, Asha workers in the panchayat approached his family to ensure that he undergoes quarantine on return. They were also asked to inform the local body of developments. But the family did not comply with any of the directives. He is one of six contact cases whose source of infection is unknown. “The man returned on June 19 and his wife developed symptoms the very next day. The couple approached a private hospital nearby and returned home. The man developed symptoms after a few days and approached the hospital again. On June 24, the manager of the firm, with which the man is employed, received information that his Bengaluru owner has tested positive for Covid-19. When the driver was alerted he grew apprehensive and informed us of his return. He had withheld it fearing loss of work while in quarantine. Now, the couple has tested positive for Covid-19. Furthermore, we have placed around 28 of their primary contacts under quarantine,” said Dayi Thomas, Paingottoor panchayat president. Health officials feel contact cases will increase as long as people fail to follow physical distancing in public places and avoid unnecessary movement. “We expect more cases in the days to come. A source of infection of a deacon from North Paravoor is still being probed. He had travelled from New Delhi and underwent quarantine. Following this, he moved around extensively to invite people to his priestly ordination to be held this month and visited many shops, including a dental clinic. It is difficult to identify the source of infection in one day if a patient has no travel history and has been in quarantine. It will take at least four days to pinpoint the source,” a health officer said. Officials have so far identified nearly 100 primary contacts of the six persons whose source of infection is yet to be determined. More details are being collected. A Thrikkakara native who was tested positive on Saturday had visited a private hospital after he developed throat pain. “When hospital authorities asked him to undergo Covid-19 test, he refused and returned home. As his pain did not subside, he approached the same hospital and submitted his sample for testing. He had visited Broadway a day before developing symptoms,” said a Thrikkakara municipality official. With the spurt in the number of cases, the health department is to start testing all symptomatic persons in the district. “Our focus is now to subject all symptomatic persons to testing, rather than asymptomatic ones. We will not look into their travel or contact history. Everybody in the community with symptoms will be tested. All private hospitals have been issued instructions. Four of the six cases with unknown sources of infection were reported from private hospitals. Our aim is to flatten the curve by preventing a sudden spike, to keep the health system intact. We cannot eradicate the virus, it will be with us and people will continue to be infected,” another health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/all-symptomatic-patients-in-ekm-to-be-tested-soon/articleshow/76803188.cms||T C Sreemol
July 6, 2020||Ludhiana||To keep staff safe and healthy, bizmen offer them pvt vehicles||tnnLudhiana: Every cog in the wheel matters to city businessmen who are taking precautions to keep their staff and workers safe. Rattled over high rise in number of Covid-19 cases across India, many businessmen have prohibited the use of public transport for daily chores by their staff. In some cases, where the labourers want to return from their home states or go back, businessmen are sending them in private vehicles or taxis to minimise their risk of contracting the virus. Atul Saggar, general secretary of the Apparel Manufacturers’ Association of Ludhiana, said, “Instead of turning normal, the situation right now is aggravating, as the cases are increasing all over India. It is very worrisome. We faced huge difficulties in bringing back workers to the factories and now we cannot risk exposing them to this pandemic. Therefore, in addition to taking all other precautions at workplace, like sanitisation and health check-up, we are now asking them to avoid use of public transports, like three-wheelers and rickshaws for ferrying goods to and fro our units. We are giving them our scooter or even car, and then properly disinfect the vehicles.” Rajkumar Singla, president of the Fastener Suppliers’ Association, Ludhiana, said they were spending from their pockets to keep their staff safe. “We are doing our best to keep our labourers and other staff healthy regardless of the costs incurred. Two of my staff members wanted to go back to their home near Delhi on leave and had booked train tickets, but we arranged a taxi at our own expense. Travelling in any public transport is very dangerous. If they contract the virus, it will be difficult for them, their families and even us as we do not want to lose our hard-working workers,” he said. Swinder Singh Hunjan, an industrialist from Janta Nagar Small-Scale Manufacturers’ Association, said workers were like their family. “Some of our association members recently bought second-hand bikes and scooters so that their employees do not feel the need to use three-wheelers or rickshaws for tasks like going to bank, market, making deliveries or collecting payments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/to-keep-staff-safe-and-healthy-bizmen-offer-them-pvt-vehicles/articleshow/76803186.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Dehradun||Trees uprooted, traffic disrupted after downpour in Mussoorie||Mussoorie: Heavy rainfall on Saturday evening caused widespread damage in the hill town. Two trees were uprooted near Picture Palace causing damage to the vehicles parked there. One tree fell down from a ridge above the taxi stand at Picture Palace damaging seven vehicles that were parked on the roadside and the other one fell near Mussoorie Girls School. Traffic on the Mussoorie-Dehradun road came to a standstill for several hours due to the uprooted trees while power supply also got disrupted. However, there were no reports of human injuries. The taxi owners whose vehicles were damaged due to the uprooted trees are complaining of foul play. “The uprooted tree had been intentionally weakened by chemicals and we want the owner of the property to compensate the taxi owners for the damages caused,” demanded Surendra Panwar, secretary of Mussoorie Taxi Association. The forest officials have also not ruled out the possibility of foul play. “The trunk of the uprooted tree seemed to be burnt, maybe by using some chemical. We are looking into the matter,” said Jagjeevan Lal, a forest official. In yet another incident, a landslide triggered due to the downpour damaged two houses on the pathway between Kincraig and Picture Palace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/trees-uprooted-traffic-disrupted-after-downpour-in-mussoorie/articleshow/76802262.cms||Anmol Jain
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||68% of Ahmedabad’s 165 fresh Covid cases reported from west||AHMEDABAD: The western part of the city accounted for 68% of the 165 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in city on Saturday. In all, 112 cases were reported from the western part on the day. Of the nine deaths reported on Saturday, five were from the western part of the city. The West Zone which includes the wards of Sardar Patel Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Ranip, Paldi, and Vasna recorded 59 cases — the highest from any civic body zone for the day. This was followed by North West Zone which reported 29 fresh cases. The North West Zone spans areas such as Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia, and Gota, while the South West Zone, which includes Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Maktampura, and Sarkhej reported 25 cases. The West Zone reported four deaths and one was reported from the South West Zone. Currently the western part of the city accounts for 51.28% of the total active cases in the city. Till Sunday morning, the city had a total of 3,200 active cases of which 1,641 are from the western part. Of these, 1,641 cases, the West Zone has 663; the North West Zone, 498; the South West Zone, 480. As for other zones, 224 are from the Central Zone, 432 from the North Zone, 459 from the East Zone, and 444 from the South Zone. On Saturday, a total of 211 patients were discharged of which 62 were from west zone, 43 from North West Zone and 14 were from South West Zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/68-of-citys-165-fresh-covid-cases-reported-from-west/articleshow/76803794.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: In viral clip, private hospital staff promises Covid-19 negative report for money, FIR filed||MEERUT: After a viral video showed the staff of a private hospital in the city promising a Covid-19 negative report from the district hospital in exchange for money, Meerut chief medical officer ordered a probe while a case was filed against the hospital’s owners. Besides, the district magistrate has suspended the hospital’s licence. The video shows a group of people talking to the hospital staff and purportedly requesting for a negative Covid-19 test report (from the district hospital), so that they "don’t face any problem for at least a week". The video also shows the ‘clients’ purportedly giving Rs 2,000 to the hospital manager and promising to pay the remaining Rs 500 when the report arrives. Chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said, “An inquiry has been set up into the matter. From the video, it has emerged that the hospital’s manager, Shah Alam, is promising people a fake Covid-19 negative report in exchange for money. A case has been filed against him under section 420 (fraud) of IPC. Meanwhile, an inquiry has also been set up to find out if somebody from the district hospital was also hand in glove with him.” District magistrate Anil Dhingra has ordered the cancellation of the hospital’s licence. Notably, Meerut has reported a total of 1,117 cases so far, out of which 69 died and 772 recovered. UP has recorded a total of 28,061 cases – 785 deaths and 18,761 recoveries – so far. With a maximum of 2,785 positive cases reported till Sunday afternoon, Gautam Buddha Nagar was on the top of the state’s Covid-19 list. Ghaziabad, with 2,224 cases, stood at the second position followed by Lucknow with 1,448 cases, Kanpur Nagar with 1,364 cases and Agra with 1,291 cases. Watch Hospital staff promises Covid-19 -ve report for money in Meerut, video goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/in-viral-clip-pvt-hosp-staff-promises-covid-ve-report-for-money-fir-filed/articleshow/76802258.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab says will hold exams of medical education courses||CHANDIGARH: The department of medical education and research, Punjab has announced that examinations will be conducted for all its courses in the current session. The spokesperson of the department said instructions of the higher education department asking universities not to conduct examinations are not applicable on the medical education department. The university has already notified the schedule of examinations of various graduation and postgraduation courses in the health sciences. The department will also conduct examinations for recruitment of medical staff. The state government has sanctioned more than 4,000 posts of doctors and paramedical staff, including technicians, staff nurses, pharmacists, ophthalmic officers, medical / psychiatric social workers, operation theatre assistants and diet supervisors. The spokesperson said because of Covid-19 pandemic, the responsibility of recruiting medical and paramedical staff has been given to Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot. The vice-chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot has been asked to conduct these exams at the earliest, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-says-will-hold-exams-of-medical-education-courses/articleshow/76803796.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Chennai||Once bitten, twice shy, firms unlock with fingers crossed||CHENNAI: Industrial units and IT companies are gearing up to accommodate more employees at workplace from Monday as lockdown norms are relaxed in Chennai and its neighbouring districts Thiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpet, once again. With e-passes issued before the lockdown beginning June 19 being valid, several companies are hoping for smoother operations. But given the lack of consistency in the state government’s approach to lockdowns, they are also cautious. Several automotive companies and component suppliers in the Sriperumbudur, Oragadam and Maraimalainagar–Chengalpet belt that house units of Ford, Hyundai, Renault-Nissan, Mahindra & Mahindra and Yamaha, fall outside Greater Chennai police limits. But they are not opening up fully and gearing up for expanded operations in the coming days. These companies used to operate with anywhere between 20% to 50% staff before the intense lockdown was imposed. Barring a few, most may still stick to those numbers. “We will work with 20%-30% employees from Monday and depending on customer and safety requirements, will scale up,” a spokesperson from Hanon Automotive Systems India, which supplies critical components to auto majors in the region, said. With sales of tractors and two-wheelers picking up, the going has been good for the numerous foundry units, even during the intense lockdown. “But this stop start, start stop approach of the state government towards the lockdown should end. If they order us to shut down again, it will create lot of trouble,” said Sanjay Shroff, president, Institute of Indian Foundrymen. In the case of IT sector, the industry is running behind the state to get an anomaly -- number of employees to be permitted in IT parks within Greater Chennai police limits – rectified. While permitting 50% workforce, the government has capped the number of people to 80. The IT industry is requesting the government to permit 10% workforce and for a longer stipulated duration of at least one month at a time for companies to plan their manpower deployment. “There are a few critical reasons to deploy employees in offices too. Nature of business, customer-sponsored device and security trading solutions that require dual monitors for optimizing productivity to a certain level, the reasons are many. Further, innovation labs and Centre of Excellence, including the one established by Ford, cannot be replicated at employees’ homes,” said a senior representative of IT industry. For both manufacturing units and IT companies to seamlessly operate, transportation of their employees becomes key, especially in the absence of public transport. “There is still no clarity yet from manufacturers and IT companies. They have asked us to be prepared and they have been saying this for the past two months. Wherever additional buses, vans and cars have been requested, our members are handling them,” said A Afzal, chairman, Tamil Nadu Private Staff Bus Owners Association. The members of the association used to operate around 12,000 vehicles in Chennai and neighbouring districts to ferry employees for manufacturing and IT industries during normal times, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/once-bitten-twice-shy-firms-unlock-with-fingers-crossed/articleshow/76803789.cms||D Govardan
July 6, 2020||Dehradun||Two women drown in swollen Kosi river, one still missing||Nainital: Three women, all residents of Chamadiya Tonk in Lohali Gram Panchayat, were swept away while trying to cross the overflowing Kosi River in Nainital district on Sunday morning. The women — identified as 30-year-old Kamla Devi, 28-year-old Lata Devi, and 30-year-old Lalita Devi — had gone to the forest to collect fodder for cattle and on their way back, they tried to cross the river which had swelled due to rains. While the bodies of Kamla Devi and Lata Devi were found by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), search is still on for Lalita Devi. District officials present on the spot told TOI that the accident took place at around 9:30 am. “Kamla Devi’s body was found around 400 metres from where she drowned after almost three hours of search operation and Lata’s body was recovered about 800 metres away from that spot,” said Richa Singh, SDM of Koshya Kutauli. The official added, “The women had gone to the forest across the river to collect grass and leaves for cattle. On their way back, the water level in the river had risen. The women still tried to cross the river and were washed away. Some locals witnessed the entire accident and informed the district administration. Soon after, the police reached the spot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-women-drown-in-swollen-kosi-river-one-still-missing/articleshow/76802279.cms||Prashant Jha
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covid-19 rules make job tougher for firemen||KOLKATA: No help from strangers, no water from unknown people, keeping body parts covered and wearing masks on while fighting a fire are on the “must-follow” list of the fire services department during the pandemic. Following these rules at a time, when back to back fire incidents are happening, have put the fire brigade under a lot of stress, adding to their newly introduced job of mass sanitization. Even on Saturday, a fire broke out on the ninth floor of an eleven-storey (G+10) residential building in Alipore. TimesViewSeveral fire incidents have occurred in the recent past, putting fire brigade personnel under pressure. Citizens can help themselves and fire brigade personnel by following all safety norms. Being careful is even more important now.“We have been extremely cautious this whole time with Covid-19 protocols and that is the reason, our agency has the least number of infections as of now. We are sticking to all the Covid guidelines and ensuring there are no delay or loopholes in our primary job — saving people’s lives,” said Jag Mohan, the director general of Fire services, who himself was on quarantine last month after state fire minister Sujit Bose tested Covid positive for the infection on May 29. In the last few weeks, the fire department has been under tremendous pressure, not only to douse back-to-back fire incidents but also in various sanitization activities and tree cutting jobs post Amphan. “Covid-19 has exposed our force to an all new challenge. We are now being called for mass sanitization drives at various parts of the state and there, too, we need to maintain utmost precautions. We have also lost one of our firemen during a tree cutting activity post the cyclone,” said the official. The official added with bar on taking help from locals, a team of disaster management group personnel are now always accompanying the firemen for addition helping hand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-rules-make-job-tougher-for-firemen/articleshow/76803787.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 6, 2020||Vadodara||Pavagadh temple opens on Tuesday||VADODARA: The famed Mahakali temple atop Pavagadh hill will open doors to its devotees for the first time after lockdown on Tuesday morning. The temple, one of the Shaktipeeth of the goddess, had closed on March 20. The temple trust has announced that the temple will remain open daily from 6 am to 7.30 pm but pilgrims will have to maintain social distancing and wear face masks. While it has banned offerings like ‘chundari’ and coconut, the temple trust will not give pilgrims any ‘prasad’. “We will not allow children below the age of 10 years and adults above the age of 65 years to visit the temple as of now. We also advise pregnant women and physically disabled people to avoid visiting the temple for now,” said Raju Bhatt, secretary of the temple trust. Bhatt added that pilgrims’ body temperature will be tested and a disinfectant chamber has also been installed on the premises. The temple premises was sanitized on Saturday and Sunday. The ropeway, however, will also be made functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pavagadh-temple-opens-on-tuesday/articleshow/76802838.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kochi||‘Give time slots, facility to register online for tests’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The coronavirus warriors of the state health department have been relentless in their fight against the pandemic but reports of isolated incidents of shortcomings in the system have appeared once in a while. Noted filmmaker Sanal Kumar Sasidharan had to face such a situation the other day. ``I do not want to project it as an incident to create a negative impression on what the government is doing in the fight against the pandemic. But I will say there has to be some kind of system to avoid such lapses or careless attitude,’’ said Sanal. Sanal, who was down with fever, went to the Covid OP at the General Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday as per the direction he got from Disha, the health helpline. Even after waiting for three hours he was not called for testing the sample. “I went and asked about the status. I had come at about 7pm at the hospital. They were people who had come at 2pm waiting there. So, I went back,’’ said Sanal. The problem is there is no corresponding staff strength at the OP to meet the demand of the people turning up for tests. Hence, instead of keeping these people wait, there should be a system giving a time slot for people or a facility for online registration. Or else, the people who are waiting there for hours will end up getting infected, he said. Before reaching the general hospital, Sanal had called up Disha from where he got the advice not to panic since he had no travel history. The helpline urged Sanal to utilize telemedicine facility. Since the fever did not subside and as per advice from the telemedicine facility he called up Disha again and he was advised to visit the general hospital. In the meantime, he also called up a private laboratory where Covid sample testing is done. However, he got the reply that the lab is closed since it was Sunday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/give-time-slots-facility-to-register-online-for-tests/articleshow/76803197.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Promotions to come with riders||Chandigarh: In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, Punjab government has directed government and private institutes to promote students, albeit with riders. Universities which are in the process of conducting online examinations have been allowed to do so after taking permission from authorities in the education department. According to government guidelines, students in terminal classes or semesters will be awarded degrees and diplomas on the basis of previous exams or semester while students in intermediate classes will be promoted to the next class or semester. However, those with less than minimum pass marks\grades will have to clear exams of that semester as and when they are held to be eligible for degree. Students will also be given the option to take exams as and when they are held to improve their grades. Each university has been directed to work out the norms\policy regarding award of degree\promotion of students keeping the guidelines in mind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/promotions-to-come-with-riders/articleshow/76803799.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||15 new cases in rural Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad district outside the AMC limits reported 15 new cases on Sunday, taking the total Covid-19 cases to 876. While Dholka has crossed the 250 mark, Daskroi and Sanand are nearing the 200 figure. Of the 15 cases reported in the district on Sunday, four were from Bavla and three each from Dholka, Sanand and Viramgam and two from Mandla. So far, 254 cases have been reported from Dholka, 180 from Daskroi, and 179 from Sanand taluka. In all, 95 cases have been reported from Viramgam, 89 from Bavla, 26 cases each from Dhandhuka and Mandal, 18 from Detroj, and nine from Dholera. As on Sunday, 1,074 people are under home quarantine in Ahmedabad district. On May 28, this number was 1,386. In the last one week, 312 people completed their home quarantine. The district had 79 active cases and five people were taking treatment in Covid care centre in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/15-new-cases-in-rural-ahmedabad/articleshow/76803829.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Bareilly||Secretaries to take decisions for superannuated cane councils||Pilibhit: State principal secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, has in an order, conferred the right to discharge all duties and to perform various functions of sugarcane development councils (SDC) in the state upon secretaries of the SDCs.This step has been taken to safeguard the interests of sugarcane growers, in view of completion of the tenure of board of directors of the SDCs in April this year.Talking to TOI, Bhoosreddy said there are 156 SDCs and 169 cooperative cane societies across 44 sugarcane producing districts in UP. “Because the tenure of SDCs is co-terminus with that of cane societies in accordance with Section 5 of Uttar Pradesh sugarcane (regulation of supply and purchase) Act, 1953, new board of directors of most SDCs needs to be reconstituted, as the three-year-long tenure of their respective societies has expired.”“The power to maintain functioning of SDCs has been specifically vested in the hands of their secretaries, so that activities like protection of sugarcane crop from attacks of diseases and insects, ensuring availability of quality seed in required quantity, maintenance of unhindered supply of fertilisers and other inputs for farmers, growing foundation cane nurseries by using nucleus seeds as well as primary cane nurseries, etc, may continue, in the common interest of farmers, till the time new governing bodies of SDCs can be constituted,” Bhoosreddy added.The move was also necessary to continue facilitating farmers with grant of subsidy worth Rs 50 per quintal on primary cane seed, which cane growers sell to other farmers for sowing, he said. He added that in addition to key activities carried out by SDCs, propping in sugarcane crop was another crucial process which would now be carried out by SDCs without any legal complication.Delineating the need for timely action taken by the principal secretary, Pilibhit district cane officer Jitendra Kumar Mishra said, “The sugarcane crop in many parts of the district is currently affected by the ‘pokka boing’ fungal disease, which severely affects growth of the crop. The SDC is assisting farmers with timely delivery of fungicide spray in all affected areas.”Such activities would have stopped, had the state cane administration not made the proactive arrangements, Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/secretaries-to-take-decisions-for-superannuated-cane-councils/articleshow/76800883.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||Fire at N Kol biz complex||Kolkata: A fire broke out at a four-storey commercial complex at the Brabourne Road-Canning Street crossing in Burrabazar on Sunday morning gutting a number of shops. However, since the market was closed on Sunday, there were hardly any people around and nobody was injured. Locals said thick black fumes started billowing out of the window of a first-floor shop around 9.50am. They immediately called the police and informed the fire brigade. But the fire soon reached the third floor. “The building was stacked with combustible items that fueled the fire. We were able to get the fire under control within one and a half hours,” said a senior official of the fire and emergency services department. Fire officials said Sunday’s fire started from a godown that was stacked with plastic goods. The shop was entirely gutted but the reason behind the fire is still unknown. The commercial complex mostly housed jewellery shops and imitation goods, some of which were badly affected in the fire. Some shopowners even wanted to move up and help the fire brigade and also retrieve their stocks but were not allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fire-at-n-kol-biz-complex/articleshow/76803797.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Gandhi Nagar woman, 70, dies of Covid-19; record 77 test +ve||TNNLudhiana: Two elderly women died of Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Sunday. The day also saw the biggest single-day case surge, with 77 testing positive for the virus. Of them, 26 are undertrials of Ludhiana Central Jail.Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) officials said a 70-year-old woman of Gandhi Nagar in Ludhiana, who had Covid-19, besides diabetes and respiratory problems, has succumbed. The second casualty was a 65-year-old woman of Muktsar. She was admitted to the hospital on June 26 and breathed her last around 4.20pm on Sunday. She was a diabetic and heart patient and had hypertension, too, the DMCH officials added.The health department officials said of the 135 pending samples, reports of 61 were positive and 73 negative. Of the 61, as many as 59 belong to Ludhiana district and one each to Mansa and Sangrur.The Ludhiana cases include 26 Ludhiana Central Jail inmates, three residents of Sunder Nagar, Bhagwan Chowk, two each of Dugri, New Janta Nagar and Pakhowal Road, one each of Dashmesh Nagar, Bhamiyan Khurd, Jagraon, Shastri Nagar, Deepak Cinema area, Narangwal, Ram Nagar, Qilla Mohalla, Field Gunj, Division 5, Gandhi Nagar, Model Town, Prem Nagar and Omaxe. Besides, two residents of Khanna have tested positive in Fatehgarh Sahib district. The officials said of the 21 positive reports received from private hospitals and laboratories, 16 are from Ludhiana district, four from Sangrur and one from Jalandhar. The district’s 16 patients include three from Khanna, two each are from Rishi Nagar and Jamalpur and one each from Lalton, Sandhu Sunder, Habib Road, Khud Mohalla, Lal Kothi, Gandhi Nagar, Deep Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Dugri.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said of the 1,012 samples sent to Government Medical College, Patiala, for testing on Saturday, reports of 890 were negative and of 122 were pending.Thus, 77 patients from Ludhiana and seven from outside the district tested positive on Sunday. So far, 1,070 patients have tested positive for the disease in Ludhiana. Besides, 221 from outside the district have tested positive here, Bagga added.The district toll tally now stands at 25 and that of outsides here at 26.The health department officials said 806 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gandhi-nagar-woman-70-dies-of-covid-19-record-77-test-ve/articleshow/76803216.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Dehradun||Yamunotri, Gangotri highways blocked as downpour triggers landslides||Uttarkashi: A downpour in Uttarkashi triggered landslides at several areas on Sunday of the district, as a result of which both Gangotri and Yamunotri highways were blocked till the next morning. While traffic on Gangotri highway’s Laldhang area was restored on Sunday morning, work was ongoing to clear the affected parts on Yamunotri highway till this report was filed. A 10-metre stretch of the Yamunotri highway between Ranachatti and Hanumanchatti region has been completely washed away, cutting access to the Yamunotri shrine and around a dozen villages from the district headquarters. Around 11 pilgrims and a dozen local residents were left stranded on either side for several hours, till National Highway (NH) authorities restored the highway at Ojari-Dabarkot region. District disaster management officer Devendra Patwal said, “NH authorities are facing difficulties in repairing the washed out patch of the Yamunotri highway. We will probably be able to restore it in the next two to three days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/yamunotri-gangotri-highways-blocked-as-downpour-triggers-landslides/articleshow/76802293.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
July 6, 2020||Chennai||Cabs, autos to ply in Chennai, no green signal for MTC buses, trains||CHENNAI: After three weeks, cab and auto services will ply in Chennai, but there has been no word from the state government on resumption of public transportation. Government bus services have been stopped in all the districts for public now and the decision of resuming MTC buses will be taken after July 15, said Dharmendra Pratap Yadav, state transport secretary. A Chennai Metro Rail Limited official said they haven’t received any instructions from the government to restart operations. They are awaiting post-Covid guidelines from the Union housing and urban affairs ministry. With no mass transit options, demand for cabs and autos is expected to be high on Monday as many drivers haven’t returned from their native places. With lockdown norms eased, more people are expected to hit the streets from Monday for work, and cab and auto fares could be higher than usual, said drivers. T Ramanujam, from Tamil Nadu Call Taxi Drivers Association, said available cab drivers might not resume services immediately because they haven’t got any specific update from aggregators on safety precautions. Also, some might stay at home with cases on the rise. Sources in the taxi industry said they were planning to distribute masks, gloves and sanitisers through camps set up at filling stations and safety guidelines have been sent to all drivers. The Chennai city police organised a meeting with transport associations on Sunday about the need to wear masks at work and providing hand sanitisers to passengers when they board their vehicles. Transporters were informed that they were allowed to ply within city limits without e-passes. Police reiterated the cap on the number of passengers per vehicle. Autos and cabs are allowed to transport a maximum of two and three passengers. The same applied to cabs ferrying IT employees to work and back home. Public too are allowed to use their personal vehicles to go to shops or reach airport and railway stations, said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cabs-autos-to-ply-in-city-no-green-signal-for-mtc-buses-trains/articleshow/76803800.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 6, 2020||Nashik||Janata curfew checked Covid spike in Bhadrakali: Officials||Nashik: Senior officials from city police and Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Sunday said the Janata curfew and physical distancing norms followed by the residents in the Old Nashik area over the past few weeks has helped check the rising number of Covid-19 cases, especially in areas falling under the Bhadrakali police station. Rajendra Trambake, civic health officer, said, “About three weeks ago, the Old City areas coming under Bhadrakali police stations were witnessing almost 30 to 35 covid patients on a daily basis. This has now dropped down to two or three over the past few days.” Sajan Sonwane, senior inspector of Bhadrakali police station, said that there were approximately 150 cases in the old city area under their polices station. “The peak was three weeks ago following which senior police officers, including commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare-Patil, visited the hotspots and appealed to the citizens to stay indoors,” he said. “The trustees of the masjids also helped us throgh by making announcements of social distancing via loudspeakers. At one time we could reach out to 4,000 people in an area through the loudspeakers on the mosques,” he added. Subsequently, people decided to observe Janta curfew on their own to break the chain of infection from June 20. “The response for the Janta curfew was overwhelming. The curfew timings were also extended all across the city from 7 pm to 5 am. However, the shopkeepers in the city started closing the shops at 5 pm itself which all helped in controlling the spread of control in the Bhadrakali area,” Sonawane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/janata-curfew-checked-covid-spike-in-bhadrakali-officials/articleshow/76802330.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Thrown out of home with dog, two Kheda boys stuck in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: It began with a tiff at home over a dog that these teens refused to part with. Their father was adamant that either they or the dog remain in the house. The brothers, Sooraj Nair, 17 and Surya, 15, from Vasna village near H-Cube industries in Kheda town chose to move out with their pet on Saturday evening. Their mother, Sreekala Nair was in Thiruvananthapuram attending to her ailing mother since March 19 and could not return home to Kheda because of the lockdown. “My boys feared that their father will either harm them or kill the pet. So they decided to leave home instead with Rs 30 in their pocket. The problem was that I was not able to return home to them in Kheda,” said Sreekala. The brothers hitched a ride till SP Ring Road then walked 12km to reach Palm Plaza Complex in Makarba with their dog Raja. The brothers were found on the second floor of the commercial complex with their pet. “We are determined to go to Kerala to our mother and will take Raja with us,” said Surya. Sooraj said, “Our mother has spoken to someone in the railways in Vadodara who will help us board a train to Kerala. Till then we are thinking of contacting an acquaintance in Ahmedabad. No one will take us home in these times of the pandemic,” said Sooraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/thrown-out-of-home-with-dog-two-kheda-boys-stuck-in-city/articleshow/76803807.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Gurgaon||HIPA ropes in 14 actors for song against coronavirus||HISAR: The Haryana Institute of Public Administration (HIPA) has brought 14 actors, hailing from the state, to feature in a music video motivating people to put up a united fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The song, uploaded on YouTube on Saturday, is written by Nitin Trikha and Vikas Rohila and sung by Vikas, Nitin and Sarvajit Kaur. Satish Sehgal has composed its music. The lyrics of the song say, “This season of gloom will not last forever. Weather will change, branches have green leaves and fruits will grow again. Don’t give up, old days will come again.” The artistes are depicting as doctors treating patients wearing PPE kits and police personnel feeding labourers. Noted actor and a Hisar native Yashpal Sharma, who performed along with other artistes in the song, said it was composed on HIPA’s initiative by Vishwa Deepak Trikha. Others who featured in the video included Rohitash Gaur of Kalka, Pandit Jagannath, Panipat native Rajendra Gupta, Rajendra Sharma Nanu of Yamunanagar, his actor wife Geeta Agarwal Sharma, actress Bhumi Pednekar’s mother and former Maharashtra home and labour minister Satish Padnekar’s wife Sumitra Hooda Pednekar of Rohtak, Rohtak resident Rajesh Bakshi, Jind resident Jagbir Rathi, Sampla resident Naveen Ohlyan, Yamunanagar resident Anurag Arora, Bhiwani resident Sunil Chitkara, Jahanvi Sangwan, Ramji Bali of Faridabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hipa-ropes-in-14-actors-for-song-against-coronavirus/articleshow/76803823.cms||Kumar Mukesh
July 6, 2020||Faridabad||HIPA ropes in 14 actors for song against coronavirus||HISAR: The Haryana Institute of Public Administration (HIPA) has brought 14 actors, hailing from the state, to feature in a music video motivating people to put up a united fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The song, uploaded on YouTube on Saturday, is written by Nitin Trikha and Vikas Rohila and sung by Vikas, Nitin and Sarvajit Kaur. Satish Sehgal has composed its music. The lyrics of the song say, “This season of gloom will not last forever. Weather will change, branches have green leaves and fruits will grow again. Don’t give up, old days will come again.” The artistes are depicting as doctors treating patients wearing PPE kits and police personnel feeding labourers. Noted actor and a Hisar native Yashpal Sharma, who performed along with other artistes in the song, said it was composed on HIPA’s initiative by Vishwa Deepak Trikha. Others who featured in the video included Rohitash Gaur of Kalka, Pandit Jagannath, Panipat native Rajendra Gupta, Rajendra Sharma Nanu of Yamunanagar, his actor wife Geeta Agarwal Sharma, actress Bhumi Pednekar’s mother and former Maharashtra home and labour minister Satish Padnekar’s wife Sumitra Hooda Pednekar of Rohtak, Rohtak resident Rajesh Bakshi, Jind resident Jagbir Rathi, Sampla resident Naveen Ohlyan, Yamunanagar resident Anurag Arora, Bhiwani resident Sunil Chitkara, Jahanvi Sangwan, Ramji Bali of Faridabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/hipa-ropes-in-14-actors-for-song-against-coronavirus/articleshow/76808381.cms||Kumar Mukesh
July 6, 2020||Trichy||Noon meal workers want to serve cooked food to kids, not groceries||TRICHY: Noon meal workers in the district have urged the state government to allow them to serve cooked food to children instead of handing over grocery kits to their families. There are roughly 1.41 lakh students in Trichy district up to Class 10 who benefit from the noon-meal scheme across 1,569 centres. With three staff in each noon meal centre, over 4,000 employees are engaged in the work. Since the noon meal schemes in schools were stopped since the lockdown, the state government has decided to distribute grocery kits to the families of those children at the free meal centres. While the scheme is likely to be rolled out in a few days, noon meal workers are of the opinion that instead of groceries, the government should make arrangement to serve the children with cooked food. Tamil Nadu Noon Meal Employees Association Trichy district secretary K M Rajendran said they are ready to cook for children, while parents can come and collect the food by maintaining social distancing. Rajendran said that the prepared food will have garlic and ginger which will boost the immunity of children to fight Covid-19. While the state government has decided to give only rice, dal and pulses to parents on a monthly basis and make direct bank transfer to buy vegetables. Saying that it may not serve the purpose, he said that noon meal workers have planned to stage a peaceful protest in front of panchayat union across the state on Tuesday to attract the attention of the state government. An official from the district social welfare office in Trichy said that they are taking stock of the grocery at the noon meal centres and the distribution will start in a few days. Head masters of the respective schools have been appointed as monitoring officers who will issue the grocery items. “On the money which needs to be deposited in the bank, we have sought the details from the district education officers and Trichy district chief education officer,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/noon-meal-workers-want-to-serve-cooked-food-to-kids-not-groceries/articleshow/76804255.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 6, 2020||Nashik||Ensure adequate shelter homes for flood-hit people: Nashik rural SP||Nashik: Superintendent of police (Nashik rural) Arti Singh on Sunday instructed senior officers of all police stations to ensure arrangement of adequate temporary shelter homes for rehabilitation of people during the floods.The officers have also been asked to ensure there is no transmission of Covid-19 when people are moved to the shelter homes. “This year, the police would have to be even more watchful in flood-hit villages of the district and places where villagers have to be moved to shelter homes given the Covid-19 outbreak,” SIngh said.Villages like Saikheda and Chandori in Niphad talukas along with other parts of the district are hit by the floods almost every year. Therefore, Singh has issued the instructions regarding the safety measures.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ensure-adequate-shelter-homes-for-flood-hit-people-nashik-rural-sp/articleshow/76802350.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: House sites distribution likely to be postponed||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy will leave for Kadapa on Tuesday to pay tributes to the late CM YS Rajasekhara Reddy on the latter’s birth anniversary on July 8. The CM will stay overnight at the guest house in Idupulapaya and visit YSR Ghat and pay tributes to his father. Jaganmohan Reddy would also attend special prayers at the YSR Ghat. Later in the day, the chief minister would inaugurate the new academic block in Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) which houses the IIIT. He would also inaugurate 3 mw solar power plant in the IIIT campus. He would lay foundation stone for several other developmental works at RGUKT. Although the CM wanted to interact with resident students in IIIT, the programme has been cancelled in view of Covid-19. The CM is likely to interact with a few senior faculty members and district officials at the campus. Meanwhile, Kadapa district collector Ch Harikiran has directed the district medical and health officer to screen all senior officials who are likely to meet or attend the CM’s programme for Covid-19. Only the officials who test negative would be allowed to attend the programme. Surprisingly, the distribution of house-sites programme was not included in the CM’s itinerary for July 8. The CM is scheduled to come back to Tadepalle from Idupulapaya without formally launching the prestigious programme. The state government had earlier announced that the distribution of house site documents to about 33 lakh beneficiaries across the state would be launched on July 8 to mark the birth anniversary of YSR. The district administration is on its toes to complete the work related to the house sites distribution programme as the deadline is fast approaching. Sources said that the house sites programme is likely to be postponed in view of the fast spread of Covid-19. The event would require gathering of several thousands of people in one place to receive the house site declaration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/house-sites-distribution-likely-to-be-postponed/articleshow/76803245.cms||Samdani MN
July 6, 2020||Nashik||15 Covid-19 suspects escape from Dhule facility||Nashik: The Devpur West police have booked 15 Covid-19 suspects for allegedly fleeing a Covid care centre in Dhule district on Saturday evening. The Covid suspects were residents of Mukti and Henkalwadi villages of the district. The incident came to light after a medical officer from the district lodged an offence against the 15 individuals. Senior officials of the Dhule district’s health department said that a manhunt has been launched to trace the suspects. The Covid-19 suspects had recently come in contact with Covid-19 positive patients, following which they were shifted to the Bafna hospital’s Covid care centre in the Devpur area of Dhule city a few days back. Their swabs were sent for testing. However, the reports were not received on time, following which, the 15 escaped from the facility. District corona nodal officer and RMO of Dhule Civil hospital Vishal Patil confirmed the incident stating that the individuals would soon be traced. “The patients were brought to the Covid facility about five days back. Since their swabs were taken and sent for testing, we were awaiting the reports. However, they apparently got bored and hence escaped from the facility,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/15-covid-19-suspects-escape-from-dhule-facility/articleshow/76802356.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||SOP hurdle in Mon film shoot restart||KOLKATA: If all goes well, two members of the Parliament from Bengal — Nusrat Jahan and Mimi Chakraborty — might be the first to star in an Indian feature film that resumes shooting after lockdown is lifted. The duo, along with Yash Dasgupta, has signed on Anshuman Pratyush’s Bengali film titled ‘SOS Kolkata’ that is supposed to go on the floors on Monday. All preparations have been made for the director to begin shooting on Monday with Jahan and Dasgupta at Purple Movie Town. However, there is one glitch. Despite the state government having given the nod to feature film shooting in Bengal on June 1, work cannot commence in Tollywood unless the standard operating procedure (SOP) is signed by Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA) and Federation of Cine Technicians & Workers of Eastern India (FCTWEI). When TOI asked EIMPA president Piya Sengupta why the SOP is yet to be signed, she said, “We had three meetings on this. There were certain points that needed clarification. On Friday, we have finally agreed on the SOP for feature films. Only the signing is left. That should happen on Monday. I can say that EIMPA has no problems if shooting begins on Monday as long as FCTWEI is OK with it.” Meanwhile, Swarup Biswas told TOI that ten days ago, FCTWEI had sent the SOP to EIMPA officials. “They reverted with an observation which we clarified. On Saturday, we again sent an email to EIMPA saying that we are waiting till 8 pm in office to get their signature. We were ready to even send across people to collect the signed letters. But I don’t know why they have delayed the signing of the SOP for this long. Our office will open at 10 am on Monday. If they send their signed letter then I will sign immediately. Without the signed SOP, I can’t allow our technicians to begin shooting,” Biswas said. Pratyush understands the challenges and is looking at a quick resolution. He is aware that his film against terrorism might be the first one in India to commence shooting once the lockdown has been lifted. “But unless the SOP is signed, I can’t give a calltime to my stars,” he said. Chakraborty, who had to cut short her shooting for Pratyush’s ‘Baazi’ in London before lockdown was imposed, said, “If everything goes well, this will be the first film to begin shooting in India. I am really thrilled to start working after such a long time. But, at same time, we will be following all rules.” On Sunday, a Bollywood actor, who was a part of “Lagaan”, flew down from Mumbai to join the cast. Before his arrival, Pratyush, who is also the film’s co-producer, had planned to put him up in a hotel for 14 days of quarantine. Only after testing negative will he begin shooting. Meanwhile, the formalities for getting the life insurance of the artistes and technicians have also begun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shooting-of-first-bengali-film-awaits-signing-of-sop/articleshow/76803802.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Merit shows Divya the way from cotton fields to university||HYDERABAD: From earning Rs 250 as a daily wage labourer in cotton fields to getting a free seat in an undergraduate programme at a private university in Chennai, Divya B, a student of Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TSWREI), has come a long way. Divya, who hails from Arutla village, will now be doing her Bachelor of Arts (BA) in economics from Krea University, Chennai, which charges Rs 28.5 lakh for a three-year degree course. “Initially, after conducting various tests including aptitude, essay writing, ground discussion, among others, the varsity gave me admission but without any funding. When I communicated my financial constraints with my lecturer and the society, they helped me get a full scholarship,” Divya told TOI, adding that her scholarship will cover both tuition and hostel fee. An MEC (math, economics, commerce) student who secured 96.6% in intermediate, Divya wants to become an economist and said this course will help her realise her dream. The 18-year-old said classes will most likely start in August and added that she is willing to join the varsity despite the situation turning worse due to Covid-19. “During lockdown, my father, who is a daily wage labourer, was finding it hard to get any work. So I started working in cotton fields to ensure that my family of six can make ends meet. The only way our financial problems can be addressed is if I study and secure a job,” said Divya, who has three younger sisters. A Gopinadh, faculty at the Gowlidoddy campus, where Divya studied, said that about 15 students tried to secure a seat in the varsity but only two were selected. “Divya is a meritorious student and is very sincere. We managed to convince the varsity to give her a free seat based on her academic performance,” said Gopinadh, who is also the state coordinator for professional courses.Apart from Divya, another student Adhithi K from the science stream also secured admission with full scholarship at Krea University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/merit-shows-divya-the-way-from-cotton-fields-to-university/articleshow/76803951.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Asset protection cell launched to save lakes & open spaces from encroachment||HYDERABAD: To check the menace of illegal encroachments, municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) minister KT Rama Rao launched assets protection cell on Sunday. The aim of this cell will be to protect government properties such as lakes, parks and other open spaces from falling into the hands of squatters. To facilitate the effective functioning of this cell a toll free number (1800-599-0099) was created by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). Concerned citizens can report encroachments between 10 am and 6 pm on all working days. Officials said that the identity of complainant will be kept confidential. “Citizens can either provide their details or can give complaint anonymously. The details of the complainant will not be revealed,” said Viswajit Kampati, director of GHMC’s Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management (EVDM). According to EVDM officials, every complaint is assigned with a unique complaint number and the complaint is forwarded to assistant enforcement officer (AEO) deployed on ground. As per GHMC officials, the cell was launched to strengthen the existing enforcement team. “The cell has not been launched because encroachments have increased in the city, it has been launched for better enforcement,” said a GHMC official. MA&UD principal secretary Arvind Kumar and GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar were present at the launching ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asset-protection-cell-launched-to-save-lakes-open-spaces-from-encroachment/articleshow/76803833.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Nashik||ZP teachers trek miles to teach ‘out of range’ students||Nashik: As the pandemic has imposed restrictions on regular classes and necessitated online teaching, some teachers of Nashik zilla parishad schools are trekking several kilometres to provide education to students who do not have access to digital connectivity. Of the 2.67 lakh students of classes I to VIII in Nashik district ZP schools, about 1.60 lakh (60%) do not have internet access due to lack of infrastructure.“I go to the Kusumbi Nalla village, near Vehelgaon in Nandgaon taluka, on alternate days to teach. While the school is accessible by vehicle, going to the students’ homes requires me to trek through hills for about 6 km — to and from the point where I park my vehicle. It takes more than three hours,” said Pankaj Sonawane, a teacher.Sonawane and Suresh Bhabad, who runs a school with 45 students (all of them from the tribal community), have divided the children into groups in Kusmumbi Nalla. The two teachers visit the students on alternate days.“This has to be done as the parents of only four students here have smartphones,” Bhabad said. Similar efforts are being made in many other schools in Chandwad, Dindori and other remote talukas of the district.Classes are conducted in houses, temples, under trees, on large balconies outside the houses of the villagers with where students can maintain appropriate distance.The teachers also make content online and send it to the parents through social media platforms. “For those who cannot access the content online, we print out notes for every subject, prepare homework, then we go to the villages. We teach the students there and give the study material,” said Prakash Chavan, who is a teacher in a ZP school in Karanjwan village of Dindori taluka.“There are more than 100 teachers who are engaged in similar activities. ZP chief executive officer Leena Bansod has appreciated the teachers,” education officer Vishali Zankar, of Nashik ZP, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/zp-teachers-trek-miles-to-teach-out-of-range-students/articleshow/76802362.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: To fuel Covid warriors’ spirit, selling petrol cheaper||AHMEDABAD: “We need to keep up the spirit of our corona warriors. The pandemic is still very much here and this is going to be a long drawn fight,” says Ajay Jani, an entrepreneur, who has been selling petrol and diesel for two rupees lesser a litre since the lockdown began. Not only is the 58-year-old selling petrol and diesel cheaper to those on the frontlines of the battle against Covid-19, he is also distributing homoeopathic medicines free to everyone from his fuel station at Maninagar in the city.  While Jani and his team were distributing food packets and ration kits among the needy when the lockdown was enforced, they came across instances where medical and paramedical staff were being attacked. “People were treating corona warriors badly. It is then that I thought up the idea of charging lesser from those who are leading the fight against the pandemic,” he said.  For over 80 days now, doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, employees of the central and state government, employees of the AMC, safai karmacharis and other Covid warriors are being sold petrol and diesel for two rupees lesser than the actual price. He has put up a big hoarding at his fuel station, saluting corona warriors. Jani, who has business interests in mining and construction as well, employs over 100 persons, a majority of whom from other states. “There was an atmosphere of fear and uncertainty among the employees. I urged them to stay back and assured them they will get their salaries and ration kits,” said Jani, adding that he even ensured that none of the workers were evicted from their rented houses by owners during the lockdown. Jani also distributes the homeopathic medicine arsenic album 30 from his petrol pump to anybody who wishes to take the medicine. “The central and state governments have been promoting this medicine, but for some reason, it has not been distributed to every household. I procured stocks of the medicine from pharmacies and started distributing it to people from 6am to 8.30pm every day. This will continue until the pandemic threat is over,” Jani said. He added that he visits societies where Covid-19 positive cases are reported and distributes the medicine as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/to-fuel-covid-warriors-spirit-selling-petrol-cheaper/articleshow/76803839.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||ED books Sun Pariwar for money laundering||HYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has booked an enforcement case information report (ECIR) under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against multi-level marketing company, Sun Pariwar. Earlier, the Cyberabad police had arrested the accused in a scam in which thousands were cheated to the tune of Rs 150 crore. On December 14, 2018, Cyberabad police had arrested Sun Pariwar CEO M Ravinder on allegations that the company had lured customers with fake schemes and had collected Rs 150 crore from them in the form of deposits. Police then froze Rs 14 crore of cash reserves in bank accounts of Sun Pariwar companies in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The key accused in the scam, company CEO M Ravinder, had started his career as a government school teacher in Siddipet. Ravinder went on to float a company in the name of his associates and relatives. In March 2019, Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar had issued orders to detain Ravinder under the Preventive Detention (PD) Act. Police said that the accused floated Sun Mutually Aided Thrift and Credit Co-operative Society Limited and other companies. Ravinder’s associate, P Mounika, was also arrested by Cyberabad police. A case was booked for cheating and under Section 5 of the Andhra Pradesh Protection of Depositors of Financial Establishments Act. Shamirpet police had taken up the case. Based on the FIR and charges filed against the accused, the ED has taken up investigation under PMLA. They will now probe the money laundering while attachment orders will be issued after the investigation. The role of five other accused who were arrested in the scam is also under the scanner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-books-sun-pariwar-for-money-laundering/articleshow/76803817.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||Sudden spike in Gadchiroli, Vid records 182 cases||NAGPUR: Covid-19 count in Gadchiroli witnessed an abrupt spike on Sunday with 41 new cases. These include 23 jawans of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), and civilians from Gadchiroli as well as Bhandara. This is the highest single day figure in Gadchiroli since May 17, when the first case was detected in the district. The total number of cases in the district is 115. Gadchiroli had crossed the 100-mark on Sunday, in 49 days. Not only Gadchiroli, but entire Vidarbha region recorded its highest single day surge for the second day in a row on July 6. Total 182 cases were reported. All districts, barring Bhandara, recorded new cases taking the region’s total to 5,457. Apart from Gadchiroli, Nagpur (41), Akola (38), Buldhana (22), Amravati (15), Yavatmal (8), Washim (5), Wardha (5), Gondia (3), and Chandrapur (3) recorded new cases. Recovery was slower on July 5 with only 68 patients discharged — highest 36 from Nagpur. Amravati (15), Chandrapur (5), Buldhana (4), Yavatmal (3), Akola (3), Gondia (1) and Washim (1) followed. Total 3,931 patients have recovered till date, for 72.03% recovery rate. This was 74.84% on July 1. The recovery rate is going down as more cases come to fore with lower recoveries. Three deaths were reported on July 5 in Vidarbha. In Nagpur, a 60-year-old man, resident of Telangkhedi, who was admitted as a SARI patient died in ICCU during treatment. He was a chronic smoker. In Akola, an 82-yr-old man, who was admitted on July 2 in critical condition, died on July 5. In Yavatmal, a man from Digras, died the same day. Total death toll of Vidarbha reached 175. GADCHIROLI: Some CRPF personnel, including 10 from West Bengal and two each from Nanded (Maharashtra), Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Odisha, were kept in institutional quarantine at Gadchiroli after returning from leave during the lockdown. The other jawans are from Jharkhand, Bihar, Akola and Chandrapur (Maharashtra). Around 24 CRPF jawans had come to Gadchiroli from Nagpur in their unit’s bus and were at the quarantine centre. 19 of them tested positive. Another four CRPF jawans who reached Gadchiroli by private vehicles from different districts in Maharashtra also tested positive. Out of 18 testing positive later on Sunday, 17 were from different quarantine centres in six talukas in the district. One of them is the father of a patient from Aheri. Eight had come from Tamil Nadu in a truck, and 3 of a family had come from Thane. A Delhi-returned student too is among the positives. AMRAVATI: Amravati is only five shy of the 700 mark with a spike of 15 cases taking it count to 695 on Sunday. The Covid hospital discharged 15 patients today, taking recovered patient count to 462. Badnera and Ashok Nagar, the two hotspots, added a case each today to take their tally to 89 and 32 respectively. Sabanpura too gave a case today to take its count to 17 while Tarkheda reported its sixth case today. Sant Achyut Maharaj Hospital on Mardi Road, Matakhidki, Pravin Nagar, Bajrang Tekadi and Sharda Nagar reported their first case today. A couple aged 58 and 53 tested positive at Pannalal Nagar to take its count to three. A 44-year-old man from Dhamangaon Railway took the town’s count to four while it took rural count to 80. A 40-year-old wife of AMC peon from Chavre Nagar tested positive today while Chhaya Nagar posted its fifth case through a 15 year-old boy. Daroga Plot posted its second case. With 27 deaths and 462 recovered patients, number of active cases is now 206, including 12 taking treatment in Nagpur. CHANDRAPUR: Three more Covid-19 patients were detected taking total to 121 on Sunday. New patients include a husband and wife from Urja Gram and a 35-year-old Nagpur returnee from Sonegaon village in Chimur tehsil. 62 persons were discharged and 59 patients are active as of now. WARDHA: Five more employees of MSEDCL, who had returned from Konkan after restoring power supply after a cyclone, tested positive on Sunday. In this, 3 employees are of Hinganghat division (age 55, 29, 30) and two of Deoli (50, 40) division. Three of them are from Hinganghat, one from Pulgaon and one from Vijaygopal. There are 14 active patients in Wardha, with 13 discharged so far out of 27 from Wardha district. YAVATMAL: The district recorded one death on Sunday taking the death toll to 13. Apart from it, 8 new cases were detected. Two men and a woman hail from Yavatmal city while a man and 2 women are from Darwha. One man from Pusad also tested positive. 3 patients were discharged on Sunday. Now, active positive patients in Yavatmal GMCH are 67. BULDHANA: The district recorded a spike of 22 cases on July 5. Ten of them are children below 14 years of age. Twelve are from Alsana village in Shegaon, with many from the same family. Ten others came from Chikhli, Nandura, Sultanpur, Lonar, Jalgaon Jamod, and Tembhurna. This took total cases in Buldhana district to 300, making it the fifth district in Vidarbha to pass this mark. Total 176 of these patients have recovered while 13 have died. Number of active patients is 111 as on July 5. WASHIM: Five new cases were reported in Washim taking total to 123. All five are men under 40 years of age and have returned from different parts of the state. One of them is a close contact of a patient admitted in Nagpur. Washim now has 37 active patients. GONDIA: Three people tested corona positive in Gondia district on July 5. Two of them are natives of Gondia and one is from Tirora tehsil. One patient was discharged on Sunday. Now, total cases in Gondia are 168, including 105 recovered and 1 death. Reports of 242 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sudden-spike-in-gadchiroli-vid-records-182-cases/articleshow/76804143.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 6, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: SOG arrests trio posing as ex-armymen||VADODARA: The special operations group (SOG) on Sunday arrested three men who posed as ex-army personnel and took up jobs in a city-based firm. All the three accused — Prabhakar Shukla, 44, Ramkrushna Mishra, 50 and Rajjansinh Rajput — hail from Uttar Pradesh and had migrated to Gujarat in search of security personnel’s jobs. The police said that they make more arrests in the case. SOG sleuths said that they had received a tip-off that some persons working in a private security firm had made bogus identity cards. “The trio was looking for jobs when they learnt about the vacancies in a security firm in the city. They prepared bogus identity cards and posed as ex-army men,” said M R Solanki, SOG police inspector. “We have called the security firm’s officials to get more details about this trio and also ascertain when they joined the firm,” Solanki told TOI. The police said that the accused may have got the fake IDs prepared either in Rajasthan or in Delhi and are now grilling the accused for more information about the source. “It is possible that more such men might be working in different firms by producing bogus ID cards and posing as ex-army men,” Solanki added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sog-arrests-trio-posing-as-ex-armymen/articleshow/76802869.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Ernakulam on the edge as Covid situation worsens||KOCHI: Police in the district are employing harsher methods to control the pandemic including suspension of licence of commercial establishments under the Shops and Establishments Act and suspension of driving licence under the Motor Vehicles Act for violations of the Covid-19 protocol. As of now there are 10 containment zones in nine locations in rural Ernakulam. District police chief (Ernakulam rural) K Karthick said people should stop taking things lightly. “We are time and again saying that things have not become better. At the time when there was total lockdown it was safer as no one was going out, now that is not the case. Till we have a treatment protocol, the situation would remain difficult and we have to act responsibly. There will be increased deployment of personnel in markets and anyone violating Covid-19 protocol and the shops enabling it, will be booked. They will also face further action including suspension of licence,” said the rural SP. Police, meanwhile, have strengthened patrolling in the city and increased the number of checking points. “Strict restrictions have been imposed in containment zones. We are also checking if commuters are traveling for unnecessary reasons,” said K Laljy, assistant commissioner, Ernakulam. He added that arrangements have been made so that essential items can be delivered to those in containment zones at their doorsteps. With at least five wards in the corporation becoming containment zones, police have advised commuters to use roads which don’t fall in the containment zone. “All containment zones have a single entry and exit system which can be used only for emergencies,” said a senior officer with the traffic police. Rural SP added that the markets in the district would be strictly monitored. Meanwhile, Aluva market was shut on Sunday. According to police the closure was a precautionary measure. Sources added that an autorickshaw driver who used work on the premises of the market testing positive, could have also led to the sudden closure. Police however said that after proper sanitization and awareness drives to ensure social distancing, the market would be most likely reopened in the coming days. Senior officers said the suspension of licence would be initiated against those committing any kind of violation after reaching a spot in their vehicle. “For instance, if a group of people are chit-chatting outside a tea shop after travelling to that spot for no other reason, they would be booked for violation and we would file a recommendation to suspend their licences. Also, the tea shop owner would be booked for enabling the unnecessary gathering,” said a senior officer. Meanwhile, Ernakulam rural police on Sunday booked 22 cases for various violations. Nine persons were arrested and five vehicles were seized in the drive. As many as 26 persons were booked for not wearing face masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-tighten-vigil-to-arrest-spread-of-virus/articleshow/76803261.cms||Disney Tom
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Fatwa urges Muslims to donate if they are not able to offer sacrifice on Bakrid||HYDERABAD: This year’s Bakrid, the second major Muslim festival, is likely to be quite different after a decree issued by a leading Islamic seminary in the city due to the pandemic. The festival of sacrifice will fall on either July 31 or August 1 depending on the sighting of the crescent. The seminary said that if the situation does not improve by that time, Muslims need not offer sheep in sacrifice. Instead, they should donate an amount equivalent to the cost of sheep to those in need. Keeping in mind the lockdown restictions due to Covid-19, Jamia Nizamia — south India’s leading Islamic deemed university, on Saturday issued a fatwa (decree) clarifying that sheep need not necessarily be sacrificed on Eid-ul-Adha (Bakrid) if the circumstances are not conducive. The fatwa was issued by Jamia’s chief mufti, Moulana Mufti Mohammad Azeemuddin. “Sacrifice is a deed most loved by the Almighty. But the present conditions due to Covid-19 restrictions and the increasing number of positive cases, it is prudent to donate money equal to the cost of the sacrificial animal to the needy, poor, destitute, widows and charitable organisations,” Mufti Azeemuddin said. Every year, Muslims in Hyderabad spend an estimated Rs 100 crore on sheep for sacrifice. This year, a major portion of this amount is likely to go to charity. In normal circumstances, the meat of a sacrificial animal is divided into three portions. One part is distributed to the poor, one portion to relatives and friends and the third part is kept for consumption. With restrictions on large religious gatherings in place, Eid prayers are likely to be restricted to mosques and homes this time. The state wakf board is yet to take decision on allowing congregational prayers at Idgahs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fatwa-urges-muslims-to-donate-if-they-are-not-able-to-offer-sacrifice-on-bakrid/articleshow/76803938.cms||Syed Akbar
July 6, 2020||Chennai||397 returnees from Karnataka test positive||CHENNAI: A total of 397 people who entered Tamil Nadu from Karnataka have tested positive for Covid-19 since June 21. According to the state government’s record, 91 returnees from Karnataka tested positive on June 28, the highest single-day spike for Karnataka returnees. On June 25, June 27 and July 2, 32, 40 and 35 people from Karnataka tested positive respectively. The trend started to show ever since there was a spike in Covid cases in Bengaluru, officials said. Hundreds of daily workers from the villages in Tiruvannamalai, Tirupattur, Dharmapuri, Salem, Vellore and Villupuram had moved to Bengaluru in search of livelihood. A majority of them were working in the construction industry in Bengaluru and its outskirts. “Since the number of cases is shooting up in Bengaluru, the people from TN are returning to their native. Shortage of beds in hospitals in Bengaluru is also another reason for the people to return,” said a revenue department official in Vellore. Tirupattur collector, M P Sivan Arul, said the district has witnessed a steady flow of people from Karnataka in the past few weeks. The district administration, after taking swab samples, found that 23 from the neighbouring state were infected with the virus. “Of the 39 positive travellers from outside the state, 23 came from Karnataka,” said the collector. Officials in Tiruvannamalai district said they have been observing a similar trend since the third week of June. “Though the number of cases reported in single digits (three to seven), it is figuring in our reports,” said an official. Nearly 40 people from Jawadhu Hills, who had returned from Karnataka, tested positive. They were working in pepper plantations in and around Coorg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/397-returnees-from-ktaka-test-positive/articleshow/76803835.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Trichy||Shutdown a success in Trichy, but leaves homeless starving||TRICHY: The complete shutdown in the district on Sunday was successful as officials including law enforcement personnel praised the public for showing their concern at the significant increase in Covid-19 cases across the state by staying home. “Sunday’s lockdown was the best ever curtailing exercise we have witnessed ever since the Covid-19 outbreak. We hardly noticed anyone disobeying the lockdown call,” a police officer in Trichy city told TOI. However, it left homeless people in the lurch as no food was available. Unaware of the complete lockdown in place, many awaited the arrival of volunteers with food, but were in for disappointment. With the state-run Amma canteens too having stopped providing free food, the poor are in a spot. Citing the spread of the pandemic in Trichy city, many volunteers who donated food earlier refrained from the benevolent act. Only a section of the volunteers continue to donate food, which is mostly the surplus sourced from events and hotels but it was insufficient. “We were surprised to notice the roads deserted and hotels closed. The volunteers who used to give us food were missing,” a homeless man in Chathiram bus stand said. All the 11 Amma canteens in Trichy corporation that had provided free food through sponsors until last month have started charging for the food. Amma Mandapam, railway junction and West Boulevard road saw many hungry faces. “Many homeless people staying beneath the bridges did not get free food on Sunday. At least from next week, there should be a mechanism to feed them,” Mohan Ekambaram, coordinator, No Food Waste, Trichy said. Trichy collector S Sivarasu said that steps will be taken to provide food to the homeless. Restaurants had suspended takeaway and dine-in services. The district administration said that similar enforcement will be in place in the next three Sundays. Meanwhile, police personnel deployed at check posts along Pudukottai road were taken aback on seeing DIG of police, Trichy range, Z Annie Vijaya, cycling her way to the check posts. She was on a surprise inspection to take note of the ground situation at check posts along Pudukottai road during the complete lockdown. “Such surprise visits will help us know the fact of the situation and we can appreciate the difficulty of the police personnel,” said the DIG on track pants, T-shirt and sporting a mask. “The basic idea was to communicate to the personnel that we are one among them and help them manage their work effectively,” she said. She travelled about 30 kms from her official residence on Pudukottai road while checking two check posts at airport and another near Mathur. On the lockdown, she said she had encountered instances of people sitting in groups chatting in a tea shop and a few women fetching water in group without maintaining social distancing. They were asked to disperse using public address system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shutdown-a-success-in-trichy-but-leaves-homeless-starving/articleshow/76804258.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 6, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Man, 40, kin held for raping, impregnating daughter, 15||THANJAVUR: All-women police have arrested a 40-year-old man and a relative for raping and impregnating the former’s minor daughter near Orathanadu. Both have been booked under Pocso Act and lodged at the Trichy central prison under judicial custody. Police said the girl’s father was an agricultural labourer who also has a younger daughter. When she was four years old, her mother passed away and since then the girls were looked after by their father. The 15-year-old victim, an SSLC dropout, had narrated the sexual abuse from their father to her younger sister. She in turn informed her maternal grandmother residing in the same village about it. On coming to know what her granddaughter had been through for the last five months, the woman shifted both the girls to her house a month ago. In the meantime, the victim developed stomach pain. When she was taken to a primary health centre, doctors confirmed that the girl was pregnant. The victim said her father had been sexually abusing her at night under the influence of liquor. It also came to light that her grandmother's 68-year-old relative had also sexually abused the victim while she was sleeping at her house while staying there. On a complaint lodged by the girl's relative with Vallam all-women police on July 1, a case was registered and both the accused arrested the next day. The victim has been admitted to a hospital in Thanjavur for examinations, police said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-40-kin-held-for-raping-impregnating-daughter-15/articleshow/76804262.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Sudanese patient dies at Hyderabad airport before getting on to repatriation flight||HYDERABAD: A 62-year-old wheelchair-bound Sudanese cancer patient died before getting on to a repatriation flight back to her country at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) on Sunday morning. The patient, Hieba Mohamed Taha Ali, was was undergoing treatment at a city hospital for the last seven months. She was set to fly back to Sudan by a Badr Airlines flight (J4-226/227) from RGIA at 9.30am. “At 7am, the Sudan national arrived at the airport and was set to take a repatriation flight...After completing all the check-in formalities at the airport, she headed to the boarding gate. Minutes after her arrival at the gate, she collapsed,” RGIA police inspector P Vijay Kumar said. Police said the patient was soon rushed to Apollo Hospital on the airport premises, where she was declared brought dead at 8.14am. “The patient was in end-stage cancer. It was a natural death,” said Kumar. Hospital authorities handed over the body to her husband Mohammed Taha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sudanese-patient-dies-at-rgia/articleshow/76803918.cms||---
July 6, 2020||India||Video reveals ‘cash for Covid -ve certificate’ scam in Meerut||MEERUT: After a viral video showed the staff of a private hospital in the city promising Covid-19 negative reports from the district hospital in exchange for money, Meerut chief medical officer ordered a probe while a case was filed against the hospital’s owners. The district magistrate has also suspended the hospital’s licence. The video shows a group of people talking to the hospital staff and purportedly requesting for a negative Covid-19 test report (from the district hospital), so that they “don’t face any problem for at least a week”. The video shows the “clients” purportedly giving Rs 2,000 to the hospital manager and promising to pay the remaining Rs 500 when the report arrives. CMO Dr Raj Kumar said, “An inquiry has been set up into the matter. From the video, it has emerged that the hospital’s manager Shah Alam is promising people a fake Covid-19 negative report in exchange for money. A case has been filed against him. Meanwhile, an inquiry has also been set up to find out if somebody from the district hospital was hand in glove with him.” District magistrate Anil Dhingra has ordered the cancellation of the hospital’s licence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/video-reveals-cash-for-covid-ve-certificate-scam-in-meerut/articleshow/76804680.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 6, 2020||Noida||As suicides spike after lockdown in Noida, police propose a helpline||NOIDA: The number of suicides committed in Noida since the lockdown was enforced has prompted police to propose a helpline for residents in distress. Data sourced from the cops show a 16% rise in the number of calls received about suicides or attempts to commit suicides after March 23. A majority of these calls were about women and children. Between January and March 23 this year, as many as 137 calls about suicides or its attempts were received by police. The number of such calls rose to 160 between March 24 and June 30. The number of suicides, too, saw a sudden rise. Before the lockdown was announced, 32 people had committed suicide in Noida this year. Between March 24 and June 30, 40 people had killed themselves. Of these 40, 15 suicides were by women and four by children aged between 11 and 15 years. The reasons for taking the extreme step varied from marital discord to dowry among women. For children, the issues were trivial. For instance, a 15-year-old boy hanged himself in his Dadri home apparently after being scolded by his mother for playing with friends on June 29. Similarly, a 13-year-old boy committed suicide after being denied money to buy snacks. Among men, the issues ranged from financial losses during the shutdown to insecurity over jobs and prolonged illness. Psychologist Dr Prerna Kohli referred to a study by the Psychiatric Society of India and said that one out of five persons surveyed in the country was suffering from stress in the times of Covid-19. “There has been a 60% rise in my counselling sessions since lockdown began. The problem is at three levels. The first is uncertainty surrounding the global pandemic. Then, there is the financial impact and third is the change is lifestyle. Women have been suffering the most as they also have to bear the anxiety of their husbands and children. The reasons for suicide among children are usually abuse, neglect and poverty,” she added. Dr Neharshi Srivastava, a psychologist attached with the Rehabilitation Council of India, said she had been getting 11-12 calls daily related to stress from financial and domestic issues. The police are planning to start the helpline as a pilot project for the next two weeks. “The feedback we have received from experts is that most suicides can be prevented if the person gets to talk to someone at that moment. Some of our staff will be trained to attend to calls on the helpline. Depending on the response, we can launch a full-fledged helpline later,” said Vrinda Shukla, DCP (women’s safety). Data has also revealed that cases of domestic violence against women have seen a rise in Noida. But the UP government’s helpline for women in distress — 181 — has remained shut since June 6. The private company operating the helpline and managing the “sugamkartas”, who respond to calls from the Lucknow head office and visit households of women who have lodged complaints, stopped the service since its workers did not get salary for the past one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/as-suicides-spike-after-lockdown-in-city-police-propose-a-helpline/articleshow/76804260.cms||Shikha Salaria
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid spread its wings far and wide, casual workers worst hit||HYDERABAD: Casual workers are the worst hit due to the Covid-19-induced economic slowdown, according to data compiled by a city-based research institute. Self-employed and even salaried class have not been spared by the pandemic, crippling economies and individuals alike. However, the only silver lining is that the rural economy is doing well. Considering the recent available periodic labour survey (2017-18), three categories of workforce — casual workers, salaried and self-employed — were vulnerable to the economic slowdown due to the pandemic. Casual labour in urban areas and casual labour in non-agriculture fields were the most vulnerable sections. It is estimated that of 2.5 crore population in the state, 53% in the age-group of 15- 59 years were part of the workforce. It would roughly translate to 60 lakh families in the state, considering there were 1.15 crore families in the state. According to data compiled by the institute, the most vulnerable were casual labourers, who constitute 23% of the workforce, in all sectors. Of these, 68% of the workers in the non-agriculture fields were more vulnerable to losing their livelihood or losing income. Casual labourers in urban areas, who constitute 13% of the workforce, were also most vulnerable. Self-employed (46.2%) are also vulnerable to losing income. Many self-employed were finding it tough to meets ends meet as business was not improving. “I had to shutdown my paan shop near Osmania University after unlock 1.0. People are scared to come to the shop. I am running into losses. I am going back to my native place in Ramayampet,” Yadagiri, who had been operating his shop till recently, told TOI. Most people returning to villages were those who either have their own house or agriculture land and are facing financial distress. Salaried class (30.1%) is seen as a some what vulnerable section. However, better GST collection in June has given indications of revival of the economy. “The rural economy is doing very well as they are on their own. Things will get back to normal soon in urban areas too,” Telangana Planning Board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-spread-its-wings-far-and-wide-casual-workers-worst-hit/articleshow/76804266.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 6, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Coconuts no more a cracking business, crores of fruits rotting in farms||RAJKOT: The eye-pleasing sight of endless coconut trees lined up along the coast of Junagadh and Gir-Somnath district is anything but soothing these days. Instead of the big green ready-to-pluck fruits full of water and kernel, most coconuts on the trees have turned brown due to rotting. Mounds of coconuts have also piled up in the farms and godowns. Thanks to lockdown and restricted movement in temples and recreation spots, these money-spinning fruits have now become a huge liability for the growers in these two districts, which account for highest coconut production in Gujarat. Being a perishable commodity, traders, who sign yearly procurement contracts with farmers, are refraining from purchase. In fact, they have not even paid the monthly instalment to producers. Majority of the coconuts are grown in Veraval and Sutrapada talukas of Gir-Somnath district and Mangrol and Maliya talukas of Junagadh. Hashim Lunya, a trader in Veraval said, “It was not possible to pluck the coconuts because we had no permission to transport labourers in vehicles during lockdown. Green coconuts are used in direct consumption and generally it is sold at the recreational places, all of which are closed. The ripened coconuts are used in temples as offerings.” Arjan Barad, a farmer of Badalpara village in Veraval taluka, has been cultivating coconut in seven bigha land and has around 300 trees. “A trader decides monthly Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 per tree based on the quality of the fruit. But due to lockdown, no traders came and coconuts rotted on trees itself. Now rotten fruits are piled up in our farm and we don’t know what to do. Farmers alleged that traders even threatened to cancel the contracts when they asked for monthly instalments. “In some cases, traders paid 105 to 20% to farmers to share some loss, but these depended solely upon personal relationships,” said another farmer in Sutrapada Vija Naran, is an agent connecting farmers with traders, does business with 400 orchards on commission bases. “Traders did not arrange for plucking the fruits in March, April and May. They have agreed to restart business in the coming months with the condition that farmers would have to sacrifice payments for these months.” Sarangpur Hanuman temple in Botad has banned coconuts after reopening. According to temple authorities, nearly 11,000 coconuts were being offered on Saturdays and around 2,500 per day on other days before the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/coconuts-no-more-a-cracking-biz-crores-of-fruits-rotting-in-farms/articleshow/76803302.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 6, 2020||Nashik||2-way speaker at booking offices||Nashik: The railways, as part of the initiatives to ensure safety of passengers and its staff during the Covid-19 ourbreak, has installed two-way speakers at booking offices of Nashik Road railway station. It has also provided face shields to the travelling ticket examiners (TTE).The booking offices cater to the needs of travelers and those who are to get refunds for their cancelled tickets. “The general public and the staff are at risk of contracting the infection. This is the reason that the glass barrier has been raised and two-way speaker has also been put up to ensure there is no hindrance in communication,” a railway official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-way-speaker-at-booking-offices/articleshow/76802400.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata police move to feed 1,000 daily enters 100th day||KOLKATA: The New Alipore police have set a unique example by completing the 100th day in feeding as many as 1,000 slums dwellers daily. There are 11 slums, located in three different wards, under the jurisdiction of the police station. Cops have served food to people daily from 11am to 12noon in over the past three months ever since the lockdown was clamped in March. “We established a kitchen for the purpose at the police station. As our initiative entered the 100th day on Sunday, we served a special menu — fried rice, chilli chicken, chocolate and cold drinks. On other days we used to serve rice with egg or potato curry, rice with chicken curry, rice with soyabean curry and khichdi with omlet. Three teams, each of which had three cops in PPE, were constituted. They collected food boxes from the kitchen, put up folding sanitized tables and distributed the food within just five to 10 minutes at any given point. Initially, we started the venture from donations of our staff, but soon we received external support,” said an officer. Cops ensured that social distancing had been maintained during the food distribution. “We had marked zones for collection of food. None was allowed without masks,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-move-to-feed-1k-daily-enters-100th-day/articleshow/76803838.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 6, 2020||Shimla||Want to holiday in Himachal Pradesh hills? Don’t forget to carry coronavirus test certificate||SHIMLA: After opening Himachal Pradesh for tourism, the state government has made it mandatory for tourists to carry the Covid test certificate issued by an ICMR authorised or certified lab. It has been made clear that the test should be conducted not more than 72 hours prior to entering the state. Tourists will also have to get themselves registered on the Covid e-pass website of the state under the tourist category 48 hours before their visit. Besides, they will have to undergo thermal screening at the tourism unit receptions before check-in. The tourism department has issued additional standard operating procedures which make it mandatory for every tourist to download the Aarogya Setu App. At entry points of the state, the district administration concerned will check medical reports, registration on covid e-pass website, Aarogya Setu app and confirmed booking for at least five days in a registered tourism unit. These documents will be checked again at the tourism unit by their staff. While travelling on highways, tourists will be allowed to halt only at designated wayside amenities and refreshment centres. These designated wayside amenities centres and areas will be approved by the district administration and tourism department. Under the fresh guidelines, owners of wayside food outlets will train their staff to take precautions and conduct adequate sanitisation. It has also been made mandatory for the staff to download the Aarogya Setu app. Signages highlighting do’s and dont’s will have to be displayed at every food outlet. Food outlets need to have glass fitted on the front of take-away counters, on the pattern of railway booking counters, to avoid contact with tourists. Food has to be mandatorily packed in biodegradable disposable packets. Toilets at the outlets will have to be sanitised regularly and hand sanitisers will have to be made available at the entrance and counters. Staff will have to use masks and disposable gloves and it has been suggested to encourage digital payments. Taxi drivers will also have to download the Aarogya Setu app. Booking at amusement and adventure parks, water sports activities and other tourist activities may be made online. Photography with costume change will not be allowed at tourist places. Raft, boats, jet ski, paddle boats, life jackets, helmets, paddle and all other equipment used for water sports will have to be sanitised after every use. Paragliding equipment will also have to be sanitised after every use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/want-to-holiday-in-himachal-hills-dont-forget-to-carry-virus-test-certificate/articleshow/76803856.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: BevQ-like app to control crowd||KOCHI: Chambakkara market, which was on the verge of closure due to threat of disease spread, has become a place of experiment now. The ‘market samrakshana samithi’ (market protection council) is planning to introduce a BevQ-like system to control the crow. As part of the move, authorities will collect phone numbers of around 600 vendors who regularly purchase fish from wholesalers at the market. The vendors will be divided into eight groups. “Each group will be given a 30-minute slot starting from 2am. There would be 50 to 60 vendors under each group and they should come only at that stipulated time,” said V P Chandran, councillor, Kochi corporation. “We held a meeting on Sunday for deciding future course action. We discussed about various possible methods for crowd control and finally decided to experiment the token system,” he said. Details of vendors who regularly purchase fish from the wholesalers have already been procured. “We will give a final shape to the token system by Monday. The market will open from Tuesday. We have procured machines and solutions like sodium hypochlorite for cleaning the area and vehicles every day. Once a fish-laden truck arrives at the market, we will ensure that sodium hypochlorite is sprayed on it,” said Antony, one of the wholesalers. “The plan is to issue token to vendors via WhatsApp in advance so that they can arrive at that particular time. We expect some initial glitches which may be sorted out in a few days,” Antony said. Details of all who enter the market will be recorded in a receipt book and a copy of the receipt will be kept at the market. This will be helpful in tracing people, if needed. “We will use microphone for crowd management. All the trucks which transport fish to the market should unload and leave by 4am,” Antony said. There are around 10 wholesale dealers and 30 retailers in the market. Wholesalers should close the business by 6am while retailers can sell fish to local residents till 9am. Police will monitor their activities for a few more days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bevq-like-app-to-control-crowd/articleshow/76803294.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana Congress urges CM KCR to take up Almatti issue with Centre||HYDERABAD: The Congress in Telangana on Sunday demanded that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao immediately convene an all-party meeting on the Almatti dam issue. The party also asked the chief minister to take up the issue with the Centre and halt the Karnataka government’s move to increase the height of the Almatti dam from 519 metres to 524 metres. “The state will lose 130 TMC of water if the height of the dam is increased by Karnataka. CM KCR should not remain a spectator. The increase in the Almatti dam height and enhancing water drawal capacity of Pothireddypadu will result in south Telangana going dry,” said Ch Vamshi Chand Reddy, the All India Congress Committee secretary and former MLA. Though the issue is pending in the Supreme Court, Vamshi stated that the Karnataka government is going ahead with its plans to increase the height of the dam. “The irrigation minister of Karnataka recently said that they are ready with Rs 61,000 crore required to raise the height of the dam. Karnataka is claiming to have obtained all clearances. The KCR-led TRS government should immediately take up the issue with the Centre and also the Central Water Commission,” Vamshi said. The AICC secretary said if the height of the dam is increased by even 4.6 metres, Karnataka will get an additional 130 TMC water at the cost of downstream states of both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. “Any further increase in the height will lead to risk of flood in Sathara, Sangli and Kolhapur districts of Maharashtra,” Vamshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cong-urges-cm-kcr-to-take-up-almatti-issue-with-centre/articleshow/76803853.cms||---
July 6, 2020||India||India-Bangladesh trade via Bengal border resumes||KOLKATA: The trade impasse between India and Bangladesh through the Petrapole-Benapole border came to an end on Sunday afternoon when five trucks from each side crossed over to the other side, reports Debasish Konar. Indian exports to Bangladesh via Benapole had come to a standstill from July 2 after Bangladeshi traders demanded import permits from India. Petrapole Land Port Authority manager Suvajit Mandal said around 4.30pm on Sunday, five trucks carrying readymade garments reached Petrapole in Bengal and three trucks of fish and two of onions went to Benapole in Bangladesh. “The administration fixed our operations time from 6am to 6pm, when we can allow export of 300 trucks and import of 150 trucks,” he added. Petrapole-Benapole border trade was initially halted following lockdown in March. Export of Indian goods resumed from June 7 but from July 1, Bangladeshi traders began protesting against “one-way export” as India was not accepting imports from the neighbour on grounds of Covid-19. On July 1, only 106 trucks were allowed to enter Benapole, while it would normally be 200-250 on average.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-bangladesh-trade-via-bengal-border-resumes/articleshow/76804687.cms||Debashish Konar
July 6, 2020||Nashik||Lockdown in Jalgaon’s urban areas||Nashik: Jalgaon district collector Abhijeet Raut has announced a complete lockdown in the Jalgaon Municipal Corporation limits, Bhusawal and Amalner Municipal Council limits from 5am on Tuesday (July 7) till 11pm on July 13. The relaxations in the rural areas would continue. “All shops and establishments, barring essential service providers milk and medicine stores, will be closed during the lockdown period. Citizens are warned against using any motorised vehicle without a valid reason,” the notification issued by the collector said. “Farmers who have to go to their fields should carry 7/12 extracts with them,” officials added. Raut, who took charge as collector on June 19, announced the complete lockdown in the urban areas of the district. Jalgaon city accounts for 958 cases (365 active) while Bhusawal has had 470 cases (91 active) and Amalner 383 (89 active). The district recorded 254 new cases taking the tally to 4,420. So far, 271 have died, and 2,611 have been cured. Dhule shops to close at 4pm Dhule collector Sanjay Yadav said the shops and establishments in the Dhule Municipal Corporation limits can function only till 4 pm from Monday till further orders. There will be a curfew from 4pm till 6am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lockdown-in-jalgaons-urban-areas/articleshow/76802407.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 6, 2020||Noida||In 24 hours, 300 people test positive in Noida, Ghaziabad||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: As many as 300 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar in the last 24 hours. According to the 3pm state medical report released by the government, Ghaziabad reported 182 new cases and GB Nagar reported 118. It also stated that no deaths were reported from the districts on Sunday. An officer said 113 patients were discharged on Sunday, including 12 from GIMS — taking the total number of discharged persons in GB Nagar to 1,759. On Saturday, GB Nagar had reported 5 deaths, taking the total number of deaths to 28. With 978 cases, the district stands at the second position in the state in the number of active cases. The total number of cases in the district stands at 2,765. On the other hand, there are 1,203 active cases in Ghaziabad, which on Sunday saw the highest spike in a single day. The total number of positive cases stands at 2,205. The total number of deaths in the city stands at 62 and total recoveries 940. The state on Sunday saw 1,155 new cases, 12 deaths and 607 recoveries in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of discharged patients in UP stand at 18,761, total deaths at 785 and active cases at 8,161.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/in-24-hours-300-people-test-positive-in-noida-gzb/articleshow/76804264.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
July 6, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Panampilly Nagar, Girinagar areas locked down||KOCHI: Shops and other establishments at Panampilly Nagar and Girinagar — two prime residential localities in the city — remain closed and residents are confined to their houses. Though shops selling essential items are open not many people dare to come out. “The first option is to check home delivery services. Most people have contacts with the shops functioning within their respective areas. Residents place orders with them and they deliver the order at the gate,” said Navaneeth S, a resident of Panampilly Nagar. Representative of Farm Gold, an essential services provider, said that police have allowed their delivery executives to move within the containment zone. The delivery executives have been directed to use sanitizers, wear masks and follow other Covid protocols. “The orders are delivered at the gate. On reaching the gate we call the customer to collect it. Apartment complexes do not allow visitors or delivery executives,” said a representative with Farm Gold. Panampilly Nagar is home to many famous eateries and restaurants in the city. All these outlets have been closed. Online food delivery platforms indicate “unserviceable” while searching for popular outlets in this area. Restaurant owners at MG Road said they do not directly deliver food at the containment zones. “If online service providers like Swiggy or Zomato is delivering to such areas, customers in the containment zone can place orders on these platforms,” said a staffer at a popular hotel. However, delivery executives working with online food delivery service providers said that they are not keen about delivering at places declared as containment zones. “Delivery at the gates of individual houses is safe when compared to delivery at apartment complexes. Even at apartment complexes we insist the customers to collect it from the security guard or from the office at the ground floor,” said Maqbool Khasim, a delivery executive. Meanwhile, lawyers, architects, doctors and other professionals who have offices at Panampilly Nagar and Girinagar said their businesses will remain closed till the restrictions are eased. Employees have been asked to stay away from the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/panampilly-nagar-girinagar-areas-locked-down/articleshow/76803308.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
July 6, 2020||Ghaziabad||In 24 hours, 300 people test positive in Noida, Ghaziabad||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: As many as 300 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar in the last 24 hours. According to the 3pm state medical report released by the government, Ghaziabad reported 182 new cases and GB Nagar reported 118. It also stated that no deaths were reported from the districts on Sunday. An officer said 113 patients were discharged on Sunday, including 12 from GIMS — taking the total number of discharged persons in GB Nagar to 1,759. On Saturday, GB Nagar had reported 5 deaths, taking the total number of deaths to 28. With 978 cases, the district stands at the second position in the state in the number of active cases. The total number of cases in the district stands at 2,765. On the other hand, there are 1,203 active cases in Ghaziabad, which on Sunday saw the highest spike in a single day. The total number of positive cases stands at 2,205. The total number of deaths in the city stands at 62 and total recoveries 940. The state on Sunday saw 1,155 new cases, 12 deaths and 607 recoveries in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of discharged patients in UP stand at 18,761, total deaths at 785 and active cases at 8,161.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/in-24-hours-300-people-test-positive-in-noida-gzb/articleshow/76804711.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
July 6, 2020||Goa||As Goa opens for tourism, private jets take super-rich to their villas||PANAJI: With the state opening for tourism, those who are willing to spend over Rs 10 lakh for a trip are flying down to Goa in private jets. With nine private jets landing in Goa over the past 10 days, the state is fast emerging as the top destination for people who own second homes or have leased luxury villas in the state. Most of the flights come from Mumbai and Delhi, India’s two worst-affected Covid cities. Over the past few days, Goa International Airport has hosted all sorts of business jets—from Gulfstream-200s to Bombardier Global 6000s—bringing to the state a variety of persons like the family of L K Advani’s son and the Shah family that owns the diagnostics chain Metropolis Healthcare. “Goa is currently one of the top destinations for private charters, and there is a constant demand on this route. People want to go to their vacation homes,” said co-founder of bookmycharters.com Sachit Wadhwa. Private jet operators have witnessed a 60% increase in enquiries, while Goa Airport officials said it is getting more requests for these flights, mostly from Delhi, Mumbai and Pune. “On a daily basis, we are receiving requests for non-scheduled operator charters, and we clear the requests if they meet all requirements,” said Goa Airport director Gagan Malik. “Right now, people cannot go abroad for a holiday. So, the best possible option, it seems, is Goa,” he said. The Goa government has not made it mandatory for fliers to obtain an e-pass, and anybody arriving by road or flight can simply show a Covid-free certificate issued by an ICMR-approved lab or get tested in Goa for Rs 2,000. “Goa has a practical standard operating procedure (SOP), and it is attractive,” said a stakeholder. The advantages of booking a private jet are obvious—arrive at the airport around 30 minutes prior to departure, avoid crowds in the terminal building, long queues for security and boarding, and travel only with familiar passengers. A flight from Delhi to Goa on a King Air B200 twin turboprop would cost Rs 10.2 lakh, while a trip on a twin-engine Hawker Beechcraft mid-size jet would require Rs 24 lakh for the same journey. After a strict two-month lockdown, on May 26, the civil aviation ministry allowed private jets and charter flights to resume operations in the country, saying that the SOP for private fights is similar to the norms for scheduled passenger flights. The price to charter a private jet depends on multiple factors—the number of passengers, type of the aircraft, duration of the flight, landing and airport charges, and if the client wants the aircraft to remain till the return journey. Fares start at around Rs 70,000 per hour for turboprop aircraft, which can accommodate eight passengers, and go up to Rs 6 lakh per hour for larger aircraft. Watch Private jets take super-rich to their villas, as Goa opens for tourism||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-goa-opens-for-tourism-private-jets-bring-in-visitors/articleshow/76804267.cms||Newton Sequeira
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||‘Body-at-sea’ news report from Taiwan leaves mariner’s kin in shock||KOLKATA: Family members of Sambit Majumdar — the 50-year-old marine engineer from Kolkata who went missing from his ship on June 16 — were jolted by a news report from faraway Taiwan. Sambit’s wife Jayati stumbled upon a news item on the net titled ‘Taiwan Navy finds body at sea with effigy of Hindu monkey god Hanuman’ and clicked on it only to find a photo of her husband’s gold chain locket displayed prominently with the report. “The Navy found the body of a man drifting off the coast of Taitung County Thursday (July 2) wearing a chain with an effigy of the Hindu monkey god Hanuman…,” read the report published by Taiwan News, the country’s oldest English language news outlet. She broke down after reading the physical description, “1.80 meters tall… wearing a dark-blue polo shirt with a crocodile logo, a pair of grey shorts, and a pair of black sandals of the Hush Puppies brand”. She recalled that Sambit had bought most of these items before leaving for his assignment on board the oil tanker MT Serengeti in February, which was sailing from Singapore to Desan port in South Korea. “I have no doubts it’s him. The Hanuman locket, the clothes mentioned are all his,” she said. The Majumdar family with help of a friend in Singapore got in touch with a local official in Taiwan who confirmed the news. TOI got in touch with Taitung County police, which is handling the case after the body was brought to the Chenggong harbor by the Coast Guard. “A body with no ID carrying a locket was found by the Coast Guard. According to the law in Taiwan, the body was handed over to the prosecutor’s office, which sent it to the coroner for identification,” said officer P Ye. He added, “The body being in the water for long has decomposed making identification by physical features impossible. Fingerprints taken were inconclusive. Now, a DNA sample will be taken.” The Majumdar family said they have informed Sambit’s employers, Dynacom Tankers Management, which has its offices in Ballygunge, about the latest development. “Capt Aninda Bhattacharya of Dynacom has assured us all help. I request the authorities, especially CM Mamata Banerjee and the ministry of external affairs, to help us in getting the body identified and brought back to Kolkata,” Jayati said. “Yes we are aware of the developments. We have reached out to govt authorities in India. We have also approached the Indian Coast Guard via India government authorities, who in turn have approached the Taiwan Navy,” said Bhattacharya. He added, “The firm has appointed an agent in Taiwan to take care of local issues, including insurance related matters.” A relative said they are hoping that the news from Taiwan, though shocking, will bring a closure for Jayati, her son and Sambit’s mother, who were at a loss about how to deal with his disappearance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/body-at-sea-news-report-from-taiwan-leaves-mariners-kin-in-shock/articleshow/76803846.cms||Abhinay Dey
July 6, 2020||Goa||Solar plant installed at Raia institute||Panaji: A 40kW solar power plant, which has been connected to the state power department grid, has been installed at Pedro Arrupe Institute, Raia, said the Goa Jesuit Province in a note. The solar power plant, designed as a protective roofing structure, is expected to take care of the complete power needs of the institute for the next 25 years. With the 40kW solar power plant commissioned at Raia, 75% of the institutions run by the Goa Jesuits are fully powered by solar energy. Installed under the net metering scheme, the surplus power generated will be exported to the grid through a bi-directional meter which will be compensated for by the electricity department on a yearly settlement basis through a power purchase agreement signed for a period of 25years, said Fr Orville D’Silva. The solar power plant is designed to generate about 200-260 units of electricity per day and will save Rs 2 lakh annually, said Nigel Alfonso, adding that the cost of the solar plant will be recovered in five to six years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/solar-plant-installed-at-raia-institute/articleshow/76804270.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Chennai||Not allowed to kiss or cuddle — lockdown takes a toll on new moms||CHENNAI: Suchitra Sivakumar, 24, who gave birth to her first child on May 6, was devastated when doctors asked her not to kiss her newborn. Suchitra also instructed to keep the baby away from her family for weeks. “My family members were waiting outside the hospital at 1am when I went into labour. My husband had to ask them to leave, as only one person could assist the patient because of the Covid-19 safety protocol in place. It took several days before my family got to see my baby, but from a distance,” says Suchitra. For couples who have waited several months to cherish the moment they see their baby, the lockdown was an unexpected situation. As the delivery date neared, these moms-to-be had to take Covid-19 tests and safety precautions. Breastfeeding the newborn, holding or rocking the baby are being done with utmost precaution. Gomathy Viji, 34, who gave birth to her son in May, didn’t just have the pandemic protocols to deal with but her older child’s emotions as well. Her four-year-old daughter could not understand why her mother had to stay with her little brother inside a room all the time. “My daughter feels left out,” says Gomathy. “She cries for attention and I have been torn between catering to the needs of both my children. I have been unable to experience the joys of childbirth,” she says. Though the process of giving birth is highly emotional and nerve-racking, staying relaxed is key to a calm and risk-free delivery, says Dr Rugmini KP, an obstetrician at Dr Mehta’s Hospital, Chennai. “It has been stressful as the last leg of scans and consultations was not done for many pregnancies, on account of the lockdown. It is important for moms to be not to get worried about the current situation. Stress-free patients can make the process of childbirth a lot easier.” The development of a social support system is essential in times such as these for new moms, says Madhumita Shankar, psychologist, and co-founder of city-based NGO Ties That Bind Foundation. Emphasizing the importance of communication between new parents and their families Madhumita says, “New moms can face a roller-coaster of emotions. However, focusing on the reality and understanding that this is the new normal is essential. Dealing with the process of childbirth during a pandemic cannot happen with the support of spouses, friends, and family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/not-allowed-to-kiss-or-cuddle-lockdown-takes-a-toll-on-new-moms/articleshow/76803855.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS leader bludgeoned to death in Nalgonda district||HYDERABAD: A TRS leader from Chandampet in Nalgonda district was bludgeoned to death by his rivals, including his cousin, on Saturday night. The victim, 50, was also Farmers’ Coordination Committee president of Chandampet mandal. An argument broke out between Lalu Naik and his cousin Vijay while local police along with R&B officials were demolishing encroachments near a bus shelter, Chandampet sub-inspector (SI) V Sandeep said. “Vijay runs a shop selling agricultural tools in Chandampet and his shop was also listed for demolition. On Saturday evening, Lalu Naik came near the shop of Vijay and they had an argument. We had dispersed the mob gathered, but subsequently Vijay and his associates attacked Lalu Naik with stones and other blunt objects. He suffered a severe head injury,” the SI said. Lalu Naik was initially rushed to Deverakonda hospital. “While being shifted to Hyderabad from Deverakonda, Lalu Naik succumbed to injuries,” the SI added. During the investigation, police found out that Lalu Naik and his relative had a dispute over one-acre property in Chandampet and they also had political rivalry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-leader-bludgeoned-to-death/articleshow/76803868.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||KMDA to float tenders for repair of four flyovers, bridges||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) is set to float tenders in a few days to take up major repair work of four flyovers in the city — Baghajatin ROB, Chingrighata flyover, Ultadanga flyover and Kalighat bridge on priority basis, with special attention towards Baghajatin ROB. At a review meeting held last week, the officials had made a special mention on the structural condition of Baghajatin ROB that’s in a very bad shape. Structural problems have developed on the bridge’s girders and expansion joints, for which its stability has been reduced. Bridge experts said that the bridge would be thoroughly revamped with advanced retrofitting work, by which the deck slab of the bridge will be replaced with new reinforced steel structure. State urban development minister and KMDA chairman Firhad Hakim said the construction material of the bridge has been of very low quality, due to which the bridge is getting corroded and it needs to be thoroughly renovated. The minister has instructed the KMDA authorities to see that from now on, if any construction agency is found supplying poor material, strict legal action is taken against them as per the terms and condition of tender documents. The KMDA authorities recently held a review meeting over the status of eight bridges like Ultadanga flyover, Sealdah flyover, Chingrighata flyover, Baghajatin ROB, Kalighat bridge, Aurobindo Setu, Bankim Setu and Chetla canal bridge. While three of the bridges — Baghajatin ROB, Chingrighata flyover and Kalighat bridge need to get a thorough overhaul, the structural conditions of rest of the bridges have been found to be more or less stable as of now and would only require some repair and strengthening work. “It was previously suggested by bridge experts that Baghajatin ROB should be dismantled because of its structural damage and a new bridge should come up in its place. However, given the overall scenario and the railway tracks under the bridge, it would be difficult to demolish the bridge and construct a new one. The bridge’s structure could be retained through thorough strengthening and retrofitting work, using advanced technologies,” said an official. It was also previously suggested that a new bridge should be constructed by dismantling the present Kalighat bridge as its pillars have been heavily corroded. Officials said that as of now, the bridge would not be demolished. “It will be decided in the future whether Kalighat bridge would be dismantled or not. As of now, the bridge will be thoroughly repaired with only some partial demolition, if required,” said an official. Officials said Chingrighata flyover is out of bounds for long term repair and it will be pulled down once the work of the new flyover plan from Chingrighata to New Town starts. Till then, the flyover would be strengthened only for the movement of small vehicles. The KMDA recently conducted load tests of Bijon setu, RG Kar bridge and Chetla bridge while Durgapur bridge is next in the line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmda-to-float-tenders-for-repair-of-4-flyovers-bridges/articleshow/76803851.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Deliver Class XII marksheet to students’ home’||PANAJI: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (GBSHSE) has asked institutes to deliver Class XII marksheets to students’ homes wherever possible. The board will start distributing the marksheets to schools from Monday. Once the schools collect them, they can start give them to students. “During distribution, kindly follow all health protocols. Wherever it is possible, deploy teachers/non-teaching staff for the distribution of marksheets at the students’ residence, which could be a unique opportunity to interact with students and parents in this pandemic situation,” stated the circular issued by GBSHSE secretary Bhagirath Shetye to schools. Class XII results were declared on June 26, and the admissions to first year general stream degree programmes will begin from July 15 through the online mode. Shetye has said in the circular that schools from the talukas of Bardez, Bicholim, Pernem and Sattari should collect their students’ marksheets from St Britto High School, Mapusa. Institutes from Canacona, Mormugao, Salcete, Quepem and Sanguem should able to collect them from Fatima Convent High School, Margao. All schools from Tiswadi have to collect the marksheets from the Board headquarters in Porvorim. In the case of higher secondary schools from Ponda and Dharbandora, the marksheets will be collected from Shri Ravi Naik HSS at Farmagudi. The Board has asked schools to follow all required measures when they begin distributing marksheets to students, to ensure that social distancing and other norms are in place. “Kindly follow all health protocols and stay safe,” Shetye said in the circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/deliver-class-xii-marksheet-to-pupils-home/articleshow/76804269.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Rural cops launch app to digitize tracking of goons||KOCHI: Ernakulam rural police have come up with a locally developed mobile application, Crime Drive, to digitize the tracking of goons and history-sheeters. Senior officers said that the application is aimed at enhancing the tracking system and to ensure availability of information to officers at a time of need. A brainchild of district police chief (Ernakulam rural) SP K Karthick, the application would be put to use in police stations across the rural police district soon. The app lets policemen take pictures of history-sheeters, record in detail about their present status and upload the GPS location from which the verification was done. According to officers, the tracking is for persons who have a criminal history and falls under the categories of KD (Known Depredator) and DCs (Dossier Criminals). “If such persons fulfil a certain criterion it would lead to the addition of their names in the rowdy list at the local police station. These people are monitored by policemen at regular intervals. Police have to do compulsory inspection of them at regular intervals so that a potential crime can be prevented. Crime Drive is being launched to improve the efficiency of this checking,” said a senior officer. “Earlier, the norm was to conduct the checking and record in a register. Policemen used to just mark present or absent against each person to be checked. There was no mechanism to figure out if they had actually met the history-sheeter to conduct the checking. Now, when the policeman takes a picture of a person in the rowdy list, the geo location from where the picture was taken would also get uploaded into the app. This means that the policeman would have to go to the spot, no matter what,” said the officer. He added that the app would record the timing of the checks as well. Meanwhile, SP K Karthick said the app would be helpful in investigation and quick tracking of suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rural-cops-launch-app-to-digitize-tracking-of-goons/articleshow/76803321.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Call all-party meet, Cong tells CM KCR||Hyderabad: The Congress on Sunday demanded that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao immediately convene an all-party meeting to discuss Covid-19 sitation in the state. The party also demanded that treatment of Covid-19 be included in the Aarogyasri scheme. Telangana Congress vice president Mallu Ravi said the TRS government has failed to effectively implement the ICMR guideline of “trace, test and treat” suspected Covid-19 patients. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/call-all-party-meet-cong-tells-cm-kcr/articleshow/76803877.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: 28-day quarantine must in North Paravur||KOCHI: North Paravur municipality has decided to make 28-day quarantine mandatory for people coming from abroad and other states. The decision is in the wake of a ward in the local body becoming containment zone after a deacon tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 after completing the 14-day quarantine period. “As the government relaxed mandatory quarantine period from 28 days to 14 days, issues also cropped up as the symptoms in many cases developed after that. Anyone coming to the local body limit from outside Kerala should undergo 28-day quarantine. This is first positive case reported from our limit,” said municipality chairman Pradeep Thoppil. All the roads leading to existing containment zone will be blocked using bamboo poles. The municipality will convene an all-party meeting on Monday to discuss the future course of action regarding political gatherings or protest marches till July 15 as the state government has issued certain directives in this regard. Meanwhile, Thrikkakara municipality will convene a meeting on Monday to discuss about the precautions to be taken at commercial establishments as the government has issued strict guidelines regarding Covid protocols. “Thrikkakara is mostly a residential area and people including traders and customers have to follow social distancing norms at shops. We will discuss the matter and other norms to be implemented in Thrikkakara,” said a municipality official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/28-day-quarantine-must-in-north-paravur/articleshow/76803326.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Delhi||Get set, stay at home: It's all online at Delhi's St Stephen's College||NEW DELHI: St Stephen’s College will start its online registration process for admissions on July 7 and it will continue till July 18. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, interviews will also be conducted online and there will be no trial for admissions under the sports quota, the college said in its prospectus released on Sunday. There will also be no written test this year. Being a religious minority institute, St Stephen’s reserves 50% of its seats for Christian students. The college, which earlier said it would start the admission process on June 30, will end its registration process along with the Delhi University schedule. Dates for releasing its cutoffs haven’t been declared yet. It will give 85% weightage to Class XII marks and 15% to interviews in absence of any written test due to the pandemic. Interviews, according to the prospectus, will have components on academics, cocurricular activities, general awareness and sense of values. An applicant needs to have a printout of the interview call letter, the date of birth certificate and the Class XII examination marksheet. Aspirants seeking admissions under the caste quota should possess requisite certificates. Within the Christian quota, 50% of the seats are reserved for aspirants belonging to Church of North India and Diocese of Delhi. During the online interview, these aspirants will have to keep ready their baptism certificate, a letter of recommendation from the parish priest that is endorsed by the bishop, a letter of membership of church and their parent’s church membership letter. The college has several supernumerary seats, including those for sports admissions. The aspirants applying under this quota will have to produce sports certificates. To apply at St Stephen’s, a candidate must first apply through the Delhi University admission portal and complete the process there, including paying the registration fees. The applicant will then be allotted a university form number, which he will have to use while registering for the college admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/get-set-stay-at-home-its-all-online-at-st-stephens/articleshow/76803865.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Goa||Goa’s popular tiatr singers jostle for online space||Panaji: For those starved of entertainment in these times of Covid-19, Francis de Tuem provided a pleasant surprise last month. Francis, the Konkani stage’s king of political songs and a perennial nightmare for politicians, started his own official channel on YouTube. His new song, ‘Yes Boss CM’, garnered 99,825 views in just three weeks, and for those without their dose of tiatr and kantaram since the lockdown in March, this was as good as it got. “I was getting rusty sitting at home. We have to stay in touch with our fans. If we cannot do shows, this is the next-best thing. It’s important for all of us to make our presence felt online,” said Francis, whose hard-hitting songs get lustily cheered. It’s not just Francis who is attempting to reach out to fans through YouTube. Realisation has dawned on everyone that it will be quite some time before normalcy returns. Without the popular tiatrs, not just income, but adulation has stopped too. Lawry Travasso in a recent videoSo the cream of Goa’s Konkani singers have now started their own channels. While Lawry Travasso, Rosario de Benaulim and Edwin D’Costa already had their own channels, they are now being given a run for their reputation by the likes of Olga Vaz, Marcus Vaz, Saby de Divar, Socorro de Santa Cruz, Junior Reagan, Justin de Santa Cruz, and more-recently, PeteRoshan, whose song on Sushant Singh Rajput quickly garnered 61,425 views. “What hurts us is when people with fake accounts on social media download these videos and upload them on their pages. That’s only done by frauds. You can forward the link and listen to the song on YouTube itself,” said Saby, who has released two new compositions, ‘Seafarers’ and ‘Lockdown Korun, Dilem Borun’. For most, the online shift is out of compulsion rather than choice. There is no money to earn, at least for now, as channels will need 1,000 subscribers and 4,000 hours of watch time within 12 months to start generating revenue. But the tiatrists are here for the long haul, and believe that growing popularity will eventually help them make some money. “The first aim is to stabilise ourselves online and add subscribers. Making some money out of this will happen only much later,” said Socorro. Lawry Travasso, possibly a cut above the rest in this business, already has 101 videos on his official channel. While several have been forced to take a backseat, Lawry hasn’t stopped, uploading at least one new song a week. “Lockdown made it all the more important to reach out to our fans,” said Travasso, who has now started an online signing competition called ‘Singer No 1’, where 30 contestants have submitted songs and videos. The online shift helps not just in satisfying fans across the world, it also aids in documentation. Francis, for example, has lost count of the number of songs he has composed since becoming a professional in the late nineties, and now feels the need to document everything. “Long after we are gone, hopefully people will talk about us and our songs. There should be something available for a different generation to know what we did. We grew up listening to M Boyer and others on radio. Maybe someone will remember us after watching these videos on YouTube,” said Francis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-popular-tiatr-singers-jostle-for-online-space/articleshow/76804272.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
July 6, 2020||Goa||‘Need stronger grievance redressal for coop sector’||Panaji: Financial malpractices, cancellation of licences and poor auditing has created a sense of uncertainty around cooperative banks and cooperative societies, said Goacan in a letter to the registrar of cooperative societies. Goacan stressed on the need to strengthen oversight and grievance redressal mechanisms for the cooperative sector so that concerns of customers can be allayed. On the eve of the International Day of Co-operatives, Goacan wrote to registrar of co-operatives societies Vikas Gaunekar and said that it is important to focus on preventing the problems that cooperative societies face while also finding solutions to the existing problems that many cooperative banks and credit cooperative societies find themselves in. The first Saturday of July, is observed as International Day of Co-operatives by the United Nations and the International Cooperative Alliance. “There must be an emphasis on increased attendance and participation in the annual general body meetings (AGMs) of the co-operative societies,” Goacan co-ordinator Roland Martins said. “There is also a need to highlight the trends in attendance, participation and decision making at AGMs in the last 10 years by undertaking studies of the same through MOUs with the economics and commerce departments of government colleges.” Martins, in his recommendations, has called for an emphasis on effective grievance redressal by ensuring that quarterly reports of the resolved matters are prepared and analysed. Sensitisation and awareness programmes for staff and office bearers, along with increased consumer awareness and capacity building can help address some of the issues affecting the functioning of cooperative banks and credit cooperative societies, Goacan said in its recommen/dations. “Financial frauds, cancellation of licences, lack of audits are some of the issues faced by cooperative societies that have created a sense of anxiety, uncertainty and mental tension among the consumers,” said Martins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-stronger-grievance-redressal-for-coop-sector/articleshow/76804282.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Goa||Recoveries outnumber active cases for first time in Goa||PANAJI: The state recorded its seventh Covid-19 death after Pascoal D’Souza, 72, a councillor of the Mormugao Municipal Council, died of the infection at the ESI-Covid hospital on Saturday night. D’Souza, who was brother of former minister and state NCP president Jose Philip D’Souza, represented ward-17, which is in Mangor Hill, which has reported more than 300 Covid cases since last month. Pascoal had attended a council meeting last week, and had done a Covid test after two other members — who were also part of the meeting — tested positive. Meanwhile, for the first time, the number of recovered cases overtook the number of active ones after 111 patients were declared cured on Sunday. This, along with 77 new cases, brought the total active case count down to 818. Thus, out of the 1,761 total cases the state has seen so far, more than 50% have recovered. However, as cases continue to rise, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that people must abstain even from visiting neighbours. “People are still not serious about the dangers of the infection,” he said. “Nothing will happen if you don’t visit your neighbour.” The CM’s comment came a day after the state reported 108 cases on Saturday. Sawant also said that Covid care facilities in the state have been expanded, and if need be, a second Covid care hospital will also be declared. He also said that the state has ramped up its testing capacity and now does almost 2,300 tests a day. The whole of Mangor Hill was sanitised on Sunday, and on Monday, a special meeting involving four MLAs and state officials will be held to take a decision on the containment zone, which is still reporting cases daily. Locals have repeatedly demanded that the area be unsealed. The residents have been given free ration since Mangor Hill is home to many daily-wage labourers who are out of work since it was declared a containment zone. Another slum area, Indiranagar in Chimbel, also reported a spike in cases on Sunday as 13 new infections were detected. In Camrabhat, too, five more patients tested positive, while isolated cases were detected in Curchorem and Thivim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/recoveries-outnumber-active-cases-for-first-time-in-state/articleshow/76804274.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Nashik||210 people donate blood at Shirdi on Guru Purnima||Nashik : As many as 210 people donated blood in the blood donation campaign organised by the Shree Saibaba Sansthan Trust, Shirdi, to celebrate Guru Purnima without pilgrims as the temple is closed due to the outbreak of Covid-19. The blood donation camp was organised at the Shree Sai Ashram where the chief executive officer Arun Dongre of the trust also donated blood. The SSST said the various programmes were organised on the occasion of Guru Purnima on Sunday from 4.30 am till the late evening, where the priests performed all the rituals. “All the rituals were performed from 4.30 am, beginning with the Kakad Arti, the rituals across the day and the celebration culminated with the ‘Shejarti’ at 10.30 pm. All the rituals and programmes were carried out adhering to the Covid-19 health advisory ,” said an official of the trust. The procession of the Sai Baba was carried out by the head priest of the temple from Dwarkamai Temple. Apart from this, a special puja was also conducted. The temple has been closed for pilgrims since March 13, 2020 to avoid the spread of Covid-19. The SSST had appealed to the people to stay at home and avoid travelling to Shirdi for the festival. Usually, Shirdi witnesses a large number of pilgrims coming from across the state, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/210-people-donate-blood-at-shirdi-on-guru-purnima/articleshow/76802436.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Nashik||2 youths bring lab testing services home||Nashik: Two city-based youths have launched an initiative, called Labdoors, to collect samples for pathology testing from the doorsteps of people requiring the service. The service can be booked online and the youth promise to collect samples starting at 6 am. The service was inaugurated by district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal. “After New Delhi and Mumbai, the service is being launched in Nashik for the first time. We expect citizens will get quality doorstep service from Rahul Nikam and Ajay Shelar,” Bhujbal said. The charges include the cost of picking up the samples at a pre-fixed time in a scientific manner and sending the same to the laboratories. Later, reports are sent by email and personal delivery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-youths-bring-lab-testing-services-home/articleshow/76928582.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Goa||Goa govt rejects Dr Edwin Gomes’ request to be relieved from Covid duty||PANAJI: The state government has shot down a request by Dr Edwin Gomes, nodal officer of the ESI hospital, to relieve him from Covid duty. Gomes, who is also head of department, medicine, Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, was appointed to lead the ESI hospital after it was named a dedicated Covid facility. “After a discussion with health secretary (Nila Mohanan), we decided that Dr Gomes will stay posted at the Covid hospital till the crisis ends in its entirety,” said health minister Vishwajit Rane. Gomes, in a letter to the government, said that he and his team of doctors at the Covid hospital should be relieved this month. Rane said that Gomes wanted a four-month break, but it wasn’t possible and it was so intimated to him. He said that it is important that doctors at the Covid hospital are given breaks at regular intervals, and thus, three teams of doctors are posted there on rotation. “We told Gomes that he can take a break for a month, but after that, he has to resume duty at the Covid hospital.” Gomes said that he and his team were burnt out following the same routine day in and day out. “We slept a few hours every day,” he said. “It tired us out, but it was good. Who said we are not willing to go back? We will go back. We could manage initially, but then we had patients who were symptomatic.” Other doctors from his team are set to rejoin GMC this week after testing negative. On Saturday, Gomes returned home after almost a hundred days of duty at the hospital, and was given a hero’s welcome by residents of the housing complex he lives in. Gomes had also won plaudits after Goa’s first seven Covid cases were cured and discharged, after which the state was declared a Green Zone. Many patients who were treated and cured also spoke of him in glowing terms. Meanwhile, the state has seen a spurt in cases over the past few days, and the last six days have seen an average of 81 cases everyday. This rise has compelled the state to expand Covid care facilities. As on Saturday, there were 85 patients in the 220-bed Covid hospital. A senior doctor said that there may soon be a need for another Covid hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-rejects-dr-gomes-request-to-be-relieved-from-covid-duty/articleshow/76804273.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 6, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: ‘Hope’ helps them regain confidence||KOCHI: They were written off as failures by their friends and relatives. But there was ‘hope’. And it only increased their grit and eventually, they proved all of them wrong. For these eight students, clearing SSLC examination is a life-turner. Most of these students have had a disturbed childhood — either in the form of drug abuse or an abusive family. However, they have been brought back to life by Hope, an initiative of Nanma Fundation, started by IG P Vijayan along the lines of Our Responsibility to Children (ORC) — a project of the Kerala police. Thrilled to the core by the success, the students who wrote the examination after attending classes at Red Cross Bhavan, Kakkanad, after they were dropped out of schools due to various circumstances, are now looking forward to study and achieve their dreams. Supported by a dedicated team of volunteers, including two retired headmistresses — Omanakunjamma C and Rani Lonappan, counsellors and psychiatrists. “We have 17 students studying here of which eight wrote SSLC exams. Others are with national open schools and some are in Class XII. The centre started working a year ago on the request of IG Vijayan sir. He pushes us to do our best because he believes that no child should be denied the right to happy childhood and schooling is part of that. The children, most of them are dropouts or SSLC fail. It affects their confidence and when they come here, they are highly dejected with zero confidence in their abilities,” said Shibi Hari, Kochi centre coordinator. The classes were initially three days a week. “Some of the kids go back to the school they were studying if they have highly empathetic teachers. We had a student who joined us in October on special request from the school headmistress who said she had tried the maximum but couldn’t induce any confidence in the child. But we worked really hard with her and she went back to school and passed with very good marks,” said Shibi. Volunteers associated with the centre said the first lessons are from a module prepared for kids who very weak in academics. It’s a bridge course with very basic lessons, something a child in primary class would be studying. Then they are slowly given classes such that they can score the minimum marks which along with their internal marks would help them clear the papers. Volunteers of Hope were dismayed when the lockdown disturbed the exam schedule in March. “We were very desperate. The students had almost forgotten what they had studied. In the four days that we got after the government announced fresh dates, we hurriedly revised the subjects. The results have been very satisfying considering the circumstances. This will serve as a positive encouragement for other students too,” a volunteer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hope-helps-them-regain-confidence/articleshow/76803339.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
July 6, 2020||India||Govt allots Priyanka’s bungalow to BJP MP Baluni||NEW DELHI: Barely days after serving a notice to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to vacate the 25, Lodhi Estate bungalow, the housing and urban affairs ministry has allotted this accommodation to Anil Baluni, head of BJP’s media cell and a member of Rajya Sabha. Confirming this, a housing ministry official said the allotment has been made taking into account the August 1 deadline set for Priyanka to vacate the bungalow. “In several cases, government accommodations are allotted to the eligible persons subject to vacancy. So, as soon as she vacates the house, the Rajya Sabha MP can move in,” said a source. Baluni is currently staying at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Road. It’s learnt that Baluni’s current accommodation has been allotted to a sitting Rajya Sabha MP. The government cancelled the allottment of the bungalow to Priyanka on the ground that after the withdrawal of security cover by Special Protection Group (SPG), she had ceased to be eligible for the government accommodation. Currently, BJP veterans L K Advani and M M Joshi and former Youth Congress president M S Bitta are the only exceptions who have government accommodation without holding official positions or being MPs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-allots-priyankas-bungalow-to-bjp-mp-baluni/articleshow/76804705.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||AP records highest one-day spike with 998 virus cases||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported the highest single-day surge of Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 998 people testing positive. As many as 14 deaths were also recorded in the state, taking the toll to 232. The cumulative caseload has risen to 18,697 in AP. Among the 14 casualties on Sunday, five are from Kurnool, three from Anantapur, two each from Chittoor and Kadapa, and one each from Visakhapatnam and Krishna districts. The number of active cases crossed the 10,000 mark to touch 10,043, with 8,422 cumulative recoveries and 232 deaths. Of all the active cases, 2,100 patients are being treated at the Covid-19 Care Centres. The state clocked the one million testing milestone on Sunday with a total of 10.17 lakh tests. Andhra Pradesh collected its first sample on February 1. It took 100 days for the state to reach the first five lakh testing mark on June 11, while the latest five lakh tests were carried out in just 24 days. The state currently has a testing capacity of about 35,000 samples a day. At least one lakh tests have been conducted in both East Godavari and Krishna districts. The one million tests translates to about 19,000 people being tested per every million population in the state, trailing just behind Delhi (31,814 tests per million) and Jammu and Kashmir (29,105). The mortality rate of the state is 1.24% with the 232 deaths, against the national average of 2.86%. Kurnool district alone recorded 81 Covid deaths. Guntur contributed 157 new local Covid-19 cases to the table on Sunday, followed by East Godavari 118, Kurnool 97, Srikakulam 96, Visakhapatnam 88 and Anantapur 87. Even though Srikakulam recorded about 850 Covid-19 cases as of Saturday, there were only 93 local cases. The remaining cases were detected among the people who came from outside the state. But the district saw 96 new local cases, more than the number of cases registered in the last 70 days, taking the cumulative local infections to 189.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-records-highest-one-day-spike-with-998-virus-cases/articleshow/76803885.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 6, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Amid Covid spread, five kids get new lease of life from disorder||RAJKOT: Parents of four-year-old Meet Goswami were heart-broken when their son’s viral fever and bodyache suddenly left his feet paralysed. They had no clue that Meet was suffering from Guillain Barre Syndrome (GBS), an uncommon disorder, until they admitted him to Rajkot Civil Hospital in March. After three months of hospitalization, Meet has ‘walked out’ with his relieved parents. Along with Meet, four other children, all in the age group of 3-8 years, have been successfully cured of GBS, a disorder caused by viral infection that could have left them paralysed for life or proved fatal too, had they not got the treatment in time. Meet’s father Hemantgiri, a driver, said, “He was discharged on May 28. I didn’t have enough savings to spend on my son’s treatment. I would have had to borrow money, had the hospital not provided free treatment to my son.” GBS affects the nerves that control the movement of the body and damages muscles that even control breathing. “Usually, paralysis starts from the leg and progresses to upper limbs, neck muscle, throat muscles and ultimately the respiratory system. All these children were brought to the hospital when the disease had affected breathing, thus requiring ventilator support for more than two months,” said Dr Pankaj Buch, head of the paediatrics department at the civil Hospital. The treatment time for such patients is at least 90 days and the cost per patient is around Rs 2.50 lakh. The entire expenditure for the five kids was borne by the hospital. According to Dr Buch, two of these five children had also developed cardiac complications, but these were treated in time. Aaradhya, three-year-old daughter of a farmer from Mangrol, also developed GBS after suffering from chronic cough and bodyache. “She was diagnosed with GBS on January 26. After three months in Rajkot civil hospital, she was discharged on April 25,” said her father Bharat Mori from Kotada village of Mangrol taluka. Other children who got cured include seven-year-old Hussein from Maliya-Miyana, eight-year-old Harsh Parmar from Upleta and three-year-old Shivraj Lakshman from Dahod. The children were also administered immunoglobulin therapy in which a hole is pierced through their throat to enable breathing through a windpipe ventilator. They are given food through the pipe inserted in their throat. The intravenous immunoglobulin price ranges between Rs 80,000 and Rs one lakh. “I have been treating children for the last 23 years, but I haven’t seen kids survive with such severe GBS symptoms and being on a ventilator for so long,” Dr Buch added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amid-covid-spread-five-kids-get-new-lease-of-life-from-disorder/articleshow/76803360.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 6, 2020||Goa||Goa plans to convert over 5 lakh sqm land, most of it agricultural fields, orchards||PANAJI: In a move that significantly targets conversion of agricultural, orchard, forest-type and ecologically sensitive land for settlement purpose, the state government has notified a total of 112 such proposals and placed them in the public domain for suggestions and objections within 60 days. The proposals for large-scale conversion of land — the biggest of which pertains to a 52,000sqm tract with partly orchard and no-development slope — has evoked harsh criticism in social media. “These conversions under Section 16(b) of the TCP Act, 1974, are against planning principles, as the Regional Plan 2021 was prepared by a task force comprising experts and government officials. But here individual requests, which are against the interest of public, local communities and environment, are being entertained,” environmentalist Abhijit Prabhudesai said. The notification issued by town and country planning (TCP) department includes nearly 4 lakh sqm of orchard land, about 49,000 sqm of land classified as natural cover, 26,000 sqm of paddy field and cultivable land, and 81,000 sqm of partly orchard and partly field land. The proposals also pertain to land use change in no-development zones — steep slopes, which are watershed areas, often with fields below. In some cases, cultivable area with irrigation facilities created by the government as command area development have also sought to be converted. Village committees are apprehensive about loss of green cover and destruction of biodiversity. “TCP has to consider biodiversity management committees, as these have statutory rights. The BMCs have undertaken ground-truthing surveys to identify biodiversity hotspots,” chairman of St Cruz BMC Arturo D’Souza said. The hill slopes and green areas sought to be converted harbours rich plant life and other flora and fauna. “The plants may look ordinary, but these are medicinal plants sourced by traditional practitioners,” D’Douza said. Others objected to the use of the term “natural cover” for green areas. “In reality this is forest land, which is not covered under plantations and orchards, and if properly identified could be private forest land,” an environmentalist said. TCP minister Chandrakant Kavlekar said that the approvals are subject to studies to be carried out. “These are not final and we are yet get reports (related to conversion requests),” he said. Regarding criticism about conversion of agricultural land and threat to biodiversity, he said the BMCs views will be considered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-plans-to-convert-over-5l-sqm-land-most-of-it-agri-fields-orchards/articleshow/76804283.cms||Paul Fernandes
July 6, 2020||Delhi||A week before exams, Delhi University seeks details of blind students||NEW DELHI: With just a few days left for the final-year online open book exams (OBE) to start, Delhi University has written to college principals, heads and deans of departments asking them for details about visually challenged students currently enrolled there. Such students are to be provided study materials and equipment. The varsity wrote the letter on July 3 even though Delhi high court had ordered relief to the students on June 17. DUTA president Rajib Ray claimed that the varsity started the process by July 3 despite the mock OBE tests starting on July 4. “The final exams, as per the revised schedule, are supposed to start from July 10. There is no way the required materials will reach the students. DU has failed every section of students,” he added. “As a result of the case filed by National Federation of the Blind, University of Delhi decided to spend Rs 2 lakh towards reimbursement of the cost of procurement of study materials, text books, reference texts in accessible format and/or assistive devices by the visually impaired students appearing for the open book examination scheduled to be held from July 10,” said the letter signed by DU’s Equal Opportunity Cell OSD Anil Aneja. The letter mentioned that Delhi University required details, including name, contact details of the student, the course in which they were enrolled in, their applicable semester (6th for bachelors and 4th for masters), their location, details of material they required and the approximate cost. The authorities were given time till July 5 to send the details. Asked about the delay, Aneja told TOI, “I forwarded the request to the colleges and departments within two hours of receiving the letter from DU.” Over why the varsity took so much time to draft the letter, he said he was unaware about that. Earlier, the federation had challenged DU’s decision to hold OBE on the ground that it violated rights of students with visual impairments and other disabilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-week-before-exams-du-seeks-details-of-blind-students/articleshow/76803881.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||Light rain brings mercury down, moderate shower on Met radar||Kolkata: After a brief warm spell, during which the mercury had shot up to 37.8°C in Kolkata, drizzles returned to the city on Sunday. Several spells of light rain left the city drenched and a cloud cover blocked the sun out. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 31.5°C on Sunday. The showers were triggered by a cyclonic circulation zone above northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha, which will also lead to rain in the coastal districts of Bengal. But Kolkata will receive only moderate showers over the next 24 hours, said the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) officials. “The circulation will have a greater impact along the Odisha coast. Coastal districts of Bengal — East Midnapore, North 24 Parganas and some parts of Jhargram — could receive heavy showers,” said RMC director GK Das. The city had been largely dry last week with the mercury soaring past 35°C. Even as the monsoon trough moved north, the northern districts received heavy showers. “The low-pressure has helped to bring the temperature down. It has plunged by 3-4 degrees and should hover around 32-33°C for the next few days,” added Das. This year, monsoon has arrived as per its schedule and with the currents moving steadily across the country, rain could be sufficient, felt experts. “Monsoon is driven by low-pressures and depressions that trigger showers and keep the rain count ticking,” said a meteorologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/light-rain-brings-mercury-down-moderate-shower-on-met-radar/articleshow/76803886.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Goa||Locals get support against railway project||Panaji: Goencho Avaaz on Saturday extended support to the villages of Cansaulim, Velsao, Pale, Majorda and others in their objection to South Western Railway’s (SWR) double tracking project. The NGO said that the “destructive move” would see Goans losing their land and some homes being destroyed for the track doubling project. “The shocking decision of the Goa cabinet on July 1 and the proud announcement by the chief minister Pramod Sawant to acquire land for the double tracking of the railways from Vasco to Margao exposes the anti-people government that is acting as a puppet of crony capitalists,” said co-convenor Captain Viriato Fernandes. Goencho Avaaz said that it is “distasteful” that the BJP-led government is taking “advantage of the Sec 144 during lockdown” to push the acquisition of the land. The BJP MLAs have back stabbed locals, said Fernandes. Goencho Avaaz accused the government of trying to make Goa a coal hub. “This exposes the deep rooted belief of the people of Goa that these MLAs are nothing but greedy and selfish and have no concern for the people,” co-convenor Swapnesh Sherlekar. The NGO has also questioned the “stoic and unrepenting silence” of the MLAs of Mormugao, Vasco, Dabolim and Cortalim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-get-support-against-railway-project/articleshow/76804291.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: Churches prefer to reopen after Covid cases fall||PANAJI: Although most churches prefer to defer their reopening, they have started planning so that they have SOPs in place to welcome back the faithful once Covid cases dip. At the Holy Family Church, Porvorim, details have been collected of devotees who would be interested in visiting the church for personal prayer (at designated times) and for Mass once a week. While collecting the names, it discouraged those falling in high risk categories from coming to the church during the pandemic. The parish has prepared a timetable as it plans to make more Masses available to the people. Evening Masses are also on the cards, to ensure that everyone gets an opportunity to participate while maintaining social distancing. “Unless the situation improves, we won’t start services,” parish priest Fr Caetano Fernandes told TOI. “People too are of the opinion that we shouldn’t start immediately. In the meantime, we are putting a plan in place and keeping everything ready in accordance with the SOPs so that we can apply for permission from the archbishop to start when the curve flattens,” he said. The Our Lady of Immaculate Conception Church, Panaji, has to factor in the several devotees from other parts of Goa who work in the capital city and visit the church before work or during their lunch break. The church is in the process of procuring thermal guns and putting in place the elaborate SOPs issued by the Archbishop, including activating volunteers. With social distancing mandatory, they are also working out possible seating arrangements for faithful on its 40 benches. “Everything is in the planning stage. It will take time,” parish priest Fr Walter de Sa said. “Some parishioners feel we should hold on till September as the cases are only rising. Although some are enthusiastic to return, others are very cautious. It is unlikely that we will be able to start services in the next two months,” he said. Our Lady of Grace Church, in Margao, is planning to organise Masses sector-wise but only once the Covid graph dips. “We are very prudent as far as opening is concerned. We can’t think of holding services even though people are ready to attend. It is not advisable to open churches at this time,” parish priest Fr Joe Rodrigues said. Despite the churches being closed, the priests are still catering to people’s spiritual needs, he said. The archdiocese on June 22 prescribed strict guidelines for churches and stated that the measures would be inspected before permission is granted for reopening of each church. The central government permitted places of worship to open on June 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/churches-prefer-to-reopen-after-covid-cases-fall/articleshow/76804285.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 6, 2020||Lucknow||10-year-old youngest to die of Covid in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Covid-19 has claimed its youngest victim in the city. A 10-year-old boy suffering from tetanus and novel coronavirus infections died at KGMU on Saturday; the information, however, was made public on Sunday. A man from Sitapur also died of Covid in KGMU, on Sunday. The boy from Bakshi Ka Talab was admitted to KGMU on Friday after being referred from a private hospital on Sitapur Road on being diagnosed with Covid. He was undergoing treatment for tetanus at the private hospital. “The boy was critical as his jaw was locked, blood pressure was high and lungs were not able to function due to muscle spasm. He died due to cardiac arrest following respiratory failure,” said Dr Nishant Verma, in-charge of isolation ward in KGMU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/10-year-old-youngest-to-die-of-covid-in-city/articleshow/76804278.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Warangal: Shakambari a low-key affair this year due to Covid-19 pandemic||WARANGAL: The annual Shakambari rituals at the historic Sri Bhadrakali Devasthanam were performed without fanfare this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, with only 270 kgs of vegetables purchased as offerings. Previously, about 4 tonnes of fruits and vegetables used to come from Hyderabad and Bengaluru for the rituals. The deity was decorated with different vegetables in 15 different incarnations. Warangal West MLA Vinay Bhaskar and his wife Revathi visited the temple. Although many devotees turned up to perform pooja, the temple staff ensured all preventive measures to control the spread of coronavirus were followed. It is believed that goddess Shakambari alleviates hunger and also known as the “the bearer of the greens”. “Shaka” means vegetables and “Ambari” means who bears.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shakambari-a-low-key-affair-this-year/articleshow/76803892.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||DD-Yadagiri to telecast lessons, aid students||Hyderabad: With students unable to access TSAT channel at their homes, the Telangana Tribal and Social Welfare Institutes have decided to make use of Doordarshan-Yadagiri channel to telecast lessons to school, intermediate, and degree students. The telecast of lessons would begin from July 6. Every day, online classes would be conducted for 30 minutes between 1.30pm and 2pm. As per the schedule released by the social and tribal welfare societies, online classes for degree students would be telecast from July 6 to July 8. For intermediate students, they would be from July 21 to 31. Whereas, for school students, the online classes would commence from August 3 to August 11. Selected topics from various subjects, including Telugu, English, Hindi, maths, science, commerce, economics, social, music, among others would be taught through these online classes. “To ensure that even those students living in remote areas can continue their learning in the current situation prevailing due to Covid-19, the society with the help of the state government will telecast the lessons,” RS Praveen Kumar, secretary, Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society and Telangana Tribal Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society, said. He asked all the students to utilise this opportunity to learn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dd-yadagiri-to-telecast-lessons-aid-students/articleshow/76803888.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Goa||100 days later, two temples to make cautious reopening||Margao: After remaining closed for over 100 days, two major temples of Goa have announced their reopening plans. Shree Shantadurga Devasthan, Kavlem, will reopen on Monday while Shree Mahalaxmi Devasthan Bandiwade, in Ponda, will unlock its gates on Tuesday. The rest of the major temples have decided to defer their reopening until further review of the Covid-19 situation. Mangesh Devasthan, Priol, has extended its closure until July 19. It will review the pandemic situation on July 12. “Except for these two, the managing committees of all other temples weren’t in favour of reopening the temples in view of the rising number of Covid cases across Goa,” president of Ramnath Devasthan, Pravas Naik, told TOI after the meeting of representatives of nine major temples held at Mardol on Sunday. “It’s not that the temples are entirely shut. All rituals are being conducted by the purohits in the presence of a very limited number of devotees. If anybody wants to visit the temple and pay his obeisance to the god/deity, he is welcome to do so by taking prior permission.” Shree Shantadurga Devasthan has put in place elaborate standard operating procedure (SOP) along the lines of guidelines issued by the government for reopening of religious bodies. “We have also decided to resume individual koul prasad from July 10,” president of Shree Shantadurga Devasthan, Triloknath Borkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/100-days-later-two-temples-to-make-cautious-reopening/articleshow/76804288.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Covid positivity rate among SARI cases touches 43%||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 positivity rate among the Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) patients has increased by 30% between April and June in the state. The positivity rate that was 2.9% in the month of April is now 43%. According to the report submitted to central team, the cumulative positivity rate has gone up to 34% from April to June. In the month of June alone about 2,200 SARI patients had tested positive. Of the 11,299 SARI people tested so far in the state, 2,414 people were positive. In April, the positivity rate among the SARI patients was much lower compared to the national average of 6.1%. These patients were either identified through regular surveillance by the state government or when they have come on their own for testing. SARI is condition where the people will have lower or falling oxygen saturation levels below 90%, the symptoms are similar to Covid-19. The exhalation and inhalation increases rapidly due to falling oxygen levels in these people. SARI can occur due to any type of flu, Covid-19 or even severe fevers. The growing SARI positivity rate can be understood from the fact that 80% of those tested positive in the Greater Hyderabad are SARI patients. The doctors and health officials are concerned about this new phenomenon. “It will be difficult to differentiate SARI cases with Covid-19 and other virus infections. The situation will only get worse in the coming weeks as there would be more people visiting hospitals with fevers due to viral infection,” a state official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-positivity-rate-among-sari-cases-touches-43/articleshow/76804298.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 6, 2020||Amaravati||Elephant herd damages crops in Chittoor district||HYDERABAD: Paddy fields in Chittoor district were severely damaged after elephant herds from Kaundinya sanctuary and the neighbouring state attacked the fields on Sunday. Farmers of Rangampet and Nagapatla villages say that they have suffered huge losses as the paddy fields, banana plantations and mango orchards were ravaged. They have said that elephants attacked the fields in the wee hours of Sunday and caused immense losses to the farmers. According to Mahalakshmi, farmers like her face the issue every year but seldom do they receive compensation from the forest department. “Every year, we face this problem. My two acres of paddy field had been destroyed. We reported the incident to the forest department. Instead of giving us compensation, the officials humiliated us,” Mahalakshmi said. Another farmer said that elephant herds are giving them sleepless nights. “I suffered a loss of Rs 3 lakh as my fencing and mango trees were damaged by the elephants,” the farmer said. Forest officials said that elephants from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu are also attacking the crops in the western parts of Chittoor district. A similar damage was also reported from Bangarupalem in Chittoor district in January. “Once the elephant herd comes out of forest, it takes a lot of time to drive them back into the forest. We have reports from Yadamarri mandal as well. We have been paying compensation, whenever we receive such complaints,” said a forest official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/elephant-herd-damages-crops-in-chittoor-district/articleshow/76803921.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 6, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Local villagers set up shops and eateries in ecologically-fragile Valley of Flowers||DEHRADUN: Valley of Flowers, the internationally-famous alpine valley situated in the Garhwal Himalayas, is facing the pressure of encroachment despite its remoteness and being nestled at an altitude of 11500 feet above sea level. Ghangaria — a reserve forest situated at the entrance of the valley — has been flooded with concrete buildings, functioning as restaurants and hotels, that have sprung up right under the forest department’s nose. This, when the valley, an ecologically-fragile area that was accorded a UNESCO World Heritage Site tag in July 2005, is supposed to be accorded utmost protection as it has high diversity and density of flora and fauna with a significant population of snow leopard, Himalayan musk deer and numerous plant species including rare herbs and flowers. Ghangaria is the gateway to not just the valley but also the revered Sikh shrine of Hemkund Sahib, and sees thousands of pilgrims as well as tourists every year. According to sources, 2.102 hectares of forest land in Ghangaria has been encroached by 49 local villagers who have built shops, hotels and restaurants on the land. The villagers are from Bhyundar village, which is situated almost six kilometres from Ghangaria. In November last year, the forest department had, citing section 26 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927, which prohibits entry of trespassers in a reserve forest and accords power to forest officials to remove them, along with section 2 of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980 ( restriction on the use of forest land for non-forestry purpose), had asked the villagers to vacate the land in a month’s time. The notice fell on deaf ears. Recently details of all the 49 encroachers along with the quantum of land occupied by them, were published in the form of a newspaper notice and an ultimatum given by the forest department to vacate the land by June 29. However, this notice, too, has failed to elicit a response. Dinesh Jhingwan, a lodge owner in Ghangaria, who is among those who have been named in the forest department notice, claimed that the land belongs to villagers as they have been running their businesses here for years. "We have not encroached upon any land. It belongs to us,” he claimed. Providing a background of the matter, a forest official deployed in Chamoli, told TOI, “It was back in 1968 that the forest department had given .05 hectares land on lease for 10 years to just four people of Bhyundar village. However, over time, as the place became popular and tourist numbers started soaring, other residents of Bhyundar also started encroaching upon the protected forest land.” He added that “the encroachers are now trying to get the reserve forest land converted into revenue land using political pressure so that they can continue to run their businesses.” DK Singh, director of Nanda Devi National Park, who also has jurisdiction over the Valley of Flowers, added, “We are contemplating action against the encroachers and have requested the district administration of Chamoli to provide us police force to help remove the encroachers.” Chamoli district magistrate Swati Bhadauria, when queried about the matter, told TOI that she is waiting for the orders of the state government in this regard. “The matter has been escalated to the state government by the villagers as well as forest department. A decision is yet to be taken on it. Once the decision is communicated to us, we will act accordingly.” Meanwhile, forest minister Harak Singh Rawat, when asked as to how a World Heritage Site can be encroached upon in this manner, said, “The matter is in my notice. We are trying to work out a midway approach as we don’t want people to become suddenly jobless, since they have been earning their livelihood through tourism and removing them would not only hit them hard but also the tourism of that area. I shall be calling a high-level meeting soon to resolve the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/local-villagers-encroach-part-of-valley-of-flowers-a-world-heritage-site-set-up-shops-restaurants-in-ecologically-fragile-area-right-under-forest-depts-nose/articleshow/76801694.cms||Shivani Azad
July 6, 2020||Goa||Two Olive Ridley turtles rescued at Agonda beach||Poinguinim: Two fully grown Olive Ridley turtles, one weighing 15kg and the other around 20kg, were rescued at the Agonda beach on Saturday afternoon. Steve Rodrigues, a resident of Agonda who was angling from the beach, and his mother Fatima who was also on the beach, suddenly noticed something struggling in the shallow water. The duo ventured into the shallow water and saw two turtles entangled in a discarded fishing net. With the help of three more people, they managed to pull the net to the shore. After the flippered visitors were freed from the fishing net, they were released into the sea. Agonda is one of the two turtle nesting beaches in Canacona, the other being Galgibaga. It may be recalled that a fortnight ago some fishermen had rescued five adult Olive Ridley turtles that were found tangled in a discarded fishing net at the Benaulim beach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-olive-ridley-turtles-rescued-at-agonda-beach/articleshow/76804295.cms||Albert Fernandes
July 6, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: DIG prisons tests positive, office closed||LUCKNOW: Deputy inspector general (DIG), prisons, Sanjeev Tripathi was diagnosed with Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the tally of police personnel and their family members testing positive to 182 in the city. Tripathi’s office in prison department’s headquarters on Jail Road was closed for 24 hours for sanitization and samples of 59 staff members collected for testing. In a press statement, UP police prison department said that the DIG’s sample was taken along with 50 others in the office during random sampling on the direction of director general, prisons, on July 2-3, in which Tripathi’s report came positive. Chief medical officer, Dr Narendra Agrawal, said the officer had visited Agra recently for an official assignment. So far, offices of the anti-corruption organisation, joint commissioner of police (law and order), Lucknow, and deputy commissioner of police, traffic have been closed in the city for sanitization after detection of Covid-19 cases. Some have resumed work now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dig-prisons-tests-positive-office-closed/articleshow/76804286.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Students will find it difficult to prove their abilities on basis of result alone’||Ludhiana: The pandemic Covid-19 has adversely affected the educational systems with classrooms now shifting to digital platforms. Keeping in view the increasing threat of the spread of virus or getting affected due to it, universities and educational institutions are being instructed not to conduct examinations. Earlier, examinations were placed on top of the hierarchy to promote the students to the next level of education. But now, it is time to adopt alternative methods to evaluate students. According to city college principals and directors, the decision to cancel examinations may not affect the result of the students. They also pointed out that it is important to maintain the regularity of students’ academic year. Principal Association of Panjab University held a meeting to discuss the issue on Sunday. Ajay Sharma principal of Shri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, said, “In the meeting, we have requested Panjab University (PU) to involve all stakeholders while preparing guidelines for promoting students to next classes. However, issue of entrance exams were also discussed and PU is yet to take a call.” N S Sidhu , Guru Nanak National College in Doraha said, “In the given circumstances this is the best possible option. UGC can also come into the picture if it decides otherwise and most likely a similar decision may be taken for the whole country. PU will have to work out the norm and policy for the award of degree and promotion of the students as well as work out the formula to calculate the grades and marks for different classes and courses.” Ashwani Bhalla, president of Punjab Commerce and Management Association and coordinator business innovations department at SCD Government College, said, “The guidelines will be prepared according to UGC recommendations. In this regard, we are already waiting for official information from PU and Secretary Higher Education, Government of Punjab. However, we will follow guidelines as laid down by PU/MHRD/UGC regarding examinations.” Principal of Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, Mukti Gill, said “Registrar PU Chandigarh shall send the guidelines to all the affiliated colleges and the result shall be compiled accordingly.” Ranjodh Singh, president of Ramghariya College Council said, “ In present circumstances, it’s difficult to conduct exams in schools and colleges, so it’s the right decision not to hold exams this year. Students are being promoted based on their previous year results. Those who passed graduation first last year, and would have appeared for graduation second exams, will be automatically promoted to BA third. This way admission process can be started and class teaching can resume, whether online or physical classes. Everything needs to move amid pandemic, so running educational institutions is a good step forward. In fact, UGC has already decided on this. Probably the modalities are being worked out in UGC in consultation with universities." Ranjodh Singh further added, “Major hiccup will be for competitive exams and those who aspire for higher scores in their final exams and one major issue, those who failed last exam, in which case they may be giving exam online to go to next level.” Principal of Pratap College of Education Dr Manpreet said, “While compiling the final result, we will give substantial weightage to various parameters like marks obtained in previous semester exams, marks obtained in online house examination, participation and performance in online classes and if any student is dissatisfied with the declared result, he or she should be permitted to sit in exam to improve the scores.” According to Harsh Sadawarti, vice-chancellor of CT University, “For promotional criteria, the various options were discussed and 33% weightage is given for cumulative assessment, 33% weight age is for assignments and 34% is for CGPA of previous terms. Besides this, university will conduct reappear, improvement and examination for all those students of final year who are having any reappear and improvement or those who have been detained due to one or the other reason. Online examination is scheduled to be held from July 15, by paying normal and reappear examination fees — of Rs 500 per course. The last date to apply online is on or before July 7. At CT University, said Sadawarti, the question paper will consist of 75 MCQ questions (1 mark each) and maximum time will be 1 hour and 15 minutes, further it will be converted into 100 marks and the result of all other students of final semester will be declared on July 15. Result of other students except final semester will be declared by July 25. PTU affiliated colleges too are waiting for the same and city colleges have sent the internals. Gujranwala Guru Nanak Institute of Management and Technology, which is affiliated to PTU, has already sent internal assessment out of 40% weightage to university for further compilation of results. Principal Harpreet Singh said, “Our internal assessment system is very systematic and robust. We have internal exams and each student is given two assignments. All students get individually separate and different assignments which are practical. Now, the big challenge of cancellation of exams of outgoing students will be their backlog of reappear exams. Some students may be having larger number of reappear exams. This will erode the essence of examination system. I think online examination was a better option for outgoing students.” Director GGI Gurkeerat Singh is also awaiting guidelines from affiliating university PTU. “Hopefully, we will have clarity on a fair mechanism from university soon,” he added. Other city colleges too conducted online exams, INIFD, Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan Ferozopur Road conducted online exams internally. Mona Gupta from INIFD said “We gave the results on time and also started with the new session.” Director of IIFT, Geeta Nagrath said “We have always kept regular assessment pattern and we have our monthly assignments along with half yearly exams this will help us to do the yearly assessment. This is going to be very difficult for the professionals to choose the best candidates on the basis of ranking and vice versa, students will be in difficult situation to prove their abilities on the basis of their result.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/students-will-find-it-difficult-to-prove-their-abilities-on-basis-of-result-alone/articleshow/76803889.cms||Mehak Jain
July 6, 2020||Nashik||ICMR dispatches 5,000 antigen kits||Nashik: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has dispatched 5,000 antigen kits for Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to conduct rapid tests on high-risk contacts and suspected patients across the city. An NMC official said the ICMR has already dispatched the kits and they are expected to arrive on Monday. “We will use the kits during the surveillance for early detection of Covid-19 patients. The ICMR has suggested antigen tests for fast detection of the virus. Moreover, the state government too has allowed such tests as the entire process takes only about 15-25 minutes,” he said. Of late, there has been a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases across the city. On Saturday, the city recorded 196 positive cases — highest number of cases in a day. Also, 23 health staff and employees of the municipal corporation tested positive for the contagion. Therefore, the NMC is planning to conduct rapid tests for early detection. “We will conduct antigen tests during surveillance in containment zones. We will use these tests for the high risk contacts, co-morbid patients and residents in slum areas. This will help us in early detection,” the official said. “We will immediately start conducting rapid tests through antigen kits. The tests will help us a lot as around 150 patients are being tested positive per day on an average over the past few days. We are tracing at least 20 high risk contacts of each patient. Hence, we need early detection of all the high risk contacts,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/icmr-dispatches-5000-antigen-kits/articleshow/76802494.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 6, 2020||Patna||Galwan martyr’s widow gets a job in Samastipur||PATNA: The state government has appointed Minu Kumari, the wife of martyr Aman Kumar, as a clerk on compassionate grounds. Aman (24), a resident of Sultanpur East village under Mohiuddinnagar block in Samastipur district, was among the 20 Bihar Regiment personnel, who were martyred while fighting the Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley on June 15. Samastipur district administration is the first to provide a job to the family of any Galwan Valley martyrs in the state. When contacted, the family members of the four other martyrs from the state said they had received cheques for ex gratia payment, but not any job to the next of their kin. “A letter of appointment of Minu Kumari on compassionate grounds was issued on Saturday. She has been asked to join as clerk in the office of Mohiuddinnagar circle officer within a week. The appointment letter was issued in the wake of the general administration department order,” Samastipur DM Shashank Shubhankar said on Sunday. The DM said the martyr’s wife was provided a government job on the basis of her educational qualification. Moreover, she had requested in her application for appointment at Mohiuddinnagar so that she could discharge her duty well, the DM said, adding that a cheque for Rs36 lakh was earlier handed over to the family. Minu’s father-in-law Sudhir Singh thanked CM Nitish Kumar for providing immediate relief to the aggrieved family. “I had not expected such a quick action from the state government as well as the district administration. We are indebted to both the CM and the DM,” he told this newspaper over the phone on Sunday. Sudhir, a farmer by profession, said he wouldn’t hesitate to send his second son to the Army to safeguard the nation’s boundary. “Mujhe apne shaheed honewale beta ki bahaduri par garv hai. Usne apne kartavya ka sahi se palan kiya (I am proud of my son’s valour and bravery. He performed his duty well,” Aman’s father said. Earlier, Union home minister and BJP MP from Ujiarpur Nityanand Rai had announced to construct an entrance gate and a link road to the martyr’s village as a mark of tribute to him. He had written a letter to the district magistrate in this regard to initiate the process. Aman had joined the Army in 2014. He was among the five Bihar Regiment personnel from state who laid down their lives in the face-off with Chinese troops in Galwan on June 15. The other four were havildar Sunil Kumar (Patna) and constables Jai Kishore Singh (Vaishali), Kundan Kumar (Saharsa) and Chandan Kumar (Bhojpur).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/galwan-martyrs-widow-gets-a-job-in-samastipur/articleshow/76803412.cms||Ramashankar
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Iskcon headquarters in Mayapur reopens after 3 months||MAYAPUR (NADIA): The Iskcon headquarters at Mayapur reopened for devotees on Sunday after staying shut for three months, with a new slew of restrictions aimed at Covid safety. A large number of people queued up to enter the temple following restricted timings from 9 am to 7 pm. Devotees had to follow a fixed route inside the premises to pay obeisance to the idols of Radha Madhava, Panchtattva and Prahlad Narsimhadev deties, housed inside the Chandradaya temple. All visitors on foot entered using the the main gate and vehicles were allowed in from the Gammon gate, where each vehicle was sanitised, followed by screening of the visitors for masks and body temperature, after which they were sanitised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iskcon-hq-in-mayapur-reopens-after-3-months/articleshow/76803896.cms||Ashis Poddar
July 6, 2020||Delhi||Open-book exams: Under fire, Delhi University lists ways to avoid online glitches||NEW DELHI: A day after students had to deal with various glitches during the first day of mock tests for the much debated final open book examinations (OBE), Delhi University (DU) on Sunday tried to explain issues “based on inputs received from stakeholders and persons concerned with the OBE mode of examinations”. Of the 14 queries answered by DU, the most common was the problem faced during finding question papers. The university’s examination branch said the problem was probably linked to the way students were looking for a specific question paper. They were probably trying to get a specific question paper not available on the portal or searching with titles of subject/courses that were not in the system, the release stated. “Students may be advised that this is purely a mock test and any sample paper may be used for writing and they can take any paper of choice,” the exam branch said. On students having problems with downloading question papers on their mobile phones, DU said the device must have internet connectivity and downloading features. Around 68% of the candidates registered through mobile devices, it pointed out. “Students are advised to enter the correct name of the portal as notified by the examination branch and is available on the university website, and also to check internet and other requirements,” the release suggested. On the portal taking 10-15 minutes to open, DU said this might be due to multiple users visiting the website multiple times without completing a past activity. The students have been advised to check internet connectivity while visiting the site/portal of examinations. “All messages and information at a particular button and related activities must be read before moving to the next activity,” it added. The exam branch clarified that on the day of the examinations, students would be allowed to download their question paper. They will also have an extra hour for downloading question papers and uploading answer sheets. Students have been advised to follow instructions as the final exams are scheduled to begin on July 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/open-book-exams-under-fire-du-lists-ways-to-avoid-online-glitches/articleshow/76803915.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kochi||Authorities to regulate operations of markets||Kochi: With markets in the city posing high risk of spread of Covid-19 cases, authorities are planning to put stringent restrictions in place in such areas. District administration, police and Kochi corporation are making a combined move to tackle the situation. In an effort to assess the situation at the ground level, a police squad led by deputy commissioner G Poonguzhali and civic body officials led by corporation secretary R Rahul conducted a surprise inspection at Chambakkara fish market around 5.30am on Saturday. Police registered a total of 11 FIRs for not maintaining social distancing norms. “We also registered 49 cases for not wearing masks in the market itself,” DCP Poonguzhali said. District administration, police and corporation authorities are keenly analyzing the developments. “We are planning to put stringent measures in place for the operations of markets. Detailed plan will be chalked out after a meeting with city police commissioner,” district collector S Suhas said. Police and corporation authorities have given strict instructions to the vendors at Chambakkara market to strictly follow Covid protocol while conducting business. “When we reached Chambakkara market in the morning, the situation there was not so rosy. No social distancing and other practices to check the spread of the pandemic was there. At least a 1,000 people, almost all of them traders and drivers of trucks which bring fish to the market, thronged the place. Police took a few into custody for failing to follow the Covid protocol. Those shops violating Covid protocol from Monday will be closed down,” said corporation secretary R Rahul. “A few days ago, we had given notices to the owners of shops and other commercial institutions in the city to follow Covid protocol. We have asked them to restrict the entry of those above the age of 60 and below the age of 10. Now, we are going to issue an order thereby bringing in more regulations,” Rahul said. “The trucks laden with fish will be parked at Chambakkara market for hours. It is after completing the entire auctioning of the fish that the trucks would be leaving. We have instructed that the trucks including those coming from other states as well as from other districts should leave immediately after unloading the fish. General public should be allowed entry only after 7am. Vendors and wholesalers should be allowed entry until then,” Rahul said. The functioning of Chambakkara market is from 4am to 8am. Corporation is suggesting measures including relocating the markets to more spacious areas or open space. “We will have to hold discussions with various agencies and merchants before taking a decision in this regard,” mayor Soumini Jain said. “Public also will have to understand the gravity of the situation. Most people don’t maintain social distancing at public places.Unless there is self-regulation, the situation will get out of hand. Public should avoid purchase of groceries and other things on a daily basis. They should buy it for at least a week so that regular shopping can be avoided,” Jain said. Meanwhile, Kochi city police have written to corporation to cancel the licence of establishments violating the mandatory guidelines. “We have asked Kochi corporation to cancel the licences of shops if they are functioning without adhering to norms specified under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance,” said DCP Poonguzhali. “As of now we have four containment zones in the city and in the coming days the number of such zones are likely to go up,” she added. (With inputs from Binu Karunakaran)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/authorities-to-regulate-operations-of-markets/articleshow/76803408.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Hidco launches re-greening drive in New Town||KOLKATA: The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has launched its ‘Re-green post Amphan’ programme in New Town. As part of the programme, around 10,000 saplings will be planted on vacant plots across the township in the next one month. The initiative was launched on Saturday. Trees of various species were planted on vacant plots at six places with permission from the plot owners. Once the owners start work on the plots, the planted trees will be shifted elsewhere. The plantation programme will involve citizens while tokens will be given to residents for the plantation of each tree, said an official. “After Cyclone Amphan, it was planned to utilize the empty plots for re-developing the greenery that was damaged. This will prevent the growth of weeds, accumulation of garbage and formation of water puddles where mosquitoes breed. This month-long programme will not only help in greening the township but will also help in taking effective weed- and dengue-control measures,” said an official. Amphan damaged a total 4,959 trees in New Town, while 4,489 of them could be restored. The authorities also launched a page (Greening at New Town) on social media, where residents of New Town can post photographs of the plantation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hidco-launches-re-greening-drive-in-new-town/articleshow/76803919.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 6, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Dindori MIDC area picked for plug-&-play infrastructure project||NASHIK: The state government is planning to rent out industrial plots with ready sheds to industries in the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) areas. The project is named ‘Plug & Play Infrastructure’. The state government has identified new industrial areas of the MIDC at Talegaon-Akrale in Dindori taluka of the district. The state government is in the process of finalising various aspects of the project, said an MIDC official. As a part of the project, industries will not need to spend on buying land and putting up sheds or structures. They will get sheds already developed by the MIDC on rent. The industries will only have to set up the machinery and start operations. Industrial plots of around 1 acre or more will be rented out to industries looking to start manufacturing units, said the officials. Initially, the project will be started in some locations, including one at Dindori. The new industrial estate at Talegaon-Akrale has been set up on 500 acres, which is just 7 km away from the Nashik airport. MIDC has already created infrastructures like internal roads, approach roads, water supply, streetlight and other facilities here. “This is a good policy. Usually, industrialists have to spend a lot on buying land and developing infrastructure. They then face scarcity of funds for production and marketing. But such investment-friendly measures will attract more investment, said Manish Rawal, a senior member of Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dindori-midc-area-picked-for-plug-play-infra-project/articleshow/76802534.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 6, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: private bus operators oppose move to install driver cabins||KOCHI: The private bus operators in the city have come out against the move to install separate cabins for drivers as a part of enforcing social distancing measures in public transport. Private bus operators say if cabins are installed, drivers will not be able to get a clear view of passengers getting in and out of the buses. “The automatic doors are controlled by drivers. If they do not get to see passengers getting and getting out it could result in accidents. Drivers are not willing to operate such buses,” said T J Raju of KMTC. The bus operators said that except during morning and evening hours there are hardly any passengers in the buses, and they are running in loss. The autorickshaw operators in the city say that not many people are willing to travel by autorickshaws since the government lifted lockdown. “There are many autorickshaws on the streets. However, these vehicles hardly bring in enough profits for the drivers. As the number of Covid positive cases increases people are generally staying indoors,” said Antony M J, an auto driver in the city. Taxi and cab operators too say that travel is generally confined to essential and urgent matters. People do not go out for shopping or other leisure activities. “Booking have considerably reduced. With the number of containment zones increasing in Kochi corporation people are sticking to their homes. They either depend on their two-wheelers or cars,” said Saleesh Gopalan, a taxi operator. However, he said that he receives many calls to bring in people who are coming from airports and railway stations. “Most of these commuters have to undergo home quarantine. We disinfect vehicles and also take all precautionary measures. The glass separators are also a risk minimizing factor,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pvt-bus-operators-oppose-move-to-install-driver-cabins/articleshow/76803419.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad hostel owners ask students to vacate over rent payment||HYDERABAD: Many students and youth, who moved back to their hometown before the lockdown and have not returned to the city fearing a spike in Covid-19 cases, are now worried as private hostels are asking them to vacate the hostel this month over non-payment of rent. A large number of young people from other districts live in private hostels in areas like Dilsukh Nagar, Ameerpet and Kukatpally among others. At a time when students, especially those from economically backward classes and marginalised sections of the society, are facing hardships to make ends meet, paying hostel rent in their absence for the lockdown period is an additional burden for many. Prudhvi Mandarapu, a BTech student, is one among many such people who is facing issues. He had vacated the hostel in March after his college declared holidays due to Covid-19 lockdown. Ever since, he has not returned to the city. “Although I paid the rent for March-April, I had clearly informed the hostel owner that I want to discontinue the hostel facility beginning May. However, since some of my belongings are still there in the hostel, the owner is asking me to pay rent for May-June,” said Mandarapu. Many others are making distress calls to the police and state information technology minister K Taraka Rama Rao on social media. “@KTRTRS Sir we are still paying hostel/PG rents in Hyderabad during the Covid-19 crisis despite working from hometown. Can you please look into this issue as we are not able to travel and vacate the hostels in the current scenario and also we never know how long this will last,” tweeted Sai. Hostel owners said that while they had allowed deferred rent payment for three months following government orders, they have not received arrears from many. “We allowed delayed payment to students from March-May. But many did not make the payment even until June end. I am yet to receive almost Rs 1 lakh from students towards rent. Even if students don’t live here, I have property tax and have other payments to make,” said Venkatesh Marri, manager of a private hostel in Dilsukh Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hostel-owners-ask-students-to-vacate-over-rent-payment/articleshow/76803942.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 50-year-old booked for raping minors in Nizamabad district||HYDERABAD: A 50-year-old man was booked on Sunday for allegedly raping two minor girls in Nizamabad district on July 1. Nizamabad district police said that the minors 7 years 8 years of age were lured by the accused as he offered them chocolates besides showing them fishes in a water body. The victims were questioned by their parents when they felt uneasy while answering nature’s call. After this, the ordeal came to light and the parents went to the local police station where they lodged a complaint on Sunday. The accused was taken into custody and booked under section 376 (rape) of IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50-yr-old-booked-for-raping-minors/articleshow/76803939.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Goa||Goa CM plans paid Covid care hotels for tourists||PANAJI: The state government said on Sunday that it intends to start paid Covid care centres in hotels for tourists. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that his government has requested hoteliers to come forward to establish their properties as Covid care centres, and that some have already shown interest. “If a tourist is found Covid-positive, we will shift them to a paid Covid care centre (in a hotel),” Sawant said. “They will then not mix with others or attend functions. He will stay in the hotel.” Sources said that this strategy only applies to asymptomatic tourists who test positive, while symptomatic ones will continue to be hospitalised. The CM said that many tourists stay put in their hotels. “Temples and churches are closed,” he said. “Tourists don’t come only for sightseeing, some come for business activities too,” he said. Meanwhile, as cases continue to rise, Sawant said that the state government has started tourism in the state, but that it’s up to tourists to decide whether or not they wish to visit the state. He also said that no protocols were violated in restarting tourism. “Out of every 400 persons who enter the state, only four test positive,” he said. Speaking to reporters, he said that the government has started various Covid care centres, and added that each of them has a medical and paramedical team stationed there 24x7. He added that if family members want to provide home-cooked food for patients at care centres, they can. Currently, the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao had 250 beds, and Covid care centres have around a thousand. “We are making arrangements to add 500 more beds at Covid care centres during the monsoon. We’re now in July, but the infection can increase in the monsoon, and the government has taken all precautions.” He also appealed to the people not to visit each other. “We should avoid functions like birthdays and weddings,” he said. “People should not invite anyone to their houses. All Goans must take care, as asymptomatic Covid-19 patients can come to your house and spread the virus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-plans-paid-covid-care-hotels-for-tourists/articleshow/76804296.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath addresses cops’ housing woes||LUCKNOW: Thousands of police personnel staying in dilapidated barracks in Police Lines would soon get new hostel buildings equipped with all modern facilities as 470 projects, totalling Rs 2,789 crores, to strengthen the housing infrastructure for the men in uniform are underway in the state. Urgency for the work can be gauged from the fact that additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi issued 169 government orders (GOs) in one go recently and informed chief minister Yogi Adityanath the same day that the home department had cleared all the projects. In 2017-18, Rs 85 crore was earmarked for the construction of police buildings. “It is not so that we are giving them only a decent housing facility. The government has also decided to construct and renovate fire stations and police stations to offer a better office space to the force,” the ACS said, adding that “what is the most noticeable is that the CM is personally monitoring the work progress.” The housing problem of the police force was not hidden from the CM as he had toured the state extensively and he knew exactly where the work was to be done, he said. Claiming that construction activities would be carried out in almost all the UP districts, Awasthi said that out of total 417 projects, 361 works are of up to Rs 5 crore, 96 of up to Rs 20 crore and 14 works up to Rs 50 crore. For the first time 44 hostels each are being constructed for male and women police personnel, Awasthi said and added at 322 police stations special rooms would be constructed for investigating officers. Hostels and barracks would also be constructed at police stations to offer better housing facilities to police personnel of lower ranks, he added. Meanwhile, talking to TOI, former UP director general of police Brij Lal said, “Since ages police jawans and their families have been living in barracks which were constructed during the British period. Many generations have spent their entire lives in these dilapidated buildings. Now, for the first time a chief minister has looked into their problems. Yogi Adityanath is doing a great job for the force by offering them a decent living accommodation.” Claiming that the CM's decision would also help in distressing the police, Brij Lal said that the housing facility for the three-lakh strong force has always been a concern for the state and a tormenting issue for police personnel who have to live in miserable conditions in the outdated structures for decades to the extent that it almost caused revolt in the past and a good number of them ended their lives in frustration. The former DGP recalled that “during his tenure he had come across several incidents where constables were slapped cases by their in-laws for not keeping their wives and children with them.” Due to poor housing facilities most of constables avoided calling their spouses from villages, he said adding that the CM's decision to improve the residential facility would definitely result in better police functioning in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-addresses-cops-housing-woes/articleshow/76804294.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 6, 2020||Goa||Coutinho, 2 others booked for hurting religious sentiments||Margao: The Fatorda police have booked an offence against the president of Goa Pradesh Mahila Congress Pratima Coutinho and two others for hurting religious sentiments of the Hindus during the protest she recently led against fuel price hike. One Ankit Salgaonkar had filed a complaint with the police that Coutinho and others had depicted a funeral procession during the protest with chants of “Ram Nam Satya Hai” thereby hurting the religious sentiments of the Hindu community. Acting on the complaint, the Fatorda police booked Coutinho and two others under section 295 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coutinho-2-others-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments/articleshow/76804306.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||Middle-aged woman dies of covid||Yavatmal: A 52-year-old woman of Tayade Nagar died due to coronavirus on Tuesday after four days of struggle at the government medical college’s (GMC) isolation ward. On Monday, a 65-year-old man of Alkabir Nagar too died, taking the toll to 15 so far. On Tuesday, 16 new patients tested positive, making the total number of positive cases 86. Out of the 16 positive cases, 12 are from Yavatmal city while two each are from Pusad and Ner tehsils. Of the 12 positives from the city, seven are men and five women. In Pusad, two men got infected, one is a transporter who went to Mumbai for medical treatment where he tested positive and as soon as he returned to Pusad, the authorities sent him to GMC Yavatmal. His two sons have been quarantined. One of the clerks in the GMC boys’ section tested positive and accordingly, the entire office was sanitized and all those who came in contact with the positive clerk were quarantined. The GMC’s isolation ward has 110 persons. On Tuesday, 47 swab samples were sent to the lab. Reports of 406 tests are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/middle-aged-woman-dies-of-covid/articleshow/76840986.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kochi||Auditoriums reluctant to host weddings||KOCHI: It’s the third time Madhu K, a resident from a city’s suburb, has been postponing the wedding of his daughter. In March it was due to lockdown and in June it was due to non-availability of a suitable venue. As the number of Covid-19 cases are increasing, many auditoriums and halls are reluctant to host functions. “When I contacted various auditoriums, they said the client should obtain relevant approvals and permissions for hosting the event,” said Madhu K. Officials with Kochi corporation said none of their halls, including those at Ernakulam Town Hall, are being provided for hosting weddings or any other functions. “Most of the other halls in the city too are not being provided for hosting events. Halls and auditoriums have the responsibility to ensure the number of invitees are limited to 50 for events. Any violation of Covid protocol means they will have to face legal issues,” said a corporation official. According to corporation officials, locals are quick to inform the health department and police in case events are held in violation of norms. Even in case of weddings held at halls, clients are generally those who are directly or indirectly known to the management. “There is always some kind of a reference needed for booking halls,” he added. Guests are given entry after checking temperatures. Event management teams are providing all these services including provisions for masks, gloves, sanitisers, photography and live streaming of the event. However, it is pointed out that most weddings are being held at religious places like temples and churches or at homes. As social distancing becomes the norm, even intimate family and friends keep away from such events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/auditoriums-reluctant-to-host-weddings/articleshow/76803428.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Private school teachers stage protests||WARANGAL: A protest was held by the Telangana all private teachers association on Sunday, asking the government to take initiative for providing salaries to the teachers.  Speaking at the protest, association president Chandarlal urged the state to provide Rs 15,000 aid to each private school teacher. He also appealed to CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to re-open the school. The protest was held at the Martyrs Memorial in Hanamkonda. A representation with the demands was also sent to the CM. Similar protests have also been held in many districts and representations sent to district collectors as well as the state education minsiter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-school-teachers-stage-protests/articleshow/76803947.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
July 6, 2020||Nashik||70% of new Covid cases from containment zones||Nashik: Roughly 70% of all new Covid-19 cases in the city are being reported from the existing containment zones, while the remaining 30% are coming from new areas. According to the health officials of the NMC, the infection is not very prevalent in the non-containment areas of the city. The civic body is also doing extensive high-risk contract tracing. “As per norms, up to 20 high-risk contacts should be traced, but we are tracing up to 24 high-risk contacts of every positive patient. These include family members, relatives or other close contacts. On average, around 40% of total high-risk contacts are being tested positive,” said NMC officials.Of the total 480 containment zones drawn so far, 204 are currently active. “We are conducting regular health check-up in the containment zones to find suspected cases. We are also focussing on co-morbid patients,” said the officials.On Sunday, 127 patients were discharged after the recovery in Nashik city. This is the highest single-day discharge number in the city. Earlier, on Friday, 100 patients were discharged. So far, 1,366 have been discharged. 5 deaths, 162 new casesThe city, however, also had five Covid-related deaths on Sunday, taking the overall death toll to 132. Moreover, 162 new cases also emerged. The case-count so far stands at 2,942. Currently, the city has 1,444 active patients. The deceased patients include an 80-year-old man from Gaikwad Nagar, a 45-year-old man from Bagwanpura, a 45-year-old woman from Panchavati, a 73-year-old man from Samta Nagar and a 52-year-old man from Lekhanagar area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/70-of-new-covid-cases-from-containment-zones/articleshow/76802539.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Power fluctuation damages appliances in Hyderabad's Himayatnagar||HYDERABAD: Sudden power fluctuation on Saturday night damaged fans and several other electronic appliances worth lakhs of rupees in Himayatnagar. The fluctuations were due to damage to a 11 KV substation in the area. Citizens alleged that complaints made to the electricity department officials at Indira Park went unanswered. They alleged that the complaint number was not working. Surprisingly, when consumers dialled the mobile phone numbers of assistant engineers, they could only hear some sounds. Moments after consumers received an SMS on Sunday afternoon stating that the issue was resolved, another major high voltage supply issue damaged more appliances. This was followed by a total power cut for the next 12 hours. According to residents, the power supply was not restored even till Sunday night. Angry residents demanded that the power supply be set right immediately and that the mobile phone numbers of officials of the electricity department be made known to them. “It has been two days since the problem began and there is nobody to answer the phone. This explains why consumers are getting huge electricity bills,” a resident said. Meanwhile, an engineer from the electricity department’s emergency wing said that the transformer in the area got damaged during the process of repairing a 11 KV power line, adding that power cannot be restored till the substation is repaired on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-fluctuation-damages-appliances-in-himayatnagar/articleshow/76803946.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Rajkot||12 inches rain pounds Khambhalia||RAJKOT: Two persons were drowned, while one person was struck to death by lightning, as rain continued to pound Saurashtra on the second consecutive day on Sunday. Khambhalia town of DevbhoomDwarka was pounded by 4344mm between 6am and 8pm. In Kotharia village near Rajkot, an SUV was swept in strong currents of Khokhardal River. The SUV got stuck on the bridge over which the flood water of the river was overflowing. “There was a truck behind the SUV. The truck driver asked the three occupants in the SUV to climb up his truck and abandon the SUV. While the three occupants were walking towards the truck, they were swept away into the river by the strong currents in the water. While the two persons, identified as Bhavesh Rathod and Prakash Chawda, were rescued, a labourer identified as Bikha (28) drowned,” said an official from Aji Dam police station. The second incident of drowning was reported from Ghutu village of Morbi taluka, where an unidentified migrant labourer drowned in Narmada canal linked to Machchu Dam-2. In Umrada village of Muli taluka in Surendranagar, an unidentified man was killed after he was struck by lightning. In Jamkhambhalia of Devbhoomi Dwarka district, 85 mm rainfall was recorded in the span of just two hours from 4 pm to 6 pm on Sunday. The total rainfall that Jamkhambhalia received on Sunday was 142 mm. In Diu, 75 mm rainfall caused inundation in Videshi Bazaar. In Porbandar, a house was struck by lightning, while the wall of a house at the sea coast in Saiyed Rajpara village of Una taluka in Gir Somnath district collapsed after being repeatedly hit by tital waves. All the household items in the house were swept away into the sea. A total of 15 boats were swept away into the sea at Ghoghla Port in Diu. Heavy rainfall also caused a flash flood in Somet River in Kodinar of Gir Somnath district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/12-inches-rain-pounds-khambhalia/articleshow/76803425.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Waive power bills for poor, MSMEs during lockdown period: Uttam Kumar Reddy to Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Sunday demanded that the state government waive the electricity bills for the entire lockdown period for families living below poverty line and small and medium enterprises. In a letter to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday, he also demanded appropriate reduction in bill amount for other categories of consumers. Uttam said that the state government should shift to the telescopic method of billing instead of continuing with the present non-telescopic method. Uttam said Congress would organise protest demonstrations in Telangana on Monday (July 6) with black flags and badges against the inflated electricity bills and to demand waiver of power bills for the poor for the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waive-power-bills-for-poor-msmes-during-lockdown-period-uttam-to-cm/articleshow/76803949.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Nashik||Civic body to recruit 50 lab technicians||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to recruit 50 lab technicians for Covid-19 hospitals and Covid care centres for three months on honorarium basis. “We have a shortage of medical staff, from doctors to lab technicians. So, we decided to recruit lab technicians. These are the temporary posts and the tenure can be extended by a few months if required,” said NMC officials. NMC will pay an honorarium of Rs 17,500 per month to the new recruits. A walk-in-interview will be held on Monday at the office of the additional municipal commissioner at NMC headquarters, Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan, here. Advertisements have already been floated seeking suitable candidates. Earlier, the state government had approved the recruitment of 200 medical employees including 35 doctors through district civil surgeon. But the recruitment drive received poor response as only 23 candidates joined the service. An advertisement was floated for the second time two weeks ago, but only 20 candidates applied. “We have planned for more infrastructure to treat Covid-19 patients considering the rise in Covid-19 cases. Hence, we require more medical staff to treat patients,” said NMC officials.  Apart from this, a Covid hospital will be operational at the new building of Bytco Hospital with a capacity of 500 beds. This will include 100 oxygen beds and 50 ICU beds with ventilators, said NMC officials. A private agency or a medical organisation will be roped in to operate and maintain the Covid hospital. The infrastructure and medical equipment will be provided by the NMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-to-recruit-50-lab-technicians/articleshow/76928690.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 6, 2020||Nashik||Alliance Air proposes flight to Delhi||Nashik: Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India, has proposed to start a Nashik-Delhi flight via Gwalior airport and is awaiting the Director General of Civil Aviation’s (DGCA) nod for starting the services. Alliance Air is already operating its 72-seater planes on three routes — from Nashik to Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Pune. “We are planning to start a hopping flight from Nashik to Delhi via Gwalior, but the operations will start only after the Covid-19 situation comes under control,” an official from Alliance Air said. In June 2018, Jet Airways had started a 169-seater direct flight between Nashik and Delhi under the second phase of Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS). The flight was operational thrice a week: Monday, Wednesday and Friday. There was good response for this service as the occupancy rate was between 80% and 90%. However, after the private airline shut shop there has been no direct flights to Delhi from Nashik. “The Nashik-Delhi route was quite popular. Hence, there is a need to re-start the flights on this route,” Manish Rawal, a senior member of Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/alliance-air-proposes-flight-to-delhi/articleshow/76802574.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 6, 2020||Goa||BJP members join PM to discuss pandemic||Panaji: Senior members of BJP-Goa unit, led by state chief Sadanand Shet Tanavade and chief minister Pramod Sawant, participated in the video conferencing with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 4. Various BJP units from across the country were discussing with the Prime Minister the contribution made by them during the pandemic situation. Others including deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar, health minister Vishwajit Rane, power minister Nilesh Cabral, panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho and party’s general secretary Satish Dhond participated in the online discussion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-members-join-pm-to-discuss-pandemic/articleshow/76804313.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Labour shortage post worker exodus hits Haritha Haram||HYDERABAD: Haritha Haram, the state’s flagship programme, is proceeding at a snail’s pace in the city as panic among workers and civil contractors over Covid-19 and exodus of labourers from the city has led to a severe shortage of labourers. This is proving to be a major hurdle for the plantation programme. In the sixth phase of the programme, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) had targeted plantation of 2.5 crore saplings by August 15 but till date the number has not even crossed 10 lakh. Around three to five lakh dug-up pits are ready for plantation, according to GHMC sources. “Keeping in view the shortage of labourers, a proposal for using mini earth/soil drillers (augur machines) is under active consideration. We can drill the soil by using these hand-held machines for digging pits. A decision on implementing this method will be taken soon to achieve 2.5 crore tree plantation target,” sources in GHMC’s urban biodiversity wing told TOI. Sources also said that GHMC is examining the proposal of hiring labourers working under comprehensive road maintenance programme (CRMP) for digging pits. The CRMP is meant for re-carpeting nearly 700 km length of roads in the city. The works have been halted due to the rainy season and officials are planning to utilise the labourers for the plantation programme. Presently, labourers are collecting Rs 80 for digging a pit and the contractor has to pay the charges per pit, said a civic body official. In fact, over 80 per cent of migrants have left for their native places and, as a result, the construction activity has come to a standstill in the city. Civil contractors mainly hire labourers from Bihar, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. To make matters worse, rumours of a lockdown in the city is another reason for shortage of manpower, said a senior GHMC official. The civic body has identified open areas at various places in the city to implement the Miyawaki model of afforestation to grow more plants and develop them as mini forests. But doubts have cropped up among the officials due to lack of manpower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/labour-shortage-post-worker-exodus-hits-haritha-haram/articleshow/76803957.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 6, 2020||Kochi||College launches project to ensure students get access to online class||KOCHI: Reiterating the role of educational institutions in ensuring online education access to all their students, the Bharat Mata College (BMC), Thrikkakara, launched BMC Digital Challenge 2020 that envisages buying tablets and ensuring net connectivity for students who have been struggling to ensure digital infrastructure for pursuing online education. The Rs10 lakh-worth first phase of the project, implemented by the management with the support of the Parent-Teacher Association (PTA), alumni association, and old teachers’ association, was inaugurated by Ernakulam-Angamaly Metropolitan Vicar Bishop Mar Antony Kariyil on Tuesday. The authorities have distributed tablets to 40 students and started providing 2GB data per day for 210 students for the next three months. “The initiative was started with the aim of bridging the digital divide among students after noticing that many students were struggling to have digital devices and connectivity for attending online classes. So we conducted a survey to identify such students and found that 105 students did not even have a smartphone and 500 students could not recharge the data pack. College manager Fr Abraham Oliappurathu supported our idea of collecting a fund for them and with the help of Federation of Retired Teachers (FORT), Bharat Mata Old Students’ Association (BOSA) and PTA, we managed to collect Rs 10 lakh,” said college principal Shiny Palaty. The management selected the neediest students from the survey list in the first phase and now they are planning a second phase to cater to the remaining needy students. In addition to this, textbooks for the new academic year were provided to all the students at half price. This initiative cost around Rs 5 lakh and at its helm was the principal herself, who contributed Rs 2.5 lakh from the funds saved for her son’s wedding. As the wedding, which was postponed from May to August in the wake of lockdown, will be a low-key affair, her family decided to use the money for helping the needy students. “There are around 1,650 students in the college and we provided the textbooks for all them at half price. It cost around Rs 5 lakh and my husband Biju Tharian agreed to my idea of contributing money from the funds saved for our son Ashok’s wedding. The remaining amount was contributed by the college management,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/college-launches-project-to-ensure-students-get-access-to-online-class/articleshow/76803452.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Lucknow||From Auraiya, don may have crossed to Chambal||Kanpur: An abandoned dark grey Ford EcoSport car found on the highway near Auraiya on Sunday with an ignition key in place and ownership papers in the dashboard in the name of a certain Dubey raised suspicion it was the getaway vehicle of the Kanpur gangster. While police sounded a high alert on UP’s porous border with Nepal and are scouring border districts of Bahraich and Lakhimpur Kheri and Brahmin pockets in Kanpur’s vast hinterland, sources said, the don may have swerved south from Auraiya highway and crossed over to Madhya Pradesh, taking the Chambal trajectory of Gwalior-Bhind-Morena to reach Rajasthan, said a senior police official. The gangster’s last location was tracked to Auraiya, cementing suspicion the Ford was Dubey’s getaway car. Madhya Pradesh Police have also sounded an alert and set up check posts at Gwalior and Bhind to track down the gangster. UP Police confirmed to TOI about tipping off their counterparts in neighbouring states. Forensic experts are examining the abandoned Ford on the highway, which may have been dumped by the don to fox cops about his next movement. A blood-soaked handkerchief, three identity cards, a wallet, ID of an elite Lucknow school and an expensive footwear were found in the car, which are being scanned by the forensics team along with finger prints. “The car was recovered near Auraiya-Dibiyapur bypasss near the highway. Documents recovered from the car, bearing a Lucknow registration number, shows it belonged to an Amit Dubey. The gangster may have fled Bikru in the car before or after the encounter,” said a senior police official. He said, the vehicle, which is 59-month-old is without an insurance cover or pollution certificate. “We are questioning locals to gather inputs. Many among them said the car was abandoned on Saturday. We are using the phone surveillance tower to scan mobile numbers active in the area. Also, informers have been roped in to see if anyone turns up at the site to search for the car,” said SP Auraiya, Suniti. “Vigil has been stepped up at district border and a round-the-clock vehicle checking drive is underway,” the SP said. Police sources said, the abandoned car was first spotted by a police patrol van. “The words, Sangh Parivar, was found inscribed on the number plate and ‘Prawakta Hindu Organization’ scribbled on the rear mirror,” said a police official. Meanwhile, vigil has been intensified at the Indo-Nepal border in Rupaidiha area of Bahraich district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/from-auraiya-don-may-have-crossed-to-chambal/articleshow/76804301.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 6, 2020||India||13 UK varsities could go bust if international students stay away||LONDON: British universities could lose anywhere between £1.4 billion (Rs 13,000 crore) and £4.3 billion (Rs 40,000 crore) in income from enrolment of international students because of the pandemic, potentially causing 13 of them to go bust if there is no bailout, a report published by the Institute for Fiscal Studies warns. Around half of the usual quota of international students aren't expected to enroll for courses in UK universities this September, states the report. "I would not be surprised if there was a 50 per cent drop in Indian students this September," Amit Tiwari, president of the Indian National Students Association UK, said. "They pay three times what domestic students pay, and so this will have a devastating impact on British universities." According to the report titled "Will universities need a bailout to survive the Covid-19 crisis?", the overall total loss of income to British universities because of the pandemic, which includes other lockdown-related losses of income from student accommodation, conference and catering operations, and financial losses on long-term investments is estimated to be between £3 billion (Rs 27,000 crore) and £19 billion (Rs 1,77,000 crore). Last year, 37,540 Indian students joined British universities. But according to a survey by the National Indian Students and Alumni Union UK, 64% of those who have applied for a place this year, including many who have offers, do not have adequate information to reach a decision yet on whether to enrol. They are concerned about whether courses will be online – all UK universities went online at the start of the Covid-19 outbreak in March – as well as about travel and quarantine restrictions, local lockdowns and a potential second wave of infections. "They don’t want to pay big amounts of money to study in Britain if the course is part or fully online," alumni union chairperson Sanam Arora said. "That is why many have not paid their deposit." She said the main attraction of higher education in the UK was access to research infrastructure, classroom experience and international exposure. Eighty per cent of Indians surveyed said they wouldn't enroll if teaching moved wholly online. Around 55 per cent would accept their places if the courses were initially online and then offline, and the fees were discounted. Cambridge University has announced all lectures will be delivered online for the next academic year while London School of Economics, where 70% of the students are international, has said all its lectures and large-group teaching will be delivered online in the autumn term. Small-group seminars will "run on campus, where possible, in socially distanced environments", LSE said. At Cambridge, "tutorials, seminars, practicals, and supervisions will be face to face". Students want assurances they will get repatriated if international borders are closed and that they will not be left penniless and starving if there is a local lockdown or a second wave of infections, Arora said. These apprehensions stem from reports about Indian students being left in dire straits in Britain during the first wave of the pandemic. Around 13,000 Indians have been repatriated from the UK during the Vande Bharat Mission so far, 7,000 to 8,000 of whom are Indian students. There are questions over whether they will all return in the autumn. "Most who are mid-course want to come back, but are not sure when they can travel. If their families back in India are in significant distress, they may not be able to afford it," Arora said. Many Indian PhD students are "definitely questioning" whether to come to the UK, Tiwari said. They and post-doctoral researchers are struggling to find projects, professors and funding. "For any student, university is not purely about gaining knowledge. It’s also about the whole exposure and experience. They are young. They don’t want to be online. If the courses go online, it serves no purpose being stuck in a room in the UK and studying online," Tiwari said. "If the fees are not discounted and it is online, some are thinking of dropping out and going to another country."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/13-uk-varsities-could-go-bust-if-indian-students-stay-away/articleshow/76804716.cms||NAOMI CANTON
July 6, 2020||World||13 UK varsities could go bust if international students stay away||LONDON: British universities could lose anywhere between £1.4 billion (Rs 13,000 crore) and £4.3 billion (Rs 40,000 crore) in income from enrolment of international students because of the pandemic, potentially causing 13 of them to go bust if there is no bailout, a report published by the Institute for Fiscal Studies warns. Around half of the usual quota of international students aren't expected to enroll for courses in UK universities this September, states the report. "I would not be surprised if there was a 50 per cent drop in Indian students this September," Amit Tiwari, president of the Indian National Students Association UK, said. "They pay three times what domestic students pay, and so this will have a devastating impact on British universities." According to the report titled "Will universities need a bailout to survive the Covid-19 crisis?", the overall total loss of income to British universities because of the pandemic, which includes other lockdown-related losses of income from student accommodation, conference and catering operations, and financial losses on long-term investments is estimated to be between £3 billion (Rs 27,000 crore) and £19 billion (Rs 1,77,000 crore). Last year, 37,540 Indian students joined British universities. But according to a survey by the National Indian Students and Alumni Union UK, 64% of those who have applied for a place this year, including many who have offers, do not have adequate information to reach a decision yet on whether to enrol. They are concerned about whether courses will be online – all UK universities went online at the start of the Covid-19 outbreak in March – as well as about travel and quarantine restrictions, local lockdowns and a potential second wave of infections. "They don’t want to pay big amounts of money to study in Britain if the course is part or fully online," alumni union chairperson Sanam Arora said. "That is why many have not paid their deposit." She said the main attraction of higher education in the UK was access to research infrastructure, classroom experience and international exposure. Eighty per cent of Indians surveyed said they wouldn't enroll if teaching moved wholly online. Around 55 per cent would accept their places if the courses were initially online and then offline, and the fees were discounted. Cambridge University has announced all lectures will be delivered online for the next academic year while London School of Economics, where 70% of the students are international, has said all its lectures and large-group teaching will be delivered online in the autumn term. Small-group seminars will "run on campus, where possible, in socially distanced environments", LSE said. At Cambridge, "tutorials, seminars, practicals, and supervisions will be face to face". Students want assurances they will get repatriated if international borders are closed and that they will not be left penniless and starving if there is a local lockdown or a second wave of infections, Arora said. These apprehensions stem from reports about Indian students being left in dire straits in Britain during the first wave of the pandemic. Around 13,000 Indians have been repatriated from the UK during the Vande Bharat Mission so far, 7,000 to 8,000 of whom are Indian students. There are questions over whether they will all return in the autumn. "Most who are mid-course want to come back, but are not sure when they can travel. If their families back in India are in significant distress, they may not be able to afford it," Arora said. Many Indian PhD students are "definitely questioning" whether to come to the UK, Tiwari said. They and post-doctoral researchers are struggling to find projects, professors and funding. "For any student, university is not purely about gaining knowledge. It’s also about the whole exposure and experience. They are young. They don’t want to be online. If the courses go online, it serves no purpose being stuck in a room in the UK and studying online," Tiwari said. "If the fees are not discounted and it is online, some are thinking of dropping out and going to another country."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/13-uk-varsities-could-go-bust-if-indian-students-stay-away/articleshow/76804713.cms||NAOMI CANTON
July 6, 2020||Nashik||Saraf Bazaar to shut for 8 days||Nashik: Saraf Bazaar, a major jewellery market in Nashik city, with over 250 jewellery showrooms, will remain closed for eight days from July 7 to 14. The Nashik Jewellers Association on Sunday took the decision during a meeting in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city. In addition, locals of the Saraf Bazaar and surrounding areas have tested positive for the contagion. “There has been a spike in Covid-19 positive cases in the city. Over 150 residents are being tested for the contagion on a daily basis over the last few days. Moreover, some locals of the Saraf Bazaar and surrounding areas have also tested positive,” said Chetan Rajapurkar, president of the Nashik Jewellers Association. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/saraf-bazaar-to-shut-for-8-days/articleshow/76802581.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 6, 2020||Delhi||‘Denying protection plan benefits to phone customer inept service’||NEW DELHI: Not providing services promised under the “protection plan” purchased along with a new phone amounts to deficiency in service on part of the seller, ruled Delhi State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission. A bench comprising commission president Justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal and member Anil Srivastava delivered its verdict via videoconferencing after hearing a plea of a man who had purchased a cellphone in 2013 and sought its repair after it turned defective soon after. The man had initially moved a consumer forum seeking Rs 50,000 compensation, but his complaint was dismissed in 2016. The bench was hearing his appeal challenging the forum’s dismissal order. The complaint stated that the seller had once fixed the phone and returned it to the customer, but when the issue recurred, the seller blamed the man for tampering with the phone and didn’t return it. From the records, it was seen that the customer had purchased a protection plan. When he inquired about the status of the plan at the time of repair on the second occasion, he received a notice stating that “customer had tampered with the phone as the seal of the handset was broken and a component missing, violating a clause of the protection plan”. Though the complainant replied to the notice, neither did he receive a response nor his phone. The forum had noted that the customer failed to prove that he did not tamper with the phone. It also said that he had failed to produce terms and conditions of the insurance policy. The commission, on the other hand, was “unable to agree” with the forum’s findings. “The letter on behalf of the respondent (seller) stating that the appellant’s (customer) phone’s seal was broken, a component was missing and the phone was tampered with is neither sufficient nor comprehensive to disbelieve the customer’s claim,” the bench observed. The commission held that the customer was entitled to the benefits of the protection plan and directed the seller to either repair the phone or pay the cost equivalent to repair, in case they were unable to repair it. “We also award Rs 11,000 to the appellant to be paid by the respondents as cost for mental harassment and agony,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/denying-protection-plan-benefits-to-phone-customer-inept-service/articleshow/76803965.cms||Aamir Khan
July 6, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur encounter: Vikas Dubey would be treated like a terrorist, says IG||LUCKNOW: Kanpur range IG Mohit Agarwal said on Sunday that whatever happened in Bikru village was no less than a terror strike. "Vikas Dubey will be treated like a terrorist," he told reporters in Kanpur. Commenting on the manner in which Dubey and his aides ambushed the police force, Agarwal said: “If a criminal is using such tactics, then we will also use our force in a similar manner. Dubey will be treated as a terrorist.” The officer said Dubey had stocked a huge cache of arms and ammunition at his residence and set up a control room to monitor the activities of the outside world. “Amassing of such arms and ammunition clearly shows the intention of the person who possessed these,” he added. The Kanpur police recovered two kg of high quality explosives, 15 crude bombs, six countrymade pistols and 25 cartridges from Dubey’s demolished house. Agarwal said the ammunition and pistols were hidden in the walls and covered by plaster. The cops were also shocked to see a bunker in the premises in which rations could be stored lasting for several months. The cops also uncovered an underpass constructed below the residence connected with Dubey’s older house which served as an escape route. “The house had over five exit points,” said an officer privy to the probe. It took the cops 10 hours to locate the arms and ammunition. Meanwhile, the father of slain constable Harprasad appealed to police for a harsh action against Dubey so that other criminals refrain from committing such a ghastly act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dubey-would-be-treated-like-a-terrorist-says-ig/articleshow/76804307.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Father, son injured in collision of 2 cars, other driver escape||Ludhiana: A father and son duo have suffered injuries when their car collided with another speeding car near bus stand flyover on Sunday afternoon. The other car occupant escaped the scene, leaving the car behind. Meanwhile, the onlookers took injured to a nearby private hospital. On getting information the Model Town police reached the spot. An eye witness, Jagdish Kumar, of Ghumar Mandi said, the duo’s car was coming from the side of Arun Jaitely Chowk and was going over the bus stand flyover. Meanwhile, the speeding car was coming from the Atam Nagar area towards bus stand. Both cars collided at the flyover. The impact of the collision was so strong that the duo’s car turned turtle. The onlookers had to help the father and the son to get out of the car. Investigating officer from Model Town police station assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Davinder Singh said the father-son duo are admitted in hospital. ASI Singh indentified the injured as Hari Singh, 58 and his son Dharminder Singh, 27. According to him, they do not want to lodge any complaint. “As of now, the other car occupant has also not been identified.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/father-son-injured-in-collision-of-2-cars-other-driver-escape/articleshow/76803952.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad Cantonment Board prepares final list of voter rolls||SECUNDERABAD: The Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) has prepared the final voters’ list for the ensuing SCB polls. After a marathon exercise of addition and deletion of names, the election wing of the SCB announced that there were a total of 1,42,811 voters in all eight civilian wards. “A separate counter has been opened at SCB main office to add more names in the voters’ list based upon requests. Our staff carried out a door-to-door verification of voters’ names despite the Covid-19 pandemic,” SCB election wing in-charge officer, A Parusuram, told TOI. Based on the final voters’ list, ward number V had the highest number of voters,25,053 whereas there were only 8,819 voters in ward number II,” he said. In ward I, there were 21,400 voters, 17,695 voters in ward III, 14,283 voters in ward number IV, 22,227 voters in ward VI, 14,021 voters in ward number VII and 19,313 voters in ward number VIII. The SCB officials have uploaded the ward-wise final voters’ list on their official portal: www.scb.gov.in where voters can check their names. A counter at SCB main office was also set up for the voters who cannot access the portal to check the electoral rolls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-prepares-final-list-of-voter-rolls/articleshow/76803964.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur: 115 cops under scanner for being in gangster Vikas Dubey’s payroll||LUCKNOW: Kanpur police is analysing call detail records of as many 115 cops who could be on gangster Vikas Dubey’s payroll and were moles in the system. Kanpur IG Mohit Agarwal said that number of cops who were in and around the area and their details will be checked to know who called Vikas and informed him about the police movement. “As many as 115 personnel are under the scanner,” he told TOI. “We have roped in a team of experts and handed over them numbers of as many as 115 personnel. The numbers are being checked with that of the numbers used by Dubey and his henchmen from the past 15 days,” said the officer. The officer also said that whosoever will be found guilty a case of murder will be lodged against the errant official or officials. Call details of all the cops posted in the police-outposts in Bikru village and others who were present a day before are being analysed. A separate surveillance team is working to trace and establish mobile numbers active near the area of operation and then find its users. “We are exploring all the channels, be it role of an insider, an informer or any of those who were aware about the operational details,” said Agarwal. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kanpur-115-cops-under-scanner-for-being-in-gangster-vikas-dubeys-payroll/articleshow/76804311.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Mysterious death of a Punjab cop in Himachal Pradesh||Ludhiana: A Machhiwara resident, a commando with the Amritsar police, died under mysterious circumstances in the washroom of an eatery at Nurpur area of Himachal Pradesh on Saturday evening. The deceased was identified as 23-year-old Manpreet Singh, a resident of Rahimabad Khurd village near Machhiwara. Police officials said Manpreet was serving as commando with law and order wing of Amritsar police and had come to his village after taking five-day leave. They added that on Saturday, he was on his way to Jammu on a motorbike to drop his brother Happy there. The police said as it started raining heavily along the way, they stopped at an eatery in Nurpur area of Himachal Pradesh. They added that Manpreet went to change clothes in the bathroom inside the dhaba and when he did not come after a long time, his brother went inside and found him unconscious. Police officials said unconscious Manpreet was rushed to a hospital where a doctor declared him dead. They said according to the brother of the deceased, his foot slipped in the bathroom and his head hit a tap and he died. Police said autopsy of the deceased is being conducted at Tanda Medical College and the exact cause of death will be known only after the report of the same is received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mysterious-death-of-a-punjab-cop-in-himachal-pradesh/articleshow/76803958.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Call on another lockdown in Aurangabad today||Aurangabad: The district administration on Monday is expected to take a call on another lockdown in Aurangabad in the wake of rising number of Covid-19 cases. While the authorities are scheduled to hold a meeting with public representatives before making a formal announcement, majority of local leaders, barring city MP Imtiyaz Jaleel, have voiced their support for reintroducing restrictions to contain the spread of the virus. The local business community has also supported the lockdown plans, increasing the likelihood of another period of stricter restrictions. Local BJP MLA Atul Save said strict lockdown for around 10-days was must to bring down rising number of cases of Covid 19. “We will support strict lockdown only. Partial lockdown is of no use and proved ineffective in past,” Save said. Shiv Sena MLA Pradeep Jaiswal said public at large wants lockdown due to worrying spread of Covid-19. “I spoke with people from different walks of life who are okay with another lockdown. The district administration should go for it with proper planning,” he said. Jaleel, however, said lockdown alone should not be considered as the solution for Covid-19. “The country as a whole has experienced phases of lockdown in the past which did not yield any result besides causing hardship to all. Inculcating self-discipline in the matter of hygiene and social-distancing can only serve as solution. Masses should be more educated about precautions rather than going for lockdown,” he said. Aurangabad district collector Uday Chaudhari said a collective decision making process willl be followed while taking a call on lockdown. “The lockdown, if gets introduced, will be imposed four to five days after formal announcement. The duration of lockdown and other regulations will be decided jointly during Monday's meeting,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/call-on-another-lockdown-in-aurangabad-today/articleshow/76803450.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 6, 2020||Kozhikode||Calicut University to recover Rs 4.95 crore excess pay for paper evaluation||KOZHIKODE: Calicut University has ordered recovery of Rs 4.95 crore paid to teachers of government and aided colleges as excess remuneration for evaluation of answer sheets during 2010-11 to 2016-17. Registrar C L Joshy has written to director of collegiate education to recover a sum of Rs 1,859 per year from the teachers. The recovery will be carried out over seven years to recuperate the entire amount. The varsity issued the order to comply with a high court order in 2019. The government had earlier pointed out that evaluation of answer scripts of regular college students were part of their duty and it had withheld 20% of pay revision arrears to be paid to teachers over the issue. Following the verdict, the government had issued an order in January 2020 asking the varsity to quantify the amount given to faculty members for the evaluation of answer scripts of regular students and to recover the amount from them. The government order also says that after the recovery of the remuneration given to teachers towards the evaluation of answer scripts of regular students, the remaining 20% of the amount in connection with the fourth installment of sixth UGC pay revision may be released to the teachers. Varsity authorities said that the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) had also raised the issue. Meanwhile, syndicate member Rasheed Ahammed P has written to the vice-chancellor to reconsider the letter issued for the recovery of remuneration and take necessary steps to quantify the amount repayable in such a way that it ensures transparency. He asked the varsity to clarify whether the teachers of self-financing colleges are exempted from the duty of valuing answer scripts as part of their duty and also if the varsity has exempted teachers on faculty development programme, medical leave, etc, from the repayment of the amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cu-to-recover-rs-4-95-crore-excess-pay-for-paper-evaluation/articleshow/76803460.cms||K R Rajeev
July 6, 2020||Mysuru||MUDA ready to hand over management of parks to residents||Mysuru: The Mysuru Urban Development Authority is ready to hand over the management of parks to residents, provided residents in the neighbourhood come forward for the same. MUDA commissioner D B Natesh said that they are ready to encourage and rope in residents in maintaining parks, if they are willing to do so. Any encroachment in the form of construction activities inside the park will be removed, he said. A resident of Nanjangud, Shivakumar, suggested to the commissioner, that instead of abandoning parks, let MUDA hand over their management to residents, after developing them. Many parks have lost their sheen without regular upkeep, and appointing a caretaker is required to maintain parks. Kiran, a resident of Vijayanagar, has complained to MUDA, that of late parks are turning into places of worship, and also to practice yoga. “Temple-like places have come up and people have started performing puja and even yoga mandirs and mantapas are being constructed to practice yoga. Parks are an open space and any construction shouldn’t be allowed in them,” he complained to MUDA commissioner D G Natesh. “Parks are the lung space created in every locality of Mysuru like in any urban areas, but in most of the places the parks haven’t been developed properly. Except for fencing the areas, the parks haven’t seen any progress. They must be developed in consultation with local residents, and they should also be involved in their maintenance,” he suggested. Some residents have complained that many parks are being used for anti-social activities as they lack proper lighting. Madhukesh, associated with Clean Mysuru Foundation, said the parks can be converted into tree parks instead of abandoning them after marking a boundary. “Trees planted beside the road are removed whenever they pose a threat to water lines, UGD pipes, sewage channels and electrical wires. If trees are grown inside parks, it will have a lot of benefits,” he suggested. K S Ramesh, a resident of Nivedithanagar, says the park developed in his locality does not allow people to step on the lawn. “What’s the use of the park then? It has literally turned into a shopping complex with shops in the area. Of late, the concept of park has been misunderstood. Parks should be a lung space where fruit trees that attract birds and animals must be grown, and commercial activities should be restricted in them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/muda-ready-to-hand-over-management-of-parks-to-residents/articleshow/76803522.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kochi||Man held for posing as naval officer in Kochi||KOCHI: A 23-year-old man was arrested by Harbour Police on charges of impersonation after he was found posing as a naval officer near the Kochi naval base on Wednesday. The accused, Raja Nath of Nadia in West Bengal, was arrested based on the information provided by the Southern Naval Command (SNC) after finding his TikTok videos in naval uniform. He was later released on bail. It is learnt that the man has applied to get enrolled as an apprentice staff at the Kochi naval base. According to Navy spokesperson, he has reportedly travelled to various places in naval uniform. Police said that Nath has arrived in Kochi on October 19 and was residing in an apartment in Water Tank Road, Mattummel, Thevara, till date. The individual had got uniforms and naval badges made from shops in Kochi. The Navy has demanded a ban on unauthorized sale of Armed forces’ uniform in Kerala citing that the district administrations of Kutch (Gujarat) and Srinagar, and state government of Punjab had banned the sale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/man-held-for-posing-as-naval-officer/articleshow/76803456.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Bengaluru||With cases spiking Karnataka towns get vocal for lockdown||BENGALURU: Inspired by Kanakapura town, which observed a self-imposed lockdown over the past fortnight, people from small towns and taluks across Karnataka have mooted their own versions to stem the pandemic spread. This follows the government’s decision not to clamp a lockdown as experts and ministers feel restrictions would be counter-productive. Channarayapatna in Hassan district will observe partial lockdown on one day and total lockdown the next for 12 days starting Monday. The administration coordinated with traders to ensure essential services won’t be impacted. “This people’s initiative won’t affect public transportation and government offices,” said Shravanabelagola MLA CN Balakrishna whose constituency covers Channarayapattna. Other towns like Arasikere and Balupet in Sakleshpur are also experimenting with this model. Janata Dal (Secular) state president HK Kumaraswamy, who represents Sakleshpur assembly segment, will meet Hassan deputy commissioner on Monday about it. Ballari City assembly constituency has a different version in which commercial activities are restricted between 9am and 3pm. “We’re ensuring traders and industries don’t suffer losses. We don’t have any deadline,” said Ballary City MLA G Somashekhar Reddy. In Kunigal, the people’s lockdown started on Saturday and will be in force for the next 12 days. DK Suresh, Bengaluru Rural MP, said the Kanakapura model has worked well. “A day before lockdown was implemented in Kanakapura there were 63 active cases with 34 positive cases reported on a single day. Now, they’re all cured and active cases are 17. The credit goes to people’s janata curfew,” said Suresh. Meanwhile, traders from Yadgir, Kalaburgi, Gadag and Raichur have offered to limit their business for a few hours in the morning. N Yeshwanthraj of FKCCI said more small towns like Kolar Gold Fields and Nanjangud and Srirangapttana will follow suit. In Bengaluru, jewellers decided to close their shops on Monday too. N Vidyasagar, president, Bengaluru Jewellers Association, said he’d BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar before announcing it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-cases-spiking-karnataka-towns-get-vocal-for-lockdown/articleshow/76803009.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
July 6, 2020||Bengaluru||In June-July Bengaluru tested 2.2k samples a day; Karnataka lags too||BENGALURU: Notwithstanding several officials across departments and ministers reiterating that testing capacity in Karnataka must increase — especially in Bengaluru, which accounts for nearly 40% of all Covid positive cases in the state — data for June and July shows testing is lagging behind targets set by the government. While the government has been talking about testing 5,000 samples a day in the city, only 2,164 were tested daily on average in June, with a total 78,440 samples tested in 30 days. In the first four days of July, 9,047 samples have been tested at 2,261 per day, which is slightly better than the June average, but is still only about half of what authorities had planned to test. In all, Bengaluru has tested 1.2 lakh samples in 117 days since the first case was reported in the state, at a rate of 1,030 samples per day. In fact, on July 4, Bengaluru Urban tested as many as 3,575 samples, which was much higher than the average, but it still fell short of the target set by the state — 4,370 — by about 18%. Experts have been batting for more tests, especially since the number of cases began to skyrocket. As of Saturday, Bengaluru had 8,345 positive cases compared to 94,695 in New Delhi, 82,074 in Mumbai, 64,689 in Chennai and 6,622 in Kolkata. The average testing rate in the state also remained largely unchanged from last week with Karnataka testing under 10,000 samples per million and lagging behind other states with a population of crore or more. Compared to Karnataka, Delhi is testing 29,750 samples per million, followed by Jammu and Kashmir (28,039), Andhra Pradesh (16,981) and Tamil Nadu (15,393). There are other states that fare better than Karnataka too. In fact, Niti Aayog chief Amitabh Kant on Saturday asked all states to emulate Delhi. “The high tests per million being undertaken now in Delhi must be emulated by other states. This is critical. States must be judged on testing. We can succeed against #Covid-19 only with 3T strategy of testing, tracing & treating. This is the moment to act, and to act fast,” Kant said in a tweet. In the south, Karnataka fares poorly compared to all states barring Telangana. This is despite the fact that the state has been testing between 13,000 to 18,000 samples per day in the last week, most of them in Bengaluru. Data for July 3 and 4 shows that only three districts in Karnataka — Kalaburagi, Chamarajanagar and Chikkaballapura — met testing targets set for them, which, experts say, must be set higher for most districts. An average of daily testing done for the last 10 days shows Karnataka is testing only 2,171 samples per million, which is much lower than its overall rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-june-july-bluru-tested-2-2k-samples-a-day-state-lags-too/articleshow/76803033.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 6, 2020||Vadodara||Wet blanket over dry fruit market amid Gauri Vrat despite low prices||VADODARA: Cheaper dry fruits would have been something that many would have relished. But that is hardly the case this season despite Gauri Vrat in the state when demand increases significantly. Despite lower prices, the material is not flying off the shelf as one would have expected. During the fasts, the girls do not eat salt and other cereals for five days. A feast is held on the sixth day of the festival. During the five days of fasting it has become customary to eat dry fruits. But thanks to the economic slowdown due to Covid-19, that is not the case this year. Harsh Kalda, a prominent retail as well as wholesale dealer of dry fruits, said that the demand was down by around 10 to 20 per cent in Vadodara. This is despite a fall in the prices of almonds, apricots and other dry fruits. Prices of cashews and raisins have remained almost similar as compared to last year. But the situation is bad in nearby areas, despite fall in prices of most dry fruits there too. Shrenik Gandhi, a whole seller from Godhra, said that the demand was only 60 to 70% of last year. “People from villages are not buying and those in the city are also buying in limited quantities,” he said. Dhwani Shah from Godhra holds the fast every year and spent Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000 last year. Se said that she bought things worth only Rs 1,500 this time. “I will prefer eating fresh fruits and home-made items,” she said. Rutu Patel, too, said that given the situation around, she did not feel like spending a lot this year. Naishadh Thakker, an Ahmedabad-based retailer, said that high-end shops and products had not been affected as the affluent class was not averse to buying dry fruits for their daughters. “The overall demand has definitely gone down. Dry fruits of medium and low quality are not being picked up like previous years as the middle and lower classes are looking for other options,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/wet-blanket-over-dry-fruit-market-amid-gauri-vrat-despite-low-prices/articleshow/76802893.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad scientists get patent for innovative thermal imaging device||AURANGABAD: Five research scholars from the city have bagged a patent from Australia for an innovative “non-contact type thermal imaging system”, which is a low-cost thermal imaging system with biomedical applications. Through their innovation, the researchers aim to reduce the Indian healthcare sector’s dependency on expensive thermal imaging devices sourced from abroad. The researchers said this system has been designed and developed for the purpose of diagnostic support leading to disease detection. It can also help avoid invasive diagnostic methods (like biopsies) in the initial stages. Research scholar Shazia Shaikh, who is pursuing her Phd, said while doing her M.Phil work on processing of thermal images for disease detection, she found it difficult to get thermal images of skin cancer. She had to obtain some images from F J Gonzalez, a research scientist from San Luis Potosí in Mexico. “I realised that buying a thermal camera is a costly affair for many research students. So we started considering the possibility of designing and developing an affordable and effective thermal camera to generate our own database of thermal images,” said Shaikh. The idea was supported by her guide Dr Ramesh Manza, an assistant professor at Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University’s computer science department, and Dr Nazneen Akhter, an assistant professor in the computer science department of Maulana Azad College. The team was soon joined by computer science department’s Dr Abdul Rauf Khan and Dr Kranti Zakde of the Jawaharlal Nehru Engineering College’s physics department. The researchers said the device is ready to be used for medical applications where contactless, non-invasive and painless diagnostic support is required for studying underlying health conditions that are marked by changes in body surface temperature. It can play a significant role in the early detection of disease stages such as diabetes, breast, skin and oral cancers . The fact that the thermal imaging system may help cut the frequencies of invasive diagnoses has impressed the patenting authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-scientists-get-patent-for-innovative-thermal-imaging-device/articleshow/76802616.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Mysuru||Muda to initiate action against CA beneficiaries for violating norms||MYSURU: Taking cognisance of the misuse of civic amenity (CA) sites by beneficiaries, the Mysore Urban Development Authority (Muda) has initiated proceedings to reclaim properties from those found guilty of the violation. Muda has devised a plan to lease the properties that will be reclaimed from the beneficiaries. The civic agency believes this will, in addition to deterring other beneficiaries from misusing CA sites, ring in some much-needed revenue. Muda is currently leasing land to various institutions and organisations to hold religious, cultural, sporting and fitness events. The properties are generally leased for a period of 30 years and most of these sites are in prime locations in Mysuru city. Muda is mandated by the government to earmark a parcel of land in each locality for uses grouped under ‘CA’. These properties are subsequently given to institutions or individuals for a very nominal price. However, the rampancy of these properties being either misused or neglected has prompted Muda to initiate action against such violators. Muda commissioner DB Natesh said that the civic agency had compiled a list of 650 CA sites, wherein the owner had been found to have flouted the rules. A Muda official said that the agency was contemplating leasing properties for shorter duration against longer periods since it would help officers check for violation of rules more closely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/muda-to-initiate-action-against-ca-beneficiaries-for-violating-norms/articleshow/76803801.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Bengaluru||With 5 offices sealed in Bengaluru, postal department to function with thin staff||BENGALURU: At a time of unprecedented health crisis, postal department employees in the state are going the extra mile to ensure services aren’t affected. The department, which had to seal five of its offices in Bengaluru last week, plans to function with skeletal staff in the coming days. According to the postmaster general Bengaluru HQ region, S Rajendra Kumar, six staff members of Karnataka Postal Circle have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last one week. This has resulted in sealing of the head post offices at HAL 2nd Stage (three cases) and Jayanagar (one case) as well as post offices in RT Nagar (one case) and the Railway Mail Services at Krantivira Sangolli Rayanna City Railway Station (one case). The post office at MS Building too has been shut after a suspected Covid-positive person visited the place. Though most of these post offices will reopen on Monday, Kumar said they will be forced to function with limited services. Another staffer at the General Post Office, Bengaluru, said they haven’t let the proximity factor (with customers) hamper their duty, though it means high risk. Work during the lockdown The department has worked relentlessly since day one of the lockdown, at times even travelling to sealed zones to deliver parcels and medicines. “We have delivered 60 lakh money orders to social security beneficiaries (amounting to Rs 600 crore) in entire Karnataka during the lockdown. In the Bengaluru headquarters alone, we have carried out 42 lakh transactions,” said Kumar. For staff safety, the department has the ‘Get Well Soon’ app, which helps stay in touch with an unwell employee. Kumar says boosting employees’ morale during lockdown was important for smooth functioning. K Radhakrishna, the chief postmaster of the GPO, said postal workers have even visited sealed zones to fulfil their duties. “We gave priority to delivery of medicines and even arranged special vehicles to reach customers in remote places. In the entire period, we have not received a single complaint of delay or non-delivery of items,” he said. Another GPO employee said they kept the different services running to help senior citizens with pensions and also those who can’t step out of their homes for various reasons. “From sanitising the pen to using a new mask every day, we have kept our guard up while carrying out our duties,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-5-offices-sealed-postal-dept-to-function-with-thin-staff/articleshow/76803916.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Golf View played its Covid game well, pots coronavirus||HYDERABAD: Installing three vending machines stocked with essentials, forming a Covid-19 task force (consisting of 10 residents), usage of technology, accommodating staffers in club house and night patrolling paved the way to success in countering Covid-19, said residents of Golf View Apartment, a society located in Nanakramguda, Financial District. “All the residents filled an online sheet with details including their flat number and essentials required. Volunteers would pack the essentials, sanitise it and keep them ready for delivery in the store located within the society. Payments were also made online and people gathering at the store was avoided. One person per family would come to the store and collected the essentials as per their slot. The online sheet was managed by a techie living in our housing society,” said Krishna Kishore, joint treasurer of Golf View Apartment. Ensuring social distancing, sanitisation and ensuring immunity-boosting foods to staffers were also part of the plan chalked out to fight Covid-19. “The club house was modified to accommodate staffers working in our housing society. Residents also donated money for staffers. When a store owner of the housing society said that he cannot purchase and stock essentials for all society members, residents pooled in money and gave it to the him,” said Mahender Singh, a resident of the society. Yogesh Laad, treasurer of the housing society, said that they want to continue the healthy practices in future too. “We want to continue the teamwork and optimistic approach. We are also planning to come up with a permanent solution to ensure scientific disposal of mask and biohazardous waste,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/golf-view-played-its-covid-game-well-pots-coronavirus/articleshow/76804356.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Lucknow||Vikas Dubey slapped cop, warned of bloodshed in case of action||LUCKNOW: Interrogation of policemen by senior officers and the special task force revealed that a day before the ambush, gangster Vikas Dubey had slapped and humiliated the station officer of Chaubeypur, Vinay Tiwari, when he had gone to meet Dubey with a complainant Rahul Tiwari. Nine hours before the deadly attack, Dubey had also threatened police outpost in charge of the area, KK Sharma, saying that if cops tried to harm him, the place would be “strewn with their bodies”. It also came to light that neither the SO nor the outpost in charge informed senior officials about the development. A senior officer, who questioned the SO (who was suspended a day after the ambush), told TOI that on July 1, Rahul Tiwari had allegedly grabbed a piece of land belonging to the sister of Vikas Dubey’s nephew. “Agitated over this, Dubey and his aides thrashed Rahul. Later, Rahul reached the police station and narrated his ordeal to SO Vinay Tiwari. The station officer, who too had been humiliated by Vikas following a dispute during Holi celebrations this year, took it as opportunity to settle a score,” the officer said. “However, when Vinay reached the gangster’s house to interrogate him, Vikas not only assaulted Rahul but also slapped the station officer and snatched his mobile phone. Vinay asked Rahul to meet the SSP and inform him about the case,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vikas-dubey-slapped-so-warned-of-bloodshed-in-case-of-action/articleshow/76804312.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Aurangabad||54,800 teachers enrol for online classroom training||Aurangabad: The training programme planned by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) to educate teachers on Google Classroom has evoked excellent response. While the SCERT had set a target of training 40,000 teachers across the state during the first phase, over 54,800 teachers enrolled for the programme till Sunday with a day more left for formal registration, as shown in official records. While around 2,482 teachers from Aurangabad enrolled for the SCERT training programme till 8pm on Sunday, Thane led with the highest registrations (5,579), followed by Satara (4,359), Nashik (3335), Mumbai suburban (2318) and Jalgaon (2,177) among other districts in Maharashtra. The official notification issued by SCERT on Saturday said that the proposed online training programme would be scaled up in a phased manner in order to cover all interested teachers from Maharashtra. The Council has said that the facility of Google classroom would be made available to all registered schools and junior colleges in the state with the help of which around 250 students could attend a virtual learning session at any time. Rajesh Hiwale, spokesperson of state-level association of zilla parishad schools, said it was welcome move by SCERT to train teachers for a new normal in the education field amid the current pandemic. “Instead of asking for random registrations, it would have been better if the SCERT had called for division-wise entries with fixed quota from every region. Moreover, we feel that online training must be made mandatory instead of making it optional,” said Hiwale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/54800-teachers-enrol-for-online-classroom-training/articleshow/76928737.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Madurai||HC slaps Rs 25k cost for plea stalling patta disbursal||MADURAI: Dismissing a petition which stalled the process of allotting house site patta to 18 people who had lost their dwellings during land acquisition for widening and formation of Oddanchatram - Tirupur state highway project, Madras high court imposed a cost of Rs 25,000 on a petitioner for filing a vexatious petition. Petitioner R Chinnasamy sought to forbear the authorities from granting patta to people on a land which he claimed to be a water channel at Thangachiammpatti village in Dindigul district. A division bench of Justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi said the records show that the land was classified only as a road poromboke land and not water course. The authorities had taken a specific stand in their counter-affidavit that after a village road was formed in 1964, a few villagers had encroached upon the poromboke land. The petitioner who owns an adjacent land had also encroached upon the poromboke land and was cultivating maize, which he had not denied. Hence, the court observed that the petitioner had approached it with false claims in order to encroach the poromboke land adjacent to his land. The petitioner had stalled the benefits to 18 people for whom the government intended to allot poromboke land as resettlement. The vexatious litigation had also stalled the state highway project to an extent. Hence the judges dismissed the petition and directed him to pay a cost of Rs 25,000 to the CM’s Relief Fund in eight weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-slaps-rs-25k-cost-for-plea-stalling-patta-disbursal/articleshow/76803973.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Amid Covid-19 crisis, mosquito menace stings Old City residents||HYDERABAD: After the recent rains in the city, many roads and streets in Old City have turned into pools of filth due to waterlogging and sewage overflow. Locals complained that cleanliness drives have taken a backseat. Firasat Ali Baqri, spokesperson, BJP Minority Morcha, told TOI that several complaints have been made to GHMC officials regarding basic civic issues but no steps were taken to address the grievances. “The state government has completely failed to fix the issues in Old City. People have to deal with the mosquito menace and live in unhealthy conditions in many areas of the Old City. The government machineries are not focussing on the sudden jump in cases of Covid-19 in Old City. People are forced to live in pathetic conditions due to the GHMC’s lax attitude,’’ said Baqri. Mohammed Ahmed, TDP Greater Hyderabad minority wing vice-president, told TOI that no initiatives were being taken up to keep the localities neat and clean despite multiple reminders to higher-ups. He said that the health of children and the old is affected owing to climate change. “The chief entomologist and other officials concerned didn’t respond to my calls and one of the officials cited lack of staff. The matter must be taken seriously before the seasonal diseases start affecting the residents,” he said. Meanwhile, the Old City residents have urged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to direct the GHMC to fumigate all localities and sanitise them. “Officials are turning a blind eye to the prevailing unhealthy atmosphere. With each passing day, mosquito menace is increasing and no fogging has been done,” rued Younus, a resident of Karwan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amid-covid-19-crisis-mosquito-menace-stings-old-city-residents/articleshow/76803976.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Goa||‘ED action against Socorro sarpanch exposed BJP’||Panaji: Enforcement Directorate’s decision to attach property worth Rs 3 crore “owned” by sarpanch of Socorro panchayat Sandeep Vazarkar has exposed the Bharatiya Janata Party’s corrupt practices yet again, said Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte. Khaunte said that the BJP, to gain one-upmanship in Porvorim constituency, joined hands with Vazarkar despite the allegations of corruptions levelled against the sarpanch. “On one hand the chief minister had promised the assembly that there will be a full-scale investigation into all Comunidade land grabbing and in the same stance he welcomed Sandeep Vazarkar with great fanfare into the BJP,” said Khaunte. Vazarkar was once a part of Porvorim Rising, an organisation with ties to Khaunte but as his role in the Serula Comunidade land scam surfaced, he jumped over to the BJP camp. Panaji: Enforcement Directorate’s decision to attach property worth Rs 3 crore “owned” by sarpanch of Socorro panchayat Sandeep Vazarkar has exposed the Bharatiya Janata Party’s corrupt practices yet again, said Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte. Khaunte said that the BJP, to gain one-upmanship in Porvorim constituency, joined hands with Vazarkar despite the allegations of corruptions levelled against the sarpanch. “On one hand the chief minister had promised the assembly that there will be a full-scale investigation into all Comunidade land grabbing and in the same stance he welcomed Sandeep Vazarkar with great fanfare into the BJP,” said Khaunte. Vazarkar was once a part of Porvorim Rising, an organisation with ties to Khaunte but as his role in the Serula Comunidade land scam surfaced, he jumped over to the BJP camp. Three days earlier, the Enforcement Directorate attached a plot of land measuring 7,975sqm in Socorro with a value of Rs 3.19 crore in connection with the alleged illegal acquisition of Serula comunidade land by Sandeep Vazarkar. Khaunte asked if the Sawant would continue to support Vazarkar despite the accusations and absence of government approval for the land transfer. “With an authority like the ED certifying the scam, I would like to ask our chief minister why he always supports those who have openly been a part of all illegal activities be it land grabbing, money laundering, mining, labour scam or quarantine tourism,” said Khaunte. Panaji: The Enforcement Directorate’s decision to attach property worth Rs 3 crore owned by sarpanch of Socorro Sandeep Vazarkar has exposed the BJP’s corrupt practices yet again said Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte. Khaunte said that the BJP, to gain one-upmanship in Porvorim constituency, joined hands with Vazarkar despite the allegations of corruptions levelled against the sarpanch. “On one hand the chief minister had promised the assembly that there will be a full scale investigation into all Communidade land grabbing and in the same stance he welcomed Sandeep Vazarkar with great fanfare into the BJP,” said Khaunte. Vazarkar was once a part of Porvorim Rising, an organisation with ties to Khaunte but as his role in the Serula Communidade land scam surfaced, he jumped over to the BJP camp. Three days earlier, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) attached a plot of land measuring 7,975sqm in Socorro with a value of Rs 3.19 crore in connection with the alleged illegal acquisition of Serula comunidade land by Sandeep Vazarkar. Khaunte asked if the Sawant would continue to support Vazarkar despite the accusations and despite the absence of government approval for the land transfer. “With an authority like the ED certifying the scam I would like to ask our chief minister why he always supports those who have openly been a part of all illegal activities be it land grabbing, money laundering, mining, labour scam or quarantine tourism,” said Khaunte.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ed-action-against-socorro-sarpanch-exposed-bjp/articleshow/76804321.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Union slams Centre’s bid to privatise Railways||HYDERABAD: The Centre’s move to allow private participation in passenger train operations on 109 routes across the country drew sharp criticism from employee unions in Telangana. Opposing the move, employee unions of Southern Central Railway Mazdoor Union (SCRMU) in Telangana said that the Centre was misusing the Covid-19 lockdown to promote its privatisation policy. “We are opposing privatisation from the very beginning. Despite our pleas, the authorities have taken a decision without any consultations with the employee unions. From 109 routes in Indian Railways, they will also privatise the 21 routes that fall under SCR,” said Srinivas Reddy, president, Railway Mazdoor Union. Announcing a nationwide protest on Monday, the unions said the decision has been taken despite the PM, in his speech in 2015, promising that railways will not be privatised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/union-slams-centres-bid-to-privatise-rlys/articleshow/76803979.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Bengaluru||1,400/million in Karnataka in quarantine; it’s 4,000 in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Karnataka has around 1,400 people per million currently in quarantine, while the number stands at more than 4,751 in Bengaluru, data from the state’s Covid-19 War Room shows. Data shows all districts — except Chitradurga — have more than 300 people for every million population in quarantine, with Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Bidar, Kodagu, Dharwad and Raichur reporting more than 1,000 per million alongside Bengaluru. Chitradurga, with 231/million in quarantine has the least number of people in isolation, followed by Davanagere, Shivamogga and Chikkaballapura, while all other districts have more than 400 per million in quarantine. Going by this analysis there are at least 92,000 people in active quarantine in Karnataka, which is about 8,000 less than last week, and more than 47,000 of them are in Bengaluru alone. Further, separate data accessed from the government shows the number of patients who are recovering spend about 12 days in hospital on average, while those dying spend about five days. Comparatively, this stood at 13 days and six days in the second week of June. The June second week data showed that in the last week of May and first week of June, patients spent about 15 days and 3.5 days, respectively. Experts TOI spoke with have been insisting on early hospitalisation of people with symptoms to check the fatality rate, which as of July 4 was 1.6%. On average nearly five people in every million succumb to Covid-19 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-has-1-3k/million-in-quarantine-its-4k-in-bengaluru/articleshow/76803060.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Lucknow||Chaubeypur Cop Team Mute Witness To Bloodbath||Lucknow: The first damning indictment of sabotage and conspiracy by moles in the police force during the midnight carnage at Bikru village has come from an eye-witness account of injured station officer of Bithoor police station, Kaushalendra Pratap Singh. Speaking from his hospital bed, the wounded cop categorically said, that a third team from the local Chaubeypur police station led by the now suspended Inspector Vinay Tiwari didn’t fire a single bullet at the marauding gang even as cops were outnumbered and lay bloodied on the ground. In a short video, Singh said, “Our targets were not visible in the pitch darkness as a blackout was enforced in the village. Bullets began flying from rooftops and we could not spot the snipers.” Only the local police team from Chaubeypur knew the topography of the village and the lanes leading to the fortified house of the gangster, Vikas Dubey. They stood mute spectators to the bloodbath even as their boss, Inspector Vinay Tiwari, fled the encounter site with covert directives to his men to muzzle their guns. Three police teams numbering 30 were part of the midnight raid – one from Bithoor, Shivgarh and Chaubeypur. Singh suffered bullet injuries and was admitted to Regency Hospital in Kanpur in an unconscious state on Thursday. He regained consciousness on Sunday and recounted the sequence of events of the fateful night. “At around 12.30 am on Thursday, I along with a team set out for a raid after a call from Station officer of Chaubeypur. At 1 am, we reached the village and got down from our vehicles and marched forward. As soon as we walked 100m, an earthmover strategically placed on the road, stopped our movement,” he said. “Unaware of the trap, we continued to march. Within seconds, bullets began raining from rooftops and our colleagues fell, while others ran for cover. We opened fired, but in vain. Dubey’s men mounted on rooftops were at an advantageous position. They were able to clearly spot us and fired at our heads,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chaubeypur-cop-team-mute-witness-to-bloodbath/articleshow/76804316.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad: Bike-lifters’ gang busted, 4 arrested; seven two-wheelers recovered||BAREILLY: Four persons with one of them already booked under stringent Gangster Act and out on bail were on Sunday arrested on charges of lifting two-wheelers in Moradabad. With the arrests, local police claimed to have busted an auto-lifters’ gang and recovered six stolen bikes and a scooter. All of them were arrested from the city's upmarket Civil Lines area during an inspection. Eight FIRs have already been registered against the kingpin of the gang, Pratap, who was also booked under Gangster Act at Galshaheed police station, police said. Additional superintendent of police (ASP) of Moradabad, Deepak Bhuker, said, “The gang members were lifting bikes in parts of the city including Civil Lines and Majhola. The accused used to move on a ‘Navi’ bike and spot two-wheelers parked in public places, and later lift them. As many as seven two-wheelers including Splendor and a scooter have been recovered from their possession. The bikes that have been recovered were sold at different rates in Sambhal and the original registration numbers of the vehicles had been changed.” An FIR has been registered against the accused under various sections of IPC including 411(dishonestly receiving stolen property), 413 (habitually dealing in stolen property), 414 (assisting in concealment of stolen property), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record and 482 (punishment for using a false property mark).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bike-lifters-gang-busted-4-arrested-seven-two-wheelers-recovered/articleshow/76801815.cms||Maria Khan
July 6, 2020||Madurai||Dolmens found in forest near Ayakudi in Palani||MADURAI: A cluster of spherical ancient dolmens, different from usual rectangular ones, was discovered near Palani recently. Archaeologist V Narayanamoorthy said that he and professor K Asokan and former Pollachi MP Raja Ravi Varma decided to explore after they were informed about the presence of dolmen- like structures in Ammaikadu, a hillock between Ayakudi village in Palani and the Western Ghats. They took permission from the forest department and went there on July 2. “It is deep in the forest and we found about 10 to 12 dolmens. Were able to take a close look at only one of them,” said Narayanamoorthy. He said that they had seen many dolmens of different size in Ayakudi and its surroundings that were tall, but these dolmens were only about four to five feet in height. They consisted of two stones placed one above the other with a coconut sized stone wedged between them. “This may have been done to indicate that they were man made structures,” he said. A cylindrical stone, found near these dolmens, had a matrix engraved in it on opposite ends with seven horizontal and vertical lines. “This dolmen is interesting because previous dolmens found in this region have flatter stones which are more or less rectangle in shape,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dolmens-found-in-forest-near-ayakudi-in-palani/articleshow/76803977.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Madurai||HC dismisses bail plea of accused in rape, murder of minor girl||MADURAI: Madras high court has dismissed the bail plea of a man from Assam who was involved in the rape and murder of a minor girl in Virudhunagar district. The petitioner, Majam Ali alias Mojam Ali, was arrested by Virudhunagar district police for rape and murder of a minior girl. He was booked under sections 302 of IPC and various sections under POCSO Act. The petitioner moved the Madurai bench of the Madras high court seeking bail. The additional public prosecutor submitted that there is strong evidence against the petitioner in the case. He submitted that the final report had already been filed and the trial is likely to commence. He further submitted that if the petitioner is released on bail, there is every possibility of being absconding since he hails from Assam. Hearing the plea, Justice G Jayachandran said that by considering the facts and circumstances in the case, the court is not inclined to grant bail to the petitioner and dismissed the petition. The judge further directed the trial court to take up the trial and complete the trial preferably within four months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-accused-in-rape-murder-of-minor-girl/articleshow/76803978.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation to set up 33 basti dawakhanas||HYDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) will set up 33 more basti dawakhanas (neighbourhood clinics) in the city. According to civic officials, the clinics will be operational by the end of this month. “To provide basic medical facilities, the clinics are being set up. There are already 167 basti dawakhanas in the city,” said GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar. The civic body’s target is to set up a total of 300 clinics across the city. “Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) minister KT Rama Rao instructed GHMC to set up two clinics in each ward,” read a statement issued by GHMC. There are 150 wards in the GHMC limits .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-to-set-up-33-basti-dawakhanas/articleshow/76803981.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Bareilly||Transporter robbed of jewellery worth Rs 20 lakh & Rs 2.7 lakh cash in Bareilly||BAREILLY: Armed robbers barged into the house of a resident in Fatehganj (West) area of Bareilly district late on Saturday night and robbed the family of Rs 2.7 lakh cash and jewellery worth Rs 20 lakh. Police officials, along with forensic experts, visited the spot and registered an FIR after recording statements of the family members. Additional superintendent of police (ASP) Sansaar Singh also inspected the spot and assured the family that the case would be resolved, at the earliest. Police said victim Govind Gupta, a transporter, and his family members were going to their beds after the dinner when they heard someone knocking at the door. As they opened the door, four armed men with their faces covered barged into the house and locked all family members in a room. The robbers, initially, claimed that their sister had eloped with one of Gupta’s family members and she was hiding in the washroom of their house, said police. However, soon, they took Govind at the gunpoint and forced him to hand over the cash, jewellery and other valuables. The robbers fled with over Rs 2.7 lakh cash, nearly 300gm of gold jewellery, the estimated cost of which is around Rs 20 lakh, and mobile phones of the victims, said police. The family informed police after they managed to come out of the locked room after three hours. Confirming the incident, circle officer Jagmohan Butela said, “Police have gathered some evidence and they are working on it.” Bareilly senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shailesh Pandey said, “We have formed two teams to work out the case, and suspects are being questioned. We will resolve the case, soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/transporter-robbed-of-jewellery-worth-rs-20-lakh-rs-2-7-lakh-cash-in-bareilly/articleshow/76801821.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 6, 2020||Madurai||Virudhunagar cop dies of Covid-19||MADURAI: A head constable from Virudhunagar district, who was being treated for Covid-19 died at the Government Rajaji Hospital here on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Ayyanar, 42, from Kalangaperi village, attached with the Seithur rural police station. Ayyanar was the first victim among police personnel in Virudhunagar district. He was down with fever in the last few days and was being treated at the Rajapalayam government hospital. After testing positive for Covid-19, he was treated at Sattur Government Hospital and later shifted to Government Rajaji hospital on July 2. He died not responding to treatment in the early hours of Sunday. He is survived by his wife and two children studying in classes VI and III. After he tested positive, the police station was closed temporarily to carry out disinfection work. Currently, day to day activities at the station are being carried out outside the station building with minimum staff. While the incident has created panic waves among police personnel in Virudhunagar district, they have been asked by their senior officials to be extra cautious while performing their duty. Virudhunagar district SP P Perumal said that so far 18 police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in the district. Out of them, four have been discharged after treatment, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/virudhunagar-cop-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/76803983.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Interpol issues red notice against Sanal Edamaruku||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Interpol has issued a ‘red notice’ against rationalist Sanal Edamaruku, currently settled in Finland, in connection with a case related to duping Rs 15 lakh from a government employee after offering her Finland visa for educational purpose and permanent residency. IG (crimes) S Sreejith, who is also the nodal officer of International Investigation Coordination Wing of the state police, confirmed receiving a report in this regard from the Interpol authorities in Delhi. The case is that Edamaruku, hailing from Thiruvananthapuram, offered the complainant, Prameela Devi, a visa to Finland for educational purpose, a job with high salary and permanent residential permit in Finland. He accepted a total of Rs 15.75 lakh in instalments from her during 2015 to 2016. Edamaruku neither kept his promise nor refunded the money; he blocked Prameela’s number also. After receiving Prameela’s complaint, a case was registered by Alappuzha police. The investigation was completed and chargesheet was filed in February 2018. Though the court issued an arrest warrant in his name, the order could not be executed as he was not in the country. The authorities concerned then proceeded for an extradition. Edamaruku, renowned rationalist and founder of the organisation, Rationalist International, had taken refuge in Finland in 2012 after exposing the miracle of an idol of Jesus that produced water droplets through its toes in a church in Mumbai. Edamaruku, who was challenged to expose the feat, found out that the water came from toilet pipes behind the wall on which the idol was fixed. The believers, however, accused him of insulting the church and filed multiple blasphemy cases, following which he had to flee the country. Devi said she herself was a rationalist and met him during several events organised by rationalists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/interpol-issues-red-notice-against-sanal-edamaruku/articleshow/76803486.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Madurai||South TN goes into total lockdown||MADURAI: Madurai imposed an intensified total lockdown for the second consecutive Sunday keeping vehicles off the roads, and shops shut except a few medical shops and milk booths. Many other districts including, Theni, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Dindigul and Sivaganga also went into a total lockdown on Sunday. Aavin palour and medical shops too did not see many customers in the morning, and the Amman canteens that are providing free food too saw fewer crowds. Police monitoring was intensified on the main roads and also the inner roads. About 12 people found on the roads in two wheelers were fined and their vehicles seized. Meat shops had door delivery in some parts of the city since early morning and delivered meat till 6am. The only vehicles seen on the road for the rest of the day were a few ambulances, milk vehicles and those with official passes. Hotels also remained closed. The hotel owners association has decided to provide only takeaways from 6am to 9pm in Madurai till July 31. Meanwhile, the Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association, (Maditssia) has opposed the state government’s move to extend the intense lockdown in the district by seven more days till July 12. President of the association B Muruganantham has said they were anguished by the government’s announcement to extend the lockdown without consulting the stakeholders. If the rising number of cases is the reason, there are districts that are reporting more cases than Madurai. Chennai, which still continues to have more than 2,000 cases a day, is has relaxed lockdown, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-goes-into-total-lockdown/articleshow/76803980.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Madurai||Madurai CoP wants better cop-public ties||MADURAI: Prem Anand Sinha assumed charge as Madurai commissioner of police on Sunday and said that efforts will be taken to improve police-public relationship and action will be taken against violators only by the rule book. The 2001-batch IPS officer replaces S Davidson Devasirvatham, who has been transferred and posted as ADGP (Technical Services). Prem Anand Sinha was serving as ACP in Chennai. Talking to newsmen, Anand Sinha said that police personnel and officers should be good in dealing with the public. A sensitisation drive will be organised and standard operation procedures in dealing with accused during inquiry will be followed, he said. Importance will be given to crime prevention and detection apart from effective redressal of public grievances. Complaints regarding property loss will be registered as case immediately. Extra vehicle checks and patrolling will be ensured. He stressed on the importance of CCTV cameras at residential houses and commercial buildings to help the police in crime detection. Effective police role in prevention of Covid-19 will also be ensured, he said. Prem Anand Sinha started his career as ASP of Devakottai in Sivaganga district. He has served as SP of Perambalur and Kancheepuram districts, DCP of Anna Nagar in Chennai and director of Narcotics Control Bureau for four years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-cop-wants-better-cop-public-ties/articleshow/76803982.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Chandigarh||City took a break from heat finally with Saturday’s downpour||Ludhiana: Heavy rain lashed the city on Saturday night bringing the much needed change in Ludhiana’s weather. The met department meanwhile predicts rainfall activity in city on Monday as well. The weather was dry for most part of the day on Saturday, it turned cloudy late evening. At around 10pm on Saturday, it started to pour and soon heavy rainfall and wind were witnessed in city that lasted for around an hour. However, even after that it continued to drizzle for an hour or two before it stopped around Sunday morning. According to the met department, 24 millimetres (mm) of rainfall was recorded in Ludhiana from 5.30pm on Saturday to 8.30 am on Sunday. The impact was rainfall was witnessed on the temperatures in city on Sunday. The met department said the maximum (day) temperature in city on Sunday was recorded at –degrees Celsius, which is –degrees –than normal. On Saturday the day temperature in Ludhiana was recorded at 36.7 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees more than normal. In the meanwhile minimum (night) temperature in city on Sunday was recorded at 22.6 degrees Celsius which is four degrees less than normal and even 3.4 degrees less than a day before. Even as residents enjoyed the pleasant change after hot and humid weather, met department predicts intermittent rainfall activity to continue in coming week as well. “There are chances of light to moderate rainfall even on Monday and it may be recorded between 10 to 30mm. In the coming week as well there are chances of rainfall. On can expect rainfall activity in July month as a whole. The rainfall is expected to bring down the temperatures in the days to come,” said Director Met Department Chandigarh Surender Paul. The department’s website stated that the day temperature is expected to fall to 33 degrees Celsius till Tuesday whereas the night temperature might fall to 22 degrees Celsius till Monday. “After the met department had announced arrival of monsoon on June 25, we were waiting for rainfall to occur in the city. For 10 days, we had to grapple with hot and humid conditions that prevailed in the city. However, rainfall last night has brought the much needed change in the weather. It was pleasant during the day even on Sunday,” said Arun Kumar, a businessman from Chandigarh road. Come rain, no power Even as residents enjoyed the rainfall in city on Saturday, many had to suffer due to power outages for long hours. “They cut the power supply in our area at around 10.30pm and restored the same at around 5.30am on Sunday. I had made several requests on the app of PSPCL requesting them to get power restored, but they told me in the morning that due to rainfall the lineman could not carry out such work, as there was waterlogging at the grid station,” said Gagandeep Singh, a Dugri resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-took-a-break-from-heat-finally-with-saturdays-downpour/articleshow/76803974.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Recovery rate: Haryana ahead despite spike in Covid cases||CHANDIGARH: Even as Haryana witnessed a sustained spike in Covid-19 cases in the last one month, an analysis of data has revealed that the state also recorded a massive number of recoveries, where the infected were discharged after treatment, in the same period. The average recovery of Covid-19 patients in the state in July is around 594 persons daily. Haryana’s recovery rate of 76.1% is the highest among its neighbouring states, including Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. This means that for every 100 confirmed cases, around 76 have recovered from the virus. The recovery rate in Punjab — according to data available till July 5 evening — is 70.15% and in Himachal Pradesh, the recovery rate is 68.22%. In the three months period from March to June, the recoveries in Haryana were only 1,089 and in the 30 days of June plus the first five days of July, the total recoveries reached 11,896 — an increase of 10,807. It comes out to be an average of around 340 cases recovering from the infection every day since June. The data has also revealed that 6,446 patients have recovered in the last 12 days from June 24 to July 5 in Haryana, with an average of around 537 patients recovering every day. The highest number of recovery cases were reported on July 5 when 687 persons were discharged. Tracking the pandemic and the recovery data of Haryana, it is clear that recoveries increased with the increase in the number of positive cases in the state — 24 patients recovered in March, 211 in April, 813 in May and 8,924 in June. A total of 2,972 persons were discharged after recovery in the first five days of July. State following Centre’s guidelines: Arora Asked about the criteria used to declare a patient had recovered, Haryana additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Rajeev Arora told TOI that the state is following the central government’s guidelines in this regard. A person admitted to hospital with symptoms is kept in isolation for 14 days and tested twice before being sent home. “It normally takes around 16-17 days to declare a patient recovered, if test results are negative,” Arora added. Regarding asymptomatic patients, Arora said they are kept under observation for around 10 days and sent for home quarantine for seven days, if in the last three days (of the initial 10-day period) they have no fever. Arora gave credit to Haryana’s health officials and the massive infrastructure created by them in Gurugram and Faridabad districts for such high recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/recovery-rate-state-ahead-despite-spike-in-covid-cases/articleshow/76804391.cms||Ajay Sura
July 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed cop writes to DGP against SP||Aurangabad: A Beed traffic inspector’s letter to the director general of police (DGP) — complaining against superintendent of police (SP) Harssh Poddar — went viral on social media on Saturday. The inspector accused Poddar of ill-treating him and ordering him to surrender his firearm. Threatening to take an extreme step, inspector Ravindra Pergulwar said the SP yelled at him over the wireless system and transferred him to the control room, following which, he recorded the incident in the station diary. Pergulwar now wants to take voluntary retirement. When contacted, Poddar said, “When the lockdown was announced in Beed three days ago and all police inspectors were out patrolling, this officer made no preparations. He was immediately attached to the control room. Incompetence and corruption will not be tolerated.” Citing official records, Poddar said earlier, the inspector was given the responsibly of securing the meeting ground where the PM was scheduled to address a gathering. However, during a surprise visit, he was not found at the venue.“Soon, the inspector went on sick leave for months. Despite all this, he was given a chance in the traffic department, but in vain,” said Poddar confirming that the inspector has been issued a showcause notice. An officer said before being posted in Beed, the inspector had four punishments from his previous postings in Jalna and the state intelligence department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-cop-writes-to-dgp-against-sp/articleshow/76802685.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Goa||‘No negligence in patient’s death’||Margao: The management of Victor Hospital, Margao, has refuted allegations of medical negligence leveled by the kin and relatives of Prashant Chinchankar who died while being shifted to the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMC) from Victor hospital recently. Friends and relatives of Chinchankar had gone on a rampage in the hospital following his death as earlier reported by TOI. Stating that Chinchankar was brought in a critical condition with breathlessness on June 27, the hospital management pointed out that the patient was found to have acute kidney failure and his chest X-ray revealed a condition called ARDS which is seen in patients with Covid-19. “As per protocol and after briefing the relatives in detail, the patient was planned to be shifted to GMC for further management as private hospitals do not have testing facility for Covid-19,” the press note stated. Stating that preparing the ambulance and the staff for handling such a case takes time as it includes wearing the appropriate PPEs, the Victor hospital management said the patient had a cardiac arrest in the ambulance while on the way to GMC. “The medical team tried its best to resuscitate the patient. However, the patient succumbed because of the nature of his illness. This patient received complete medical attention right from the time of admission to the time of interim of transfer to GMC. Hence there has been no medical negligence or any delay in treatment and transfer of the patient,” the press note signed by hospital director Varun Albuquerque said. The hospital stated that Chinchankar was brought in a critical condition with breathlessness on June 27, the hospital management pointed out that the patient was found to have acute kidney failure and his chest X-ray revealed a condition called ARDS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-negligence-in-patients-death/articleshow/76804340.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Chennai||Virtually preying on fear of the pandemic||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 pandemic isn’t just real, it’s virtual as well. Earlier this week, the Computer Emergency Response Team-India from the office of the ministry of home affairs issued an advisory regarding a potential ‘cyber offensive attack from the Chinese army’. In the guise of a free Covid-19 test, "the Chinese cyber warriors" could be carrying out a massive phishing attack, warned the advisory, and asked people to be on the lookout for IDs like ncov2019@gov.in with the email subject line: Free Covid-19 testing for all residents of Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Chennai and Ahmedabad. The malicious group claims to have 2 million individual email addresses, said the advisory. As the number of people infected with the coronavirus rises so does the fear surrounding the pandemic, which, say cyber security firms, is exactly what malware creators are preying on. The firms warn of the increasing number of ‘infections’ online since February. "We are seeing an increasing trend of threat actors targeting enterprises with complex viruses, Trojans, and even ransomware," says J Kesavardhanan, founder and CEO of K7 Computing, a malware prevention and antivirus software which released a report on cyber threats earlier this week. "Covid-19 apps infected with malware are rampant." READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+: How fear of pandemic gave rise to phishing attacks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/virtually-preying-on-fear-of-the-pandemic/articleshow/76803483.cms||Kamini Mathai
July 6, 2020||Delhi||Saving the Yamuna: Why river needs a fresh start||NEW DELHI: In its final report to National Green Tribunal (NGT), Yamuna Monitoring Committee said that under the present circumstances, in which 80% of the pollution entering the river was in the form of sewage, any improvement or dilution in the water quality seemed impossible unless large quantities of fresh water were released into the river daily. The report further stated that while no significant improvement was expected in the short and medium term, long-term plans to trap septage and sewage could definitely lead to an improvement in the river water quality. Over 3,000 million litres per day (MLD) of sewage was entering the river downstream of Wazirabad. Accountability could not only lie with Delhi as Haryana and UP were contributing to high amounts of sewage and industrial effluents too. “It is undisputed that for river rejuvenation, availability of fresh water in substantial quantity and closure of industries operating from households, which release toxic effluents into drains without any treatment, is essential. With no flow in the river downstream of Wazirabad, more than 3,000 MLD of sewage (both treated and untreated) is released into the river. With a biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) level in excess of 30 mg/L and virtually zero dissolved oxygen (DO) for most part of the year, there is no scope for any dilution that can improve the quality significantly,” added the report. The committee stated that in the short and medium term, there appeared to be no possibility of achieving a BOD level of 3 mg/l and below, which is classified as a category C river by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). It, however, added that ongoing projects, including interceptor sewage project (ISP), installation and upgrading of treatment plants, trapping of sewage flowing in the drains and effective septage management, would help the river greatly. “But for the river to ever reach bathing standards as prescribed by CPCB, the availability of fresh water is critical,” said the report. A CPCB report from 2017 stated that the river received about 3,911 MLD of sewage, which included industrial effluents. Of this, Delhi alone contributed about 3,270 MLD (80% being sewage) and had BOD at Okhla ranging from 31mg/L to 64mg/L with virtually no DO. The total coliform levels, meanwhile, varied from 1.3 million to 16 million MPN/100ml. The limits prescribed by CPCB for the Delhi stretch were 3 mg/L and 5,000 MPN/100ml for DO and total coliform, respectively. Asking for accountability to be fixed, the report stated that Haryana and UP also needed to be tackled to improve the water quality. “The measures for pollution control cannot be limited to Delhi, but also Haryana and UP. They contribute a significant amount of waste water, both sewage and industrial effluents, into the river. This is vital for rejuvenation of the river,” it added. The committee also suggested that NGT should look at the water-sharing agreement again and incentivise farmers to use less water-intensive crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/saving-the-yamuna-why-river-needs-a-fresh-start/articleshow/76804000.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 6, 2020||Pune||Nearly 1,300 fresh cases in PMR as tally nears 29,000||Pune: For the fifth straight day on Sunday, the Pune Metropolitan Region recorded over 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases. As many as 1,288 people tested positive in the 24-hour period till 9pm on Sunday, taking the overall tally to 28,599. Sixteen people succumbed to the contagion in the region — 11 died in Pune Municipal Corporation limits, three in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation areas and two in rural Pune, as per status report released on Sunday night by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar. Of the fresh cases, 803 have been reported from PMC limits and 396 were from PCMC limits, while rural Pune and cantonment areas recorded 55 and 34 new cases, respectively. According to a report by PMC, a total of 420 patients were discharged in PMC limits on Sunday after they recovered from Covid-19. The active caseload in PMC limits increased to 7,696 from 7276 of Saturday. About 410 critical patients are being treated at various hospitals. Seventy of them are on ventilator support. As per PMC data, most of the deceased had shown comorbidity issues. They were suffering from health issues, such as respiratory problems, heart ailments, hypertension and pneumonia. Five people died at Sassoon General Hospital, while the rest breathed their last in private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nearly-1300-fresh-cases-in-pmr-as-tally-nears-29000/articleshow/76803988.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Lucknow||Green drive: All districts surpass target in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: In a short span of 13 hours, Uttar Pradesh got more than 25.8 crore trees during the statewide plantation drive ‘Van Mahotsav’. All 75 districts of the state planted more saplings than the target assigned to them. Unnao achieved the success rate of 114% by planting over 55 lakh trees against the target of 48 lakh. Sonbhadra planted maximum 82 lakh saplings followed by Lakhimpur Kheri (over 67 lakh) and Prayagraj (over 56 lakh). Van Mahotsav was inaugurated by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath by planting ‘Harishankari’ trees in Kukrail reserve forest in Lucknow. At Kukrail, 251 trees of 51 species were planted. Trees were planted in specific formations like Panchvati and Nakshatra Vatika, as mentioned in the Puranas and ancient scriptures. Panchvati is a formation of five specific trees mentioned in the Ramayana (include peepal, banyan, bel, aonla and ashok). Nakshatra Vatika represents ‘nakshatras’ (constellations). The command centre set up at the forest department headquarters kept updating the status of plantation in the state. Forest minister Dara Singh Chauhan said, “Plantation was done on forest land and those belonging to farmers. In districts, public representatives were present during plantation.” Jeevamrut and compost purchased from ‘gaushalas’ was used during the drive. Forest department planted 10 crore trees while remaining 26 government departments planted over 15 crore saplings. Plantation was done at more than 8.7 lakh sites in the state and all the locations were geo-tagged. More than 1.5 crore trees were planted on the banks of over 40 rivers including Ganga, Yamuna, Gomti, Rapti, Ghaghra, Saryu, Sharda, Tamsa,Varuna and Betwa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/green-drive-all-dists-surpass-target-in-state/articleshow/76804325.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Madurai||Ramanathapuram sees surge with over 1k cases in 10 days||MADURAI: As many as 1,051 Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths have been reported in Ramanathapuram within the last 10 days. However, health officials maintained that a vast number of Covid-19 patients in the district are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. The district administration has also ramped up facilities at Covid-19 care centres and hospitals in the district. While, till June 25, only 334 Covid-19 cases were reported in Ramanathapuram, around 1,051 cases were reported between June 25 and July 5. From being one among the districts with the least number of Covid-19 cases in south Tamil Nadu, Ramanathapuram, now, has a total of 1,385 cases and is second only behind Madurai in terms of highest number of cases in the region. “The cases have been steadily increasing. Most of the local cases are influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and contacts of Covid-19 patients. Covid-19 testing has also been increased to up to 300 samples per day,” said Dharmendra Pratap Yadav, Ramanathapuram district Covid-19 monitoring officer, speaking to TOI. The officer also added that the positivity rate is high among local cases as now they are testing only those with ILI symptoms and contacts of Covid-19 patients. Notably, between June 25-30, there were 511 Covid-19 cases in the district, while between July 1-5, 540 cases were reported. Yadav said that the current focus by district authorities is on managing the viral load of Covid-19 patients. Ramanathapuram district has also reported 16 Covid-19 deaths during the past 10 days while only four deaths were reported till June 25. “The death rate is still low and most of them had comorbid conditions or were already in a critical condition,” said Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ramanathapuram-sees-surge-with-over-1k-cases-in-10-days/articleshow/76803986.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 6, 2020||Madurai||Sathankulam custodial deaths: 'No special privilege for cops in prison'||MADURAI: No special privilege has been given to the police personnel arrested in connection with the Sathankulam father-son custodial deaths case at Madurai central jail, prison sources have said. Police inspector Sridhar, sub-inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh, and head constables Murugan and Muthuraj, all suspended from service, were shifted to Madurai central prison from Perurani sub-jail in Tuticorin on Saturday for security concerns. They reached the central prison around 8.15 pm and were taken inside through the secondary gate to avoid media attention. Prison sources said the policemen have been kept together in a cell in a separate block. Though there may not be any threat for them inside the prison, extra vigilance has been ensured at the block. Tuticorin district principal judge conducted a routine inspection inside the jail before the shifting to Madurai was initiated. Meanwhile, revenue minister RB Udayakumar told newsmen said that the chief minister had taken necessary steps like announcing transfer of the case to CBI to ensure justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-special-privilege-for-cops-in-prison/articleshow/76803984.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Pune||45-year-old man found hanging in his house||Pune: A 45-year-old man was found hanging from the ceiling of his rented house in Sahakarnagar on Sunday morning. The police believe this to be a case of suicide. “The man may have hanged himself three or four days ago,” a police officer said. The man — originally from Chakan — worked as a driver, and would drive private vehicles for a living. “He has been unemployed since the lockdown was imposed late in March,” sub-inspector Shivaji Bunage of the Sahakarnagar police said. Police said the incident came to light after people living in the neighbourhood complained of a foul stench emanating from the man’s house, which was locked from inside, and called the Sahakarnagar police. A team of police personnel broke into the house and found the man hanging by a rope from a hook on the ceiling. “We searched the room, but did not find any suicide note. However, the circumstances point towards suicide and we are trying to ascertain the reason. We called his family members, who told us that he was unmarried and lived alone,” Bunage said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/45-year-old-man-found-hanging-in-his-house/articleshow/76803996.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP set to achieve target of 30,000 Covid tests per day||LUCKNOW: The state government on Sunday looked poised to achieving its new target of conducting around 30,000 Covid tests in a day as it recorded 29,117 tests in last 24 hours. The number is significantly higher than the average of 27,569 tests being conducted in last three days. The surge in Covid tests gains significance in the backdrop of active cases breaching 8,000-mark even as the state recorded 1,155 fresh cases and 12 deaths in last 24 hours. Additional chief secretary, home & information, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the maximum of over 3,500 tests were conducted by the King George’s Medical University (KGMU). Institutes like Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) and Banaras Hindu University (BHU) have also conducted 2,148 and over 1,000 tests, respectively. “Truenat tests alone account for 1,468 tests and the government is trying to expedite real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (rRT-PCR) tests for better results,” he said. “The state government will soon cross 30,000 tests per day, the target set by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath,” Awasthi said. According to officials, as many as 18,761 patients have been cured and discharged from hospital. Speaking on employment generation, Awasthi said over Rs 2,700 crore were being raised as wages under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) of which around Rs 2,300 crore had already been distributed. “The amount has been raised after the scheme was given preference in engaging labourers, essentially migrants who have returned to UP from other states during lockdown,” he said. “The scheme turned out to be the biggest job spinner for migrants and the government has engaged over 60 lakh people. This is apart from over Rs 300 crore being distributed as wages by industries in the state,” he added. Awasthi said as part of a statewide drive, the government lodged FIRs against 84,515 people for violating Covid-prevention norms. “At least 2,17,000 people have been named in the FIRs. Around 84 lakh vehicles have been checked and 8,000 seized for violation of norms,” he added. Awasthi said during the plantation drive on Sunday, the CM emphasised on plantation of medicinal plants which can be used for health purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-set-to-achieve-target-of-30k-covid-tests-per-day/articleshow/76804333.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Kochi||In a first, Bullet Wood saplings planted in state||By: Sandeep Thoma THRISSUR: For the first time in Kerala, forest department has planted Andaman Bullet Wood (Manilkara Littoralis) tree saplings in Blangad seaside at Chavakkad in Thrissur district to create a biological shield for preventing coastal erosion. Andaman Bullet Wood tree is endemic to Andaman Islands and can grow up to 80m high. The hard and saline-resistant wood will not decay for many decades. Its fruits are edible, attracting mainly sea turtles and bats, said officials. “Guruvayoor MLA K V Abdul Khader inaugurated the tree-planting drive on Friday. On a trial basis, a total of 100 saplings were planted in the seaside from Mahatma Nagar to Panchavadi, and in the second phase, 100 more will be planted,” said Thrissur social forestry assistant forest conservator P M Prabhu. “The bullet trees along the Andaman coast have been protecting it from sea turbulence and tsunamis for past several years,” said the official. Dr Joseph John, a scientist with National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources’s Mannuthi centre said, “Our study found that if it grows in our seaside, the coastal areas will be protected from tsunamis and other sea turbulence.” “Andaman bullet woods are not an exotic tree species and there is no issue to plant the tree in our coastal areas,” the scientist said. “Sea ingress has been increasing in our coastal areas for last couple of years. If we grow the Andaman bullet wood trees in our seaside, we can protect our coast from sea turbulence, including tsunami, in the future,” John said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/in-a-first-bullet-wood-saplings-planted-in-state/articleshow/76803494.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Madurai||Hosp begins Covid homecare packages||MADURAI: After the Madurai district administration recently permitted home care and quarantining for Covid-19 patients who are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic with conditions, a private hospital here has launched homecare packages for such patients. “Our affordable homecare packages are not only easy on the pocket, but will also help prevent over-crowding at hospitals, freeing up bed capacity for more serious patients,” said Dr S Gurushankar, chairman, Meenakshi Mission Hospital, Madurai. The 14-day packages start from Rs 15,000 and are available for patients of Madurai. The service includes consultation with a physician once every two days, daily monitoring by trained nurse, dietary and psychological advice, weekly motivational activity programme, 24x7 corona helpline, remote patient monitoring system, digital thermometer, masks and gloves, sanitizer and waste disposal bags. While basic home care package provides digital pulse oxymeter and BP machine, the ultra package offers Bluetooth-enabled devices that allow real-time monitoring of the patient by hospital staff through a phone app. Patients can contact 77083 53777 for more information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hosp-begins-covid-homecare-packages/articleshow/76803989.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Madurai||13 die, 837 test positive in south TN, 192 in central districts||MADURAI/ TRICHY: The ten southern districts of the state recorded 837 Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths on Sunday. With this, the regional tally has climbed to 11,790 cases and 128 deaths. Once again, Madurai reported the most number of cases and deaths. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded 192 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Sunday taking the toll in the region to 3,444. The deaths were reported in Karur and Pudukottai. Madurai reported 308 Covid-19 cases and five deaths taking the tally to 4,085 cases, including 2,975 active cases and 62 deaths. All the five deaths were recorded at private hospitals. Out of the five cases, three patients, all with co-morbid conditions, died on July 4. The remaining two were that of a 54-year-old man with diabetes and bronchial asthma who died on July 3 and a 66-year-old man with diabetes and hypertension who died on July 5. The 308 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday comprised of 168 influenza-like illness cases, 82 contacts of Covid-19 patients, 22 frontline workers, 15 others set to undergo surgeries, 14 pregnant women, one with travel history to other districts and one imported case. Sivaganga district, which has the second least number of Covid-19 cases in the southern region, is seeing a gradual increase in cases. On Sunday, it reported a record high single-day spike of 88 cases, taking the district total to 512 cases, including 327 active cases. It also reported three Covid-19 deaths on Sunday taking the total deaths in the district to seven. The three deaths included a 65-year-old man with hypertension and a 49-year-old man with diabetes and hypertension both of whom died on July 4 at Sivagangai Medical College Hospital. The third case was that of a 63-year-old man with hypertension who died on July 3 also at Sivagangai MCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/13-die-837-test-ve-in-south-tn-192-in-central-districts/articleshow/76803991.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Faridabad||In Faridabad active case data, 713 patients go missing||GURUGRAM: A mismatch between the total number of active Covid cases Faridabad has reported over the past 10 days and the data released by the health department on Sunday has come to the fore. Between June 26 and July 5, Faridabad has reported 1,537 active cases. The number can be derived by adding the daily Covid cases that the health department has reported during this period. However, on Sunday, the health bulletin released by Faridabad said the district had only 824 cases, which means 713 patients who had tested positive in the past 10 days have been discharged. The number released on Sunday raises eyebrows as ICMR guidelines do not allow Faridabad to discharge Covid patients before 10 days. Also, the health department is not allowed to conduct a second test on a positive patient before the 10-day window, which means he/she can test negative only after that. So, how did Faridabad’s active Covid count come down by 713 in 10 days? Officials claimed there was a backlog, pointing out that a number of these patients were yet to be removed from the tally even after they had recovered. “The question of mismatch is incorrect. We are removing those patients from the list who have not had fever for the past three days. This is being done in keeping with the latest ICMR protocol,” said Faridabad deputy commissioner Yashpal Yadav. But the latest ICMR guidelines were issued only on Friday. In the next two days that followed, Faridabad listed 435 recoveries, which still don’t add to the tally of 713 missing patients. “By the time we collect a person’s samples, he/she has already had symptoms for 4-5 days. There is a buffer here. So, the day of recovery should be counted from the day a person has developed symptoms, not when he has been added to the tally,” Yadav added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/in-faridabad-active-case-data-713-patients-go-missing/articleshow/76804394.cms||Ipsita Pati
July 6, 2020||Goa||Agri dept to try growing Khola chillies on flat land||Panaji: Khola chillies are about to get a much-needed shot in the arm. The directorate of agriculture is set to conduct trials to cultivate this superfood, that grows well only in hilly areas, on non-traditional flat terrains. Known for its brilliant red colour and medium-pungent taste, this chilli variant is mainly grown by farmer groups in South Goa’s Khola village. Only few individual families in Quepem and other parts of Canacona cultivate the crop on hilly terrains. The locally-grown red spice acquired Geographical Indication (GI) status in January this year, thus making it unique to Goa. The Khola Chili Cultivators Group responsible for growing these chillies were awarded the Plant Genome Saviour Community Award. “Now that the Khola chillies have a GI tag, there is a good market for them. We are going to conduct trials in non-traditional areas like flat lands,” director of agriculture Nevil Alphonso said. The department also intends to further promote the chilli variety through value addition. Apart from selling them in the powdered form, they plan to package and sell the Khola chillies whole. “This is a unique type of chilli which has a high pungency level. and having a GI tag makes it is advantageous for global marketing,” Alphonso said. Anuradha Naik, a former research associate at the ICAR-Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute, Old Goa, who has worked as a Khola chilli promoter, however, said that growing the chilli on non-hilly terrain may alter its inherent characteristics. “The chilli has been given a GI tag taking geographic factors of its growth into account. It’s grown only in the monsoon season by Canacona farmers. Yes, it can be produced in other areas as well, but the typical flavour and taste of the variant is due to factors such as where they are grown, geographical location, their cultivation on hilly terrain and the edaphic factors of the Khola village,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/agri-dept-to-try-growing-khola-chillies-on-flat-land/articleshow/76804361.cms||Nida Sayed
July 6, 2020||Kochi||Elderly couple donates homes for poor in Kerala||THRISSUR: An elderly man from Thangaloor in Avanoor panchayat in the district is not letting his lower middle class background come in the way of making a difference in the lives of poor families. Koratty Varghese, 80, and his wife Philomena are building houses in their own land to donate them to five poor families. Varghese, a former driver in the armed forces, and his wife, a retired school teacher, are not relying on donations. The entire cost is being met from their savings. The houses are nearly complete and the couple plans to hand them over to the beneficiaries on August 15. Varghese and Philomena have set aside their savings and 25-cent plot for the purpose“I have experienced the harsh realities of abject poverty in my childhood; I couldn’t even complete my school studies. My parents had six children, two of them died when they were less than three years. I was the only surviving son, with three sisters. So I began working from an early age. I joined the Army when I was 22, and took retirement after 15 years of service,” Varghese said. He was with the Army Supply Corps and had participated in operations during Indo-Pakistan war in 1965, and in Bangladesh war in 1971. After retirement, he worked on the land he inherited. His wife, Philomena, a craft teacher at St Thomas School, Tirur, also supported him in his endeavours. The couple have four children, and reasonably well settled now. Varghese started a timber unit and was into other trading activities too. “I have been nurturing a dream of doing something for the poorest of poor. The harrowing memories of my childhood propelled me to wipe the tears of those in a similar predicament. I thought providing shelter to those without a dwelling is a blissful act,” Varghese said. The couple purchased 25 cents in 1981. The houses are built on this prime plot located close to the road. Each house is built on three cents with a floor area of 600sq ft. As per rough estimates, each house will cost about Rs 7 lakh. He used wood from his timber shop for the construction, and that is not added to the total investment. He joined workers in the construction activities, and ensured that quality was maintained at all stages. Varghese did not make public announcements of his plan to provide houses to the poor. However, about 50 people approached him when they heard of it through informal channels. “I have identified five people, but I have not made any promises to them so far. I’m keeping the names secret,” he said. Varghese is now cherishing a dream to build an old-age home in the remaining 10 cents. “I don’t know whether I will be able to fulfil that dream. I am also facing resource constraints now,” he said. Read this story in BengaliWatch Kerala: Elderly couple donates homes for poor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/elderly-couple-donates-homes-for-poor/articleshow/76803519.cms||T Ramavarman
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Goldsmith kills self fearing Covid-19||HYDERABAD: A goldsmith, a native of Bengal who was residing in South Zone, jumped into Hussainsagar on Friday, fearing that he was suffering from Covid-19. His dead body was traced on Sunday. Ramgopalpet police said that the 34-year-old was suffering from cold and fever sincethe last one week. Initially, he visited a local doctor in Attapur, who after treating him for some days, referred him to a corporate hospital, suspecting it to be a case of Covid-19. He visited a private hospital in Malakpet. But the private hospital did not give him admission due to lack of beds and referred him to Gandhi Hospital. But the goldsmith did not go to Gandhi Hospital. On Friday he requested his friend to accompany him to Hussainsagar. He told his friend that he was suffering from a breathing problem and might feel better by breathing the air near Hussainsagar,” Ramgopalpet Inspector T Chanchala Babu told TOI. According to police, the two took an autorickshaw and reached Hussainsagar. The Covid-19 suspect asked his friend to be seated in the auto, saying he will return shortly after spending some time near the walking track. While the friend was watching him, the goldsmith suddenly jumped into Hussainsagar. By the time the friend alerted the police for help, the goldsmith had drowned. Though rescue operations had been taken up by the police since Friday, they could not trace him. It was on Sunday that his body started to float on the water body. In fact, he was yet to be tested to ascertain whether he had Covid-19 or not. Since he was suspected to have Covid-19, his body was shifted to designated burial ground for those who either died due to Covid-19 or were suspected to have died with Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/goldsmith-kills-self-fearing-covid-19/articleshow/76804359.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: From Dutch to German, many pick up new new languages during lockdown||PUNE: Anuj Srivastava is planning to apply to colleges in Germany in October or the following semester, based on the post-Covid situation. The three-month lockdown has given him a chance to focus on learning German with the help of applications and YouTube tutorials. “I have to learn German to study in Germany. I wanted to join classes at Max Mueller Bhavan, but I wasn’t able to because of the lockdown. So, I started using an application to help me learn the language and give me a head start. I will join the classes once they resume, so that I get a certificate that will help my application,” he said. Many others have also learnt a new language to help them forge ahead with their education and careers. Shireen Minhaz decided to learn Dutch to prepare herself, before she joins her husband in Amsterdam next year. “I have never lived alone and away from home. I was going to get my visa to join my husband in Amsterdam, but the pandemic hindered our plans. So, it has been postponed to next year when things might get back to normal. My husband suggested I learn Dutch as it would be easier for me to get around the place, while he’ll be at work. It is good for me to be able to communicate with the locals, even if I can’t catch the accent or the colloquialism, it’s a start. I have signed up for online classes and it is working out well for me, so far,” she said. Anusha Bose is excited about training to become a pastry chef in France after she completes her graduation in hospitality management this year. She too has invested her time in learning French. “I had visited France with my parents for a vacation and I liked the accent so much that I have been practising it ever since. After I complete my graduation this year, I will start applying for hands-on courses for pastry chefs in France. It’s good to learn the language because you also learn a lot about the culture and food through it”, she said. She said she wanted to be able to converse with people easily and connect with their cuisine. “I’ve just learnt basic French from self-learning books and apps, I don’t plan on taking a professional course yet, but once institutes reopen, I will reconsider my decision if my course requires formal certification,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/from-dutch-to-german-many-pick-up-new-new-languages-during-lockdown/articleshow/76804004.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Jodhpur||IAF copter with pesticide sprayer conducts maiden anti-locust sortie||JAISALMER: IAF’s Mi-17 helicopter fitted with indigenous spraying system conducted its first trial of destroying locusts in many areas of Phalodi adjoining Ramdeora on Sunday. The objective of this trial was to check the operational flaws in the spraying system which could be corrected later. On the other hand, the private chopper continued to spray pesticides to eliminate locusts in St Shabana area adjoining Pakistan border for the second day on Sunday. Locust control officer Rajesh Kumar and deputy director (agriculture) Radheyshyam Narwal said the private chopper sprayed pesticides at 140 RD area in Dhanana. In all, pesticides were sprayed on the pests in over 352 hectares on Sunday including Pokhran, Delasar and Bheekampur area. On Saturday, locusts were contained in an area measuring over 908 hectares in Multana, Fatehgarh, Ola and Bandha with the help of a helicopter, drone and vehicle-mounted sprayers. K L Gurjar, deputy director, locust control department, said that looking at the delay in arrival of sprayer machines from London, the IAf helicopter was fitted with indigenous sprayer machine. “Its first trial was conducted on Sunday. Some flaws were found. After correcting them, the helicopter will be used for locust control again.” he added. Around 60 teams have been deployed in the entire country and 45 more teams will be deployed in the coming days. So far, locusts have been controlled in around 2.50 lakh hectares in the entire country. Rajasthan has received 15 drones which are being used to control locusts. The remaining drones will arrive soon. Five sprayer helicopter machines have been ordered from London which are expected to arrive in September. Union MoS agriculture Kailash Choudhary held a review meeting of his ministry on Saturday which was attended by PM Narendra Modi. He said that locust attack is not less than any disaster. He sought to increase budget to deal with the menace and fixing responsibility of state governments for the same. It must be mentioned that using all indigenous components, atomized airborne spraying of pesticide has been successfully achieved through configuration of nozzles mounted both sides on external trusses of an Mi-17 helicopter. The nozzles used for the purpose are a mix of commercially available nozzles as well as those developed by CSIO, Chandigarh. Pesticide Malathion in appropriate concentration would be filled in the internal auxiliary tank with 800 litre capacity fitted inside the helicopter and will be pumped into the nozzles by using an electrical pump as well as compressed air, achieving nearly 40 minutes of spaying duration in the infected zone covering an area of approximately 750 hectares in each mission. A team of test pilots and engineers of Aircraft and Systems Testing Establishment, Bangalore, has successfully carried out ground and airborne trials of Airborne Locust Control System (ALCS) on a modified MI-17 helicopter. The system is being offered for use with Malathion for employment in the locust control operation. Being an indigenously developed system, the ALCS would offer inherent advantages of in-house maintenance, future upgradeability, saving on foreign exchange and help in making the country self-reliant in aviation-related technology. Watch Rajasthan: Modified IAF choppers spray pesticide on locust swarm in Jodhpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/iaf-copter-with-pesticide-sprayer-conducts-maiden-anti-locust-sortie/articleshow/76807551.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: In Rayalaseema, Covid death march continues||TIRUPATI: The Covid-19 death toll in Rayalaseema region has been rising steadily since the lockdown was relaxed. Twelve of the 14 deaths reported in the state in the last 24 hours are from the four Rayalaseema districts. In Kurnool district, the death toll rose to 81 after five more patients succumbed to the novel coronavirus. With 91 new Covid-19 cases, the overall case load in the district stands at 2,451 of which 1,153 patients are still undergoing treatment at various Covid-19 hospitals. Boosting the morale of the people, Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian appreciated the efforts of all government staff, doctors and paramedic staff for their concerted effort to keep the virus at bay and helping the district complete over one lakh tests on Sunday. The Covid-19 death toll in Anantapur district rose to 12 on Sunday after three more patients succumbed to the virus. With 82 fresh cases, the overall Covid-19 cases in the district reached 2,186. District collector Gandham Chandrudu said all efforts are being made to increase the number of tests and speed up test results in a bid to contain the further outbreak of the virus in the district. Meanwhile, two deaths each were reported in Chittoor and Kadapa districts in the last 24 hours. While the overall number of cases in Chittoor district is now 1,324, 52 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Kadapa district, where the total number of cases rose to 1,245. Chittoor district collector Narayana Bharat Gupta and Tirupati municipal commissioner PS Girisha are closely monitoring the situation and have initiated measures to speed up testing procedures and laid down protocols for treatment at Covid-19 hospitals in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-rseema-covid-19-out-with-death-warrant/articleshow/76803507.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 6, 2020||Jaipur||IAF copter with pesticide sprayer conducts maiden anti-locust sortie||JAISALMER: IAF’s Mi-17 helicopter fitted with indigenous spraying system conducted its first trial of destroying locusts in many areas of Phalodi adjoining Ramdeora on Sunday. The objective of this trial was to check the operational flaws in the spraying system which could be corrected later. On the other hand, the private chopper continued to spray pesticides to eliminate locusts in St Shabana area adjoining Pakistan border for the second day on Sunday. Locust control officer Rajesh Kumar and deputy director (agriculture) Radheyshyam Narwal said the private chopper sprayed pesticides at 140 RD area in Dhanana. In all, pesticides were sprayed on the pests in over 352 hectares on Sunday including Pokhran, Delasar and Bheekampur area. On Saturday, locusts were contained in an area measuring over 908 hectares in Multana, Fatehgarh, Ola and Bandha with the help of a helicopter, drone and vehicle-mounted sprayers. K L Gurjar, deputy director, locust control department, said that looking at the delay in arrival of sprayer machines from London, the IAf helicopter was fitted with indigenous sprayer machine. “Its first trial was conducted on Sunday. Some flaws were found. After correcting them, the helicopter will be used for locust control again.” he added. Around 60 teams have been deployed in the entire country and 45 more teams will be deployed in the coming days. So far, locusts have been controlled in around 2.50 lakh hectares in the entire country. Rajasthan has received 15 drones which are being used to control locusts. The remaining drones will arrive soon. Five sprayer helicopter machines have been ordered from London which are expected to arrive in September. Union MoS agriculture Kailash Choudhary held a review meeting of his ministry on Saturday which was attended by PM Narendra Modi. He said that locust attack is not less than any disaster. He sought to increase budget to deal with the menace and fixing responsibility of state governments for the same. It must be mentioned that using all indigenous components, atomized airborne spraying of pesticide has been successfully achieved through configuration of nozzles mounted both sides on external trusses of an Mi-17 helicopter. The nozzles used for the purpose are a mix of commercially available nozzles as well as those developed by CSIO, Chandigarh. Pesticide Malathion in appropriate concentration would be filled in the internal auxiliary tank with 800 litre capacity fitted inside the helicopter and will be pumped into the nozzles by using an electrical pump as well as compressed air, achieving nearly 40 minutes of spaying duration in the infected zone covering an area of approximately 750 hectares in each mission. A team of test pilots and engineers of Aircraft and Systems Testing Establishment, Bangalore, has successfully carried out ground and airborne trials of Airborne Locust Control System (ALCS) on a modified MI-17 helicopter. The system is being offered for use with Malathion for employment in the locust control operation. Being an indigenously developed system, the ALCS would offer inherent advantages of in-house maintenance, future upgradeability, saving on foreign exchange and help in making the country self-reliant in aviation-related technology. Watch Rajasthan: Modified IAF choppers spray pesticide on locust swarm in Jodhpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/iaf-copter-with-pesticide-sprayer-conducts-maiden-anti-locust-sortie/articleshow/76804518.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Jodhpur||‘Rajasthan is allotting land to people displaced by Pong Dam work’||JAISALMER: Rajasthan revenue minister Harish Choudhary said that the problems faced by people displaced due to Pong Dam construction in Himachal Pradesh are being resolved on priority and land is being allotted to them. He said that Centre is the culprit for increase in petrol and diesel prices in the country. The Central government instead of giving subsidy in fuel is putting burden on the general public and is increasing its funds. The situation of farmers at the time of sowing is very pathetic as they have to buy diesel at high prices. He said that people sacrificed their land for the construction of Pong Dam in Himachal Pradesh which is really exemplary. The Rajasthan government is committed to give land to these people in the command area. Whatever problem has been brought to his cognizance has been resolved on priority. He further said that when Congress government was at the Centre, the price of crude was 130 dollars per barrel and at that time too the government gave subsidy and provided relief to people. At present, the price of crude is 40-42 dollars per barrel despite that Centre has collected crores of rupees. He said that subsidy should be given to general public and farmers. “At the time of sowing, the farmers are forced to buy diesel at high prices to operate tractor and their out-of-pocket expenses are increasing. Government should reduce the fuel price,” he said. With regard to allegations levelled by Union MoS agriculture on locust problems, Choudhary said that it is not fair to level allegations and counter allegations at the time of crisis. The state government is fulfilling its responsibilities. At present, locusts in Jaisalmer are being controlled by 40 sprayer-mounted tractors and 10 more tractors are to be delivered soon. Discussing public participation model used in controlling locusts in Barmer and Jaisalmer last year, he said, “the model was discussed in the entire country as how locusts were controlled with public participation. This year due to corona pandemic, public participation has not taken place so far and locusts have reached up to Delhi. In the coming days, locusts will be controlled with public participation”. Referring to Priyanka Gandhi being asked to vacate her bungalow in Delhi and Congress government not asking Vasundhara Raje to vacate her bungalow, he said, “Congress does not play discriminatory and negative politics. When the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government was at the Centre or the Rajiv Gandhi government ruled, nobody kept any negativity against each other but the present government is knowingly getting the bungalow of Priyanka vacated”. In regard to the dispute with China, he said that PM is giving statements that China had not entered into India and had not seized any Indian post. This statement has caused heavy damage in the entire world at the diplomatic level and it is irreparable. The entire country along with Congress is standing with the Army. Army is giving befitting reply to China in Ladakh area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-is-allotting-land-to-people-displaced-by-pong-dam-work/articleshow/76808600.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Goa||Seasonal rainfall in state crosses 1,000mm mark||Panaji: Almost all stations in Goa have crossed the seasonal rainfall mark of 1,000 mm. “We have observed that systems over the Arabian Sea side usually result in good rainfall over coastal stations of Goa and systems over the Bay of Bengal usually result in good rain over the ghat regions,” India meteorological department (IMD) scientist, Rahul M, said. Last year, the seasonal rainfall crossed 1,000 mm in the second week of July. This year, all stations recorded 1,000mm by July 3. “This time, till now, systems over the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal have been almost equal in number and hence distribution of rainfall has been generally uniform over coastal and interior rain gauge stations,” he said. The state witnessed the onset of monsoon this year on June 6. The seasonal total is counted from June 1 onwards, and not from the start of the monsoon onset. The first station to touch 1,000mm mark was Pernem, on June 18. The Pernem taluka received the highest amount of seasonal rainfall of 1,688.6mm. At this station, over 100mm was recorded in 24 hours alone on July 5, till 8.30am. The IMD has forecast light to moderate rain at most places over the state from July 6 to 8. Fishermen and port warnings have therefore been issued for the Maharashtra-Goa coast on Sunday. IMD has warned of squally weather with likely wind speed of 40-50kmph over North Maharashtra coast. Fishermen are therefore advised not to venture into, along and off the coast during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seasonal-rainfall-in-state-crosses-1000mm-mark/articleshow/76804363.cms||Nida Sayed
July 6, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Highest single-day spike of 1,155 cases takes tally to 28,061||LUCKNOW: Scaling a new high, novel coronavirus affected 1,155 persons in UP in the past 24 hours. With this, the total number of Covid cases in the state reached 28,061. Of the 75 districts in the state, 26 recorded cases in double digits. Six districts in the Meerut division, including Ghaziabad (182), Gautam Budh Nagar (118), Bulandshahr (37), Meerut (32), Baghpat (25) and Hapur (25), accounted for over one-third (419) of the total cases. Districts that reported more than 25 cases, included Prayagraj (53), Kanpur Nagar (48), Mathura (43), Varanasi (38), Kasganj (34), Jaunpur (33) and Mirzapur (26). The state also recorded 12 deaths, taking the overall death toll to 785. According to the state health bulletin, three deaths were reported in Kanpur Nagar, while two each were reported in Mathura and Etawah. Lucknow, Saharanpur, Firozabad, Pratapgarh and Jhansi recorded one death each. Health officials stated that 607 recoveries took place in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of people recovered so far to 18,761. Addressing reporters, additional chief secretary, home and information, Awanish Awasthi said: “The total number of active infections in the state is 8,161 of which nearly 2,000 are in the NCR districts.” Attributing the surge in cases to increasing number of tests in state, he said: “The average number of tests done these days is 27,569. In the past 24 hours, 29,567 tests were undertaken. We are sure that they will be able to achieve the 30K target set by CM very soon.” He stated that 11 labs in the state were taking over 1,000 tests each day with King George’s Medical University and Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Science performing 3,579 and 2,148 tests respectively. Besides, as many as 2,703 antigen tests and 1468 TruNat tests were also done in the past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/highest-single-day-spike-of-1155-cases-takes-tally-to-28061/articleshow/76804358.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 6, 2020||Jaipur||‘Rajasthan is allotting land to people displaced by Pong Dam work’||JAISALMER: Rajasthan revenue minister Harish Choudhary said that the problems faced by people displaced due to Pong Dam construction in Himachal Pradesh are being resolved on priority and land is being allotted to them. He said that Centre is the culprit for increase in petrol and diesel prices in the country. The Central government instead of giving subsidy in fuel is putting burden on the general public and is increasing its funds. The situation of farmers at the time of sowing is very pathetic as they have to buy diesel at high prices. He said that people sacrificed their land for the construction of Pong Dam in Himachal Pradesh which is really exemplary. The Rajasthan government is committed to give land to these people in the command area. Whatever problem has been brought to his cognizance has been resolved on priority. He further said that when Congress government was at the Centre, the price of crude was 130 dollars per barrel and at that time too the government gave subsidy and provided relief to people. At present, the price of crude is 40-42 dollars per barrel despite that Centre has collected crores of rupees. He said that subsidy should be given to general public and farmers. “At the time of sowing, the farmers are forced to buy diesel at high prices to operate tractor and their out-of-pocket expenses are increasing. Government should reduce the fuel price,” he said. With regard to allegations levelled by Union MoS agriculture on locust problems, Choudhary said that it is not fair to level allegations and counter allegations at the time of crisis. The state government is fulfilling its responsibilities. At present, locusts in Jaisalmer are being controlled by 40 sprayer-mounted tractors and 10 more tractors are to be delivered soon. Discussing public participation model used in controlling locusts in Barmer and Jaisalmer last year, he said, “the model was discussed in the entire country as how locusts were controlled with public participation. This year due to corona pandemic, public participation has not taken place so far and locusts have reached up to Delhi. In the coming days, locusts will be controlled with public participation”. Referring to Priyanka Gandhi being asked to vacate her bungalow in Delhi and Congress government not asking Vasundhara Raje to vacate her bungalow, he said, “Congress does not play discriminatory and negative politics. When the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government was at the Centre or the Rajiv Gandhi government ruled, nobody kept any negativity against each other but the present government is knowingly getting the bungalow of Priyanka vacated”. In regard to the dispute with China, he said that PM is giving statements that China had not entered into India and had not seized any Indian post. This statement has caused heavy damage in the entire world at the diplomatic level and it is irreparable. The entire country along with Congress is standing with the Army. Army is giving befitting reply to China in Ladakh area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-is-allotting-land-to-people-displaced-by-pong-dam-work/articleshow/76804517.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Jaipur||IIT-Jodhpur develops process to convert bio-oil into transport fuel||JODHPUR: IIT-Jodhpur has developed a catalytic process for converting bio-oil from organic waste into transport fuel thereby paving the way for bio-refineries. Using Rajasthani clay once again, Rakesh Kumar Sharma from the chemistry department has devised a novel catalyst concept bringing reduction in the requirement of high temperature and energy for bio-fuel production from bio waste. “Earlier, the process of converting organic waste into fuel was not economically viable due to the high temperature and energy requirements in the process. But with the help of refined Rajasthani clay, we have developed a system which has brought down the temperature and energy requirement in the process,” said Sharma. Sharma and postdoctoral researcher Krishnapriya leveraged the cramped nano galleries in the silica alumina sheet (refined form of clay) acting as nano-reactors for catalytic reaction and converted bio-mass into transport fuel under mild conditions. “While searching for suitable catalysts that accelerate the reaction, clay caught our eyes, which we have refined and modified to generate highly crystalline clay minerals with nano galleries. The reactions take place in these galleries under controlled conditions comparable to those in enzyme pockets,” said Sharma. Referring to Rajasthani clay, Sharma said that these confined quarters increase the reactivity amazingly when compared with normal clays or other silica or alumina based catalysts. “The reaction in this process was extremely fast and took place just around 250 degree temperature, far below the conventional process, to give petroleum grade fuel,” he added. Sharma has developed many Rajasthani clay-based effective catalytic systems for difficult chemical processes under mild conditions like solid lubricants for industrial applications, catalytic converters for four-wheelers to reduce pollution and enhance life and water purification technology. Spokesperson of IIT Amardeep Sharma said that the process is under patent and the Department of Biotechnology of the government of India has supported this study under the National Bioenergy Mission. The findings of this research have also been published in two renowned journals, “Sustainable Energy & Fuels” from Royal Society of Chemistry and “Fuel” from Elsevier recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/iit-jodhpur-develops-process-to-convert-bio-oil-into-transport-fuel/articleshow/76804520.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Jaipur||Retired judicial officer found dead on railway tracks in Kota||KOTA: The mutilated body of a 65-year-old retired judicial officer was recovered from Delhi-Mumbai railway tracks near Mala Phatak under Bhimganjmandi police station of Kota city on Sunday while his locked car was found around 100 metres away. Prima facie, the police termed it a case of suicide and handed over the body to family members after post-mortem. No suicide note was recovered from the officer’s possession. The deceased was identified as Virendra Singh Pathak, a resident of Swarswati Colony, who retired as additional district judge, circle inspector of Bhimganjmandi police station Harshraj Singh said. The officer had left home for morning walk, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/retd-judicial-officer-found-dead-on-rly-tracks-in-kota/articleshow/76804521.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Activist seeks tenure extension of panel||NEW DELHI: A petition has been filed in National Green Tribunal (NGT) asking for Yamuna Monitoring Committee, which completed its tenure last month after submitting a final report on how Yamuna could be revived, to be reappointed to oversee the rejuvenation of the river for the next few years. NGT had formed the committee in July 2018 on a petition by activist Manoj Mishra. The tribunal will take up his fresh application filed through advocates Ritwick Dutta, Rahul Choudhary and Meera Gopal on Monday. The application stated that the committee had been extremely active in the last two years overseeing several orders and actions, while also carrying out field visits. It added that a number of tasks under the action plan were yet to be completed, while some had not even begun. Mishra stated in the application, “It is submitted that the applicant herein has been following the tremendous work and efforts of Yamuna Monitoring Committee since its constitution by this tribunal. Its constitution was a much-awaited step taken to ensure that the pending process of implementation of the judgment dated January 13, 2015 could begin with a right intent and approach.” “The committee has gone about its task in the most effective manner and, despite great hardships, managed to navigate successfully the institutional lethargy and business as usual approach of various agencies involved,” the application added. Stating that the committee’s work was more than evident from the various reports it had submitted to NGT, the activist mentioned, “It is alarming to see that this hon’ble tribunal has decided after just around one and a half years (since Oct 2018) to wind up the functioning of Yamuna Monitoring Committee.” “It is prayed that the committee be allowed to function for a few more years or some kind of a monitoring and overseeing mechanism answerable directly to this hon’ble tribunal may be kept in place,” the applicant added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/activist-seeks-tenure-extension-of-panel/articleshow/76804009.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpurians line up for vaccine trials||NAGPUR: Many enthusiastic and young Nagpurians have eagerly volunteered for the human trials of Covid-19, which are to be held at a private hospital in city. Dr Chandrashekhar Gillurkar, director of Gillurkar Multispecialty Hospital and Research Institute, told TOI since the news of his institute being one of the 12 trial sites in India was published, he has been inundated with calls from people willing to be a part of this trial. “Good to see that people are willing to be a part of this trial and volunteering to join the research. It’s completely safe and no patient will suffer from any serious consequences. We welcome healthy people from 18 to 55 years of age, but, they must fit in the national-level criteria,” said Dr Gillurkar. Registration for volunteers will start from Monday. “We have already got 25 volunteers but looking for a few more. For first phase, only 50 volunteers will be enrolled. Out of these, only those who pass physical tests will be included in the trials. All blood tests and vital parameter medical tests will be conducted in New Delhi,” Dr Gillurkar said. The inclusion and exclusion criteria for the phase I trials are very strict. People may clear the age and fitness tests, but clearing other vital health parameters is tough. In all, there are 8 inclusion criteria and 29 exclusion criteria by ICMR for this test. After enrollment of participants based on the basic tests, further tests will be conducted. Subjects will be informed if their results are positive for hepatitis C, HIV 1 and 2 antibody or hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), and will be referred to a primary care provider for follow up of these abnormal laboratory tests. Even those living in the same household as any Covid-19 positive person will be disqualified. For women, additional tests regarding pregnancy will be done. Obese or underweight people, those who use steroids, those having chronic heart disease, kidney or liver disease will also not qualify. Any other condition that, in the opinion of the investigator, would jeopardize the safety or rights of a volunteer participating in the trial or would render the subject unable to comply with the protocol, will also lead to disqualification. “We understand the enthusiasm of people who are willing to join this mission for the nation. But, as we have to expedite the trials, only those who fulfill these basic criteria should contact us,” said Dr Gillurkar. The hospital is at Plot No 20, Reshimbagh, Umred Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpurians-line-up-for-vaccine-trials/articleshow/76804018.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 6, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Mulayam Singh Yadav’s wife in hospital, corona test result awaited||LUCKNOW: Sadhna Gupta, the wife of Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, was admitted to Medanta Medicity hospital after complaining of difficulty in breathing on Sunday. “She was brought to the hospital at around noon. She complained of difficulty in breathing. Upon examination, it was found that her blood pressure was quite high. We have sent her sample for Covid-19 testing,” said director, Dr Rakesh Kapoor. Dr Kapoor said that she had come to hospital a week ago with a similar problem. “Her blood pressure was high at that time too. So she advised medication and sent home,” he said, adding that the Covid report was expected post-midnight. “If found positive,” said a member of the district surveillance team, “the tracing and testing drill of the patient’s contacts will be undertaken as per the protocol.” Health officials believe that there was a good chance of people living on Vikramaditya Marg contracting the pandemic infection as several cases have been found there. “The residence of the Yadavs is about 500 meters from the government bungalow of UP minister Moti Singh, who tested positive alongwith six relatives last week,” said a medical officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/msy-wife-rushed-to-hosp-covid-feared/articleshow/76804360.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Class VII boy commits suicide in Bundi||KOTA: Enraged over being scolded by parents, a 15-year-old boy hanged himself inside a room of a private school building near Old Grain Mandi under Bundi City police station on Sunday morning. The deceased, Vishal Khateek, a Class VII student, lived in the school building with his parents, who work there as caretakers. Prima facie, there is no reason behind the extreme step by the boy, said SI Laxmi Chand, adding that police handed over the body to family members after postmortem and lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC. According to sources, the parents on Sunday morning scolded the boy over some reason following which he moved upstairs in the school building and hanged himself to the ceiling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/class-vii-boy-dies-by-suicide/articleshow/76804525.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Goa||Archaeology dept to begin restoration of 3 monuments||Panaji: The department of archaeology intends to start restoration works at the Sakhali and Corjuem forts as well as the Jain Basti in Bandora. “The situation is different now in the time of the pandemic. We will be currently taking up these projects only,” said assistant superintendent of archaeology, Varad Sabnis. Last restored in 1990, the Sakhali fort is among the 42 structures declared as monuments of importance by the Goa government in 1983. The fort stands 60 metres away from the left bank of the Valvonti river. The centuries-old heritage structure has been plagued with an eyesore of kiosks dotting the fort wall’s exterior. Post restoration, there will be a museum, a senior citizens’ club and an activity area, besides other amenities inside the fort. The Corjuem fort is located on the banks of a tributary of the Mandovi river and was of strategic importance from a trade point of view. It was also used as a military training school for Portuguese soldiers and witnessed battles against the Sawants and Bhosales during the Portuguese rule in Goa. The present-day structure has vegetation growth on the fort wall from deciduous trees that have grown inside the structure. Cracks have also developed on the bastions. The department of archeology is looking at adaptive reuse of the fort after it is restored. The department will restore the well and use the water to keep the surroundings green. A laterite paved pathway will be laid down around the structure. All the scheduled deadlines for the restoration work were disturbed with the nationwide lockdown due to Covid. The department of archaeology has however managed to complete pre-monsoon works of those monuments that were likely to get damaged due to the rain. Works at the St Xavier’s chapel at Old Goa, the Jain basti at Bandora in Ponda and the Sakhali fort had begun in April after Goa obtained relaxations during the lockdown. The restoration of Sakhali fort was expected to start in the summer but had to be pushed due to the lockdown. Some portions of the fort are vulnerable and might get affected if left exposed during the rain, Sabnis said. Major portions that were under threat at the Jain Basti have also been covered. At the chapel of St Xavier’s, the wooden roof was leaking and was fixed with Mangalore tiles before the onset of monsoon. Similarly, fixing of the roof during the pandemic was prioritised at the Saptakoteshwar temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/archaeology-dept-to-begin-restoration-of-3-monuments/articleshow/76804375.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Bhopal||Chambal e-way will fulfil my father’s dream, says Scindia||Bhopal: Ahead of bypolls in the Gwalior-Chambal region, the proposed Rs8,250 crore, 404-kilometre-long Chambal Expressway will fulfil the long-cherished dream of Madhavrao Scindia that will also develop one of the most backward regions of the country, said BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia. Scindia said the expressway would establish industrial and commercial clusters in the region, which will offer huge employment potential. The Madhya Pradesh government has also sanctioned Rs781 crore for the ambitious project. “My father late Madhavrao Scindia had a dream that Gwalior-Chambal division would be developed as an industrial hub in the state. I am confident that after the completion of Chambal Expressway, his dream would be fulfilled,” said Scindia. BJP, which is eyeing all the 16 seats in the region in the the upcoming bypolls, has highlighted the project as a gamechanger for the tribal and poor living in far-flung areas of the region and has committed to complete the project in time Scindia, who was present at a review meeting called by Union road transport and highways minister, Nitin Gadkari, along with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, said the project will promote new industries in the entire region. “After the completion of the expressway, our farmers will be the biggest beneficiaries and will be able to sell their produce in big markets. It will also offer huge employment potential for youths and provide new opportunities to industries,” Scindia said. Scindia, who had been demanding to expedite the Chambal Expressway project since its launch by Chouhan in 2017, said Gadkari has shown confidence for the timely completion of the project. “Earlier, I took initiative for the completion of the Dewas-Gwalior four-lane highway, which helped local traders, farmers and youths. I am confident that the same benefit will reach the people of Chambal region. The approval of Rs3,000 crore narrow-gauge line to broad-gauge line also helped in the development of the entire division,” Scindia added. Scindia also expressed gratitude towards chief minister Chouhan and said that he took prompt action to ensure that technical works be completed at the earliest. “The way he had taken up the project, it is for sure that the expressway would be completed in time”, he said. He said the expressway will run along the Bhind-Kota railway line. Union minister Gadkari has emphasised on expeditious environment clearances, land acquisition and royalty-local tax exemptions to make the project see the light of the day. The project covering MP, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan states will also provide cross-connectivity with the Golden Quadrilateral's Delhi-Kolkata corridor, North-South Corridor, East-West Corridor and Delhi-Mumbai-Expressway. The expressway will be 309-kilometre-long and connect the boundaries of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh via Sheopur, Morena and Bhind. The project is expected to be completed in about two years’ time after land acquisition is over. The states will share the Rs650 crore land acquisition cost. Gadkari has also suggested forming a Chambal Development Authority for better coordination and progress of the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chambal-e-way-will-fulfil-my-fathers-dream-says-scindia/articleshow/76803530.cms||Rajendra Sharma
July 6, 2020||Jaipur||Woman raped by in-laws in Jhalawar||KOTA: Unable to bear child, a 20-year-old woman in a village under Bhalta police station of Jhalawar was repeatedly raped by her brother-in-law and father-in-law. On the report by the rape survivor, police on Friday arrested both accused for gang-rape and her husband for involvement in conspiracy. They were produced before a local court that ordered to send them to judicial custody.  “Around a month ago, the woman had given a report to Jhalawar SP accusing her father-in-law (55) and brother-in-law (23) of gang rape and her husband of involvement in the conspiracy,” said Gopal Lal Meena, circle officer and DSP, women cell, Jhalawar, who is investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-raped-by-in-laws-in-jhalawar/articleshow/76804523.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Hospital refutes doctor’s charges, says she abused staff||HYDERABAD: After a government doctor from Fever Hospital alleged she was detained for two days by a private hospital for failing to pay part of her Rs 1.13 lakh Covid-19 medical bill, Dr Abdul Qayyom, director, Thumbey Hospital refuted all the claims of the patient. He said that the patient has psychological issues and had misbehaved with the staff. “She was using filthy language against doctors and nursing staff. Considering the fact that she is a patient and might be depressed, we gave extra incentive to our nursing staff to attend her. Some of her family members are admitted in our hospital. We tried to put up with her nuisance,” he said, addressing a press conference. “Yesterday, she had locked herself in the room and fearing she might take some extreme step being depressed, we intimated the police about the issue,” he added. Refuting charges of Dr Sultana that she was billed Rs 1.3 lakh for just one day, the official from the hospital further said that the fact that she came to the hospital on July 1 and was discharged on July 5 shows that she has not been billed for one day. “She may be having some ulterior motive. Anybody can be have psychological issues. We do not know what is the reason for this behaviour but we will take legal action against the patient,” he added. The police denied receiving any calls or complaint from Dr Sultana. “The Thumbay hospital staff complained to us saying that the woman patient who was also a doctor, was not paying her fees. We asked them to take up the matter with medical & health department authorities. She was admitted at 11.20 am on July 1 and discharged at 3 am on July 5. We have not registered any case,” Chaderghat inspector P Sateesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hospital-refutes-docs-charges-says-she-abused-staff/articleshow/76804372.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Lucknow||Don’s aide held in encounter, blows the lid off police moles||Kanpur: The pre-dawn encounter of an aide of the elusive gangster Vikas Dubey and his confessions to police during interrogation have blown the lid off moles in the police machinery, who tipped off the don about the midnight raid and even called Chaubeypur power station to enforce a blackout in the village, just 10 minutes before the police party walked into the ambush in pitch darkness. Dubey’s lieutenant Dayashankar Agnihotri was nabbed after a brief exchange of fire with police on the outskirts of Kanpur early Sunday. In a video, widely shared on social media, Agnihotri is heard admitting to STF personnel that Vikas received a call on his mobile from the local police station about the impending raid, allowing the gangster enough time to mobilise 60 men, position snipers on rooftops and launch a guerrilla-style strike on the police team. “At around 8 pm on Thursday, Dubey received a call from the Chaubeypur thana about his imminent arrest and movement of three police teams in next five hours,” said Agnihotri. He also said, after receiving the tipoff, the don ordered his gang to pull up their bootstraps and get ready for battle, while swearing “let the police come, they will go home in their coffins.” He, however, could not divulge information on who assisted the don in hammering out the ambush plan in his fortified palace, saying he was not present in the master control room of the house. To a query on how Dubey managed to kill so many of policemen, he said, “The gang members were trained and well-equipped with arms and ammunition and had taken up position at rooftops.” Agnihotri also told investigators that only villagers or panchayat members had access to Vikas’ fortified house in Bikru village. “He would meet outsiders at an orchard in the village outskirts,” he said. Inspector General (IG), Kanpur Range, Mohit Agarwal told reporters that the entire staff of Chaubeypur police station was on the radar. “The way Dubey and his aides were aware of minutest details of police movement points to moles in the force.” STF procured call detail report (CDR) of all cops deployed at Chaubeypur police station. A sub-inspector, a constable and a home guard from Chaubeypur police station are being investigated. “If guilty, they will be sacked and jailed,” the IG said. Police have also taken into custody the sub-divisional officer and another employee of the power sub-station from where power was snapped at the time of the police raid in Bikru village. A line operator at Shivli power station, Chhatrapal Singh confessed to police about enforcing the blackout on instructions of a caller from Chaubeypur police station, buttressing the conspiracy angle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dons-aide-held-in-encounter-blows-the-lid-off-police-moles/articleshow/76804366.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Asymptomatic and below 60-years likely to be treated at home||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 situation in Visakhapatnam is becoming graver with every passing day. The city in the first five days of the month has clocked in a total of 378 cases. On Sunday, with 776 active cases, 495 discharges and seven deaths, Visakhapatnam’s cumulative Covid-19 tally stood at 1,278. Since new cases are fast rising and it usually takes nearly two weeks for recovery, active cases are therefore fast surpassing the number of discharged patients. Health officials say, in the given scenario, asymptomatic patients below 60 years of age and without co-morbidities can be henceforth be treated at home if there is proper self-isolation facility at the patient’s house. Explaining home isolation for positive patients, Dr P V Sudhakar, special officer for Covid-19 (north coastal Andhra Pradesh said), “The asymptomatic cases sent to the Covid Care Centres will be offered the option of home isolation if the medical officer thinks it fit to do so after conducting a series of tests for functioning of kidneys, liver, chest and complete blood picture. Such patients should be less than 60 years and not be suffering from any co-morbidities. There should be an attached washroom at home and the patient should have complete isolation facility. The Home Isolation Monitoring Cell (HIMC) located at the tele-medicine room of Andhra Medical College (AMC) will be constantly checking on the health of the patient and if the persons develop any complications, immediately, Rapid Response Teams will bring the patients from their homes and get them admitted to Covid-19 hospitals.”  Dr Sudhakar added, “In the 20 Covid-19 hospitals, we have around 5,000 beds. Apart from this, the Covid Care Centres at Anits and Chaitanya hostel campuses, have around 3,000 beds with lab facilities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/asymptomatic-and-below-60-years-likely-to-be-treated-at-home/articleshow/76803533.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 6, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal wakes up to a wet Sunday; rain likely today||BHOPAL: Bhopalis woke up to a pleasant Sunday with spotty showers. The state is likely to see a bit more fair weather clouds this week. Officials of meteorological department, Bhopal circle, underlined possibility of widespread showers in the state from Monday and possibility of receiving heavy showers at few places as monsoon is likely to revive this week . Day temperature in Bhopal on Sunday was recorded at 28.3 degrees Celsius, four degrees less than the normal mark, while night temperature in city was recorded at 24.4 degrees Celsius, a degree more than the normal mark. The places that recorded showers between 8.30am and 5.30pm in the day were: Bhopal city with 7.0mm rain, Khandwa (62.0mm), Satna (42.0mm), Guna (32.0mm), Shajapur (22.0mm), Ujjain (17.0mm), Betul (22.0mm), Pachmarhi (18.0mm), Hoshangabad (7.0mm), Ratlam (3.0), Chhindwara (4.0mm), Naogaon (1.0mm), Rewa (5.0mm), Khajuraho (0.2mm), Indore (trace), Jabalpur (1.6mm), Umaria (4.0mm), Malanjkhand (trace), Narsinghpur (14.0mm) and Dhar recorded 12.0mm showers. In the forecast for Bhopal on Monday, the metrological officials said, there would be cloudy sky with possibility of rain and few spells may be heavy. Day and night temperature would be at 30 degrees and 23 degrees Celsius respectively, while average wind speed will be 18 kmph. In the forecast for state meteorological officials foresee possibility of heavy showers at few places in Ujjain, Bhopal and Sagar divisions and in Hoshangabad, Betul, Indore, Dhar, Khargone, Guna, Ashok Nagar, Sheopukalan, Chhindwara, Seoni, Narsinghpur, Jabalpur, Rewa and Satna districts. City’s day temperature on Saturday was recorded at 33 degrees Celsius, a degree more than the normal mark, while nights were pleasant at 23.8 degrees Celsius. Wind direction in city was south westerly and average wind speed was 16 kilometres per hour. On Saturday evening, Rewa recorded 27mm rain, Guna 9mm and Malanjkhand 0.8mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-wakes-up-to-a-wet-sunday-rain-likely-today/articleshow/76803547.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Jaipur||Married woman found hanging at home in Baran||KOTA: A 28-year-old woman hanged herself at her house in Kelwada town under Kishanganj police station area of Baran district on Saturday. On a report by deceased woman’s family members, police lodged a case of abetment of suicide against her husband and in-laws and initiated investigation. “Seema was found hanging from the ceiling of her house on Saturday,” said Kishanganj SHO Rajendra Meena.  No suicide note was recovered, he added. Seema’s family members alleged that her husband and in-laws were torturing and harassing her, he added. On the report by Seema’s brother Dinesh, police lodged a case of abetment of suicide under Section 306 of IPC against her husband and in-laws, the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/married-woman-found-hanging-at-home-in-baran/articleshow/76804526.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||E-rickshaws most robust & comfortable option for commuters, says VNIT study||NAGPUR: A study by the students of Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) concluded that the deployment of e-rickshaws is the most feasible option for commuting in the city. In their project titled ‘Impact of E-rickshaws on last mile connectivity’, three students, under guide, Prof VS Landge, claimed that this mode of transport provides an intensive, flexible, affordable, robust and comfortable option of last mile connectivity to commuters, particularly those around metro railway stations. According to Swagata Mishra, Sanghdeep Gedam and Brijesh Meshram, all students of MTech first year, apart from helping reduce pollution, E-rickshaws have the potential to capture the market. “They can compete in terms of comfort, availability, speed and price with the other modes of transport,” the trio said. The study was conducted in Subhash Nagar and Sitabuldi. These two places were selected due to the high population density in terms of residential, commercial and institutional land use. “An e-rickshaw or tuk-tuk or toto is comparatively a newer and unexplored mode of public transportation in developing countries. Some of the critical issues associated with e-rickshaws are estimation of travel demand, operational capacity and financial feasibility,” says the report. The students tracked the origin of the e-rickshaw whose development started in the global market sometime during the World War period, but faded away with time. e-rickshaws were later introduced in China by local and Japanese motor vehicle industries. From China, e-rickshaws spread to the other Asian countries. “In India, the development of e-rickshaws started in the late 1990s to improve manual rickshaws. They were developed with motor-assisted pedal rickshaw (MAPRA) by Nimbkar Agricultural Research Institute (NARI). ELECSHA (electric rickshaw) 2000 was also developed later on, but there were issues with battery performance and quality due to which it couldn’t survive,” the report said. According to the students, this electric mode of transport is gradually gaining momentum from the conventional fuel mode of transportation in Nagpur. “As per the figures of the Regional Transport Offices (RTO), the city has 2,440 registered e-rickshaws and e-carts. However, they haven’t gained much ground unlike the auto-rickshaws, probably due to low speed. Recently, Kinetic Green and MahaMetro signed a memorandum of understanding to provide a fleet of 20 three-wheeler electric rickshaws for last mile connectivity,” said the students. They said handling an auto-rickshaw along with its expenses is not as easy. “An auto-rickshaw owner has to pay about Rs15,000 as additional fees for the fitness test, insurance and pollution certificate among others every year whereas for battery-operated vehicles, there are no such fees. However, 80% e-rickshaw operators have a monthly income ranging from Rs15,000 to Rs30,000. The maintenance cost of the vehicle, including daily greasing and maintaining the other parts excluding battery and tyre replacement, vary between Rs500 and Rs2,000, depending on the operation and age of the vehicle,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/e-rickshaws-most-robust-comfortable-option-for-commuters-says-vnit-study/articleshow/76804025.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vadodara man posing as army jawan cheats many||AHMEDABAD: A man from Vadodara, who is yet to be apprehended, has been cheating people with the same modus operandi — posing as a jawan of the Indian Army on online portals and social media and offering used scooters for sale. His last victim, Jayesh Soni of Raipur, filed a complaint on Saturday with Khadia police alleging that one Rajendra Choradia of Vadodara had cheated him of Rs 25,000 while offering to sell him an used scooter. Police said Choradia had also cheated three others in Ahmedabad with very similar modus operandi. In his complaint, Soni said that he had contacted Choradia on June 6 after seeing a Facebook post where Choaradia offered to sell an used scooter for Rs 25,000. Choradia claimed he was an army jawan and also shared his photograph in army uniform and an image of a cantonment card in his name. Choradia first wanted an advance of Rs 10,000 and after negotiations Soni paid the money. Next day, Choradia told Soni that he had sent two persons from Vadodara to deliver the scooter in Ahmedabad city. When the two men reached Ahmedabad city, they called up Soni and sought the balance Rs 15,000 from him through an online payment application. Soni first hesitated to pay the money, but as the two insisted that he would have to first pay in full to get the scooter, he paid the amount. However, he did not get the scooter and Choradia along with the two men went incommunicado. A police official said that the so far they have recorded multiple cases in which Choradia, in total, cheated Rs. 1.20 lakh using the same modus operandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vadodara-man-posing-as-army-jawan-cheats-many/articleshow/76803548.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara man posing as army jawan cheats many||AHMEDABAD: A man from Vadodara, who is yet to be apprehended, has been cheating people with the same modus operandi — posing as a jawan of the Indian Army on online portals and social media and offering used scooters for sale. His last victim, Jayesh Soni of Raipur, filed a complaint on Saturday with Khadia police alleging that one Rajendra Choradia of Vadodara had cheated him of Rs 25,000 while offering to sell him an used scooter. Police said Choradia had also cheated three others in Ahmedabad with very similar modus operandi. In his complaint, Soni said that he had contacted Choradia on June 6 after seeing a Facebook post where Choaradia offered to sell an used scooter for Rs 25,000. Choradia claimed he was an army jawan and also shared his photograph in army uniform and an image of a cantonment card in his name. Choradia first wanted an advance of Rs 10,000 and after negotiations Soni paid the money. Next day, Choradia told Soni that he had sent two persons from Vadodara to deliver the scooter in Ahmedabad city. When the two men reached Ahmedabad city, they called up Soni and sought the balance Rs 15,000 from him through an online payment application. Soni first hesitated to pay the money, but as the two insisted that he would have to first pay in full to get the scooter, he paid the amount. However, he did not get the scooter and Choradia along with the two men went incommunicado. A police official said that the so far they have recorded multiple cases in which Choradia, in total, cheated Rs. 1.20 lakh using the same modus operandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-man-posing-as-army-jawan-cheats-many/articleshow/76807647.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||30kg of gold seized in Kerala, was addressed to a consulate||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a major haul of gold smuggled into Kerala, customs officers at Trivandrum International Airport on Saturday seized around 30kg of gold worth over Rs 13 crore. The gold brought in the cargo was addressed to a consulate office in Manacaud, Thiruvananthapuram. According to commissioner of customs Sumit Kumar, the parcel for the consulate office reached the airport in a cargo flight a few days ago and the seizure was made on Saturday based on intelligence inputs. “We contacted higher authorities. The consignment was diplomatic cargo and was examined in the presence of the consignee. The parcels contained household items such as frames and door handles,” said Kumar, adding that the gold was concealed in the articles, which were then reassembled. “The consignee, or diplomat in question, disowned the cargo. He has been helping us in getting clarification on the consignment. The officers have detained one person and are tracking other scamsters and smuggling syndicate members who are on the run,” said Kumar. As per customs Act and diplomatic relations (Vienna convention) Act, diplomats have certain immunity like exemption on articles for official use and personal baggage from inspection. In this case, the consignment was brought as personal baggage. Watch 30 kg gold seized in Kerala, was concealed in household items||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/30kg-of-gold-seized-in-kerala-was-addressed-to-a-consulate/articleshow/76804736.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||Rising power cuts, hefty bills make life miserable||NAGPUR: MSEDCL did not make life miserable for Nagpurians this summer due to astronomical bills only. The number of breakdowns increased significantly as compared to last summer causing lot of inconvenience to people. This happened in spite of the discom spending crores on power infrastructure upgrade. The increased breakdowns happened in erstwhile SNDL as well as Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) areas (Congress Nagar division and city suburbs). Chief engineer Dilip Dodke, however, denied that breakdowns had increased. “I can’t comment on individual case, but overall there was no deterioration in the situation. We had taken lesser number of maintenance shutdowns during the lockdown due to instructions from district collector,” Dodke told TOI. Power consumers, however, do not agree with Dodke. “This year, MSEDCL made life miserable for us due to frequent breakdowns. Whenever, there is some rain, power supply to Byramji Town goes off. Supply played hide and seek throughout the day on Saturday and then there was no power for three hours on Sunday. I wonder on what grounds is the discom charging us astronomical bills? It should pay us compensation instead,” said Dr Rafique Ajani. Vikrant Waghchoure, a resident of Mecosabagh, said there were too many power cuts this summer. “Last year, SNDL used to announce that there would be no power on Wednesday due to maintenance. However, this year there was no schedule. We do not have an inverter and lack of power supply when it is 45oC outside is unbearable,” he told TOI. Rajniti Singh, a resident of Dhantoli, said studies of her two children were affected due to the power breakdowns. “Kids are attending e-classes on our laptop. Many times power went off when the classes were going on. My kids had to stand in balcony with the laptop as there was inadequate light inside the room. Services of MSEDCL are becoming worse by the day. And on the top of it, they are sending us bills in thousands of rupees,” she added. Breakdowns are not the only problem. There were wild voltage fluctuations in many parts of the city on Saturday evening. Television sets and other electronic appliances of some people in Narendra Nagar got damaged due to these fluctuations. MSEDCL officers have been at pains to explain the reasons for frequent short duration breakdowns. Many of them are not even recorded by the discom control room and consequently do not exist for the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rising-power-cuts-hefty-bills-make-life-miserable/articleshow/76804031.cms||Ashish Roy
July 6, 2020||Bhopal||Kill Corona drive: 5L covered in two phases||Bhopal: The second phase of the ‘kill-corona’ campaign — specifically targeting the Bhopal gas disaster-affected population — was completed here on Sunday. A number of Covid-19 tests were conducted in the process, according to officials. Over 5 lakh people were targeted in the first two phases of the campaign in Bhopal. In the last fortnight alone, more than 700 cases have been diagnosed in the state capital, with an average of 50 positive patients being hospitalised each day. In the same period, the fastest spurt in death has been reported with as many as 22 deaths. Compared to Bhopal, Indore has reported about 500 Covid-19 cases. According to experts, the new trend in Covid-19 is affecting people in blocks. In most of the cases, close family members are affected. A case in point is that of 10 members of a family who tested positive in Ibrahimganj on Saturday. “There is a delay in diagnoses. Contact tracing reveals that a lot of people are not coming forward earlier to get treated,” said a consultant with the government medical college. Most of the cases reported are with an advanced stage of SARI or ILI in tertiary care hospitals. It indicates a worsening of pneumonia and its prevalence in the community. This trend, according to experts, was not present in Bhopal during the initial days of the pandemic. Bhopal chief medical and health officer and the WCD district programme officer did not comment on the situation and unprecedented rise in Covid-19 patients. “Covid-19 pandemic has brought to light the fact that the Bhopal gas disaster affected continue to suffer from various ailments and have low levels of immunity. The gas disaster of 1984 continues to affect people 35 years on and their plight cannot be ignored,” said activist Rashida Bi. She was awarded the Goldman Environmental Prize in 2004, together with Champa Devi Shukla. The two have struggled for justice for the surviving victims of the gas disaster, wherein an estimated 20,000 people were killed and over 5.72 lakh along with their dependents continue to face medical problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/kill-corona-drive-5l-covered-in-two-phases/articleshow/76803551.cms||Jamal Ayub
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fake cop nabbed from CTM in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Ramol police on Saturday nabbed a man, Ayubsa Diwan, 26, of Bapunagar, for impersonating a policeman and extorting money from people. Inspector K S Dave of Ramol police station said that Diwan confessed before them that he and his two other accomplices Yasin Qureshi and Salim Rajput, both from Rakhial, used to be with him while extorting money from people. The accused used to keep a watch at hotels and guesthouses and would target couple coming out. Police are hunting for his two accomplices. Police said the accused was acquitted in a murder case in 2013. A 35-year-old man had lodged a complaint with Ramol police that about a week ago, two persons on a bike stopped him when he was coming from CTM Crossroads after meeting his girlfriend. “They told him that they were cops and if he doesn’t give them Rs 75,000, they will register an offence against him and defame him in the society,” said a police official. Out of fear, the victim withdrew Rs 10,000 from an ATM and gave the money to them. The next day, he gave them another Rs 15,000. “Soon, he noticed something unusual in their behaviour and lodged the complaint,” the official added. On Saturday, the police were tipped off about the presence of the imposters near CTM Road. “With PSI B B Solanki of the surveillance squad, we quickly laid a watch on the road. Soon, the man was seen on a bike, who identified himself as Ayubsa Diwan,” said Dave. “He was taken to the police station where he told us about his accomplices Qureshi and Rajput,” said Dave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fake-cop-nabbed-from-ctm/articleshow/76803556.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Locals boycott ‘made in China’, prices of Indian substitutes rise||VISAKHAPATNAM: Sales of China-made products have taken a beating in Vizag with several residents veering towards substitutes manufactured in India. The trend has already had an impact in wholesale and retail markets here. First, the price of some India-made products, especially electronic goods and toys, has increased. Second, traders claim that a section of wholesalers who market China-made products in India are selling their products, but without the ‘made in China’ tag. “We have stopped procuring Chinese goods and are looking for ‘made in India’ substitutes. A few of the importers are now starting to sell Chinese products without the name of the manufacturing country and we are compelled to buy those products because the price of the India-made goods is much higher than Chinese products,” said a wholesaler in Vizag. At the city’s retail markets traders expressed worries that residents have lost interest in China-made goods. The Indian substitutes, they claimed, are so costly that customers would not buy these products unless it was absolutely necessary. P Ravi Kumar, a shopkeeper, explained that the price of a Chinese cigarette lighter sells between Rs 10 to Rs 25. Besides the China-made options, all other lighters available in the market would cost anywhere between Rs 100 to Rs 150. “Even these lighters are not that durable. Then why would customers buy them? Regular smokers would simply switch over to matchsticks,” he added. Experts in Indo-China relations at Andhra University (AU), however, have supported the present trend. “When Manmohan Singh was the Prime Minister there were several Chinese incursions in India which were not reported in the media. These incursions were related to India’s economic policy. Under the present Covid-19 situation, the present Chinese incursions are more related to economy than military,” said V Sreemannarayana Murthy, an assistant professor at the Centre for SAARC Studies, Andhra University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/locals-boycott-made-in-china-prices-of-indian-substitutes-rise/articleshow/76803553.cms||Arpit Basu
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Visa firm files FIR against 3 employees||Ahmedabad: An employee of a visa consultancy firm in the Satellite area of the city on Saturday filed a complaint of cheating and breach of trust against three employees who obtained data of customers and misused them when they were given laptops by the company to work from home during the lock-down. In the FIR with Satellite police, Rohan Sharma, a resident of Satellite who works with the visa consultancy firm as a business development manager, states that the accused persons S Elango Muddaliyar, a resident of Khokhra, Jignesh Chauhan, a resident of Sabarmati and Chirag Chaudashi, resident of Motera, cheated the firm. The FIR states that the three accused joined the firm in 2019. They misused the data during the lock-down period. The accused contacted the customers and told them to approach another visa consultancy firm. Thus, they breached the trust of the firm as employer incurred losses, states the FIR. Sharma approached Satellite police and filed a complaint of cheating and breach of trust against Muddaliyar, Chauhan and Chaudashi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/visa-firm-files-fir-against-3-employees/articleshow/76803560.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Khader bails out pregnant woman||Mangaluru: Former health minister U T Khader played the Good Samaritan in ensuring that a pregnant woman underwent a caesarean operation at the very same private hospital that initially refused to accept her after she tested positive for Covid-19. She was seeking medical advice from a gynaecologist at the hospital and had come there for the delivery. The video clips of the incident, which went viral on social media, saw the Mangaluru MLA earning kudos from netizens for stepping in for the beleaguered woman. Khader told TOI that he intervened after Belma GP vice-president told him about the case. “The hospital authorities had even summoned an ambulance to shift her without giving the patient or her attendants an alternative as to where she could be treated,” he said. Khader said he told the hospital management that they should have an understanding with other hospitals where they could send their patients if their hospital was not fully equipped to handle Covid-19 patients. “We cannot have incidents, like those that happened in Bengaluru where hospitals turned away patients, who ended up being casualties,” he said. The social media posts show the hospital authorities threatening the woman’s family for filming the same and even mulling legal action. The family, in turn, is seen telling them that even they are liable for prosecution for refusing to treat a patient. Khader said the hospital authorities relented only after the health authorities decided to shift the patient to the District Wenlock Hospital and book them under KPME Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/khader-bails-out-pregnant-woman/articleshow/76802802.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP allows farmers to skip bank visit for crop insurance premium||Lucknow: Extending relief to the farming community hit by the pandemic, the state government has scrapped the mandatory provision of physical presence of farmers in the banks for regulating payment of premium for the PM crop insurance scheme. Now, farmers can reach out to the banks through postal or electronic medium like e-mail and WhatsApp while seeking discontinuation of payment of premium for the scheme for different seasonal crops. In a letter sent to all district magistrates and divisional commissioner on July 4, additional chief secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturvedi said that movement of farmers has been restricted because of the Corona pandemic. He added that Since some areas (hotspots/containment zones) are under the lockdown, farmers are finding it difficult to reach banks to regulate the payment of premium for crop insurance scheme. Under the scheme, banks debit premium from the accounts of farmers unless they visit the bank a week before the due date to seek discontinuance of premium for different seasonal crops. In case of kharif crops, farmers will have to inform the banks before July 31, while for rabi crops the deadline is December 31. The state government has sought constitution of DM headed state level monitoring committee in every district. Chaturvedi said the DMs have been asked to direct banks in their respective districts before July 10 vis-à-vis farmers who do not want to continue with crop insurance schemes. In case, farmers do not inform the banks their premium would be withdrawn from their bank accounts. Experts said that this allows the farmers to switch their crop insurance from one seasonal crop to another. Officials said that on receiving applications from farmers, banks would stop withdrawal of premium for the scheme. Chaturvedi said that farmers have been left with only few days to inform banks vis-à-vis kharif crops (July 31) and, therefore, the DMs would be required to take requisite steps so that farmers submit their application to stop premium for kharif crops seven days before the due date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-allows-farmers-to-skip-bank-visit-for-crop-insurance-premium/articleshow/76804376.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Malls open but wary residents stay away||VIJAYAWADA: Shopping malls which would be abuzz with ‘Ashadam’ discount sales every year around this time are deserted this year with the pandemic wiping out or hurting businesses in the first quarter of 2020-21. Traditionally, the Telugu month of ‘Ashadam’ is one of the biggest shopping seasons here. Retailers at One Town, the biggest cloth market in the state, and malls in the city would offer large discounts. This year, there are no ‘Ashadam’ offers nor has the response from the public been positive after restrictions were eased in June. With the steady rise in Covid-19 cases in the city, most individuals are unwilling to venture out even though shopping malls opened in Unlock 1.0. On MG Road, the city’s busiest shopping areas, most malls and single-brand outlets remained open except for those located near containment zones which have been shut following instructions from the district administration. Though the managements have put in place precautions such as hand sanitizers and ensuring social distancing, people are hesitant to go shopping. “We took every precaution as prescribed by the district administration. However, the fear factor is still very high among people as positive cases are being reported daily. We are witnessing about 40 per cent of average footfall now,” said the manager at one of the largest malls in the city. Another reason for poor demand is the closure of educational institutions. “We used to have strong demand from June with schools reopening and the season used to continue till the end of ‘Ashadam’. This period used to last anywhere between 45 to 60 days but this year is a complete exception,” said the manager at another mall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/malls-open-but-wary-residents-stay-away/articleshow/76803565.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two burglars arrested in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: City crime branch on Sunday nabbed two persons — Vijay Dantani, 24, and Sanjay Dantani, 20, both residents of Vasna, for their alleged involvement in several offences of house break-ins. Police recovered gold and silver jewellery, mobile phones, gas cylinder and LED TV worth a total of Rs 1,23,870. ACP B V Gohil said the accused have earlier been held by Paldi, Sabarmati, Vasna, Navrangpura, Naranpura, Gujarat University, Anandnagar and Vadaj police for 14 offences of burglary. “They committed burglaries in Vasna and Chandranagar from where they stole a gas cylinder, an LED TV, mobile phones and gold and silver jewellery,” said Gohil. The accused used to roam about in the city in an autorickshaw in the night and steal things from closed houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-burglars-arrested/articleshow/76803566.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Bhopal||Highest single-day spike of 326 cases, MP tally nears 15k||Bhopal: With a whopping 326 cases reported in a single day, tally of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh reached 14,930 on Sunday. This is second highest number of cases reported in a single day after April 16 when maximum 391 cases were reported in the state. For the first time, the highest number of cases in a single day has been reported from Gwalior district which reported 64 positive cases. Apart from the positive cases, 10 casualties were also reported in the state. The districts where these casualties were reported includes Indore (3 deaths) , Bhopal (4 deaths) and 1 death each in Dhar, Sagar and Harda districts says the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 608. Of the 52 districts where infections have been reported, new cases were reported from 37 districts. The districts where new cases were reported in double figures—as per the state health bulletin released on Saturday—includes Gwalior (64 new cases), Indore (23 cases), Bhopal (61 new cases), Morena (36 new cases), and Bhind (16 new cases) districts. On the brighter side 177 people who were admitted at different hospitals in the state also recovered from the disease and were discharged. With these new patients recovering, total number of patients who have recovered so far in the state reached 11411. Thus, 76.4% of the total people who have been tested positive so far, have recovered from the disease. The number of people who have recovered in the state is little less than four times of the active patients in the state as on July 5. There are only 2911 active patients in the state, while 11411 people have so far recovered from the disease. Reports of more than 4.07 lakh samples have been received from across Madhya Pradesh so far and of those 14930 have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/highest-single-day-spike-of-326-cases-mp-tally-nears-15k/articleshow/76803559.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Socially-distanced darshan marks Guru Purnima||VISAKHAPATNAM/VIJAYAWADA: Guru Purnima or Vyasa Purnima was celebrated across the state on Sunday. But owing to Covid-19 protocols, the celebrations remained low-key. While most of the people celebrated it at their homes, a few held small gatherings; participants followed physical distancing and sanitised their hands. A school teacher K Sasi Rekha, a 1992 graduate from George Coronation High School in Machilipatnam, said she wishes her former teachers every year on two occasions — Teachers’ Day and Guru Purnima. “My classmates had planned a get together on Guru Purnima, but it was cancelled due to the Covid-19 lockdown,” Sasi Rekha told TOI. In other parts of the city, although temples like the Shirdi Sai Baba were opened for darshans, devotee footfall remained low. The Lord Varaha Narasimha Swamy temple, Simhachalam, also did not witness a crowd due to restrictions of the temple management. “We had recently introduced 300 tickets for special darshan. We did not get much response this year due to Covid-19. Every year, the temple is crowded on Guru Purnima,” said a Simhachalam temple official. In Vijayawada, devotees lined up at Sai Baba temples in the city from the early hours of Sunday for Guru Purnima celebrations. City police and the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) formed special teams to implement physical distancing measures at the temples. Sai Baba temples cancelled Abhisheka Seva as per the directions of civic authorities but permitted devotees for darshan. A five-feet distance was maintained between devotees in queues and masks were made mandatory. The distribution of ‘prasadam’ at temples was prohibited. At the Kanaka Durga temple, the three-day-long Shakambari festival concluded on Sunday. Bhagyanagar Sri Mahankali Jatara Bonala Utsavala Ummadi Committee offered golden ‘bonam’ to the Goddess Kanaka Durga. Committee members carried out a procession from Jammi Dhoddi at Brahmin Street to the temple. Social distancing was maintained at the temple and authorities permitted only a limited number of individuals to gather. Devotees offered special prayers and worshipped the goddess in Shakambari attire. The festival concluded with the ‘poorna ahuiti’ offered by Vedic scholars at the temple Yaga Shaala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/socially-distanced-darshan-marks-guru-purnima/articleshow/76803574.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Accused in death of 13-year-old acquitted||AHMEDABAD: Nobody was responsible for the death of 13-year-old waiter Mehul Meena, whose head was crushed allegedly in a goods lift in a hotel in Anandnagar area last year. A sessions court on Saturday acquitted the hotel owner and its manager of all charges for want of evidence. The accused got acquitted after none of the independent witnesses, including the child’s mother and maternal uncle, supported the prosecution’s case. Moreover, police also did not provide enough evidence to the court to bring the charges home.  In this case, the juvenile was allegedly hired as a waiter in Hotel Platinum. The tragedy took place allegedly in the hotel’s kitchen on January 3, 2019. The hotel’s owner, Ashok Damani, and manager Ramchandra Sharma were booked under Section 304 of IPC for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. They were also slapped with charges under the Juvenile Justice Act and the Atrocity Act because the boy belonged to SC/ST community.  The hoteliers defended themselves by claiming that the death had taken place outside the hotel and cops had wrongly framed them because the hotel management had in the past refused cops the place to hold a party. During the trial, seven witnesses were examined and 12 items of documentary evidence were placed before the court at the Mirzapur rural court campus. None of the witnesses except two investigators supported the police case that Mehul was killed in the open lift inside the hotel. His mother Mayaben Meena and maternal uncle Dhuleshwar Meena also did not give evidence to establish the case against the accused. Two punch witnesses also turned hostile. Another witness, the hotel’s cook Sudhir Sanjit Das, also turned hostile and told the court that the incident had not happened inside the hotel. The court did not find any human evidence in this case. Moreover, the court recorded in its acquittal order that the prosecution did not bring witnesses to court to prove the FSL report. There was no DNA analysis to prove who the deceased boy was, and there was no report with regard to the functioning of the lift which was allegedly fitted in the hotel without authorization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/accused-in-death-of-13-year-old-acquitted/articleshow/76803585.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Fresh MBAs report greater anxiety over placements, future’||AHMEDABAD: It was a dream come true for Shikha (name changed), a fresh-out-of-college MBA, to land a job with a multinational logistic company with a hefty annual pay package. But in the initial phase of lockdown, the company asked her to take a ‘sabbatical.’ Another management graduate faced the reality when the company that hired him told him that he would have to take a 30% cut in the offered package ‘owing to the market conditions.’ These were just two examples that Jallavi Panchamia, assistant professor with IIPH-G and Anamika Sinha, associate professor with Goa Institute of Management, recorded in their study of the impact of Covid-19 lockdown on the management graduates in India. “About 48% students reported increased anxiety, and major stressors were future jobs, student loan payments, safety & health of the loved ones and missing campus life,” said Sinha. “60% of students said they don’t feel comfortable sharing anxieties with their families.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fresh-mbas-report-greater-anxiety-over-placements-future/articleshow/76803596.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||520 cases were registered against cyber goons: HM||NAGPUR: State home minister Anil Deshmukh, while releasing the data of the Maharashtra cyber intelligence and analytic branch, stated that 520 cases were registered against cyber goons. The minister said cops also took action against netizens who targeted women. Deshmukh also informed that 273 cyber offenders were arrested statewide, including Nagpur. Another 349 were identified and action has been initiated against them. During the statewide crackdown by the cyber cell, around 11 cases were also registered in the city too against persons misusing social media to create communally sensitive issues and also spread rumours regarding Covid-19. Several arrests too were made by Nagpur police followed by the investigation done by the cyber cell under crime branch. The city police cyber team, under Addl CP Nilesh Bharne and DCP Shweta Khedkar, had also led a campaign against fake news revolving around Covid-19. Home minister Deshmukh, who was camping in Nagpur, said the state’s cyber cell was revived and activated at a crucial time which helped in tracking crooks who had tried to use digital platforms to create trouble.  “A good team was created under able officers who are experts in the subject of cyber crimes. The team helped tackle cyber goons who had a plan to play mischief to aggravate the pandemic situation. We averted the untoward incidents with timely action,” said the home minister. Referring to the statistics shared by the state cyber cell’s Special IG Yashasvi Yadav, the home minister shared data that around 198 offences were registered against social media users for forwarding objectionable messages on WhatsApp, 216 on Facebook, 28 on Tik Tok, 18 Twitter and several others misusing the digital platform. Around 108 ‘takedown’ notices were issued and objectionable posts were also removed. Deshmukh said that some anti-social elements had become active on social media platforms to create problem for the state to maintain law and order. “Action was initiated across the state. Even people posting objectionable content targeting women were not spared in the last three months. We managed to create a fear of law among such mischief mongers,” said Deshmukh. “There was also numerous attempts made across the state to a create web of confusion, chaos and rumours around Covid-19. The cyber cell managed to stop such circulation of misinformation most of the time,” he said. State IG Yadav, incharge of the state cyber cell unit, said 2,324 references were issued to different units across the state regarding mischief mongers against whom action is expected to be initiated. FACTS & FIGURES Notices issued to 137 persons Preventive action taken against 120 Cases against hate speech: 324 Corona-related rumours/ fake news cases: 124 Corona-related misinformation: 72||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/520-cases-were-registered-against-cyber-goons-hm/articleshow/76804042.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 6, 2020||Bhopal||61 fresh cases reported in city, Covid-19 count rises to 3,274||Bhopal: As many as 61 people were diagnosed with Covid-19 in the state capital on Sunday. Since the pandemic began, Bhopal has reported 3,274 coronavirus cases and 105 people have died of the infection so far. According to a district administration official, two cases were reported from E-2 Arera colony. The two patients have been quarantined and the office would be sanitised and disinfected. “Two people in Samidha, located in E-2, Arera Colony, have been diagnosed with Covid-19. Both the pracharaks are associated with the office. Contact history of the patients is being traced,” said the official. Meanwhile, there was some relief in Covid-19 hotspot, Ibrahimganj. On Saturday, 33 cases were reported from the locality. Four new cases were added to that tally on Sunday. The market is expected to open on Monday with restrictions on movement of people. In Kolar, four members of the same family tested positive for Covid-19. Six jawans in the CRPF campus, Bangrasia, were sent into quarantine after the infection spread. The campus has reported over 50 cases. Besides, two more family members of a BJP corporator and residents of Bagsewania have tested positive. The total number of infected in the family has now gone up to 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/61-fresh-cases-reported-in-city-covid-19-count-rises-to-3274/articleshow/76803577.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hosts of two birthday parties pass away in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: In separate incidents, two persons who hosted birthday parties passed away after contracting Covid-19. In the last week of June, a 63-year-old pawn broker, who is also a financier of an MLA contestant, threw a birthday at his residence in Himayathnagar. Around 100 people attended the party in his standalone building. The pawn broker died on July 1, after testing positive for Covid-19. Following this, the attendees and their family members either got themselves admitted in private hospitals or went into isolation. “The people who attended the party were businessmen who are into construction and jewellery business. As the person who passed away was a financier, most of them attended the party to be in his good books,” said a jewellery store owner from Banjara Hills Road Number 10, who skipped the party. GHMC officials claimed only 20 people attended the party. In another incident, a 47-year-old jewellery shop-owner from Secunderabad, who hosted a birthday party, passed away on June 30. Most attendees have closed their shops in Pot Market after his death. While GHMC officials admitted a party was hosted, the police denied it. “ We did not receive any complain regarding the party, so a case has not been registered,” said a Narayanguda police station official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hosts-of-two-bday-parties-pass-away/articleshow/76804398.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 6, 2020||Mumbai||Hotels in Maharashtra likely to reopen on Wednesday with 33% guest limit||MUMBAI: The long wait is over for hotels, which were closed for more than three months following the nationwide lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. They will reopen this week, probably on Wednesday, with stringent SOPs to cap the number of guests at 33% of total capacity. An official said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray assured a delegation of hotel and restaurants owners on Sunday that his government will soon allow hotels to reopen in a phased manner. In Maharashtra, there are over 1,50,000 hotels and 65,000 restaurants with a total workforce of more than a million, which makes the hospitality industry a substantial contributor to the economy. When hotels reopen, they will be allowed to keep their restaurants open as well, but only for guests. Standalone restaurants, on the other hand, will presumably have to wait for another round of discussions. “CM told the meeting that the chief secretary has submitted a draft notification on the reopening of hotels and most probably, it will be approved in a day or two. If all goes well, it should not be difficult to open hotels from July 8 outside the containment zones,” the official said. The official said it has been proposed that entry should be restricted at hotels, guest houses and lodges providing accommodation to ensure they operate at 33% capacity. “There will be stringent conditions in place before government issues the final notification. As of now, there is no proposal to grant permission for opening of shopping malls,’’ he said. A hotel owner said the industry will ensure that social distancing is maintained, use e-menus and disposable paper napkins, encourage room service and takeaways instead of dining in, and make sure restaurants are available only for resident guests. Gaming, swimming pools, children’s play areas and gymnasiums will remain closed. Large gatherings will be prohibited and meeting halls kept at 33% capacity subject to a maximum of 15 participants. It will also be mandatory to clean and sanitize rooms each time a guest vacates the room. All linen and towels will be changed after the guest vacates the room, and disposal of covers, masks, gloves left over by the guests will be mandated. Entrances will have thermal screening and reception tables will have protective glass and hand sanitizers with pedal operated dispensers; contactless processes like QR coding, digital payments, restricting entry into elevators are other measures planned. For air conditioning and ventilation, guidelines prescribed by CPWD will be implemented. It has been made clear that only asymptomatic guests shall be allowed, all guests will have to wear masks at all times in the hotel, will have to download the Aarogya setu app compulsorily, and declare travel history at the reception.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hotels-in-state-likely-to-reopen-on-wed-with-33-guest-limit/articleshow/76804399.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
July 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Bridegroom booked for violating lockdown rules||Mangauru: A bridegroom and some of his relatives were booked for allegedly hosting a party without maintaining social distance and violating the lockdown rules at Ammunje in Bantwal taluk. Police have booked a suo-motu case after the video clips of the party went viral on social media. Bantwal Rural police said they have booked Tilak Poojary, bridegroom, and others under PIC sections 269 and 270 and Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Ordinance Act. Based on the video, police booked a case on Sunday, even when the incident happened on July 1, the day Tilak got married. After the ceremony, the guests — numbering more than the stipulated 50 — had violated the lockdown rules for the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bridegroom-booked-for-violating-lockdown-rules/articleshow/76802826.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||Melghat cell brings fire-hit areas down from 107 sqkm to 10 sqkm in 3 years||NAGPUR: Bringing down the area under forest fires from 10,764 hectares (107sqkm) to 1,000 hectares (10sqkm) in the last three years, the Melghat Tiger Reserve’s (MTR) fire cell in Amravati has become a role model for the forest department when it comes to controlling and monitoring forest fires. MTR’s fire cell was set up in 2018 and is the first such cell in the state. The reserve also has the distinction of setting up a cyber crime cell. The cell has a dedicated staff comprising of a DFO, RFO and 10 forest guards. Melghat expands over Amravati, Akola and Buldana districts and has five administrative forest divisions with Pandharkawda in Yavatmal being added this year. A report on the three-year fire monitoring in these areas was released on Thursday. Before the cell started working, during the January-June 2018 fire season, in most vulnerable Sipna division, 4,838 hectare forest was gutted with 260 incidents, followed by burning of 2,221 hectare area through 220 cases in 2019. However, in 2020, 35 fire incidents were reported in which 169 hectare area only was devastated. Menacing fires drastically dropped at other divisions as well. MTR APCCF & field director MS Reddy attributes the drop in fire incidents to real-time monitoring and quick response. “Melghat’s rugged terrain makes fighting forest fires a Herculean task. Controlling them is difficult as the location cannot be assessed. It is physically formidable to reach, but the fire cell made the job gradually easy,” said Reddy. DFO Vishal Mali, the nodal officer of fire cell, said, “We get fire alerts from Forest Survey of India (FSI) and National Aeronautics & Space Administration (NASA). They share the location and maps in the form of latitude & longitude, which we put on forest maps to get the range, round and beat. This information was passed on by whatsapp to RFOs and the other field staff to respond quickly to the situation.” About the preparation, Reddy said, “Even vehicles of RFOs were fitted with GPS and we used to track their vehicles to know the response time. The staff had undergone training last year at the ISRO office at Nagpur on how to download maps and images. We also deployed staff that was trained from Nagpur Fire College. Earlier, there was no such intensive monitoring.” The lockdown reduced the number of fires. “To some extent, the less number of fire incidents was also due to the lockdown, but the role of the fire cell is vital. We also launched ‘Vanva Mukt Abhiyan’ in which villages were rewarded Rs1 lakh incentive for saving forest from fires. The money was used for village development,” said Reddy. Mali said fire information alerts are almost near-time. It means that as soon as the satellite receives data, it is processed and sent to earth and later to user agencies within a short period of time, like 15 minutes. Even though it is impossible to contain the number of fire incidents due to diverse reasons and limited manpower, the area destroyed in the fire can be contained if doused beforehand with a quick response. Dr Sivabala S, deputy conservator (DyCF), Sipna division, said, “In 2018, the percentage of forest fires was 29%. From 13.57% in 2019, we brought it down to just 1% by real-time monitoring. We also gave incentives to villagers for not letting forest fires spread.” SETTING AN EXAMPLE * Detecting location of fire in relation to forest boundaries like range, round, beat * Swift movement of staff to the fire-spot by making quick availability of vehicle, fuel, blowers & waterman * Maps to guide by showing compartments and roads on WhatsApp Division 2018 2019 2020 Sipna 4838 2221 169 Gugamal 3055 1214 183 Akot 1260 1645 388 Akola 926 48 16 P’kawda 685 681 175 (Area burned in last 3 years)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/melghat-cell-brings-fire-hit-areas-down-from-107-sqkm-to-10-sqkm-in-3-years/articleshow/76804049.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Chandkheda man assaults his sister and brother-in-law||AHMEDABAD: A 43-year-old woman from Kalol town in Gandhinagar on Sunday filed a complaint with Chandkheda police stating that her younger brother, who was unhappy with her marrying a Kalol-based man, assaulted her and her husband at her parents’ home in Chandkheda. Jigisha Goswami, resident of Radhey Bungalows in Kalol town, stated that she had married Baldevgiri Goswami, a driver with Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) five years ago against the will of her younger brother Darshit Kaushal, 35. She said whenever she went to meet her parents and stay at their place, Kaushal disagreed and harassed her. She said that Kaushal did not only verbally abuse her but also made snide remarks at her three-year-old daughter for staying at Jigisha’s parents’ house. On June 22, Jigisha met an accident in Adalaj after which she began staying with her parents in Chandkheda which did not go well with Kaushal. Even after Jigisha was severely injured, Kaushal used to pressure her to leave her parents’ home. On Sunday, Jigisha’s husband came to her parents’ house and sought their car for some days. Though other members of Jigisha’s family agreed, Kaushal objected and began abusing Jigisha and her husband. After a while, he rushed there with a pipe and attacked Jigisha and Baldevgiri leaving them severely injured. They were taken to a nearby private hospital where a medico legal case was filed. Later, Chandkheda police registered a case of assault.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chandkheda-man-assaults-his-sister-and-brother-in-law/articleshow/76803579.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ranchi||XLRI gets AICTE approval for Delhi-NCR campus||Jamshedpur: The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has given its approval to XLRI-Xavier School of Management here to start the 2020-22 academic session in its new campus in Delhi-NCR. “XLRI is India’s first B-school and for 70 years, we just had one campus, which was in Jamshedpur. We are glad to announce that XLRI’s Delhi-NCR campus is all set to start the 2020-22 academic session after we received an approval from AICTE,” said XLRI, Jamshedpur director Fr P Christie in a statement on Thursday. XLRI announced the commencement of its admission process for the first batch of students for the session. A total of 120 students, divided into two sections with 60 pupils each, will be admitted for the business management programme in the Delhi-NCR campus’s first academic session. Fr George Sebastian, director, XLRI Delhi-NCR, said the pedagogy and the curriculum in the new branch will be similar to the ones being followed in Jamshedpur. “We will follow the admission and the placement processes of XLRI Jamshedpur,” Sebastian said. Soon, the new campus will offer a broad portfolio of courses, besides the two-year postgraduate programmes in human resource management and business management. The campus building has been planned using detailed sun studies and by applying concepts of solar-passive architecture. The new campus has also earned a gold-level green building certification and it has been designed using IGBC (Indian green building council) guidelines to get a platinum rating from IGBC in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/xlri-gets-aicte-approval-for-delhi-ncr-campus/articleshow/76804492.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ranchi||Man dies of Covid in Steel City, 53 fresh cases detected in Jharkhand||Ranchi: A 72-year-old man died of Covid-19 at the Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH) in Jamshedpur late on Saturday night, taking the virus toll in the state to 19. Jharkhand also reported 53 fresh coronavirus cases from 14 districts on Sunday and the tally now stands at 2,807. The state witnessed four Covid-19 deaths in the last two days of which two were reported from the Rims Covid-19 ward and the other two died during treatment at TMH. All four victims had underlying health conditions and were above 55 years of age. The man who died on Saturday was a resident of Kokar in Ranchi and was diagnosed with blood cancer at Rims last week. The Rims doctors had referred him to TMH for better treatment. A health department official said, "The patient was admitted to the oncology department of Rims last week and was referred to TMH. He had co-morbid conditions like hypertension, diabetes and died of multiple organ failure." Of the total number of positive cases, 2,045 have recovered and 743 are active currently. The number of recovered cases also included the five patients cured on Sunday. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum and Lohardaga reported the highest number of fresh cases on Sunday. While East Singhbhum reported 15 cases, Lohardaga detected 10 cases. Besides, Dhanbad reported six and Ranchi had five new cases. While Seraikela reported four cases, Koderma detected three cases. Palamu and Simdega had two cases each while Bokaro, Deoghar, Giridih, Khunti, Pakur and Sahebganj reported one case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/man-dies-of-covid-in-steel-city-53-fresh-cases-detected-in-jharkhand/articleshow/76803367.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 6, 2020||Goa||First relief flight from Doha to land today, 172 Indians set to return||Panaji: Bringing an end to a 100-day long anxiety-ridden period, 172 stranded Indians will return home on Monday from Qatar on a chartered flight operated by IndiGo airlines. The flight will depart from Doha at 10:30am and land at Goa International Airport, Dabolim around 4.40pm, said officials. The flight has been organised by Goan Welfare Association (GWA), Qatar, in collaboration with the Indian Cultural Centre (apex body of Indian embassy in Qatar). “Many Goans, including people from neighbouring states like Karnataka and Maharashtra on short term visas, aged parents, pregnant women and students who came on a visit are part of these stranded people,” GWA president Simon D’Silva said. GWA alloted five tickets free to passengers who were in dire straits, while seven passengers who backed out of the journey were refunded. Since IndiGo will not provide food and beverages, GWA will distribute meal packets. D’Silva said that hotel accommodation, transportation to neighbouring states with online entry passes and Covid-19 tests have been arranged. Some Goans who could not be accommodated on this flight will travel on the flight on July 8. “Some Goans were left behind and we had to arrange another flight on July 8. We are desperate to return and were not given clear information about this first flight,” Slanney Lucas said. The Goan Qatar Association helped organise the second flight too. Though the Centre has planned several Vande Bharat flights to repatriate the expat community, the flights are inadequate with a long list of people registered with the Indian embassy. “This is a huge responsibility and lot of coordination is involved to make it a reality. The flight is now full and all set to take off with 172 passengers including an infant on July 6,” D’Silva said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/first-relief-flight-from-doha-to-land-today-172-indians-set-to-return/articleshow/76804058.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ranchi||RJD barred from taking out bicycle rally on foundation day||Ranchi: RJD workers on Sunday were disallowed by the police from taking out a bicycle rally to protest against the fuel price hike, ‘because of no prior permit from the administration’. RJD workers were about to take out 5-km bicycle rally when the officer-in-charge of Jagannathpur police station stopped them in front of the party office, saying that the party did not have administrative permission. RJD leaders pleaded with the police that each party worker would cover the distance individually and not as a group but the cops refused. Jagannathpur OC Abhay Kumar Singh said, “We requested the RJD workers to do away with the bicycle rally because they did not have the administration’s permission and also pointed out that processions are prohibited under the prevailing circumstances.” State RJD president Abhay Singh said, “We cancelled the cycle rally as it did not seem right to oppose the administration. We had applied for permission on Friday but did not get reply.” Singh added that except for Ranchi, the bicycle rallies were taken out in all districts of Jharkhand. Meanwhile, Sunday marked the 24th foundation day of RJD and the party workers cut a 24-pound cake and hoisted the party flag while following the social distancing norms at the party office here. Reminiscing about RJD’s founding years, Abhay said, “It was due to Lalu’s support that the exploited section of the society started claiming their rights. At the national-level, he played a key role in the making of our prime ministers in the country.” RJD leaders claimed that dozens of people have joined their organisation. Most of the new entrants are impressed by the Lalu Kitchen, which has been feeding the poor at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) campus for over 2.5 months now, said the leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rjd-barred-from-taking-out-bicycle-rally-on-foundation-day/articleshow/76803286.cms||Sanjay Sahay
July 6, 2020||Ranchi||10 cybercriminals held in Giridih||Bokaro: Ten cybercriminals, majority of whom are aged between 19 and 24 years and involved in several bank frauds, were arrested in Giridih, officials said on Sunday. Addressing the media, SP Amit Renu said, “The criminals mostly target residents of Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra among others posing as bank officials. Some of the accused work in private firms while others are students. They were nabbed after we received a tip-off and conducted raids in areas under Bengabaad, Gandey and Ahilyapur police stations.” Renu added that some of the teenagers in this group were into this crime for the last two years while others were involved for over four years. On the modus operandi, Renu said, “Like other organised gangs, they mostly used to first send some links to the cell phones of their targets. The moment the mobile phone user would click on them, these cybercriminals would clone confidential data like ATM pin numbers, bank account numbers and others. They also targeted Paytm users.” DSP Sandeep Suman said police also recovered 21 mobile handsets, 43 SIM cards, 11 ATM cards, nine cheque and pass books, five voter identity cards, three pan cards and two motorbikes from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/10-cybercriminals-held-in-giridih/articleshow/76804498.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ranchi||Pahari Mandir barricaded, temple trust & servitors asked not to allow anyone inside||Ranchi: Roads in the state capital aren’t adorned with religious flags this year neither have loudspeakers been installed at different chowks by the sewa dals (puja volunteers) to welcome the kawariyas. At the city’s iconic Pahari Mandir, Lord Shiva’s abode that overlooks the Ranchi Lake, barricades have come up on all the lanes leading to the temple ahead of the first Somvari (Monday) of the auspicious Shravan month to block the entry of devotees. Shravan formally began on Sunday but hordes of devotees throng the Pahari Mandir every Monday during this month to offer water to Lord Shiva. Such is the frenzy that devotees line up outside the temple from midnight every year for Monday’s offering. But this year tells a different story. With the ban on religious congregations in view of the outbreak, Shravan celebrations at Pahari Mandir will be a muted affair this time. In other parts of the state, be it the well-known Baba Baidhyanath Dham temple in Deoghar which has one of the 12 jyotirlingas, Dumka’s Basukinath temple or Tanginath in Gumla, the devotees have been debarred from entering the premises. Ranchi SDO Lokesh Mishra, however, informed that they have arranged for online darshan of Pahari Mandir. He said, “Devotees can watch the rituals being performed at Pahari Mandir live either through the temple’s Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/ranchipahari.mandir.5) or by visiting https://paharimandirranchi.com.” Mishra, who is also the secretary of the temple trust, on Saturday held a meeting with the temple authorities to take stock of the arrangements. He said, “Only priests will be allowed inside the temple for the daily puja. We have asked all the authorities to be on alert to prevent the entry of devotees.” City SP Saurabh shed light on the elaborate security arrangements made to keep an eye on all the temples, including Pahari Mandir, on Monday. “Barricades have been put up on the roads leading to Pahari temple. Similar measures have been undertaken in all the key temples across the district to prevent any religious congregations from taking place. We are also requesting the temple trusts and the priests to cooperate with the administration by preventing the entry of devotees,” he said. Sixty-two-year-old retired banker Subodh Sinha, who is a frequent visitor to Pahari Mandir, said he never missed going to the temple during the Shravan month to offer puja. “I have been going to Pahari Mandir on all the four Mondays during Shravan month for many decades. I never expected that a virus will change my custom. I will offer puja at home this time and consume only satvik food,” Sinha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pahari-mandir-barricaded-temple-trust-servitors-asked-not-to-allow-anyone-inside/articleshow/76804496.cms||ASRP Mukesh
July 6, 2020||Ranchi||Lockdown reunites migrant with his family after 22 years||Chatra: Twenty-two years ago, Sharafat Ansari had lost his 17-year-old son, Aftab, during a trip to Delhi and all efforts to find him, including the filing of an FIR, went in vain. Making peace with the fact that he is never going to see his son again, Ansari, now in his 70s, had conducted the last rites of Aftab in 1998, a few months after he was lost. During the lockdown, the septuagenarian farmer from Salimpur village under Pahra panchayat of Diddhore did not expect to hear any heart-warming news and found it too difficult to believe when police called him up to say that his son is alive and will reach home on June 16. He said, “I am thankful to the Almighty who made it possible.” An emotional Aftab, who is now back with his family after completing the mandatory quarantine on July 1, recalled that it was in 1998 when he went to the national capital along with some of his neighbours to look for a job. In Delhi, he got separated from the group and was soon lost. Out of panic, he rushed to the train station and boarded a coach which took him to Ernakulam in Kerala. Aftab said, “I started working with a circus in Kerala and made attempts to return home but the work forced me to drop the plan. Those days, communication was very difficult and I had lost all hopes of re-connecting with my family.” He added, “I cannot believe that I am back. If I had not lost my job during the lockdown, my return would not have been possible.” Aftab, now 39 years old, said he made friends with a few youths from Patna during the lockdown and narrated his story. Some of the youths, who knew a police officer in Chatra district, reported Aftab’s plight. The officer, in turn, contacted Pahra panchayat mukhiya Mahendra Ram and his wife Kavita Devi. Ram said, “Aftab’s friends contacted the police who then asked me to trace his family in Salimpur.” His wife added, “His entire village is happy to see Aftab. My husband and I did whatever possible to reunite him with his family.” Aftab said he will not try to venture out again and earn his livelihood in the village itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lockdown-reunites-migrant-with-his-family-after-22-years/articleshow/76803322.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ranchi||Oraon: Jharkhand sets 10L target, 9.5L apply for ration cards||Ranchi: About 9.5 lakh people have applied for new ration cards, state food and civil supplies minister Rameshwar Oraon said on Sunday. Talking to TOI over phone after returning to Ranchi following his two-day tour to his constituency — Lohardaga — Oraon said, “The state government had announced to make 10 lakh new ration cards to cover the needy under the public distribution system, of which we have already received 9.5 lakh applications. Soon, verifications will be carried out before sanctioning ration cards.” Currently, 57 lakh ration card holders exist in the state after a few lakhs were left out in the recent years after the state government declared them invalid owing to issues of duplicity, lack of Aadhaar card linkages and others. Sources said that the nationwide lockdown led to severe rural distress and pushed many on the brink, requiring them to be covered under the PDS. Conceding the issues, Oraon said that to accommodate the genuine beneficiaries, the government is conducting a statewide drive to identify fake and illegal beneficiaries so that room can be made for the needy. He said, “We are working at two levels — first we are appealing illegal ration card holders to voluntarily surrender the cards, and second, respective district administrations are also conducting field verifications of card holders to ascertain their financial statuses. In several districts, cases have been filed against fake beneficiaries who were found to be enjoying PDS benefits despite owning mansions, cars and so on.” Focus is also on streamlining the PDS distribution. “We have also begun slapping cases on PDS dealers, suspension of licenses and others, which was unheard in the previous regime to curb irregularities during distribution of ration,” Oraon said, but couldn’t provide figures off-hand of the PDS dealers who faced action in recent months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/oraon-jharkhand-sets-10l-target-9-5l-apply-for-ration-cards/articleshow/76803335.cms||ASRP Mukesh
July 6, 2020||India||Kuwait’s bill on workers rings alarm bells in India||NEW DELHI: A draft bill to reduce the number of foreign workers in Kuwait has been deemed constitutional by the legal and legislative committee of the Gulf nation’s National Assembly. While the bill still has to be vetted by another committee, as Kuwait chalks out a more comprehensive plan to cut down on foreign workers, it has led to fears in India that as many as 7-8 lakh Indians could be forced out of Kuwait if the bill is enacted into law. The bill proposes that the number of Indians, who form the largest expatriate community in Kuwait, be reduced to 15% of the country’s 4.8 million population. Indians number about 1.4 million in the country and 15% quota would mean their presence reducing to around 6.5-7 lakh. The bill, however, proposes similar quotas for other nationalities too. It calls for reducing the number of Egyptians, who form the second largest expatriate community, to 10% of Kuwait's total population. Kuwait is also a top source of remittances for India. In 2018, India received close to $4.8 billion from Kuwait as remittances. With its own citizens turning into a minority, Kuwait has been working to reduce its dependence on foreign workers. The bill is seen as a manifestation of the fact that Kuwait no longer wants to remain an expat-majority nation. Covid-19 and the slump in oil prices have also been contributing factors. Since the beginning of the pandemic, Gulf News reported last week, there has been a spike in anti-expat rhetoric as lawmakers and governmental officials call for reducing the number of foreigners in Kuwait. In the middle of this, Kuwait’s PM Sheikh Sabah Al Khalid Al Sabah proposed reduction in the number of expats from 70% to 30% of the total population. Official sources said the Indian embassy was closely following developments related to the proposed legislation. India has so far not made any statement on the issue. India has often in the past played up the role of Indian community in Kuwait as an important factor in bilateral ties. As the MEA says, Indians are present in all segments of society in Kuwait and are largely considered disciplined, hardworking and law-abiding. The Indian embassy in 2009 had set up an Indian Workers’ Welfare Centre which provides a labour complaint redressal mechanism and accommodation for domestic workers in distress, a work contract attestation system, a toll free 24x7 telephone helpline, a free legal advice clinic and also a helpdesk to guide Indian nationals on problems faced by them. Watch New Kuwait bill on foreign workers strikes fear in Indian expats||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kuwaits-bill-on-workers-rings-alarm-bells-in-india/articleshow/76804748.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Ghaziabad||Seven women, minor die in blast at illegal factory in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: Seven women and a minor boy died and more than a dozen others were injured in an explosion in an illegal factory making birthday sparklers in Ghaziabad’s Modinagar on Sunday. There were around 30-40 daily wagers in the factory, mostly women, girls and a few boys, who had joined work to augment the family income during the lockdown. Chief fire officer Sunil Kumar Singh said the blaze caused by the 3.15pm explosion wasn’t massive in itself, but the intensity of the blast caused the girders and the ceiling to collapse. Till late on Sunday evening, an NDRF team was still looking for bodies under the debris. There were reports of two minor girls missing since the blast. Officials said the cause of the explosion was not immediately clear. The deceased were identified as Poonam, Baby, Chinki, Jago, Rohit, Sahinoor, Munesh and Laxmi, all residents of the village where the factory is located. The factory workers said the flames caused by the explosion were so sudden that most did not get a chance to escape. Four to five sacks of explosive material were kept inside the factory, which is spread over 1,700 sqft and located in the middle of the densely populated village. It did not have permission from the administration either. ‘There was a huge explosion, we were hit by balls of fire’A few women and I were working in the veranda, while more than 30 others were in two other rooms. There was a huge explosion and we were hit by balls of fire. My face, hands and back were burnt. I tried to look inside for the others, but there were flames and smoke everywhere. We broke a wall, which was already damaged from the explosion, and came out,” said Rajan, one of the workers. Local villagers were the first rescuers. Some of those badly injured were sent to hospitals in private cars. Sources said many of the women had joined the factory after their husbands were rendered jobless during the lockdown. “I was sitting at home because I had no job. My wife told me she could earn Rs 6,000 by working in the factory, which is located in our village itself. I could not have refused her. We got free ration, but there are other expenses to meet,” said Praveen, Geeta’s husband Two teenage girls — Ishu and her friend Parul — are missing since the explosion. Ishu’s mother Uma Devi said it was her daughter’s first day at the factory. “I enquired from so many people and nearby hospitals, but she was nowhere to be found,” she said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the explosion and sought a report from the administration by Sunday night itself. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, SSP Kalanidhi Naithani and local MLA Manju Shiwach reached the spot to pacify the angry crowd, which demanded strict action against the police for allowing the factory to run despite no permission from the authorities. The DM announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the family of the deceased. Pandey said the administration would also bear the cost of treatment of the injured. A magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the blast. Mohammad Rafiq, the local outpost in-charge, was suspended for dereliction of duty and not informing the administration about the illegal factory. “The factory is owned by Nitin Chaudhary, a resident of the same village. An FIR is being registered against him,” the SSP said. Nitin, whose house is located just opposite the factory, is untraceable. The cause of the explosion was not immediately clear. A forensic team collected samples from the factory after the flames were doused. Villagers said the factory had been operating illegally in a residential area for about five years. Even during the lockdown, it continued to function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/seven-women-minor-die-in-blast-at-illegal-factory-in-ghaziabad/articleshow/76804751.cms||Aditya Dev
July 6, 2020||Nagpur||Instead of Rs 143 cr, OCW did repairs worth Rs 19 cr only||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) directed private water operator Orange City Water Private Limited (OCW) to complete renewal and replacement (R&R) works worth only Rs18.88 crore as against Rs143.37 crore in the agreement in 2019-20. The civic body’s apathy in getting the works done has left unsolved the problem of contaminated and low pressure drinking water supply in many areas. Notwithstanding the pending works, NMC has also gone ahead and disbursed penalty and escalation amount of Rs73 crore to OCW under the one time settlement (OTS). As reported by TOI on Sunday, this was done though revised agreement is yet to be executed, as it is pending for approval with board of directors of special purpose vehicle Nagpur Environmental Services Limited (NESL). Under the same OTS, NESL had recommended waiver of R&R works worth Rs111.37 crore due to be done by OCW between March 1, 2012 and March 31, 2018. As per the agreement executed between NMC and OCW, the latter was to undertake R&R works worth Rs15 crore per annum. Unfortunately, NMC never got the works done, which came to fore when the OTS proposal was moved. Due to strong opposition, NMC general body did not approve the waiver. R&R works were mandatory for OCW as they are crucial to mitigate problems of contaminated and low pressure drinking water supply. In another major favour to OCW, NMC had later taken a decision to get done R&R works of Rs25 crore per annum from OCW. Of this, arrears works would be of Rs10 crore and regular works of Rs15 crore. NMC standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke told TOI, “OCW executed R&R works worth Rs18.88 crore as against target of Rs35.71 crore in 2019-20. Works worth Rs4.51 crore are in progress. OCW was to ensure completion of works. We will get the remaining works done soon. Target of Rs25.19 crore is given for 2020-21,” he said. Zalke said problem of contaminated and low pressure water supply was resolved in many areas of Gandhibagh, Dhantoli and Satranjipura zones after R&R works in 2019-20. “Only problems of Satranjipura zone are remaining due to various hurdles, including encroachments,” he said. Congress corporator Sanjay Mahakalkar alleged many areas in South Nagpur continue to get contaminated and low pressure water. “NMC and OCW are not paying heed to our complaints,” he said. BSP corporator Jitendra Godeshwar said problems are as they were in North Nagpur. “Actually, main reason is that NMC has no control over OCW. Officials of OCW doesn’t listen to complaints of corporators as well as NMC officials,” he said. OCW did not respond to TOI’s mail and message. There seems to be another irregularity in calculating the R&R. During OTS, civic body had calculated R&R dues of Rs111.37 up to March 31, 2018. As per the agreement, OCW was supposed to undertake R&R works worth Rs15 crore per annum in 2012-13. The R&R amount was to increase with revision in payment of OCW. NMC has hiked payment of OCW from Rs72 crore per annum to over Rs120 crore per annum in last eight years. However, NMC is still calculating R&R works at the rate of Rs15 crore per annum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/instead-of-rs143-cr-ocw-did-repairs-worth-rs19cr-only/articleshow/76804088.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 6, 2020||India||LJP may reject Nitish as CM face, set to drive hard bargain||NEW DELHI: BJP ally Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) is set to drive a tough political bargain in Bihar as the assembly election nears. While party sources refused to comment on the likelihood of a switch over from NDA to the ‘Mahagathbandhan’ in Bihar, they said LJP was against projecting Nitish Kumar as chief minister. Speculation about LJP seeking to secure better terms from JD(U) and BJP have been doing the rounds, especially after party chief Chirag Paswan sacked the Munger district head for a seemingly innocuous statement on NDA’s unity. Sniffing an opportunity, Congress responded by making public overtures to Chirag and said the party was open to projecting him as its CM candidate. While LJP founder and patriarch Ramvilas Paswan is learnt to have dismissed the “offer” as irrelevant, sources said the party was looking to drive a tough bargain over seats. Though smaller in size than JD(U), BJP and RJD, LJP revels in being seen as the “swing factor” in Bihar politics, courtesy its hold over the Paswan community. The stream of greetings that poured in for Ramvilas Paswan on his birthday on Sunday served to boost the party’s self-perception as the factor which can tip the scales in crunch situations. RJD patriarch Lalu Prasad and his son and leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejaswi Yadav called Ramvilas Paswan to greet him on his birthday. Top NDA leaders including PM Narendra Modi, several Union ministers, BJP members and even chief minister called Paswa. Significantly, until late evening, there was no message or call from Bihar CM Nitish Kumar. Sources in LJP said they won’t accept going to the polls under Kumar’s leadership and would, instead, support BJP if the saffron party staked claim for the top office. They also said the party was not averse to exploring fresh options if BJP sided with Kumar. “All options are open for the party. It won’t mind going with the Mahagathbandhan rather than accepting Kumar as the NDA leader in the state,” a source said. There are indications that the tough bargaining posture has been inspired by a political consultant from the state who has told the Paswans that LJP should declare Chirag as its CM face. “There is Nitish fatigue in the state and Tejaswi Yadav's failure to emerge has opened up an opportunity for LJP to project Chirag as an alternative,” the consultant is learnt to have told the LJP leadership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ljp-may-reject-nitish-as-cm-face-set-to-drive-hard-bargain/articleshow/76804755.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 6, 2020||India||Forces kill four Maoists in Odisha forest||BERHAMPUR: Security forces gunned down four suspected Maoists, including two women, following an exchange of fire in Sirla jungle in southern Odisha’s Kandhamal district early on Sunday, reports Hrusikesh Mohanty. Some security personnel also suffered injuries in the gun battle. The identities of the deceased and their involvement in Maoist violence are being ascertained, said an officer. They are suspected to have belonged to the Bansadhara-Ghumusara-Nagabali division of the proscribed CPI-Maoist. “Firearms and ammunition, along with Maoist literature, were found at the gun battle site,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/forces-kill-four-maoists-in-odisha-forest/articleshow/76804761.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi to conduct antigen tests on all high-risk asymptomatic patients||NEW DELHI: Scaling up testing facilities to identify and isolate suspected Covid-19 patients, the Delhi government has decided to conduct rapid antigen detection tests on all high-risk asymptomatic patients admitted or seeking admission or individuals with influenza-like symptoms visiting any health facility. This includes those having influenza-like illness symptoms visiting a hospital either for consultation with a doctor or accompanying a patient, said an official. The government has also made it must for all asymptomatic patients undergoing aerosol generating interventions such as dental procedures and endoscopy, those requiring admission for chemotherapy, transplantations, those with malignant disease or HIV at any facility to get rapid antigen Govt looking to test as many people as possibleAll asymptomatic patients above 65 years of age and having comorbidities seeking admission in a hospital will also have to get the test done. The health and family welfare department on Sunday issued an order increasing the scope of rapid antigen detection tests, which give clear results whether a person is infected with coronavirus or not within 30 minutes. The decision was taken with a view to test as many people in the national capital for Covid-19 as possible. “All healthcare facilities are required to carry out ‘Rapid Antigen Detection Testing’ of following high risk of individuals who visit their facility – all individual/patients with ILI symptoms and all patients admitted with SARI (severe acute respiratory infection),” the order issued by the Delhi government’s health and family welfare department principal secretary Vikram Dev Dutt read. The order further said the health facilities will also require to conduct rapid tests on all asymptomatic patients in high-risk groups such as those undergoing chemotherapy, immunosuppressed patients, including HIV positive, patients with malignant disease, transplant patients, elderly patients (above 65 years) with comorbidities and undergoing aerosol generating interventions. According to the health bulletin released on Sunday, the Delhi government had conducted more than 23,000 tests on Saturday, which included 13,263 rapid antigen detection tests. The government has asked DMs of all 11 revenue districts to carry out 2,000 rapid tests each in their jurisdiction. While initially the rapid antigen detection tests were being conducted only on high-risk contacts and those living in containment zones, the Indian Council of Medical Research recently issued fresh guidelines to take all people under its ambit. All symptomatic people with influenza-like illness (ILI) in containment zones or hotspots and asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts with other ailments are being tested with rapid antigen detection kits. of confirmed cases. Apart from setting up the testing centres outside the containment zones, some districts have even deployed mobile teams and given buses to move around and collect samples. The districts have shortlisted their own target groups for conducting the tests. While in some areas, the frontline workers such as those working in containment zones, healthcare personnel and sanitation staff are being tested with the rapid detection kits, in others those working as essential services providers are being given the priority. Watch Covid-19: Antigen tests for all high-risk asymptomatic patients in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-to-conduct-antigen-tests-on-all-high-risk-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/76804752.cms||Atul Mathur
July 6, 2020||India||Monuments set to open today, but Taj will stay shut||NEW DELHI: Nearly one hundred days after they were ordered to close, the Archaeological Survey of India has allowed reopening of centrally-protected monuments from today. India’s most popular monument, the Taj Mahal, however, will remain off limits for now since it falls within a containment zone. Agra’s Sikandra, Eitmatuddaula, Fatehpur Sikri and Agra Fort, apart from several centrally-protected monuments in Allahabad, Varanasi and Hyderabad, will also remain closed following decisions taken by the local administrations. Even where monuments begin to welcome tourists again, reopening will be accompanied by safety restrictions like mandatory wearing of masks, numbers of tourists being capped, zero cash transactions inside the monuments, and a complete ban on consumption of food and beverages, except bottled water. The order was issued last week by minister of state for culture and tourism Prahlad Patel and came exactly a month after his previous order to open up sites with religious installations on their premises. On July 2, Patel made the announcement on Twitter and said the opening up of monuments will be done in line with all coronavirus-related protocols issued by the Union health and home ministries. While the Union government has okayed the opening of all 3,691 centrally-protected monuments, the tourism ministry clarified that monuments in containment zones will not be opened, and applicability of government orders will depend on the state government and local administrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/monuments-set-to-open-today-but-taj-will-stay-shut/articleshow/76804769.cms||Swati Mathur
July 6, 2020||India||Govt blocks 40 sites of banned Khalistani outfit||NEW DELHI: As part of sustained crackdown on banned outfit Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) that has been illegally espousing the cause of Khalistan and running a global campaign on social media for Sikh Referendum 2020, the home ministry has got the ministry of electronics and IT to block 40 of its websites. “Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), an unlawful organisation under the UAPA,1967, launched a campaign for registering supporters for its cause. On recommendation of MHA, MeitY has issued orders under Section 69A of the IT Act, 2000, for blocking 40 websites of SFJ,” a home ministry spokesperson tweeted on Sunday. The home ministry on Wednesday had declared US-based founder of SFJ Gurpatwant Singh Pannun as an “individual terrorist” under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Last year, the home ministry had declared SFJ as an unlawful association under the UAPA. As per the home ministry notification issued on Wednesday, Pannun had been issuing appeals and propagating through social media to Punjab-based gangsters and youth to fight for the cause of independent state of Khalistan, thus challenging the sovereignty, integrity and security of the country. His central demand is creation of a separate state of Khalistan. Pannun, presently residing in the US, is instigating and abetting youths to join them in Khalistan Referendum 2020 and providing financial help to youths in region for creating violence or fear to disturb peace in the region, the home ministry added. SFJ has major presence in social media. With the blocking action by MeitY, the SFJ main website, Facebook page and other social media accounts can no longer be accessed in India. Of late, many Indians have been receiving calls on their mobiles from international numbers, mostly from the US, seeking support for SFJ and Sikh Referendum 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-blocks-40-sites-of-banned-khalistani-outfit/articleshow/76804784.cms||Bharti Jain
July 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Metro rail project to transform Vizag’s public transport system||VISAKHAPATNAM: The proposed 140km-long mass rapid transit system is slated to change the public transport system in Vizag forever. Covering every corner of the city and suburbs, the project will connect Bhogapuram Airport region in the North to Anakapalle in the south of Vizag. The project is estimated to cost around Rs 20,000 crore. Of the 140.11km-long project, 79.91km is proposed to be developed as a light metro rail system. The remaining 60.2km corridors will have a caternary-free modern tram/metrolite system. Urban Mass Transit Company (UMTC) has been tasked with the preparation of the detailed project report. The project comes under the purview of Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA). UMTC, also the transaction advisory consultant, will assist Andhra Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation, which is executing the project, in the tendering process and in selection of the developer to take up the project on a public-private partnership. Two DPRs are currently being prepared and both are expected to be completed by the end of this year. NP Ramakrishna Reddy, managing director (MD) of Andhra Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (AMRC) said that the corporation will initiate the tendering process for the 79km-long light metro project by November. “Selection of the developer and the concession agreement are likely to be completed by March 21, 2021 and works will be launched June, 2021,” the AMRC MD said. Reddy further said that the AMRC is considering various financial models for the project with assistance of UMTC for calling tenders. “The DPR for the 60km-long tram network will be completed by December. Even though the initial DPR was prepared for only 42.55km, the state government has decided to extend the corridors considering the new Greenfield international airport coming up at Bhogapuram. Consequently, the AMRC prepared a detailed mass rapid transit system master plan covering 140km length,” Reddy said. In the recent budget, a sum of Rs 3.7 crore was allocated for the metro rail project. Officials estimate that the 79.91km-long light metro will cost around Rs 16,000 crore with cost per kilometre pegged at Rs 200 crore and the tram network will cost around Rs 100 crore per kilometre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/metro-rail-project-to-transform-vizags-public-transport-system/articleshow/76803194.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Polavaram project: 15 villages to be evacuated by July-end||AMARAVATI: With the Polavaram project work expedited, the government has decided to rehabilitate people from about 34 villages on a war footing. The irrigation department has directed revenue authorities to evacuate people from at least 15 villages, identified as submerged areas, within three weeks and another 19 villages by end of August. Irrigation authorities anticipate that once the dam is 41.5 metres in height — likely to be completed by July end — it may submerge the downstream villages of Velairupadu mandal. But the decision comes in the wake of locals refusing to move out of their villages as the government is yet to announce relief and rehabilitation (R&R) package for the oustees. They fear that the government might not grant the one-time financial assistance once they evacuate the villages. “The local revenue officials have issued notices to us to move into the upcoming houses in the rehabilitation colony. They are not talking about the relief compensation under the R&R Act,” said M Venkateswara Rao of Tekupalli village of Velairpadu mandal. The previous TDP government had paid just around Rs 1.8 lakh in compensation to each family. Locals have pinned their hopes on YS Jaganmohan Reddy to grant them at least Rs 10 lakh. Along with construction of a house, the government has to provide financial assistance as part of rehabilitation grant. In fact, the previous government had promised to grant land in compensation to all the oustees. That, however, was not implemented. Sources said about 7,000 families in Velairupadu mandal would be shifted to the new colonies in Tadvai, Buttayagudem, Doramamidi, Rachannagudem and Mulagalapalli villages in the first phase. Irrigation minister Anil Kumar Yadav visited the rehabilitation colonies in West Godavari district two days ago and directed the officials to complete the construction of the houses at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/polavaram-project-15-villages-to-be-evacuated-by-july-end/articleshow/76803229.cms||Samdani MN
July 6, 2020||India||AI to operate 36 Vande Bharat India-US flights||National carrier Air India will operate 36 flights between India and the US under the Vande Bharat mission from July 11 to July 19. In a tweet on Sunday, the airline said: “Tickets may be booked through Air India website only effective 2000 hours (IST) on 6th July 2020, equivalent to New York (EDT 1030 hrs of 6th July 2020), Chicago (CDT 0930 hrs of 6th July 2020) & San Francisco (PDT 0730 hrs of 6th July 2020)”. In June the US department of transportation (DoT) had said it would restrict charter flights from India, accusing New Delhi of engaging in “discriminatory and restrictive practices”. Following the announcement, the civil aviation ministry said it has received requests from several countries, including the US, France and Germany, to allow their air carriers to participate in transportation of passengers along the line being conducted by Air India under the Vande Bharat Mission and that the ministry is examining the requests||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ai-to-operate-36-vande-bharat-india-us-flights/articleshow/76804794.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Rebel MP asks CM to increase welfare pension||Amaravati: Rebel YSRC MP Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju has requested chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy to increase welfare pensions from July as per the election promise. In a letter to the CM on Sunday, Raju also asked to pay compensation to pensioners for delay in age relaxation rule. He said the party had promised to reduce old age pension criteria to 60 years from 65 years . He, however, said the promise was implemented from February, 2020 instead of July, 2019. “Many have lost the benefit for about seven months. We need to pay a compensation of Rs 15,570 to each of the beneficiary who is getting pension from February, 2020,” said Raju. Recalling the CM’s promise to increase the welfare pension amount by Rs 250 every year, Raju urged the CM to release the increased amount on YSR’s birth anniversary on July.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rebel-mp-asks-cm-to-increase-welfare-pension/articleshow/76803249.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Police ready for expansion in Vizag: Andhra Pradesh DGP Gautam Sawang||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh DGP Gautam Sawang said on Sunday that the police department is prepared for institutional expansion in Vizag city if any such decision is taken by the government. The state top cop has been in Visakhapatnam since Friday night reviewing and inspecting land allotments to the police department. Speaking to the media, the DGP said that his visit was aimed at taking a look at the land bank of the police department in Visakhapatnam. During his visit to the land allotted for the setting up of a Greyhounds training centre, DGP Sawand said that 384 acres land is not enough for the centre and therefore the department is looking to identify suitable land in some other areas of Visakhapatnam. Ganja cultivation and drug use in the state also featured among the DGP’s concerns. He said that ganja cultivation has been going on along the Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) for a long time with the support of Maoists and that the cultivation of ganja is a source of revenue for Maoists. On the role of the police in fighting the Covid-19 outbreak, the DGP appreciated Vizag police commissioner RK Meena for handling the lockdown effectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/police-ready-for-expansion-in-vizag/articleshow/76803275.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Energy department looks to cut losses in power distribution||Vijayawada: After the success of low-cost power procurement from spot market, the energy department is now contemplating a new scheme to reduce aggregate losses. The energy department is contemplating to reduce Aggregate Technical and Commercial (AT&C) losses to 12% and reduce the gap between Aggregate Revenue Realised to Average Cost of Service (ACS-ARR) to zero. The AT&C losses stood at 13.36% in 2019-20. The energy department has made progress on this front by reducing the losses from 16.36% in 2018-19. The AT&C losses are the combination of energy loss due to technical loss, power theft, inefficiency in billing, default in payments and inefficiency in collection. When it comes to ACS-ARR gap, the energy department has set a target to reduce it to zero by the year 2024-25. The ACS-ARR gap stood at Rs 1.45 per unit during 2020 that was Rs 2.26 per unit in 2019. The aggregate amount of loss due to this gap is pegged at Rs 8,120 crore in 2020 as against Rs 12,325 crore in 2019. The energy department with the support of the ministry of power is also planning to create demand-driven infrastructure for faultless supply of electricity to consumers. As part of this, the department is planning to segregate agriculture feeders that may allow shifting agriculture load towards green energy and solarise agriculture feeders. The discoms have already completed 77 new substations and 19502.57 km long 33kv, 11kv and LT lines with at an expenditure of Rs 524.11 crore. “We want to ramp up our network capacity to ensure smooth supply of power and prevent outages. All these measures will enhance quality in our operational performance and help provide 24x7 quality power supply,” a senior official of discoms said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/energy-department-looks-to-cut-losses-in-power-distribution/articleshow/76803292.cms||---
July 6, 2020||India||Chhattisgarh puts a price to cow dung: 1.5 a kilo||RAIPUR: A five member cabinet sub-committee in Chhattisgarh has recommended purchase of cow dung from cattle rearers at Rs 1.50 per kilogram under the state’s unique GauDhan Nyay Yojana, scheduled to be implemented from July 21. The sub-committee, constituted by chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, submitted its recommendation to the government on Saturday. It will be tabled before the cabinet for clearance. Headed by agriculture minister Ravindra Choubey, the committee had forest minister Mohammad Akbar, cooperatives minister Dr Prem Sai Singh Tekkam and urban development minister Shiv Kumar Dehariya. CMBaghel had announced last week that his government will procure cow dung to make cattle rearing more viable.  The procured cow dung would be used to produce vermicompost, which in turn would be purchased by horticulture, forest departments and farmers for manure. This will help promote organic farming and reduce dependence on chemical fertilizers. Besides making cow rearing viable, Baghel believes it would also help agriculture, animal husbandry, generate employment and uplift rural economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chhattisgarh-puts-a-price-to-cow-dung-1-5-a-kilo/articleshow/76804825.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Chennai getting out of viral grip, positivity rate down by 50%||CHENNAI: Number of people testing positive for Covid-19 in Chennai has fallen by more than half over the last one month, indicating a possible slowdown in the spread of infection in the city. As per city corporation records, TPR or the test positivity rate, which shows the number of specimens returning positive per hundred samples tested every day in Chennai, has dipped from 35% three weeks ago to 16.52% on July 4. Of the 5,000 to 5,500 samples tested every day in mid-June, around 1,500 had tested positive, Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G Prakash said on Saturday. Of the11,144 samples tested in the city on Saturday, 1,842 returned positive, recording a TPR of 16.52%. The commissioner attributed the positive numbers to the steps taken by the civic body during the intense lockdown in the city from June 19. Lockdown helped track symptomatic cases, say officialsLockdown helped us ramp up testing and identify symptomatic cases as most people remained at home, he said. “Intensive and continuous testing at the street-level, in fever camps, screening centres for smooth patient management and strong quarantine systems are the main verticals that have contributed to this. This is an effort of 42,000 people working under the GCC,” Prakash said. From June 19, GCC had run 500 fever camps every day across the city and screened more than eight lakh citizens. This helped identify symptomatic people who would have otherwise gone untested, leading to spread of infection, officials said. “Earlier, sample test results would take two to three days to come. But as per the chief minister’s instructions, we ensured simultaneous fever camps and sample collection. If we had not tested these people at the fever camps, the infection would have spread,” health secretary J Radhakrishnan said. Responding to a question on increase in cases, Radhakrishnan said that as per the advice of medical experts, higher cases were not a cause of worry, but the mortality rate should be reduced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-19-chennai-getting-out-of-viral-grip-positivity-rate-down-by-50/articleshow/76804824.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
July 6, 2020||India||Days after his surprise Leh visit, Modi calls on Prez Kovind||NEW DELHI: Amid tensions on the India-China border in eastern Ladakh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called on President Ram Nath Kovind. The PM’s visit came two days after his Leh visit. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi called on President Ram Nath Kovind and briefed him on issues of national and international importance at Rashtrapati Bhavan today,” a statement on the President’s Twitter handle said. The PM had made a surprise visit to Ladakh on Friday and was briefed by senior officers at Nimu near Leh amid the border tension with China. He was accompanied by chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and Army chief General M M Naravane. This was the PM’s first meeting with the President since the border tensions began. Kovind, as the supreme commander of the armed forces, had lauded the “exemplary courage and supreme sacrifice” of Indian soldiers to protect the sovereignty and integrity of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/days-after-his-surprise-leh-visit-modi-calls-on-prez-kovind/articleshow/76804839.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: New infections drop in Chennai, rise in districts||CHENNAI: The number of new infections dropped below 2,000 cases for the second day in a row in Chennai, but number of people testing positive for Covid-19 in other districts is on the rise. On Sunday, Tamil Nadu reported 4,150 new cases. Of this, 56 % were from Chennai (1,713) and its three neighbouring districts -- Kancheepuram (152), Tiruvallur (209) and Chengalpet (274). Two weeks ago, these four districts together contributed 72% of total cases in Tamil Nadu. Of the remaining 44% cases reported on Sunday from other districts, majority were from Madurai (308), Vellore (179), Thiruvannamalai (141), Virudhunagar (113) and Villupuram (109). With this, the total number of active cases in the state increased to 46,860. Besides new cases, death rate was also on the rise in others districts of TN. Of the 60 deaths reported on Sunday, almost 30% were from districts and the remaining 42 were from Chennai and its surroundings. Two-thirds of the victims were above 60 of age and had comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. A 29-year-old female from Chennai with thymoma (rare tumour) was the youngest victim on Sunday. Only three people without any comorbidity died due to respiratory failure and all were aged below 60 and lived in and around Chennai. With these deaths, the state's Covid toll crossed the 1,500-mark on Sunday --fourth highest in the country. As far as testing was concerned, there has been a minor drop in number of samples tested from 36,164 on Saturday to 34,831 on Sunday. One private lab (SRM Institutes for Medical Sciences, Chennai) has been newly approved for Covid-19 testing taking the total number of approved labs in the state to 95. Passengers from other states and countries continued to add up to the state's caseload. With 73 more people testing positive at air, rail and road surveillance camps on Sunday, total number of passengers who returned with infections increased to 3,858. It was around 1,700 same time last month and numbers have doubled since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-19-new-infections-drop-in-chennai-rise-in-districts/articleshow/76804845.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Goa||Illegal mining: Goa seeks to recover money, issues notices to companies||PANAJI: The directorate of mines and geology has issued fresh notices to mining companies in its efforts to recover money from 42 leases in illegal mining cases, based on the report of chartered accountants. A senior mines department official said that its new director has issued notices, and that hearings would commence shortly. He said that the new director wants to understand the subject first before passing any orders. Last year, the directorate had issued notices to 42 leaseholders to file their final replies, and from October to December, held final hearings in the matter. The order was expected in January. However, since the directors kept changing, no orders have been issued. After the transfer of Prasanna Acharya, Ashutosh Apte was appointed mines director. He was followed by Arvind Bugde and now, Vivek HP is head of the directorate. TOI had earlier reported that changing of director may result in a delay in passing recovery orders. This process to recover money is pursuant to a government decision in 2015 to appoint 15 chartered accountants to undertake a comprehensive audit of leaseholders and traders of mineral ore in Goa for a five-year period. However, while the CAs have audited the companies, they’re yet to start auditing the 260 traders. Around 464 traders are registered with the mines department, of which over 260 were involved in the mining business from 2007 till September 2012, a senior official said. The CAs were asked to examine the exact quantity of ore extracted and exported, the amount of royalties paid, export duty, and ore (if any) sourced from other states. The accountants had submitted an audit report of 118 mining leases to the mines department. The latter subsequently analysed the report to ascertain the exact loss to the state exchequer due to illegal mining. The Shah Commission report on illegal mining, which had exposed a series of irregularities in the state’s mining activities, had pegged the loss of revenue to the government from the mining scam at Rs 35,000 crore. Former CM Manohar Parrikar had assured the state assembly in 2012 that a team of chartered accountants would be engaged to conduct an audit of all ore export-related activities during the past five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/illegal-mining-state-seeks-to-recover-money-issues-notices-to-cos/articleshow/76803985.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Goa||GCET exams conclude with 95% attendance||Panaji: The two-day Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET) ended on Sunday afternoon with the mathematics paper. Officials said that they were ‘pleasantly surprised’ that of the 2,945 students registered for the test, over 95% attended “despite the difficult conditions” of the pandemic. Officials said that special permits were issued to two students from Banda and Kudal areas in Maharashtra to enter Goa to answer the GCET. Students from these border areas rely on educational institutes in Goa for their studies. “The special permit only permitted them to enter Goa to answer the exam. On both days they were required to leave the state immediately after appearing for the exam. These two students appeared for the test at the Mapusa centre, where arrangement was made for them to answer the paper in isolation. Care was taken that they do not mingle with other students,” said an official. Also, for eight students from containment zones in Zuarinagar and Mangor Hill areas a separate exam centre was arranged at the institute of ship building. Officials said that a special bus was provided to transport these students to the exam centre from their residences. GCET was held across 17 centres in the state on July 4 and 5. The test is held for admissions to degree seats in Goa in engineering and pharmacy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gcet-exams-conclude-with-95-attendance/articleshow/76803994.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Goa||500 final yr diploma students to answer exams from today||Panaji: Starting Monday, final year students of diploma programmes in engineering, pharmacy and hotel management will appear for their exams at the five polytechnic institutes in the state. While exams for junior year students of the programmes has been called off due to the pandemic, the same is being held for final year students so that those wishing to seek employment or pursue higher education do not face any hurdle. Officials said that appearing for the exam is optional and that those who do not wish to appear for it can attempt it later and that it will still be considered a first attempt. Around 500 students are set to appear for the exam. For junior year students, assessment has been done based on tests held earlier in the academic year and based on online exams. Some students have objected to the exams being conducted for the final year students during the pandemic citing safety reasons. “Students were provided the option to either answer the final year exam now or appear for it later, once the situation normalises. Even if they appear later for the exam, it will not be considered as second attempt. All college principals explained these options to their students and students who want to appear have given an undertaking expressing their willingness to answer the exam. Those students, who still want to change their mind on Monday, can give an undertaking even on July 6 that they will answer the exam later,” said an official. The exam will be held at the polytechnics in Panaji, Bicholim, Curchorem, Vasco and Verna. Officials said that students were also given the option to choose any of these centres to take the exam as per their convenience. “All norms like social distancing, wearing of masks, use of sanitisers will be put into practice. Only 12 students will be seated in a class. Only students of a particular subject combination will be answering on a particular day, so at any given time the number of students coming to the institute will be less than 10% of the institute’s entire student strength,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/500-final-yr-diploma-students-to-answer-exams-from-today/articleshow/76804006.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Delhi||Monsoon wading: Doing it the Delhi way||You are in the national capital. And who rescues you when you are in kneedeep trouble after a not-so-heavy spell of rain? At Pul Prahladpur underpass near Tughlaqabad metro station, it is this bullock cart owner. “Aiye aiye, 100 bike ke liye, sirf sawari 10,” he repeats as commuters try to get going on a wet Sunday. Akash Singh and his wife Sonia are among them. They have come from Ali village near Badarpur for their three-yearold daughter’s treatment at Tughlaqabad. But their auto can’t cross the underpass. Thanks to the cart owner, the couple make it. Ankit Saini, another commuter, has to pay Rs 500 to a local crane service to pull out his car from a drain. “We are helpless. Every year we see this waterlogging, sewage water from Mehrauli also gets mixed with rainwater,” says a traffic policeman. While Delhi saw ‘moderate’ rain on Sunday, the Met department forecast the monsoon showers to continue this week, with ‘moderate’ to ‘heavy’ rain on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/monsoon-wading-doing-it-the-delhi-way/articleshow/76804848.cms||Anindya Chattopadhyay
July 6, 2020||Goa||Coastal zone plan: Mapping of all bunds, sluice gates almost done||Panaji: The state government has nearly completed the exercise of mapping bunds and sluice gates across the state. The details will be submitted to the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), which is preparing the state’s draft coastal zone management plan (CZMP). In some areas, like in Karapur, Harvalem and Surla, the survey was postponed following rising Covid cases there and a source said that the same will be taken up as soon as possible. Areas where the survey has been completed include the villages of Rachol, Candola, Tivre Orgao, Cundaim, Marcaim, Betqui, Agonda, Loliem, Polem, Salvador De Mundo, Volvoi, Savoi Verem, Vaghureme, Moira, Durbhat Amona, Mayem, Virdi, Navelim, Velim, Quelossim, Cortalim, Sancoale, Chicalim, Curtorim, Arpora, Calangute, Candolim, Aldona, Corjuem and Calvi, among others. The environment department issued direction to the department of settlement and land records (DSLR) to map all bunds and sluice gates across the state, after the National Coastal Zone Management Authority (NCZMA) recently accepted the state government’s request to demarcate the high-tide line (HTL) along bunds and not around mangroves in khazan lands for the purpose of drawing up the CZMP. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had directed NCSCM, the Chennai-based agency entrusted with drawing up the plan, to submit the final draft to the Union environment ministry by March 31 after a public hearing. It had also said that the final notification had to be issued before April 30. However, all deadlines were missed due to the pandemic. A number of village panchayats and municipalities had earlier demanded that the HTL be demarcated along bunds and not around mangroves. They had even submitted their respective CZMPs to the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA). A senior officer said that suggestions of village panchayats and municipalities have been forwarded to NCSCM, but as the government is able to convince NCZMA to demarcate the HTL along bunds, these suggestions automatically become null and void. During a presentation to the national authority, the GCZMA had highlighted the impact breached bunds have had on CRZ boundaries in khazan lands that are eco-sensitive, low-lying areas, traditionally not influenced by tidal action. It had consequently demanded that the demarcation of HTL in khazan lands that have been inundated due to breach of bunds be dropped, and that the HTL be restricted up to the bunds and be mapped as such.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coastal-zone-plan-mapping-of-all-bunds-sluice-gates-almost-done/articleshow/76804010.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Chennai||Sathankulam fallout: Cops not to use Friends of Police||CHENNAI: In the wake of allegations about their role in the Sathankulam custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son Beniks, Friends of Police (FoP) volunteers will no more be used for policing duties such as patrolling and vehicle checks. According to official sources, state police chief J K Tripathy has told all district superintendents of police to use FoP volunteers only for public interest awareness campaigns. At least three deputy inspectors- general of police (DIGs) have banned FoP in their jurisdictions, which include the districts of Trichy, Karur, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Pudukottai, Villupuram, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Tuticorin, Kanyakumari, Villupuram, Cuddalore and Kallakurichi. In Chennai, city police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal said FoP is a form of community policing where traders, social activists and other volunteers get involved. They can help police in creating awareness, but can’t act like police. "Any volunteers can help police, but they can't take the role of police. The officials have been asked to check the criminal background of the volunteers before using them for any work," the commissioner said. "We are not banning any community policing. Their cooperation is needed, but they should only assist police," he added. However, police units in southern districts have temporarily stopped using FoP volunteers. Their services will not be utilized for at least a couple of months, police officials say. Tuticorin superintendent of police S Jayakumar said friends of police personnel will not be used for station work and patrolling for now. They will be used only for carrying out awareness activities. Ramanathapuram district superintendent of police V Varun Kumar said that they have stopped using FoP volunteers from Friday. Madurai city police commissioner Prem Kumar Sinha said home guards would be deployed to help police personnel. Virudhunagar superintendent of police P Perumal said Friends of Police volunteers should not be involved in vehicular checks or patrolling . N Anandh, Villupuram district organizer of friends of police, said “The FoP movement’s aim was to serve the people by joining hands with the police. But few greedy police officers misuse the scheme. They involve FoP volunteers in illegal activities including collection of bribes during arrack raids and vehicular patrolling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sathankulam-fallout-cops-not-to-use-friends-of-police/articleshow/76804854.cms||---
July 6, 2020||Goa||CAG report: AAP for action against erring officers||Panaji: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has demanded action against all those involved in the failure to close the accounts of two government departments and six government-run corporations as pointed out by comptroller and auditor general (CAG) of India, recently. State AAP convener Elvis Gomes said that in six cases of government corporations, there was no closure of accounts for as long as 13 years when corporate law demanded that the same should be done within six months of closure of the financial year. The CAG report brought to light how the Goa government had failed to ensure the closure of accounts of several government bodies, which was first highlighted by TOI. AAP said that criminal cases should have been filed on the basis of CAG report. “During the period from April 2006 to March 2011, the meter, relay and testing (MRT) division of electricity department had detected 453 cases of theft of energy, the CAG had noted. But instead of taking action, power bills are rising in the state,” Gomes added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cag-report-aap-for-action-against-erring-officers/articleshow/76804013.cms||---
July 6, 2020||India||India focussed on LAC, Pakistan breaches truce to push ultras||Pakistan continues with its incessant ceasefire violations and attempts to push militants across the line of control while India is locked in the ongoing troop confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh, reinforcing the collusive threat from across the two long unresolved borders. Latest figures show India has recorded over 2,250 ceasefire violations (CFVs) along the 778-km LoC by Pakistan already this year, while its security forces have killed around 130 terrorists — almost 50 in June alone — in counter-insurgency operations in Kashmir. On Sunday itself, in strong retaliation by the Indian Army, two Pakistani soldiers were believed to have been killed across the LoC in Mendhar sector, while three others were injured opposite the Poonch and Nowshera sectors. “Pakistan obviously wants to fish even more in troubled waters…it wants to push as many terrorists as possible across the LoC, under with the cover of cross-border firings, at a time when our attention is diverted towards the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China,” said a senior officer. With intelligence reports asserting 280 to 300 heavily-armed terrorists are waiting for an opportune time to infiltrate into Kashmir, the Army has no other option but to keep its guard firmly up along the LoC as well. “Given the situation, the Army cannot afford to move some additional forces from the LoC to the LAC. Two active fronts are a grim reality now. But we have adequate forces both in Kashmir as well as Ladakh for any contingency,” said another official. Going by the surge being witnessed in the number of CFVs by Pakistan this year, it could shatter all previous records. There were 3,479 CFVs and firings across both the LoC and the 198-km international border in J&K in 2019, which was the highest number recorded since 2003.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-focussed-on-lac-pakistan-breaches-truce-to-push-ultras/articleshow/76804863.cms||---
