July 7, 2020||India||Soldier kills self in Baramulla||SRINAGAR: A soldier shot himself dead with his service rifle in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Monday evening. Officials said the soldier, identified as S Srinivas of Telangana, was on duty at Army’s 226 Field Unit in Boniyar area of Uri sector when he killed himself using his service weapon. Upon hearing a gunshot, his colleagues rushed to the spot to find Srinivas lying in a pool of blood. A police officer confirmed the suicide, adding that a case has been registered in this regard and further investigations are underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/soldier-kills-self-in-baramulla/articleshow/76822496.cms||M Saleem Pandit
July 7, 2020||India||J&K fratricide: SSB constable kills ASI, shoots self in Kulgam||SRINAGAR: A Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) constable killed an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the paramilitary force following an altercation, and later shot himself dead in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district late on Monday. Officials said there was a heated argument between ASI Sandeep Kumar and constable Hemant Sharma — both belonging to SSB’s 49 Battalion — at the main gate of PC Kulgam, where they were posted. “Constable Hemant lost his cool and fired at ASI Sandeep using his issued INSAS rifle, killing the officer on the spot. Immediately after, the constable shot himself dead at the very spot,” a police officer said. A senior police officer confirmed the fratricide, adding that an investigation has been launched in the connection. Watch Shocking: SSB constable kills ASI, shoots self in Kulgam||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-fratricide-ssb-constable-kills-asi-shoots-self-in-kulgam/articleshow/76822564.cms||M Saleem Pandit
July 7, 2020||World||Pakistan health minister tests positive||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s de facto health minister announced on Monday that he has isolated himself after testing positive for the novel coronavirus. “I have mild symptoms and under medical advice I have isolated myself at home,” Dr Zafar Mirza, Prime Minister Imran Khan’s special assistant on health posted on Twitter. Over the past few months, several politicians, including members of the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI), have been diagnosed with Covid-19 infection as the virus continues to spread in Pakistan. Last week, foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi tested positive and announced he was quarantining at home. Other prominent politicians who have contracted the virus so far include National Assembly speaker Asad Qaiser, ex-PMs Shahid Khaqan Abbasi and Yusuf Raza Gillani, leader of the opposition in the National Assembly, Shehbaz Sharif, Sindh governor Imran Ismail, Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) leader, Saeed Ghani, and railways minister, Sheikh Rashid, all of whom have recovered. Several well-known figures, including a former governor, a provincial minister, and lawmakers have lost their battle against Covid-19. According to the latest official figures, 2,33,530 people have tested positive for coronavirus across Pakistan since the first case was reported in February. The death toll, however, has climbed to 4,808, while 1,31,650 people have recovered, leaving 1,01,880 active cases in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-health-minister-tests-positive/articleshow/76822709.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
July 7, 2020||Jaipur||Manish Goplani shoots for a music video in the Pink City||Manish Goplani, who is currently in his home town Jaipur, shot for a music video recently. The Thapki Pyaar Ki actor enjoyed getting back to work after almost three months due to the lockdown. All decked up in protective gears like masks and gloves with sanitisers, the actor shot for the video in and around Jaipur and wrapped up the shoot in two days. Speaking about the shoot, Manish says, “It’s a Hindi song with a Rajasthani touch to it. As I know most of the people associated with it, including the director, art director and production head, I knew every possible care will be taken to ensure our safety. Since the director Anwar Ali and actress Vihana Yadav were also living in Jaipur we were not that worried.” The video song was shot in a heritage property near Jaipur and later in a village in Tonk district. Manish Goplani with Vihana Yadav Talking about the precautions they took during the shoot, he says “We were taking all the necessary precautions. Although there were hardly 15 people on the set, they all maintained social distancing norms throughout the shoot. It was only when we were shooting on camera that we removed our masks. When we were not shooting, I would sit inside a sanitised car, as it was an outdoor shoot.” He further adds, “Also it was just a two-day long shoot. So I used to go to the shooting location in the morning and return home by late evening.” The video will be released by the end of this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/manish-goplani-shoots-for-a-music-video-in-the-pink-city/articleshow/76818845.cms||Richa Shukla
July 7, 2020||India||Delhi past 1 lakh mark, dip in positivity rate holds hope||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s Covid-19 count crossed the one-lakh mark on Monday, 125 days after the first case of the viral infection was confirmed in the city on March 2. The total count of Covid-19 cases in Delhi has now reached 1,00,823, the highest across all major cities in the country and third highest among all states after Maharashtra (2,11,987) and Tamil Nadu (1,14,978). Mumbai, which is the second-most-affected city, has reported 85,724 cases till date, 15,099 less than Delhi. The number of deaths due to Covid-19 in Delhi, which touched 3,115 on Monday with 48 fresh fatalities reported in the past 24 hours, is significantly lower than Mumbai where 4,938 people have died due to the disease. On Monday, Delhi’s daily count was recorded below 2,000 with 1,379 more testing positive in 24 hours. The positivity rate, i.e. the number of cases reported among the total samples tested, which had reached 36% in the second week of June, has come down to 10%. Dr K Srinath Reddy, president of Public Health Foundation of India, said the reduction in positivity rate could be due to more testing through the rapid antigen methodology. “It throws up false negatives if the viral load of the patient is very low,” he said. He said Delhi would be considered to be in a more stable position if the daily death rate comes down too. In the past six days — from July 1 to July 6 — the state health department has reported 347 Covid-19 deaths. On an average, 59 fatalities have been recorded daily. In June, 2,269 fatalities were caused due to Covid-19 in the national capital. “The decline in new cases is a positive sign, but I think we will have to wait till July-end to assess if the crisis is over,” said Dr S K Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. Till the second week of June, Delhi was testing only about 5,000 samples daily. This has gone up to over 20,000 now, with rapid antigen testing being conducted in high-risk zones. “There was a time when the daily cases in Delhi had reached close to 4,000. The reduction in new cases by almost 50% in two weeks is a positive sign indeed. We are hopeful that this number will reduce further in the coming days,” said Dr Mahesh Verma, vice-chancellor of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, who heads a committee to oversee Covid-19 management in Delhi. According to the latest data released by the state health department, 72,088 people have recovered from Covid-19. Delhi has only 25,620 active cases — 25% of the total positive cases reported till date — of which 5,520 are requiring hospitalisation. “Most patients are recovering well at home. The panic has reduced and people are more confident about being able to get a bed or getting better even if they contract the disease which is a good sign,” said Dr Verma. Doctors say that physical distancing, wearing masks at all times when in public and regularly washing hands should continue as it is until a vaccine is found. “If the preventive measures aren’t followed, the infection may surge again,” doctors have warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-past-1-lakh-mark-dip-in-positivity-rate-holds-hope/articleshow/76823688.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 7, 2020||World||Coronavirus: US says foreign students whose classes move online cannot stay||WASHINGTON: The United States said Monday it would not allow foreign students to remain in the country if all of their classes are moved online in the fall because of the coronavirus crisis. "Nonimmigrant F-1 and M-1 students attending schools operating entirely online may not take a full online course load and remain in the United States," US Immigration and Custom Enforcement said in a statement. Coronavirus: Live updates"Active students currently in the United States enrolled in such programs must depart the country or take other measures, such as transferring to a school with in-person instruction to remain in lawful status," ICE said. "If not, they may face immigration consequences including, but not limited to, the initiation of removal proceedings." ICE said the State Department "will not issue visas to students enrolled in schools and/or programs that are fully online for the fall semester nor will US Customs and Border Protection permit these students to enter the United States." F-1 students pursue academic coursework and M-1 students pursue "vocational coursework," according to ICE. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Most US colleges and universities have not yet announced their plans for the fall semester. A number of schools are looking at a hybrid model of in-person and online instruction but some, including Harvard University, have said all classes will be conducted online. Harvard said 40 percent of undergraduates would be allowed to return to campus but their instruction would be online. There were more than one million international students in the United States for the 2018-19 academic year, according to the Institute of International Education (IIE). That accounted for 5.5 percent of the total US higher education population, the IIE said, and international students contributed $44.7 billion to the US economy in 2018. The largest number of international students came from China, followed by India, South Korea, Saudi Arabia and Canada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-to-force-out-foreign-students-taking-classes-fully-online/articleshow/76823919.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Business||Infosys charters flight to fly out 206 staff, kin from US||BENGALURU: Infosys chartered a flight to bring back 76 employees and their families — a total of 206 people — from the US. These are employees whose visas have expired or are nearing expiry. A Qatar Airways flight with the employees left from San Francisco to touch down in Bengaluru on Monday morning. Most of the employees were on H-1Bs and some on L-1s. Some of them were seeking extensions of their statuses, but immigration lawyers told TOI that extension requests are still paper-based and with the pandemic forcing people to work remotely, employees stranded aren’t getting any relief. An email sent to Infosys did not elicit a response. Infosys associate vice-president Sanjeev Bode in a LinkedIn post said, “Some of the Infosys employees were stranded in the US because of their visa expiration. All international flights were suspended because of the pandemic. Infosys came to their rescue. The company booked a chartered flight exclusively for over 200 employees and families from the US to India. At the time of writing, the flight has landed safely in Bengaluru, bringing an end to weeks of dilemma related to the uncertain situation.” Many employees took to social media to laud the company’s gesture and the management's efforts to prioritise safety of employees. Nasscom had requested US authorities for a 90-day grace period for professionals to depart the US following the expiration of their H-1B/L-1 visas. But there’s been no change so far. Infosys has 17,709 employees in the Americas. Less than 50% of the US employees are on H-1Bs and L-1s. H-1B visas allow employees to remain in the US for up to six years as specialty occupation professionals. L-1 visas are used for intra-company transfers, and allow employees to stay for up to five years. This is not the first time Infosys has used chartered flights for employees. During the Bhubaneswar floods, it had chartered a flight to take over 500 employees critical to their projects to its other centres, including Bengaluru, to avoid disruptions to clients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/infosys-charters-flight-to-fly-out-206-staff-kin-from-us/articleshow/76824044.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
July 7, 2020||India||Ladakh stand-off: How India also waged a diplomatic war against China||NEW DELHI: As India and China remained locked in a standoff in eastern Ladakh, the government fielded a number of calls and conversations from different countries offering support, and this helped the Modi government put forward its perspective on the confrontation in the high Himalayas. India-China stand-off: Complete coverageForeign minister S Jaishankar spoke to counterparts from the US, the UK, France, Germany, Indonesia, Australia, Canada and Japan among others, delivering what the government believes are reasonable results. After a conversation with French foreign minister Yves Le Drian, Jaishankar had tweeted: “Wide-ranging discussion with French FM J Y LeDrian. Covered issues of contemporary security and political importance. Read AlsoLAC stand-off: Ajit Doval, Wang finalise plan in 2-hour discussionThe breakthrough in India’s attempts to get Beijing to pull back its troops in Galwan Valley came after 2 hours of tense negotiations between NSA AK Doval and China's foreign minister Wang Yi. Doval and Wang, who are special representatives for border talks, have known each other for some time andAlso agreed to address Covid-related challenges in health and aviation. Thanked him for the strong support in UNSC and look forward to working together.” Jaishankar also used conversations with ministers from Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia, Mexico and Ireland on India’s UNSC term to brief them about China and its aggression in Ladakh and Sikkim. Read AlsoChina, India begin pullback even as NSA, foreign minister talkIn what marks a breakthrough after several rounds of military and diplomatic talks, India and China have kicked off step-wise disengagement from the two-month-long confrontation in Galwan Valley and Gogra-Hot Springs areas of eastern Ladakh.Diplomatic sources said there was intense curiosity about the India-China clash, the causes, and how India planned to deal with it. In the light of Covid-19 and Chinese actions thereafter, there might have been a receptivity to what India had to say. Government sources said that they believed PM Narendra Modi’s visit to Ladakh amplified the Indian resolve on standing up to Chinese aggression. Read AlsoNo overt show but India &amp; US in touch at top levelThe US has not been sitting on the sidelines as Indian and Chinese troops remain locked in a tense standoff in eastern Ladakh. On June 22, a week after the Galwan clashes, US secretary of state Michael Pompeo called foreign minister S Jaishankar for a conversation on the current state of play at theThat made it easier to push the government messaging to China and to the world. While this was happening, India and China were also engaged in serious discussions at military and diplomatic levels to disengage at the LAC in Ladakh. “We have very quietly but effectively got the international community to understand our perspective. As a result, we have garnered both sympathy and support,” a government source said, referring to the diplomatic effort of the past few weeks to explain India’s position to the rest of the world. Read AlsoUS flexes military muscle at China as Beijing draws down in its border spat with IndiaIn the clearest sign yet that the White House will not back down from its position as a pre-eminent power in the Pacific and beyond, US Prez Trump’s chief of staff Mark Meadows on Monday said that the US military "will continue to stand strong whether it's in relationship to a conflict between IndiaIndia’s job was made easier by the general sense of aggression shown by China with all its neighbours, both on land and on the seas. Watch LAC row: How India also waged diplomatic war||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/how-india-also-waged-diplomatic-war/articleshow/76824075.cms||---
July 7, 2020||India||Corona hits goat exports to Arab nations||JAIPUR: Rajasthan’s goat traders are going through hard times. Slowdown due to Covid-19, compounded by limited international cargo services, has crashed demand for sacrificial goats in Arab countries ahead of Bakr Eid on July 30. Rajasthan’s exotic species of goats — Sirohi, Totapari, Jaisalmer, Pali, and Marwari — which have a huge market among the Indian diaspora on the festive occasion, have no takers this year. Last year, around 40,00050,000 goats from Rajasthan were exported to Dubai, Sharjah, and Abu Dhabi via air and sea. This time, traders in Nagaur, Pali, Sikar, Ajmer, Barmer, Jaisalmer, and Sirohi have received no orders from agents in west Asian nations. Every year, almost three months ahead of the festival, trucks loaded with goats head to Mumbai and Nasik to board flights to west Asia. These goats are specially reared and fetch almost 3-10 times the price in India. Rearing these goats are an expensive affair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/corona-hits-goat-exports-to-arab-nations/articleshow/76824240.cms||Shoeb Khan
July 7, 2020||Patna||No one filed FIR in this border village since Independence||PATNA/BAGAHA: Kataraw, a village near the Indo-Nepal border in West Champaran, holds the rare distinction of not having a single FIR registered for any crime since Independence. A remarkable feat considering the high rate of serious crimes in the state. The village with a sizeable population of around 5,000 people, including tribals, relies on the age-old mechanism of local panchayat to settle disputes among residents, a system favoured by Mahatma Gandhi, whose Bhitiharwa Ashram is barely 15km from this village. DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, who was visiting the village, was delighted to hear this feat when informed by the villagers. “Not a single FIR has been registered against any resident of the village at the Sahodara police station, under whose jurisdiction the village falls, nor any complaint case has ever been lodged in the local court since Independence,” the DGP said, perhaps himself finding it to be an incredible information to have. The state police chief said the residents have set an example by maintaining the legacy they have inherited from their fore-fathers. “I must congratulate the residents of this village for setting an example of maintaining peace and harmony,” he added. And that was not all, the DGP was even more surprised to know that complaints related to women were heard at the panchayat and settled by women themselves without the involvement of any male members. “No male member is allowed to interfere into their matters,” a local resident Nitesh Mahto said. Overwhelmed by the warm response from the villagers, in an impromptu gesture, the DGP entered the house of an elderly woman Chinta Devi, who offered him ‘roti’ (bread), ‘namak (salt)’ and ‘hari mirch( green chilli)’ as breakfast. Pandey thanked her for the generous offer and told her that this reminded him of his childhood. Just before leaving, he was surprised to see a ‘jata chakki’ in the house and asked her if it works. “Yes, we still use it,” she replied. The mukhiya, Sunil Kumar Gadhwal, said the DGP had reached the village around 8.30 am and spent an hour with the residents and also inquired about sanitation work (read toilets) at the village. Narkatiaganj sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Suryakant Choubey said the DGP asked the residents to wear masks and maintain social distancing to check the spread of Covid19 pandemic. Later the DGP reviewed the law and order situation at a meeting in Bettiah. The meeting was attended by DIG (Bettiah range) Lal Mohan Prasad and SP of West Champaran Natasha Gudia among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-one-filed-fir-in-this-border-village-since-independence/articleshow/76820339.cms||Ramashankar
July 7, 2020||Patna||Jitan Ram Manjhi to take a final call on July 10||PATNA: HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi has called a meeting of the core committee of his party on July 10, in which he is likely to take a final call on continuing his allaince with the Mahagathbandhan. Incidentally, Manjhi is bent upon forming a coordination committee ahead of the assembly elections to sort out issues like seat-sharing. Two deadlines set by Manjhi for the same have already lapsed and RJD, the main opposition party, has not initiated any step in this regard. “I first asked the allies to form a coordination committee by June 25, but I was told by Congress to wait till July 1. Now, even the second deadline has lapsed but Congress has again asked me to wait till July 10, claiming that everything will be sorted out by then. Hence, I have convened a party meeting on July 10 and depending on the progress made by the Grand Alliance partners, we will take a decision,” Manjhi told TOI on Monday evening. On being asked whether he intends to break ties with the Mahagathbandhan if his demand is not met, Manjhi said, “Congress state incharge Shaktisinh Gohil will come to Patna on Tuesday and he is likely to hold meetings with party functionaries and probably allies also, to sort out the issues. I am hopeful of a positive outcome. But if they do not agree to our stand, we will be forced to explore other options.” On being asked whether he has received any communication from the RJD, Manjhi said that nobody from the party has approached him so far. “We don’t want one-upmanship of any party in the alliance,” he said. The HAM (S) chief has been demanding formation of coordination committee for the one last year and reiterated his stand on June 15 this year also. He was authorized by his party on June 26, to take all the decisions pertaining to the party’s affairs, including alliance issues. RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan on the other hand said that the party’s priority is reaching out to people in Covid-19 crisis. “Our priority is not politics. It is the people of Bihar. Allies should have patience, all issues will be sorted with mutual discussion,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-to-take-a-final-call-on-july-10/articleshow/76821864.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 7, 2020||Mysuru||Three die of Covid in Mysuru, toll in dist rises to 8||Mysuru: The number of Covid fatalities in Mysuru district soared to eight with three men succumbing to the infection here on Sunday. The three men had been admitted to hospitals complaining of respiratory illnesses. The trio was buried on Monday in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), authorities said. The three men who died were respectively aged 75, 46 and 50, the last of whom was a resident of Chamarajanagar. The three patients underwent treatment for two days before they passed away on Sunday. Meanwhile, as many as 45 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported across Mysuru district on Monday, a majority of whom have been identified as primary contacts of previously infected patients. Consequently, the Covid tally in Mysuru has now surged to 479, of which 200 are active cases. On the other hand, 21 patients were discharged from the designated Covid hospital in Mysuru on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/three-die-of-covid-in-mysuru-toll-in-dist-rises-to-8/articleshow/76821247.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru mulling restricting no. of people from Bengaluru||Mysuru: After a prolonged lull, the number of Covid-19 cases has been surging in Mysuru, prompting the district administration to contemplate drastic measures to arrest the spread of the infection. The officials are mulling over restricting entry of people from Bengaluru to Mysuru. Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar on Monday said that a section of the population in the district was demanding a complete ban on entry of people from Bengaluru. “But it will not be possible to stop them entirely, but we are thinking of restricting the number,” said Sankar, adding that scores of people from Bengaluru were trooping into Mysuru on a daily basis. “We cannot examine all of them, which means that the chances of Covid-19 cases spiking in Mysuru are bound to rise,” said the DC, who added that the district administration, taking cognisance of the rising Covid graph and fatalities was contemplating a ban on entry of tourists. Sankar said that they would not close down government offices in the wake of personnel testing positive for the novel coronavirus. “Agricultural activities have started in the earnest across Mysuru district, and farmers visit government offices regularly. We are not closing our offices but taking all necessary precautionary measures,” the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-mulling-restricting-no-of-people-from-bengaluru/articleshow/76822089.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot cheers monsoon onset||Rajkot: Continuous rainfall since Sunday midnight disrupted the normal life in Rajkot, but citizens did not mind it as they enjoyed every drop of showers, which were at times heavy.The city received 104mm rainfall up to Monday evening. While the Aji, Nyari and Bhadar dams received fresh inflow of water, heavy water logging was seen, especially on Kalavad Road and Raiya Road, which connect the western and eastern parts. Due to knee-deep waters, normal traffic was diverted in the BRTS corridor on 150 ft Ring Road while most underpasses were closed for traffic. At Mahila College underpass, teams of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) were continuously pumping out water to keep road clean. In low lying areas like Junction Plot and some societies of eastern parts, rain water entered into the houses. RMC teams had a busy time clearing water from Jamnagar Road, Manharpur crossroads, Madhapar village, Git Gurjari road, Sadhu Vasvani Kunj Road, Junction plot, Laxminagar underpass, Tagore Road, Lodhavad chowk, Jagnath plot, by opening the drainage manholes. There were complaints of trees collapsing on Airport Road, Karanpara Main Road, Sainagar and Junction main road. The district administration warned people not to move in low lying areas close to reservoirs. The warning was issued to people living in Padadhari, Tankara, Jodiya, Dhrol talukas of Rajkot and Jamnagar districts as 17 gets of Aji-3 and six gates of Nyari-2 dams were opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-cheers-monsoon-onset/articleshow/76823696.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Surat||Diamantaires told to curtail import of roughs to reduce inventory||Surat: The diamond trade bodies including Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) have jointly appealed the diamantaires to voluntarily curtail import of rough diamonds to reduce inventory of polished ones and manage cash flow. The firms have been asked to curtail imports from July 10 till July 31.Meanwhile, in order to continue operations and sustain the diamond workers’ livelihoods, the bodies have recommended a window of nine days – from July 1-9 — for the import of rough diamonds.Annual rough diamond import is pegged at $15 billion. However, in 2019-20, the rough diamond import decreased by almost 15% at $12 billion.Earlier, similar appeal was made to curtail the rough diamond imports between April 23 to May 19 by the trade bodies. However, only Rs 200 crore worth of rough diamonds were imported and that too majority being part of the old orders placed before lockdown. In a statement, the trade bodies said that the manufacturing operations in Surat have been affected due to rise in Covid-19 cases among the workers. “In the coming times, the manufacturing operations will face several constraints because of issues like social distancing etc. The livelihood of workers is paramount and the industry is taking all possible steps to protect and support the workers,” it added.A De Beers sightholder asking anonymity said, “We have exhausted our rough diamonds stock and need to purchase new stock to keep the unit operational. Though the units have been shut till July 14, we will have to purchase the stock now for providing livelihood to our workers after July 14.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamantaires-told-to-curtail-import-of-roughs-to-reduce-inventory/articleshow/76823620.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Business||Ampere acquires 74% stake in e-rickshaw co Bestway||Chennai: Ampere Vehicles, a wholly-owned e-mobility subsidiary of Greaves Cotton, has acquired 74% stake in the Noida based e-three wheeler company Bestway Agencies which sells e-rickshaws under the ELE brand, for an undisclosed sum. “Through this acquisition, Ampere will expand its presence in e-rickshaw segment to become an integrated last mile e-mobility player with strong presence in both e-two wheelers and three wheelers,” Ampere said in a statement. Targeted at B2B customers for both people and cargo mobility, the acquisition will add “last mile mobility products and services for uninterrupted journey, enhancing productivity across electric two and three wheeler spectrum. Combining Ampere’s and Bestway’s expertise will help in further boosting company’s growth and strengthen market positioning,” said Nagesh Basavanhalli, MD & CEO of Greaves Cotton and director, Ampere Vehicles. Added BVR Subbu, chairman, Ampere Vehicles, said, “Within two years of Ampere acquisition by Greaves, the company has grown phenomenally to become affordable e-two wheeler brand under personal mobility segment. With the acquisition of Bestway, Ampere has now embarked on a new journey to provide shared mobility solutions through e-three wheelers.” E-rickshaws comprise the second biggest chunk of the Indian electric vehicle market. The EV industry sold 90,000 e-rickshaws in FY19-20 mostly by unorganised players. In comparison it sold 1,52,000 were two-wheelers, 3400 cars and 600 buses. Cargo and passenger e-rickshaws have been growing sharply and big organised players M&M are getting into it as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ampere-acquires-74-stake-in-e-rickshaw-co-bestway/articleshow/76822038.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Bus carrying migrants to Bihar overturns in Kurukshetra, 29 injured||KURUKSHETRA: A private bus carrying migrant labourers from Yamunanagar to Muzaffarpur district in Bihar met with an accident near Barshami village in Ladwa police station area of Kurukshetra district on Monday late evening, leaving 29 injured. The accident took place on Yamunanagar-Kurukshetra state highway (SH) 6 near when the bus overturned after the driver lost control of it while navigating a speed breaker. Ladwa police station house officer (SHO) inspector Rajpal said, “A private bus bearing registration number of Rajasthan state overturned near Barshami village and 29 migrant labourers sustained injuries. Out of them, around four-five have grievous injuries. They were taken to a hospital, where they are being treated for their injuries. So far, no casualty has been reported in this accident. We suspect the driver was overspeeding and lost control of the while driving over a speed breaker. The bus overturned and in a field on the roadside.” “There were women, children and men in the bus. We are identifying them and also recording their statements,”he added. Sources said the bus also overloaded and the bus driver and conductor had charged Rs 2,100 per head for ferrying the migrants to Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/bus-carrying-migrants-to-bihar-overturns-in-kurukshetra-29-injured/articleshow/76822977.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 7, 2020||Varanasi||Flood control room activated as Ganga rises at a slow pace||Varanasi: The local administration has made arrangements in view of the possibility of flood as the water level of the Ganga rises at a slow pace in Varanasi. The river water has started submerging low-laying ghat steps. According to the daily flood bulletin of the Central Water Commission (CWC), the water level of the river has shown a rise up to 0.09 mt in past 24 hours. The river was flowing at the mark of 60.8 mt on Monday, about 10.46 mt below the danger mark (71.262 mt). Meanwhile, the NDRF personnel have also geared up to handle the flood situation in the region. According to DIG of 11 NDRF battalion, Alok Kumar Singh, six teams of NDRF have been deployed in Varanasi, Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Bahraich, Maharajganj and Siddharthnagar districts, while two teams have been deployed in Bhopal (MP). Besides, 10 teams have been kept reserved at the headquarters in Varanasi. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma has already discussed the work plan for the flood time with the officials of different department to ensure the arrangements of food grains, community kitchen near relief camps for the flood affected people. The flood control room has been activated for the monitoring of the situation. All the lekhpals have been asked to camp in villages for next two months. The SDMs were asked to depute staff at flood outposts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/flood-control-room-activated-as-ganga-rises-at-a-slow-pace/articleshow/76821538.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Surat||Coronavirus spreading at lightning speed in Surat||SURAT: The Surat Municipal Corporation on Monday published the list of 159 Covid-19 hotspots in the municipal zones of Katargam, Varachha-A, Varachha-B and Rander.The areas including Ashwini Kumar Road, Sarthana, Varachha and Puna in Varachha zone, entire Katargam zone, Pal, Adajan, Rander, Palanpur Patia and Chaprabhata in Rander zone have witnessed sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in the last one week. Meanwhile, about 30 diamond workers tested positive on Monday. Pani said, “I request all the citizens in the hotspot areas to take utmost care as the situation is worsening in Varachha, Katargam, Pal, Adajan, Rander and Chaprabhata.” Citizens have been requested not to organize social functions including birthdays, marriage etc. in the open places as well as in their own houses. Meanwhile, the city recorded 201 Covid-19 cases on Monday while four people succumbed to the infection. On the other hand, Surat rural recorded 59 fresh cases, taking the tally to 803 on Monday. Two patients also died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/virus-spreading-at-lightning-speed-in-city/articleshow/76823644.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Patna||‘Bakhtiyarpur-Mokama road to become motorable by month-end’||PATNA: State road construction minister Nand Kishor Yadav said on Monday that the existing Bakhtiyarpur-Mokama road, which is part of NH-31, would be made motorable by the end of this month and thoroughly repaired by June next year. The road construction department (RCD) has been sanctioned funds to the tune of Rs 31.5 crore by the National Highways Authority of India for strengthening of the existing Bakhtiyarpur-Mokama NH-31. “Bidding process has started and strengthening and blacktopping of the road will begin in three days. It will be made motorable by the end of July and thoroughly repaired by June next year,” Yadav said. While the existing Bakhtiyarpur-Mokama road will come under the purview of the RCD, the NHAI is developing a greenfield four-lane project connecting Patna to Begusarai and Khagaria via Bakhtiyarpur and Mokama. The Patna-Bakhtiyarpur NH-30 has already been developed as a four-lane highway and is further getting extended up to Mokama by the NHAI as part of the project. With regard to the stretch between Bakhtiyarpur and Mokama, the RCD minister claimed that land acquisition for the purpose had almost been completed. “Soil-related works have also been done over a stretch of 20km out of the total length of 44.6km. This project is targeted to be completed by July next year,” he said. The RCD minister also issued instructions for maintenance of left-out portions of national highways in other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bakhtiyarpur-mokama-road-to-become-motorable-by-mth-end/articleshow/76820348.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Patna||Patna: Covid-19 cases among doctors, health workers on rise||PATNA: The Covid-19 virus is beginning to take a toll on healthcare professionals with a senior doctor in Patna testing positive on Monday. Another doctor, who holds a senior position at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), also tested positive whose report came late on Sunday night. According to the Indian Medical Association, around 40 doctors across the state, including at least 20 in Patna, have tested positive for Covid-19. Sources said the IGIMS doctor has was admitted to the isolation ward after his test report came late on Sunday. He got himself tested after his driver was found positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The doctor had attended a programme conducted by the Indian Medical Association (Bihar Chapter) on July 1 on the occasion of Doctors’ Day. “Another senior doctor of IGIMS had accompanied him in the same car to that programme. He is under home quarantine and his sample will be tested,” said a source. Earlier, six IGIMS staffers had tested positive for Covid-19. One doctor’s report had also come positive, however, superintendent Dr Manish Mandal said the report was indeterminate as the virus load was very less and in such cases the chances of passing on the virus is extremely low. “Five of our health staffers have recovered and are now back to work,” said Dr Manish. On Sunday, a doctor posted at Gardanibagh government hospital had also tested positive for coronavirus. Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) superintendent Dr Bimal Karak said so far 15 doctors and 15 paramedic staff of his hospital have tested positive for the virus. One MBBS student and a nurse at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, a dedicated hospital for Covid-19, have tested positive for coronavirus. At AIIMS-Patna, so far two senior residents and one lab technician of microbiology department have tested positive, confirmed its nodal in-charge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar. Indian Medical Association (Bihar chapter) secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said at least 40 doctors across the state have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. “In such a situation, the government should get all the doctors and health workers deployed at medical college and hospitals, primary health centres and referral centers tested at the gap of 15 days. This is not only for the safety of doctors, but even patients who come in touch with doctors. If this trend of doctors and health staff getting infected continues, then the situation will become uncontrollable,” said Dr Sunil. He alleged that in spite of a doctor being positive at Gardanibagh hospital, other doctors and staff of that hospital were not tested till Monday afternoon. “We are getting our tests done at private labs after paying Rs 28,00. It is the responsibility of the government to get the doctors tested,” added Dr Kumar. Private doctors and hospital association president, Dr Sunil Kumar Singh said the government should chalk out a plan and call one-third of medical staff in a day to the hospital so that all of them are not exposed at a time. He said the doctors and medical staff in Bihar were getting infected and the health department should immediately look into it. “We have got reports that a large number of doctors in Begusarai and Muzaffarpur have tested positive for Covid-19. Government should release data of the number of health workers who have been infected, so that the gravity of situation can be assessed and action can be taken accordingly,” said Dr Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-cases-among-doctors-health-workers-on-rise/articleshow/76820966.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 7, 2020||Patna||Many areas in western Patna still waterlogged||PATNA: Intermittent rain in the last few days has caused waterlogging in Danapur, Phulwarisharif, Anisabad and Gola Road and other areas in western Patna. Police Colony, Panchwati Nagar and Sakri Mahadev localities under ward number 22 of Danapur Nagar Parishad were the worst affected. “Knee-deep water is flowing in these localities. About 30 to 40 houses have been affected, causing much hardships to the housewives in doing even daily household works,” Danapur Nagar Parishad ward councillor Raj Kumar Yadav told this newspaper on Monday. He said people living in these localities were at great risk as electric supply line was carried on ‘bamboos’, which could fall down any time in the waterlogged areas. Danapur Nagar Parishad was yet to take any concrete steps to pump out water and remove encroachments which mainly caused waterlogging due to choking of the drains, he said. Intermittent rain since Thursday has also left Millat Colony, R K Nagar and FCI godown areas in Phulwarisharif waterlogged. Accumulated rainwater in these localities is a big problem for the pedestrians, said Millat Colony resident Imtiyaz. “Over a dozen houses have been inundated. Residents fear breakout of any epidemic if disinfectants are not sprinkled immediately in the waterlogged areas,” he said. As main drains are choked and there is no outlet for water to drain into ancillary drains, waterlogging continues to affect normal life in R K Nagar Colony in Phulwarisharif. The Phulwari-Khagaul road is also under rainwater due to choked drains. “The construction work of the main drains could not be completed and there is no outlet to drain out water from the main roads. Due to choked drains, stagnant water emits foul smell posing serious health problems,” said Arvind Gupta. Similarly, people of Kalyani Nagar under ward number 11 of Patna Nagar Nigam are facing hardships due to waterlogging. Main roads were dug up by a private agency, which could not complete the work. Thus, main roads have potholes and ditches, a resident said, adding the municipal officials hardly visit the area to take stock of the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-areas-in-western-patna-still-waterlogged/articleshow/76821749.cms||Kumod Verma
July 7, 2020||Business||Paytm, CEO to acquire insurer Raheja QBE||BENGALURU: Paytm, along with its founder and CEO Vijay Shekhar Sharma, is entering the general insurance business with a 100% acquisition of Raheja QBE General Insurance for about Rs 570 crore. The acquisition is routed through QorQl, where Sharma holds 51% stake, while the rest will be held by Paytm parent firm One97 Communications. The deal is subject to the insurance regulator’s approval. Sharma told TOI that he is financing his majority stake purchase through proceeds of the sale of his personal stock in One97 Communications when Paytm’s payments bank was set up. A source said Paytm has also applied for a non-banking financial company (NBFC) licence to lend on its own, as part of building its broader financial services business. It is waiting for approval of the same from the RBI. Paytm confirmed the same, saying the plea for NBFC licence is “part of building the lending vertical”. Raheja QBE, was a joint venture between the BSE-listed Prism Johnson and Australia’s QBE Insurance Group, with 51% and 49% stake respectively. In a stock exchange filing, Prism Johnson said it will sell its stake to Paytm and its founder for almost Rs 290 crore. For Paytm, the entry in the general insurance business has been long in the making, including setting up an arm for the venture and planning to apply for its own license. It had secured an insurance brokerage license from Irdai earlier this year. “We took the acquisition route to accelerate our journey into general insurance. This would help us save between 24-30 months,” said Paytm president Amit Nayyar. Raheja QBE’s CEO Pankaj Arora will continue to lead the business working with Nayyar, who heads the financial services business for the Alibaba and SoftBank-backed firm. According to Irdai data as of May 2020, Raheja QBE has largely been focused on motor and liability insurance. The company reported a revenue of Rs 137 crore in the quarter ending March 2020 with a net loss of close to Rs 8 crore. “After we get the approvals, we will strengthen the offering by bringing new products based on customer needs. We bank on Paytm’s network and reach to take the benefit of insurance to the large population of India,” Nayyar added. On its aspiration to own an NBFC, Paytm has reworked its lending plans. As reported by TOI last month, for its Postpaid offering, Paytm has now created a tier-based system for offering credit to a range of users starting from consumers who would typically not get bank loans or have credit cards and then customers with a good transaction history. This is being done in partnership with third-party NBFCs offering loans in the range of Rs 20,000-1,00,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/paytm-ceo-to-acquire-insurer-raheja-qbe/articleshow/76822112.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 7, 2020||Patna||Patna: Four home guards, a fireman test Covid-19 positive||PATNA: Five home guard and state fire service personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in the city. While the four home guards got infected in the police barracks at Chhajjubagh and were rushed to Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), the fireman was admitted to a hospital at Bihta for treatment. Their samples were collected on Saturday after they complained of high fever, severe cough and influenza. The other inmates of the barracks were advised to follow standard operating system (SoP) issued by the department as a precautionary measure. “Their test reports reached the office of the director general-cum-commandant general of home guards and fire services on Sunday evening. The police barracks were sealed for sanitization,” a senior police officer said. Altogether 25 home guards were shifted from the police barracks to Bihta headquarters after collecting their samples. “They were in contact with the infected jawans,” the police officer said, adding the contact tracing of the jawans was being ascertained. The infected home guards were assigned duty at different places in the city. However, the fireman was posted at the Lodipur office of the fire services. “It’s is being ascertained whether the drivers of different fire tenders had come in contact with the infected one,” an officer of the state fire service said. He didn’t rule out the possibility of closure of the directorate offices of both the home guards and the fire services. “We have already sent a report to the state police headquarters,” a home guards’ commandment said. Earlier, a driver of Jakkanpur police station in Patna had died due to Covid-19. Several Bihar Military Police personnel and subordinate staff of senior IPS officers were detected positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/four-home-guards-a-fireman-test-covid-ve/articleshow/76820933.cms||Ramashankar
July 7, 2020||Business||Adanis to buy Kalpataru’s power project||MUMBAI: Adani Transmission is set to buy a power project from Kalpataru for Rs 1,286 crore, bolstering its presence in the country. The project — Alipurduar Transmission — operates power lines in West Bengal and Bihar. Once the transaction is concluded, the cumulative network of Adani Transmission will reach 15,400 circuit kilometres. Of this, about 12,200 circuit kilometres are already operational (includes Alipurduar Transmission) and the remaining 3,200 circuit kilometres are under various stages of execution. The deal is expected to be completed in a few months. Alipurduar Transmission was set up as part of an inter-state system to transfer hydroelectric power from Bhutan to India. It is the second asset for which Kalpataru has inked a sale deal in the last couple of months. “We now have agreements in place for all our transmission and distribution assets — Alipurduar, Kohima and Jhajjar. In fiscal 2020, we completed the sale and transfer of the Satpura transmission asset. We are now targeting to complete the sale and transfer of all balance assets this fiscal,” said Kalpataru Power Transmission CEO Manish Mohnot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/adanis-to-buy-kalpatarus-power-project/articleshow/76821924.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Patna||Stand-off hurts Chinese national, who is wife of a Nalanda professor||PATNA: Yeen Ha, a Chinese national residing in Nalanda, has virtually been robbed of her sleep ever since she came to know about the death of 20 Indian soldiers, including five from Bihar, in the violent face-off with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley on June 15. Yeen is pursuing her PhD in Pali language from Nava Nalanda Mahavihara, a deemed university under Union Ministry of Culture. Married to Dr Arun Kumar Yadav, an assistant professor of Pali at the same university, she says, “I am deeply hurt by the Galwan Valley incident. It’s India which spread the teachings of Buddha about peace and non-violence across the world. I will be happy if the conflict is resolved at the earliest and bond between the citizens of the two countries is strengthened.” Referring to the recent conflict along the LAC, Yeen said, “It is like an altercation between parents and my in-laws.” Her husband, a native of Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh, said his wife wept inconsolably on the day the Indian Army personnel were killed along the LAC. Yadav said he met Yeen while studying in North Eastern University, Shenyang, in 2011-12. Yeen was then pursuing business administration course in the same university. “We were in constant touch with each other even after I returned to India after completing my course,” he said over the phone. As luck would have it, the two tied the nuptial knot in 2016 and were blessed with a son named ‘Maitreya’ (friendship). “In fact, my father was initially not ready for the marriage with any Indian national. But he relented when he came to know about our love. Thank God, since then I am happily living with the family,” she added. Yeen hopes things would be set right with the passage of time. “The two nations often advocated peace and friendship. Both are powerful nations in Asian continent. Chinese give immense respect to Indians and vice versa,” she said, recalling profound love and blessing showered on her when she shifted to India from China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stand-off-hurts-chinese-national-who-is-wife-of-a-nalanda-prof/articleshow/76820361.cms||Ramashankar
July 7, 2020||Business||Corporates, small biz rush to up cyber insurance cover limit||Chennai: Working from home is exposing systems and networks to cyber attacks as companies rush in to write more for cyber insurance. Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited sold 14 specialised Cyber Insurance policies with sum insureds ranging from Rs 5 crore to Rs 75 crore in April 2020, which is double the number sold in the same month last year. “Besides large IT companies, we see growing demand for cyber insurance policies from smaller companies and mini-factories who see the need to get covered against cyberattacks now. More customers request for coverage on their employee’s laptop (under bring your own device) and third-party service providers as organizations move their IT applications and databases to cloud platforms. We also see requests to increase the limit of cyber cover, like one of our clients, a large IT company has increased its limit from $50 million to $75 million as they fear higher risk,” its deputy VP, Najm Bilgrami said. Cyber Insurance policies offers protection for both individual and corporate customers, with a sum assured ranging from Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 crore. The cover protects against the loss of sensitive personal and corporate information caused by theft or altering of data, virus or malware, denial of service, and also reputational damage in terms of both the reputation of the business and that of the senior executives. It also covers policyholders from law suits and also losses arising out of virus attacks. Bajaj Allianz General Insurance has also seen a 20% increase from the average monthly sales of cyber insurance policies compared to the previous year. Its chief technical officer TA Ramalingam said “With the rising number of cyberattacks reported across sectors, we see uptake in demand among companies from the ITES sector, with higher exposure due to lockdown. Enquiries have increased by 50%, with 20% higher conversion rate compared to FY19.” With IT companies requesting to increase the limit of coverage, insurers also fear higher risk. Ramalingam said “Unlike motor insurance where the higher frequency of claims is an issue, whereas it is based on severity of the issue for cyber insurance. One large claim can wipe out the entire profit made in a year. This leads to revision in premium price by 10%-20%, as the risk exposure has increased and expected to further go up in 2020.” Bajaj Allianz General Insurance reports loss claim ratio for cyber insurance products at less than 50% in FY20, with renewal of cyber insurance policy at 95%. ICICI Lombard General Insurance has registered a 30% growth in the number of policies underwritten in the last few months. Sanjay Datta, chief — underwriting, at the insurer said “Enquiries on cyber insurance covers were driven by BFSI & IT/ITES companies, while we see traction from companies in the hospitality, educational, manufacturing sectors, including SMEs.” It has also recently launched a retail cyber insurance policy which provides coverage to the entire family, including children for a duration of one year. The premium ranges from Rs 2,300 -Rs 24,000 per year, with a sum insured between the range of Rs 50,000-Rs 1 crore, as opted by the policyholder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/corporates-small-biz-rush-to-up-cyber-insurance-cover-limit/articleshow/76822191.cms||Mamtha Asokan
July 7, 2020||Business||China central bank slowly buying stakes in Indian companies||MUMBAI: In mid-April, stock exchange disclosures revealed that the People’s Bank of China (PBoC) had a holding of over 1% in Indian mortgage finance major HDFC. But the Chinese central bank also holds stakes in several other listed companies. However, these are all below the radar since they are less than the 1% threshold limit for open disclosures by companies (see graphic). Among others, PBoC holds a 0.32% stake in cement sector major Ambuja Cement, and 0.43% in Piramal Enterprises, which has a major presence in the pharma sector. PBoC’s holding in HDFC is currently worth about Rs 3,100 crore, while in Piramal Enterprises around Rs 137 crore, and in Ambuja Cement about Rs 122 crore. Exactly two years ago, the Chinese central bank had received RBI permission to set shop here. Two recent reports on Chinese investments in India have warned that several funds and investment companies, directly controlled or indirectly influenced by its government, have been eyeing stakes in companies that are strategically important to the economy. India-China stand-off: Complete coverageTill 2019, PBoC also had a small stake in a company that’s a major player in the game of chances, but the bank exited that company some months ago. Market sources said the Chinese central bank also has stakes in several other companies, including in the Indian arm of a German manufacturing major and another domestic fertilisers major. But these are not disclosed publicly since they all are below the 1% limit. Ambuja Cement’s annual report for 2019 showed PBoC held nearly 63 lakh shares in the cement major. Of these, the bank acquired about 16 lakh shares by buying small chunks through 2019. In Piramal Enterprises, PBoC increased its stake early this year to 0.43% when the company went for a rights offer. “This marginal increase in their holding (in terms of number of shares) is largely on account of PBoC’s participation in our rights issue,” a spokesperson for the group said. Read AlsoLadakh stand-off: How India also waged a diplomatic war against ChinaForeign minister S Jaishankar spoke to counterparts from the US, the UK, France, Germany, Indonesia, Australia, Canada and Japan among others, delivering what the government believes are reasonable results. Jaishankar also used conversations with Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia, Mexico and Ireland onAfter PBoC’s stake acquisition in HDFC came to light on April 12, the government, through a press note on April 17, amended foreign investment rules into India. The addition was that any investment from an entity from a country that shares “a land border with India” will require government’s approval. Earlier, such restrictions were applicable to investments from Bangladesh and Pakistan, and the April 17 note included investments from China as well. Read AlsoIndia, China begin disengagement after talks between NSA Doval, Chinese foreign ministerOver a 2-hour long telephonic conversation on Sunday evening, NSA Ajit Doval and Wang Yi, China’s foreign minister finalized the elements of disengagement in eastern Ladakh and de-escalation along the LAC between the countries. In similar statements on Monday, both China and India reaffirmed theirIn the recent past, some developed jurisdictions have amended foreign investment policies to weed out opportunistic takeovers of strategically important and other domestic companies when valuations are low, as Covid-19-related issues are weighing on stock prices. India has not gone as far as these countries, but China-watchers say it should be on guard. According to a leading Sinologist, there is an old Chinese tactic called “loot a burning house”. “The government policymakers should remember this while formulating the FDI policies.” A recent Brookings Institute report also put out caveats along similar lines for Indian policymakers, especially regulators for investments into India. The March 2020 report said that the growth of Chinese investments into India since 2014 has changed the nature of what has been a largely transactional trade relationship. “Chinese companies are emerging as prominent players and investors, in areas ranging from infrastructure and energy to newer sectors of interest such as technology startups and real estate,” Ananth Krishnan, the author of the report, said. Drawing on several sources within India and from China, the report said that the aggregate Chinese investment in India was a staggering $26 billion with a pledge to invest another $15 billion in major infrastructure projects. However, these figures are likely an underestimation since there are several limitations to exactly map Chinese investments in India, especially given the reluctance of the Chinese government to share the data. Another report by Gateway House, a foreign relations think tank, pointed out how Chinese companies were using the startup route to invest in leading players in several sectors in India. The list includes investments by Alibaba in Paytm group, Zomato and others and by Tencent in Byju’s, Ola, Flipkart and others. Watch India wary as China central bank buys stakes in local firms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/china-central-bank-slowly-buying-stakes-in-indian-cos/articleshow/76822247.cms||Partha Sinha
July 7, 2020||Kochi||Alien species crowding out local mussels||KOCHI: Wondering why the mussels (Kallumakkaya) you always liked has been tasting different? It may not be the local green mussels (Perna viridis) which are native to the Indian waters. Instead, it could be the wild mussels that have invaded the Kerala coasts almost erasing the green and brown mussels popular here. The invasive species, Mytella strigata (previously known as M. charruana) is native to South America and has established itself in many coastal and estuarine areas in Kerala, including Vembanad, Ashtamudi, Kayamkulam and Padanna backwaters. Experts say it has been noted in the Kerala waters since 2018 but now it has become invasive and is replacing almost the entire native mussels. “We believe this species has entered new areas mainly through ballast waters or attach to hulls of ships and established themselves in the major ports, initially,” said P Laxmilatha, principal scientist and head, molluscan division. Mytella strigata can tolerate a wide range of salinities and are generally found as thick beds, attached to partly submerged/submerged substrata, including rocks, piers, wooden poles and cage nets and grows up to 8cm in length. It is edible, though not as tasty as green mussel. An invasive species is an organism that is not indigenous, or native, to a particular area. Ability to grow fast and spread quickly makes them dangerous for the native species. “In the spat stage (when oysters attach themselves to a hard surface), it can be confused with the spat of the green mussel. Shell of the invader is dark brown to black in colour, whereas that of green mussel is emerald green. Besides, variations in shape and colour patterns are also common. The shell of M.strigata (brown) has a bluish to purplish-black nacreous interior while in P.viridis (Green) it is shining white with a pale, bluish-green tinge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/alien-species-crowding-out-local-mussels/articleshow/76842693.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
July 7, 2020||Patna||Shrawan begins with restrictions in Bihar||PATNA: The holy month of Shrawan commenced on Monday amid restrictions for prevention of Covid-19 spread. All Shiva temples in the state remained closed. Even jalabhishek at major temples like Mahavir Mandir was not allowed. Rudrabhishek was allowed in restricted manner in a few temples. Mahavir Mandir Trust secretary Acharya Kishore Kunal said only limited people were allowed to perform Rudrabhishek by taking all precautionary measures and maintaining social distancing norms. Around 150 devotees offered puja at Bhoothnath Shiv Temple. Its head priest Shiv Shanker Pandey said only limited people were allowed inside the temple for Rudrabhishek from 4.30am to 7pm. Devotees poured the Ganga jal, milk and placed the belpatra (bel leaves) and bhang on the threshold of Shiva temples in the city. Ajay Yadav, secretary of Jaleshwar Mahadev Mandir at Kankarbagh, said some devotees visited the temple in the morning for jalabhishek but they were not allowed inside the premises. “Many poured the water on road. We asked them not to do so as it will cause inconvenience to commuters. Rudrabhishek was performed by the priest and no one else was allowed inside,” Ajay said. Shivani Priya (39) of Boring Canal Road said it was for the first time in 12 years that she could not enter a Shiva temple on a Shrawan Monday. “I poured the Ganga jal on the temple threshold,” she said. Several people offered prayers at the Shivalaya inside their homes. Madhurima (42) of Bahadurpur said, “The priest conducted the rituals and we prayed at home. It is risky to go out when the Covid-19 cases are increasing,” she said. Many women and girls applied henna on this occasion, whereas the non-vegetarian food is strictly prohibited in several homes during this month. The policemen also kept a vigil near temples to ensure no public gathering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shrawan-begins-with-restrictions/articleshow/76820674.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 7, 2020||Kolhapur||95% Covid patients in Kolhapur district have red zone travel history||KOLHAPUR: Nearly 95% of the total Covid-19 patients in Kolhapur district are people who have travelled from red zone districts. Data with the district health department shows that as many as 51,000 people from red zone districts of Mumbai, Mumbai-suburbs, Raigad, Pune, Palghar, Thane and Solapur came into Kolhapur after Unlock 1 began on May 3. Of all those arriving from red zone districts, 914 people tested positive for the nCoV virus, accounting for 95% of the total cases (963) reported till July 5. Of these, Shahuwadi taluka has reported maximum cases (187). However, since all those arriving in the district were put in institutional quarantine, there was very limited community spread in the taluka. TOI accessed the details of the e-passes issued to people who travelled to Kolhapur district. Out of 51,000 people arriving from red zone, highest number (8,300) had travelled to Ajara tehsil, followed by 7,618 to Gadhinglaj tehsil. Kolhapur city reported arrival of 3,600 people from red zone areas, of whom, 49 were detected with the infection. Officials said there were 49,000 people who reached Kolhapur from the non-red zone areas, of whom, 35 tested positive for Covid-19. Apart from this, there were 14 cases reported in the district before May 4. District health officer Yogesh Sale said, “Over one lakh people arrived in the district since May 3. Almost 95% of the cases are among those who travelled from red zone areas.” “Now, we have 4,100 isolation beds ready and 31,000 beds reserved in quarantine centres,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/95-covid-patients-in-kolhapur-dist-have-red-zone-travel-history/articleshow/76821126.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Hindu family in Haryana's Jind gives land for burial of 13-year-old Muslim girl||JIND: A Hindu family in a Jind village came to the rescue of its Muslim neighbours on Monday by providing a plot of land for the burial of their daughter who died on Monday morning.The family of the 13-year-old girl couldn’t bury her in the graveyard as it was filled with water. Several Muslim families of Gulkani village alleged that they had been facing problems in burying their kin for the past 10 years but all sarpanchs and the district administration had done nothing to solve the problem. After the girl died, the hapless family was unable to find space to carry out her last rites until noon despite approaching various quarters. Finally, a person from the Hindu community provided a answer to their prayers by giving them a piece of land near the crematorium to carry out their daughter’s last rites. Talking to TOI, the girl’s father Joginder said, "the district administration has failed to meet our demands. We have been trying to get a clean ground but no one is ready to address the issue. Today, a Hindu family came forward and provided some land near the crematorium. The farmer has to irrigate his field following his turn of getting canal water, nonetheless he offered his land. While the authorities have failed to resolve this long standing issue, a neighbour helped us this time. We want a permanent solution to the problem." Village sarpanch Jaideep Singh said, "There are 16 castes staying in the village and all live in harmony and fraternal spirit. The continuous rain has led to waterlogging of the graveyard. I have deputed two persons to drain the water into a nearby field through pipes and will make an arrangement soon so that our Muslim families don’t face any trouble in the village in future."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hindu-family-gives-land-for-13-yr-old-muslim-girls-burial/articleshow/76822973.cms||Vijender Kumar
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||DU aspirants in Kolkata in a dilemma as Covid-19 cases spike in Delhi||KOLKATA: Delhi University is among the first varsities that threw open the registration process for aspiring undergraduate students even before the Class XII results have been published by CBSE and CISCE. However, several city students who had made up their minds to study in the Capital are now in a dilemma due to the current pandemic scenario in Delhi. Hazra resident Garima Das said, “I intend to study BBA or economics Honours. I was on the last steps of registering at Delhi University, but the rising number of Covid patients in the Capital has made me rethink my plans. She is now preparing to apply to colleges in Bengaluru as an alternative. Dwaipayan Mukherjee, an ISC candidate has also applied to the National Law University in Delhi. Like Das, he is now reconsidering his options. “I may choose to study sports management in Mumbai as a secondary option. However, my first choice is still law school in Delhi,” Mukherjee said. Ratnadeep Raha of Bansdroni is also in a dilemma. He is planning to study law at the NLU but has now started reconsidering his decision and plans to opt for other colleges if the situation does not improve in Delhi. “Even if some law institutions are ranked lower than NLU Delhi, I may opt for them considering the rapid surge in the number of Covid-positive patients there,” he said. There are also aspiring students who want to continue their studies at Delhi University and are waiting for the pandemic to subside. Shneha Chakraborty of Jadavpur said, “I want to study political science at Lady Sri Ram College for Women. But, due to the current situation, I am in two minds.” Shneha has kept Jadavpur University as her second option. Abhishek Roy from Alipore has found a seat at Ashoka University and plans to study history. “I am aware of the excellent quality of the liberal arts faculty in colleges and universities across Delhi. I plan to register for the DU UG programmes in liberal arts subjects too. At the moment, I am waiting to understand the policies involving online classes for the initial few months of the first semester, scheduled to start from September,” Roy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/du-aspirants-in-a-dilemma-as-covid-19-cases-spike-in-delhi/articleshow/76822123.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 7, 2020||Surat||Surat diamond polishing units to remain shut till July 14||Surat: The diamond cutting and polishing units in Surat will remain shut till July 14, while diamond trading markets will be non-operational till July 10, following the rise in Covid-19 cases among workers and merchants. A notification in this regard was issued by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Monday. In a notification issued by SMC commissioner, Banchhanidhi Pani stated that the Covid-19 cases from the diamond industry are on the rise and to contain the spread of the infection the diamond polishing and cutting units will be shut till July 14. The order further states that three diamond markets including Mahidhapura, Varachha and Nandu Doshi Ni Wadi will remain closed for business till July 10. Pani said, “After July 14, the SMC will review the situation in the (diamond) industry on the standard operating procedure (SOP) guidelines and take further decision.”So far since June 1, over 850 diamond workers and merchants have been tested positive for Covid-19, majority of them from Katargam area. The diamond industry has been shut since June 30 after SMC issued a notification for the closure of the diamond units in Katargam for a week starting from July 1. The biggest diamond market in Mahidhapura was also placed under cluster containment for a week. About 80% of the diamonds manufactured in Surat are traded with Mumbai from the Mahidhapura diamond market.Industry sources said that out of the total 4,500 diamond polishing units, only 2,500 were able to restart operation after May 25 with less than 40% capacity. Majority of the workers who had returned to their home towns in Saurashtra are yet to return. President of Surat Diamond Association (SDA), Babu Kathiriya told TOI, “The industry will follow the orders of the administration and keep the units shut till July 14 and diamond markets till July 10” Kathiriya added, “Some of the big diamond units in Katargam employing more than 2,000 workers had voluntarily shut their units for a week since June 20 to contain the spread of the infection. After that SMC issued closure notification from July 1 to July 7. Now, the notification has been revised till July 14.” Official sources at the Mumbai-based Bharat Diamond Bourse (BDB) stated that for the entire month of June, less than Rs 200 crore worth of rough diamonds was imported into the country as the diamantaires voluntarily stayed away from purchasing rough diamond due to weak market conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-diamond-polishing-units-to-remain-shut-till-july-14/articleshow/76823582.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Dehradun||Wild jumbo kills 62-year-old forest beat watcher's wife in Nainital dist||Nainital: A 62-year-old woman identified as Parvati Devi was killed by a wild elephant at Sitapur Thithola village in Haldwani on Monday morning. Devi was the wife of a forest beat watcher, Trilok Ram. The incident was reported after three earlier leopard attacks in just one month killed two humans and 47 goats in Nainital district. According to police and forest department officials who reached the spot, the attack occurred at 5:30am when Devi saw an elephant near her house. “She went to scare it away into the forest. However, the jumbo attacked her. Hearing her cries, locals came out of their homes and informed the police, but the woman was already dead by then,” said circle officer, Gaula Range forest department, RP Joshi. Devi’s relative claimed that the entire village is covered by forests from all its sides, and therefore, it has seen animal attacks in the past, too. “This wasn’t the first time an animal attacked a villager here. We have taken up the matter with the officials many times, yet no preventive steps have been taken,” the relative said, on condition of anonymity. Joshi, meanwhile, said that they have sent the woman’s body for post-mortem and are assessing the situation in the village to prevent such attacks in the future. “The woman’s body has been sent for post-mortem. We are also talking to villagers to try and locate the earlier attacks and sightings so that we can take preventive measures,” Joshi added. As reported by TOI earlier, this is the fourth incident of a major animal attack in Nainital district. While two separate leopard attacks had claimed the lives of a woman and a 12-year-old girl, 47 goats were also killed by a leopard in a forest village named ‘Jalal’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wild-jumbo-kills-62-year-old-forest-beat-watchers-wife-in-nainital-dist/articleshow/76821121.cms||Prashant Jha
July 7, 2020||Surat||FOGWA chief draws flak over favouring anti-dumping duty on imported yarn||Surat: President of Federation of Gujarat Weavers’ Welfare Association (FOGWA), Ashok Jirawala had to face the ire of the powerloom community after his video favouring anti-dumping duty on the filament yarn imported from China and other Asian countries went viral on the social media on Monday.In the alleged video, Jirawala is heard saying that the central government should impose anti-dumping duty on the filament yarn including nylon filament yarn from China and other countries to protect the domestic yarn spinning industry and that they should ensure that the yarn is not dumped from other FTA countries including Vietnam, Indonesia and Bangladesh. The powerloom sector has been opposing the anti-dumping duty on yarn imported from other countries for allowing the weavers to get the yarn at cheaper rates compared to the yarn manufactured in India. Ashish Gujarati, president of Pandesara Weavers Association said, “It was an irresponsible statement on part of FOGWA president, which he rectified after facing opposition from the weaving community. We are demanding that there should be no anti-dumping duty on yarn. If the duty is imposed, the yarn manufacturers will create a price cartel in the domestic market.”Talking with TOI, Jirawala said, “The yarn quality manufactured in India is not matching the international standards. However, the local spinners need to go for upgradation and till then the government should not impose anti-dumping duty on yarn.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fogwa-chief-draws-flak-over-favouring-anti-dumping-duty-on-imported-yarn/articleshow/76823680.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||CNI slashes school fees in Barrackpore||Kolkata: After a meeting held by Bishop Paritosh Canning, the Barrackpore Diocese of the Church of North India has decided to give a sizeable waiver in fees to parents of schoolkids. However, this will have a direct bearing on the salaries of teachers and staff as there will be no increment for 2020-21. A circular has been issued by the Barrackpore Diocese. The waiver comes a week after similar discounts were declared by the CNI for the Kolkata schools. There are 26 schools under the Barrackpore Diocese, all grouped under the name St Stephen’s. The waivers, under heads like electricity, laboratory, computer, magazine and co-curricular activities, will be effective from April to August. Parents have now been requested to start clearing up their dues for the first quarter. Those who have paid will have adjustments in the next payment. While 50% waiver has been given for electricity charges, computer and co-curricular activities, the lab and magazine charges have been entirely waived. However, in case of co-curricular and magazine fees, a one-time payment needs to be made at the time of admission or re-admission. “The schools under the Barrackpore Diocese mostly have children from lower-middle class and underprivileged backgrounds, and these discounts are needed. The cost of running the schools have escalated but fees have not come in. We hope parents will now find it easy to pay,” said Canning. The condition of the schools has reached a stage where it is difficult to pay salaries to teaching and non-teaching staff. “Sadly, we will not be able to give any increment to teaching and non-teaching staff of the St Stephen’s group this year. We have a number of students studying for free. We have not increased our fees but costs have escalated,” Canning explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cni-slashes-school-fees-in-barrackpore/articleshow/76822115.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 7, 2020||Surat||Man accuses police of filing FIR under incorrect section of IPC||Surat: Police booked two unidentified persons in Sachin GIDC police station for allegedly stealing cash and valuables worth Rs 64,000 from house of a tailor. The complainant, however, alleged that he was looted by the accused but the police registered an offence of theft. Mansoor Mohammad Ismail Idrishi, 66, was sleeping in his house when the robbers entered from an open window. According to Idrishi, they first put a knife on his neck and then tied his legs and hands using a rope. They then looted Rs 50,000 cash, a television, valuable documents like passport and property papers from a cupboard. “The robbers also threatened to kill me. I could not shout for help as they had gagged me with piece of cloth,” said Idrishi, a resident of Jalakrupa Society, Unn village. The incident was captured on CCTV camera installed in the house. The burglars have come at around 2 am on Sunday and escaped within half an hour. The robbers had locked Idrishi’s residence from outside and escaped. After setting himself free from the ropes Idrishi shouted for help and the neighbours opened the door from outside. “The complaint was registered as per the details shared by the complainant (Idrishi). If he shares more details with us we will add the additional sections,” said J K Pandya, assistant commissioner of police, division F.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-accuses-police-of-filing-fir-under-incorrect-section-of-ipc/articleshow/76823633.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Patna||PMCH, RMRI resume Covid testing||PATNA: Covid-19 testing resumed at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) and the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI) after three days of closure on Monday. PMCH had shut its testing lab in the microbiology department after some health workers tested Covid positive. Hospital superintendent Dr Bimal Karak said, “All the departments and offices, which were closed for sanitization, reopened on Monday. Tests have also resumed in the microbiology department.” Meanwhile, a doctor of the PMCH ENT department tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. Principal Dr V P Choudhary told this newspaper, “We have shifted him to the cottage ward. Now, all other doctors and paramedical staff of the department will undergo the Covid test.” With this, the number of PMCH departments where doctors and paramedics have been found infected with the virus has reached eight. Covid-19 positive cases were, earlier, reported from the departments of anaesthesia, gynaecology, paediatrics, clinical pathology, physiology, virology and microbiology. “Till date, over 30 doctors and other employees of the PMCH have been found Covid positive and have either been sent to the cottage ward or told to isolate themselves at home,” Choudhary said. Tests also began at the RMRI on Monday after fumigation and sanitization of its premises. Hospital director Dr P Das claimed, “About 2,000 samples are being tested here everyday.” The Mahavir Cancer Sansthan (MCS) at Phulwarisharif also reopened its outpatient department (OPD) after remaining closed for a week for sanitization. “Altogether 83 new and 200 old patients turned up for check-up on Day 1. They were screened by a team of doctors before entering the OPD,” MCS superintendent Dr L B Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmch-rmri-resume-covid-testing/articleshow/76820895.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Mysuru||Ban on online classes was interim measure, says govt||Bengaluru: The high court is likely to pass an order on Tuesday on the issue relating to restriction on online classes. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka completed hearing in the matter. Apart from parents, several educational institutions have challenged the June 15 order. The state government on Monday informed the court that it has not banned online classes but only taken certain steps to regulate it. Advocate-general (AG) Prabhuling K Navadgi termed the petitions premature as the regulatory measures are only an interim arrangement till the government takes a call on the recommendations of the Committee on Technology Enabled Education. The AG said several factors were considered, including the educational as well health aspects of children. However, petitioners pointed out the government acted contrary to the advice of Nimhans and also the Pragyatha guidelines issued by the Centre wherein online classes were permitted for limited hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ban-on-online-classes-was-interim-measure-says-govt/articleshow/76822423.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Allahabad||Covid scare: Temples register low footfall on 1st day of saawan||Done/ALVI Drop in devotees’ footfall in city’s Shiva temples due to corona pandemic Kapil.Dixit Prayagraj: With strict Covid-19 precautionary measures, like wearing of masks and following social distancing norms put in place, prominent Shiva temples across the city recorded low turnout of devotees this year as compared to the previous year. While devotees started reaching temples early Monday, they were strictly asked to follow social distancing norms by the committee members of temples and the police. Chief priest of the famous Takshkeshwarnath temple, Ravi Shankar told TOI that the Takshkeshwarnath temple, which used to witness thousands of devotees on the first Somvar of Shravan month, recorded very low footfall on Monday. Sudden rise in Covid-19 infections in the city has forced devotees to keep themselves inside the four walls of their houses, he said and added “We strictly followed the Covid-19 protocol and no devotee could enter the temple premises without mask”. Similarly, circles were drawn on the temple campus to maintain distance between two devotees, and they were not allowed to touch bells and idols, he said. The chief priest claimed that the temple campus had been sanitized and awareness posters were placed at different parts of the temple. Priest of Rajapur Shiva temple, RK Tiwari said,”The footfall of devotees has dropped at the temple this year. We have not allowed them to touch the idols. They are being asked to perform the ‘jalabhishek’ while maintaining a distance from the idol”. There were fixed timings for the devotees to offer prayers at the famous Mankameshwar temple. They were allowed to visit temples from 7 am to 11 am and 3 pm to 5 pm and as a result their footfall has declined compared to the previous year. The committee members ensured strict compliance with all social distancing rules in all prominent Shiva temples including Mankameshwar Padila Mahadeo, Someshwar Nath, Takshkeshwarnath Teerth etc. IG KP Singh said, “The footfall of devotees has recorded low at all prominent Shiva temples on the first Somvar of the Shravan month as compared to the previous year due to corona pandemic”. The devotees who arrived to offer prayers were also thermal scanned, he said. Priests refrained from offering ‘prasad or putting ‘tilak’ on devotees to keep the virus at bay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-scare-temples-register-low-footfall-on-1st-day-of-saawan/articleshow/76820425.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Patna||58% surplus rain in Bihar||PATNA: The timely onset of southwest monsoon after more than a decade and bumper rainfall since then has led to 58% surplus rainfall in Bihar till Monday. Weathermen have also predicted rainfall and thunderstorm in all 38 districts till July 10. Warning for lightning has also been issued till July 8. The rain-bearing winds made their onset in Bihar through northeastern districts on June 13, contrary to the past few years when it used to happen around June 17-20. As per the data available with India Meteorological Department (IMD), Bihar has received 363.8mm rainfall from June 1 till Monday against the normal rainfall of 230.4mm during the same period, leading to a surplus of 58%. In fact, 22 out of the 38 districts in state have received large excess (60% and above normal) rainfall and another 10 districts got excess rainfall (between 20-59% above normal), leaving three districts with moral rainfall (+/-19% of normal rainfall) and three districts receiving deficient rainfall (20% less than normal). Deliberating on the factors responsible for enhanced rainfall activity in Bihar, a meteorologist at Patna Meteorological Centre said: “Trough line-elongated low-pressure area formed frequently either crossing through Bihar or Jharkhand. Besides, cyclonic circulations also formed frequently over east Uttar Pradesh and neighbourhood. Such weather factors supported monsoon rainfall in Bihar.” The southwest monsoon continues to remain active over the state. The Patna weather office stated that light to moderate rainfall occurred at most places over southeast parts of Bihar and at many places over northeast and the few other places during the last 24 hours. The trough line was passing through Saurashtra, Banswara, Guna, Satna, Daltonganj, southeast Jharkhand, Digha and east-southeastward to the northeast Bay of Bengal on Monday. Also, a low pressure area was situated over southeast Jharkhand and some parts of south Bihar associated with a cyclonic circulation. Accordingly, the IMD on Monday stated that fairly widespread to widespread with isolated heavy rainfall is expected in Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha over the next two days. In fact, heavy rainfall is expected in east and northeast India on July 9 and 10 as well. The IMD stated that monsoon trough is likely to shift along the foothills of the Himalayas from July 9. Besides, high convergence of southwesterly and southerly winds from the Bay of Bengal is also expected over northeast and east India around July 9. Under the influence of such weather factors, widespread rainfall is likely over Bihar and neighbouring states on July 9 and 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-receives-58-surplus-rainfall/articleshow/76821719.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 7, 2020||Agra||Agra district administration mulls FIR against Covid suspects for giving wrong details||AGRA: The Agra district administration has directed the health department to register FIRs against Covid-19 suspects who provide wrong or incomplete information at the time of sample testing. A case will be registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1987, Disaster Management Act 2005 and IPC section 188 (disobedience to orders duly promulgated by public servant). According to the health department, at least six cases have surfaced in the last 15 days where people who tested Covid-19 positive had provided wrong or incomplete details. The orders issued by the district administration stated that FIR will also be registered against those who leave the district before 36 hours of sample testing. On Monday, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh told TOI, "Certain incorrect details - of phone number, address and name - were provided by suspected Covid-19 patients at the time of sample collection. Later, once tested positive, our teams had to face a lot of inconvenience in reaching out to them. In some of these cases, police surveillance network had to be used for the infected individual. Now, we have decided to take legal action against such people. An FIR will be registered." Agra district's chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey said, "We usually inform suspected Covid-19 patients at the time of sample testing to follow home quarantine till their lab report is out. And, in any case, they should not go out of the district. The lab report arrives within 36 hours. So, FIR will be registered against those who leave the district before 36 hours of sample testing." "Due to incorrect information, the rapid response team had to face a lot of difficulties in two recent cases in the past two days. Contact tracing also got delayed. Such situations pose a major health risk. Staffers involved in sample collection have been asked to cross-check the details provided by the suspected individuals," he added. In April, there were at least five cases where Covid-19 positive patients had fled from the district hospital. However, the police later managed to track them down. Following this, police were deployed outside the isolation and sampling centres. Besides, CCTV cameras were also installed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/district-administration-mulls-fir-againstcovid-suspects-for-giving-wrong-details/articleshow/76821129.cms||Deepak Lavania
July 7, 2020||Surat||Upload video confession on social media to avoid traffic fine||Surat: The Surat traffic police will launch a special traffic drive from Tuesday where any one found violating rules will be asked to record his/her video confession of the offence and a pledge not to repeat it. The violators will be asked to upload the video on their personal social media account and if they refuse fine will be collected from them on the spot.During the 21-day special drive named ‘I follow’ no cash fine will be collected from the traffic offenders if they comply with the condition of posting their confession and pledge not to repeat offence online. This drive is party of city police’s traffic rules awareness activity conducted every year since last seven years.“The offender can post the video on his/her Facebook, Instagram or other social media account. It is a method of social commitment by which we will make others in touch with the offender know about importance of traffic rules,” said Prashant Sumbe, deputy commissioner of police, traffic. “Cops on duty will not collect cash fine during the campaign. But for awareness we are adopting this method,” Sumbe added. As part of the awareness drive, city police will also honour those found following rules. “They will be given token gift and their photos will be shared on official social media account of city police. Commuters will be encouraged to follow social media pages to create more awareness,” said B N Dave, assistant commissioner of police, traffic. Surat city police has collected over Rs 11 lakh fine per day for traffic rules violation since June 1. This includes collecting penalty from commuters not wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/upload-video-confession-on-social-media-to-avoid-traffic-fine/articleshow/76823663.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Surat||Heavy rain lashes Navsari, Valsad districts||Surat: Heavy to heavy rains pounded the Navsari and Valsad districts since Sunday evening throwing the normal life out of gear on Monday.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued warning for the fishermen of South Gujarat to not venture into the sea due to squally weather with wind speed reaching to about 55 km per hour till July 8. Also, the IMD has forecast heavy rainfall in south Gujarat districts including Surat, Navsari, Valsad and union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) and Daman for the next three days. Official sources said that rains were reported in all the six talukas of Navsari district on Monday. A battalion of 20 personnel of the National Disaster Response Team (NDRF) from Vadodara has been kept in the stand-by mode to meet any eventuality due to heavy downpour in the region. Over a dozen trees were uprooted due to the heavy winds that accompanies the rain at various places in Navsari town. Water logging was reported in the low-lying areas of Navsari’s Jalalpore taluka.Navsari’s Chikhli, Jalalpore and Gandevi taluka received over 100 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours ending 6pm on Monday. Gandevi recorded 129 mm rain followed by Chkhli (125), Jalalpore (122mm), Navsari town (84mm) and Vansada (98mm), according to the flood control department. Meanwhile, heavy rains lashed the parts of Valsad district on Monday. Vapi town recorded the highest 133mm rainfall since Sunday evening. Kaprada taluka recorded 111mm rainfall, followed by Pardi taluka (139mm) and Umbergaon taluka (86mm) on Monday. Sources said that the Auranga and Par rivers in Valsad district swelled due to heavy rains though they were still below the danger mark, said the officials. The Surat district recorded heavy to moderate rainfall in the talukas on Monday with Palsana taluka receiving highest 47 mm rainfall followed by 32mm in Bardoli talka and 23 mm in Olpaad taluka. Surat city recorded 16 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending 6pm Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/heavy-rain-lashes-navsari-valsad-districts/articleshow/76823692.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||Animal activists oppose slaughtering of dogs in Nagaland||Nagpur: As the controversial Yulin dog meat festival in China concluded on June 30 amid global condemnation, animal welfare organizations in India have raised voice against smuggling and illegal consumption of dog meat in Nagaland. Recently, horrifying images emerged from animal markets in Dimapur where dogs were seen tied up in gunny bags for illegal slaughtering. Disturbed by the photographs, animal protection body Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisation (FIAPO) submitted an appeal to Nagaland’s chief minister, chief secretary, director general of police and other authorities, demanding a complete ban on the sale, smuggling and consumption of dog meat in the state and ensuring enforcement of stringent animal welfare laws. Stating that dogs were being smuggled into Nagaland from places like Assam and West Bengal, the organization wrote, “In Assam, dog catchers working for smugglers get about Rs. 50 for a single dog while the same dog when sold at wholesale in Nagaland costs Rs1000. In the state, dog meat sells for Rs200 per kg. In 2016, the Government of Nagaland was in process of banning dog meat. However, there has been no development on that promise and the position of consuming and smuggling of dog meat continues.” The animal welfare group pointed out that dog meat trade was illegal as it violated various laws including Indian Penal Code, Food Product Standards and Food Additives Regulations, 2011, and Meat Food Products Order, 1973, and The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. Highlighting the risk that consumption of dog meat poses to humans, FIAPO states, “The process of dog meat trade which involves capturing, transporting, preparation of meat and its consumption puts individuals directly at the risk of contracting rabies- as the disease can spread not only by way of dog bites but also by handling and consuming infected meat. A research conducted by the Asia Canine Protection Alliance states the risk of rabies increases manifold during the process of procuring dog meat.” Experts added that at markets in Nagaland, the dogs were slaughtered on demand in front of the customers, “exponentially increasing health and epidemiological risks of infections like Covid-19 pandemic.” Citing examples of several countries like Taiwan and Vietnam that have made slaughtering and consumption of dogs illegal, the animal activists have urged the Nagaland government to do the same. “Consumption of dog meat is a violation of the laws and calls for an immediate and stringent implementation of rules. In a rapidly developing country like ours, it is imperative we accord equal rights to animals,” they stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/animal-activists-oppose-slaughtering-of-dogs-in-nagaland/articleshow/76822984.cms||Manka Behl
July 7, 2020||Patna||Post offices to sell Covid-19 protective products in Bihar||PATNA: The Bihar circle of India Post has planned to start ‘Corona Essential Shops’, a one-stop store to sell all items, including face mask, hand sanitizer, handwash and other personal protective equipment being used to protect oneself from the Covid-19 virus. According to postmaster general (East region) Anil Kumar, the postal department would initially start these corona essential shops in Bihar, including at Bankipore post office and GPO in Patna, and 20 other post offices in Jamui, Banka, Bhagalpur, Biharsharif, Munger, Nawada, Madhepura, Supaul, Begusarai and Samastipur districts among others. The post department has signed an agreement with Khadi India and Vipra Ayurvedic to sell the products approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for containment of virus. The shops would sell items like medicines (vitamin C and D tablets, immunity boosters and medicines for cough, cold and fever), PPE kit, face masks (3-ply and 5-ply), gloves, hand sanitizer, handwash, thermal scanner, homeware disinfectant, herbal tea, kaadha (decoction) and other food products. Anil told this newspaper on Monday that the ‘corona essential shops’ would be ready in the next 10-15 days. “Two more medi care and Ayurvedic companies have approached the postal department to sign an agreement. The companies will ensure that all the items are of good quality and approved by the ICMR,” he said. “We will have the whole range of infection-prevention equipment under one roof. The best thing is getting all branded goods at one shop to fight the virus. More items will be stocked up as per the need,” he added. The postmaster general said all the products would be sold at wholesale rates without profiteering. When reached for comments, the residents in Patna hailed the initiative. Gaurav Anand, a resident of Patliputra Colony, said earlier people struggled for the mask and hand sanitizer when the coronavirus broke out. “Now, it will be a big relief that such shops are to open in the city,” he said. Abhishek Anand, a resident of Bailey Road, also appreciated the initiative and said such items were need of the hour and getting all items under one roof would be of great help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/post-offices-to-sell-covid-19-protective-products-in-bihar/articleshow/76820789.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 7, 2020||Business||HUL prior adopter of ‘Glow’, says HC||Mumbai: The Bombay high court on Monday observed that, prima facie, it does appear that Hindustan Unilever (HUL) is a “prior adopter” of the trademark ‘Glow & Handsome’. Justice B P Colabawalla was hearing a plaint by HUL to get a prior notice from homegrown FMCG company Emami in case of any legal battle. The judge noted that it also appears HUL “has already started commercial advertisements” over the men’s skincare cream with the trademark ‘Glow & Handsome.’The HC directed that Emami must give HUL a prior written notice of seven clear working days before launching any trademark battle in court over use of ‘Glow and Handsome’ and claiming any interim relief against HUL as threatened in statements issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hul-prior-adopter-of-glow-says-hc/articleshow/76822133.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||ENT docs get back to OT with precautions||Kolkata: After eye and dental specialists resumed services, ENT surgeons, who fall among those at highest risk of being infected while tending to patients because of close proximity to them during treatment, have started working again after the state has issued an SOP for them. These doctors are using all the precautions required to minimize the risk of transmission. “Due to the high risk, we were only taking up emergency cases. But for how long can we stop elective surgeries? We have now started conducting elective procedures on patients who are Covid negative after taking all necessary precautions,” said ENT surgeon Monoj Mukherjee, attached with the state-run NRS Medical College and Hospital. Now, with ICMR allowing Covid test on patients who require planned surgeries, doctors are more at ease. But since there have been cases of false negatives, they are not taking risks and are donning the full PPE, including eye guards and face shields, during surgeries. “We are also using aerosol boxes in the OTs to minimize the generation of aerosol during a surgical procedure. These boxes can limit the flow of droplets from the patients during processes like intubation. We have to use these innovations while taking up more planned surgeries,” said Abhik Ghosh, consultant ENT, head and neck surgeon at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals. His team had recently conducted a few surgeries, like ulcer removal from the tongue of a 55-year-old and removal of a foreign object from a child. “Earlier, we were asking people not to get surgeries and now we are asking them not to delay them — especially in ENT cancer cases. Covid is not going to go away soon and we cannot afford to see more patients get to an inoperative stage due to the delay,” said head and neck onco-surgeon Saurav Dutta. He, along with Harsh Dhar, who also specializes in the same field, had started conducting surgeries at SSKM Hospital and Narayana Superspecialty Hospital in Howrah. Doctors said procedures like tracheostomy and laryngeal surgery are the ones in which a surgeon is exposed the most. Doctors, however, are forced to restrict the number of surgeries and OPD patients in order to maintain safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ent-docs-get-back-to-ot-with-precautions/articleshow/76822142.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 7, 2020||Surat||Four textile markets on Ring Road shut in Surat||Surat: With the surge in the Covid-19 cases, four textile markets on Ring Road and 152 shops in three other textile markets were shut by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Monday till further notice, to contain the spread of the infection .Official sources said that four textile markets including JJ Textile Market, Surat Textile Market (STM), Millennium Textile Market and Raghukul Textile Markets were shut by the civic officials after more than three Covid-19 cases were detected among the textile shop owners and workers in the last few days. About 152 textile shops in three other textile markets including Annapurna, Golden and New Textile Market (NTM) were shut by the civic authorities due to the rise in the Covid-19 cases. Sources said that about 400 Covid-19 cases have been reported from the textile industry and that majority are related to the textile markets. In a notification issued on Monday, civic chief Banchhanidhi Pani stated that the textile markets, textile powerloom units etc. will be shut for seven days in the case where one or more Covid-19 cases would be detected. Following the closure action by the civic authorities, the office-bearers of Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) met Navsari MP CR Patil with the demand that only the wing or the floor from where the Covid-19 cases are detected must be closed rather than shutting down the entire market. “In the morning we sealed four textile markets after more Covid-19 cases were reported from there. However, by afternoon we got an order to shut only the wing of the market from where the Covid-19 cases are detected and not the entire markets,” said a senior SMC officer. “The floor or the wing of the particular market where Covid-19 cases will be found will be shut for a week,” he added. The action has come after Chief Minister Vijay Rupani had visited the city on Saturday to review the situation following the surge in the Covid-19 cases in the city. Rupani had stated that the administration will be taking decision on the operation of the textile and diamond markets on Monday. “We have requested not to shut the entire markets if one or more cases are recorded and that it has been accepted by the authorities. All market managements have been issued with strict advisory to follow the SOP issued by the government or else the markets will be shut,” said Champalal Bothra, secretary of FOSTTA. “Since the day the Covid-19 cases from textile markets have risen, most of the textile traders are voluntarily not visiting the markets. Hardly 50% of the shops are operational in the market. The entry of finished and unfinished fabric from textile mills and powerloom units is already banned in the markets,” said Rangnath Sarda, a textile shop owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-textile-markets-on-ring-road-shut-in-surat/articleshow/76823600.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Realtors in Mangaluru exploring option of chartering flights for labourers||Mangaluru: The easing oflockdown norms has unleashed frenetic economic activity, with all sectors looking to recoup the enormous losses they sustained owing to the crisis. The construction sector, which bore the brunt of the lockdown, is now racing against time to meet deadlines. However, the labour-intensive sector is also coping with the vacuum in workforce owing to the exodus of migrant workers from Karnataka. Consequently, stakeholders in the construction industry are now looking at ways to get the labourers who fled the urban centres to return to their homes, mostly in other states, when the Centre relaxed restrictions on travel. Keen on completing projects on time, realtors in Mangaluru are looking to charter flights to get labourers from other states. President of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai), Mangaluru Naveen Cardoza said that workers from Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar accounted for nearly 90% of the construction workforce. “Skilled labourers like carpenters and benders are mostly from West Bengal. We had expected that the workers would be back here in July. We had thought that train services would resume. Since it is likely to be delayed further and we are under immense pressure to complete our projects on time, we are exploring other options to get labourers back,” Cardoza told TOI. He said that five labourers were flown in to Mangaluru via Bengaluru as part of an experimental run. “This week, depending on availability of flights, five more workers are expected to arrive. While those who are here are now in quarantine, we have set up similar facilities on our sites to house those yet to arrive,” said Cardoza, who added that he was conferring with a private carrier to ferry 72 labourers to Mangaluru. Cardoza said that most labourers had returned home seized by panic. Nearly half of his 300-strong labour force on one of his sites returned home, he added. “No matter how hard we tried to convince them, they thought they were going to die and said they preferred to die at home. But they are keen on returning now. They are in contact with the facilitator, who, in turn, is in touch with us. Many labourers have intimated to us their inability to travel,” Cardoza added. In fact, even before the world had heard of Covid-19, realtors had chartered flights to ferry labourers if the situation demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/realtors-in-mangaluru-exploring-option-of-chartering-flights-for-labourers/articleshow/76822519.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 7, 2020||Business||Chai Waale raises Rs 1.75 crore in seed round||Chennai: Tea retail chain Chai Waale on Monday announced that it has raised angel funding of Rs 1.75 crores. The current set of angel investors includes Tharun Dhariwal, ED of Dhariwal Group; Sunil Kumar Singhvi, managing partner of South Handlooms, Chennai-based HNIs, Arun & Vishal Ostwal, from the DK Group of Companies; Gunavanth Vaid of 4G Capital Ventures. The funds raised will aid in a measured geographical expansion as well as help streamline the supply chain systems, says the founder, Vidur Maheswari. “We clock a sale of 1,300 to 1,500 cups a day and all our 14 outlets are profitable at store level,” he added. Chai Waale aims to have 40-45 fully operational outlets by March 2022. The company competes with Chai Kings and Chaikaath who also operate in Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chai-waale-raises-rs-1-75-crore-in-seed-round/articleshow/76822049.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Cops intensify drive against drug abuse||Visakhapatnam: Since April last year, when police had busted a rave party at the Rushikonda Beach, surveillance has been ramped up to check drug trade in the city. But the recent seizure of 2.5 grams of methylenedioxy-methamphetamine (MDMA) powder and 61 bolts of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) has exposed that the problem is far from over. One of the arrested in the case confessed that they procured the drugs for a birthday party of two rich youngsters. Assistant commissioner of police, A Trinad Rao, said the drugs are being brought into the state mostly from Bengaluru, Goa and Maharashtra. The cost of one LSD blot is around Rs 500 in Goa whereas it is Rs 2,000 in Visakhapatnam. Similarly one gram of MMDA powder in Goa sells for around Rs 1,000 while it was Rs 3,000 in the city. “We have found out that often peddlers in Visakhapatnam are procuring LSD and MMDA in exchange of ganja. A kilogram of dry ganja costs around Rs 5,000 in the Agency, while it costs around Rs 35,000 in Goa and Bengaluru. While on the one hand police have intensified measures to curb the trade, on the other hand they are continuing counselling the users. Seeking parents’ help to end the trend, DGP Damodar Goutam Sawang urged parents to pay attention to their children and keep them away from drug peddlers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cops-intensify-drive-against-drug-abuse/articleshow/76821122.cms||Nalla.Babu
July 7, 2020||Patna||‘Take PM’s achievements to people’||PATNA: BJP national president J P Nadda on Monday said the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution had fulfilled the long cherished desire of Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, the founder of Bharatiya Jan Sangh (later christened BJP). “In fact, PM Modi has honoured the sacrifice made by Shyama Prasad Mukherjee by abrogating the Article 370,” Nadda said while addressing the Jan Samvad virtual rally of the rank and file of the BJP’s West Bengal unit on the birth anniversary of Mukherjee, who had gone to Kashmir and died in what came to be seen as under “mysterious circumstances”. BJP’s national general secretary and its Bihar incharge Bhupender Yadav, state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh and Rajya Sabha member Gopal Narayan Singh, along with ministers Nand Kishore Yadav, Prem Kumar and Mangal Pandey, as well as party’s senior functionaries, also heard Nadda at party headquarters here. Dr Jaiswal also recalled the contributions of Mukherjee. Later, the state BJP top brass also addressed three sessions of the meeting of representatives from 11 districts convened to discuss the organizational matters with a view to strengthening the organization ahead of the assembly elections. Yadav stressed on taking the achievements made by PM Narendra Modi in the last one year to the people of the state, as “historic decisions” were taken during the period. He said people must be informed about the achievements, as only this would help them take benefit from the schemes. He also stressed on constituting the Saptrishi units at booth level and involve them in taking the PM’s message to the people of the state. The deputy CM said 21 lakh migrant workers had come back to the state by trains during the lockdown period. The state government transferred Rs1,000 into the accounts of 20 lakh migrant workers, while 15,000 quarantine centres had been opened in the state. He said the opposition had become desperate and resorting to gimmicks and stunts to catch the attention of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/take-pms-achievements-to-people/articleshow/76821912.cms||Abhay Singh
July 7, 2020||Patna||Hospitals not admitting coronavirus patients: NTPC||PATNA: The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) officials on Monday alleged that they were facing hassles in getting few of the employees or their family members admitted in private or government hospitals in Patna even after their testing positive for Covid-19 virus. In a statement issued in this regard, chief public relation officer of NTPC-Patna, Vishwanath Chandan, said five Covid-19 positive cases had been detected among the family members of NTPC employees in Bihar. “We are operating six power generating plants in Bihar. But unlike Jharkhand and West Bengal, we are not getting treatment of Covid patients in private hospitals empanelled with NTPC on the plea that they are not allowed by state government to provide Covid treatment. Besides, we are struggling to get our patients admitted in government hospitals as well. AIIMS-Patna denied admission to one of our Covid-19 patients on Monday, claiming they don’t have a working nephrology department as the patient requires regular dialysis,” Vishwanath alleged. He said NTPC has taken up the issue with senior health department officials. “Four dependants of one of our employees are admitted in AIIMS-P, but we are facing hassles in admission of two more cases, mainly due to denial of empanelled private hospitals,” he said. When contacted, AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said, “We were called by NTPC officials for admission of one of their patients. We told them that the hospital does not have a nephrologist and dialysis was also not being done. Hence, we could not admit him. He was undergoing treatment at a private hospital and after his test report came positive, he was discharged from there.” IMA (Bihar) secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said, “Unlike other states where the government has fixed charges for treating Covid-19 patients in private hospitals, no such step has been taken in Bihar. Other state governments have fixed rates for keeping a patient in ICU, with or without a ventilator. Here, nothing has been finalized. Hence, both the patients and hospital administration are confused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hospitals-not-admitting-corona-patients-ntpc/articleshow/76821071.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Business||MFs step in to support mkt rally as FPIs turn net sellers||MUMBAI: Despite foreign fund selling and a rising number of Covid infections in India, the sensex has gained about 1,500 points in four consecutive sessions in July on rising hopes of a vaccine. The buying has also, to a large extent, been supported by mutual funds (MFs), and traders recently acquired by a host of discount brokerages, market players said. With a 466-point gain on Monday that boosted the sensex to 36,487 at end of trade, the index is now near a four-month closing high. In the process, it has also recovered 65% of the loss recorded since its January 20 high at 42,274 to its March 24 low at 25,639. Official data showed that, so far in July, while MFs have been net buyers at Rs 747 crore, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net sellers at Rs 3,338 crore. Medium-term data also showed a similar trend — selling by FPIs being neutralised by MFs’ buying. In the first six months, MFs have net infused over Rs 39,500 crore into the equity market, compared to a net withdrawal by FPIs at about Rs 18,514 crore. Systematic investment plans (SIPs) have constantly shown inflows of over Rs 8,000 crore every month for the last one and half years, with over 90% of SIP inflows coming through equity funds. As a result, industry observers say that it were the retail investors, through the fund route, who came out to be the neutralising factor to foreign fund selling in the stock market. There’s another tribe of small investors who are also supporting the market rally: The predominantly day-traders who have signed up with low-cost discount brokerages and taken advantage of the ‘work from home’ (WFH) opportunities to trade heavily. On the negative side, there are fears that these new and inexperienced breed of traders may also be making the market risky for the long haul. According to a note by Jimeet Modi, founder & CEO of Samco Securities, which is one of the leading discount brokerages, it is the retail investors — the Indian version of Robinhood traders — who are at home during this lockdown, tapping prices higher. Robinhood is the US discount brokerage that has led in acquiring in the pandemic months a large number of day-traders who are believed to be playing their part in taking the Wall Street higher. “It is quite likely that they may also have invested in frontline stocks. Conspicuously, their high interest in penny stocks is quite visible and frightening,” Modi pointed out. “A handful of these penny stocks have also now started to reverse the trend and are hitting lower circuits. It’s time to be cautious,” Modi warned. Monday’s rally was also backed by renewed optimism about an economic recovery in China. “Asian shares scaled four-month peaks on Monday as investors counted on a revival in Chinese activity to boost global economic growth. Also, better than expected regional economic data and elevated liquidity levels boosted positive sentiments,” said Deepak Jasani, head (retail research) at HDFC Securities. “European shares headed towards a one-month high on Monday, with a rally in China’s markets setting an upbeat tone as investors banked on the world’s second-biggest economy to lead a recovery from the coronavirus-induced slump.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mfs-step-in-to-support-mkt-rally-as-fpis-turn-net-sellers/articleshow/76822290.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Business||SBI readies Rs 1k-cr B2B e-market only for MSMEs||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: State Bank of India (SBI) is set to invest $100-150 million (Rs 750-1,000 crore) and leverage its YONO platform to set up a business-to-business (B2B) e-commerce marketplace for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). The country’s largest lender hopes this will also help it better manage financing of small businesses. The plan, which has been cleared by the bank’s executive committee, entails getting MSMEs on to the platform and providing funds based on the transactions that take place. The bank is hoping that it will not only help assess risk better but will also give it greater grip over receivables. “We are engaging with the MSME ministry to create a marketplace for SBI customers to sell their products, called Bharat Craft, which is going to be an e-commerce and technology driven platform. It is in the initial stage of taking shape,” said SBI MD Challa Sreenivasulu Setty. SBI is looking to design the platform using the Alibaba and Alipay model, where transactions and payments are routed through it, a source said. YONO is currently used by the bank to hawk its products and as an e-commerce platform. It is expecting regulatory clearances to come through as the B2B marketplace is not going to earn it revenue but help with its banking business. Among banks, HDFC Bank already has an e-commerce platform SmartBuy. The bank uses the platform to provide merchants a marketplace. In return, the merchants extend a discount to customers of HDFC Bank. Last year, MSME minister Nitin Gadkari had proposed two platforms for small businesses, including one for B2C, and suggested that the Government e-Marketplace (GeM) take up the job. But the plan did not find support, resulting in SBI stepping in on the B2B front. At a webinar organised by Brickwork Ratings on Monday, SBI’s Setty said state-run lenders are working with the ministry to provide hand-holding support to the MSME sector, which has received special attention in recent weeks with the government announcing a series of steps, including a guarantee-based lending, to help them navigate out of the Covid-19 crisis. So far, lenders have sanctioned loans amounting to Rs 1.1 lakh crore backed by government guarantee, Sidbi deputy managing director V S V Rao said, adding that if the Rs 3-lakh-crore limit was exhausted, a fresh look at the industry’s needs will be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-readies-rs-1k-cr-b2b-e-market-only-for-msmes/articleshow/76822279.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 7, 2020||Patna||Kharif crop coverage on right track in Bihar||PATNA: Thanks to more than normal rainfall since June 1 for the first time in many years, the Kharif crop coverage, including paddy transplantation, has been on the right course in the state, agriculture minister Prem Kumar said. As to paddy, the area coverage of both its sowing for the production of seedling and the consequent transplantation has been more than the target area, compared to the same period last year, he added. Similarly, the area coverage of Kharif maize has also been greater than the last year. While the target area for paddy sowing to produce seedlings was 3.30 lakh hectares, it achieved 84.51% of the target (2.78 lakh hectares). In 2019, the area coverage of paddy seedlings was only 2.23 lakh hectares of the target. The paddy transplantation over the entire targeted area would be achieved this year within the normal cropping season — by July 20. Against the target coverage of 33 lakh hectares this year, paddy seedling transplantation has been done in 7.69 lakh hectares of land (23.14% of the target area) so far. Incidentally, last year paddy transplantation had been done only in 1.39 lakh hectares till July 6. The agriculture minister said the sowing of Kharif maize in the state has also been appreciable. Against the target coverage of 4.5 lakh hectares, the sowing has been done in 2.80 lakh hectares till July 6, which is double during the same period last year. Kumar said it had been possible because the above normal rainfall. While the normal rainfall usually fixed for the period is 230.4mm, the actual rainfall received was 363.8mm, that was surplus 58%. The rainfall received has also been uniformly spread in 34 of the 38 districts, barring Munger, Sheikhpura, Saharsa and Katihar, where the rainfall has been a little less than the normal district-wise mark. He also said it has been for the first time in the last many years that uniformly spread rainfall has been received in most of the districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kharif-crop-coverage-on-right-track-in-state/articleshow/76821822.cms||Abhay Singh
July 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar corona testing rate is lowest among 19 states||PATNA: Bihar has the lowest Covid-19 testing rate per million among 19 major states in the country as per data shared by NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant. According to the data, Bihar is doing 2,197 tests per million, which is almost 15 times less than the tests per million done in Delhi, which has topped the chart. Even neighbouring Jharkhand is doing double the number of tests than Bihar with a testing rate of 4,416 per million. Kant had shared the figure of tests being done in 19 major states. In his tweet he wrote, “The high tests per million being undertaken now in Delhi must be emulated by other states. This is critical. States must be judged on testing. We can succeed against #Covid-19 only with 3T strategy of testing, tracing & treating. This is the moment to act, and to act fast.” Delhi which is at the top has a testing rate of 32,863 people per million, followed by Andhra Pradesh, which is testing 18,597 per million. Tamil Nadu is at the third position with 16,663 tests per million, followed by Assam with 13,471 tests per million. Telangana, on the other hand was second from the bottom and was testing 2,637 of its population per million while neighbouring Uttar Pradesh is the third last with 3,798 of its population being tested per million. Hitting out at the state government, Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra asked chief minister Nitish Kumar to explain what was the reason behind the low Covid-19 test being done in Bihar. “Bihar CM should immediately increase the capacity of tests being done here. The data shows the reality of work being done in the state. The situation here is pathetic,” said Mishra. State health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said testing capacity has already been increased by more than double in the past one month. “Now on an average 7,000 to 8,000 tests are being done in a day. We are in the process to further increase our testing capacity. RT-PCR test will begin at Gaya from Tuesday and at Madhepura it is in the pipeline and will begin within a week. More testing centres are coming up and existing ones are being augmented and the number of tests done per day will cross 10,000 mark soon,” added Lokesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-corona-testing-rate-is-lowest-among-19-states/articleshow/76820850.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 7, 2020||Patna||Online education to continue till month-end: Patna University||PATNA: Even as Patna University (PU) has completed the courses of studies of almost all undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) programmes, it will continue imparting online education to its students till the end of July. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of college principals and heads of PG departments held under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor H N Prasad on Monday. They discussed the recent circular received from the chancellor’s secretariat regarding online classes. The principals pointed out, “While the Degree Part III students have already written their examinations, the Part I and Part II students have been sent up for university exams. They are anxiously waiting for the announcement of their exam schedules.” The PG heads said, “The courses of semesters II and IV have almost been completed because teachers of different departments organized online classes and uploaded study materials to the university’s website during the lockdown period. Whatever little remains to be done will be covered by July 31.” The heads and principals also discussed the feasibility of promoting Part I and Part II students at the UG stage and semester II students at the PG level without conducting exams. They, however, decided to wait for the decision of the chancellor’s committee on examinations which is scheduled to meet at the Raj Bhavan on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/online-education-to-continue-till-month-end-pu/articleshow/76821026.cms||B K Mishra
July 7, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Gaya’s G B Road made containment zone||GAYA: Business has come to a near halt in the main commercial area of the town as the nearly 2km-long stretch between the head post office and Nai Godam of the all-important GB Road has been notified as containment zone. Though barricades were put at more than a dozen points all along the different intersections on Sunday, the effect was felt on Monday, the first working day after the containment zone notification issued by Gaya Sadar SDO after nearly three dozen positive cases reported from this area. The Kotwali police station, according to SSP Rajiv Mishra, has temporarily been relocated to the Gurdwara Road police outpost. “Nine police personnel deputed at the police station tested positive. The police station was being effectively sanitized. About 20 police personnel in the district have tested Covid-19 positive,” said the SSP. Sadar SDO Indravir Kumar said normal business activity will remain suspended for the next four weeks or till two weeks after the area becomes infection free, whichever is later. “Provision stores, medicine shops and banks will remain open in the containment zone,” he said. According to DM Abhishek Singh, at least one person from each household in the GB road area will be tested for Covid infection. “Instructions have also been issued to impose penalty on those found without a mask in the district,” said Singh. Asked about the facility for treatment of the Covid patients, nodal officer for the Covid treatment at the ANMMCH, Dr NK Paswan, said there were 37 beds for level 2 infected persons and 16 were occupied. “For level three patients, there are 10 beds in the hospital. Three of those 10 beds are occupied. Level three patients need ventilator support,” Dr Paswan explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gayas-g-b-road-made-containment-zone/articleshow/76820993.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Patna||No direct recruitment of professors, readers in universities for 4 decades||PATNA: No university in Bihar has made any direct recruitment for the posts of professor and associate professor or reader in any subject for the last four decades. All the superior posts sanctioned by the state government and the University Grants Commission (UGC) till the end of the Ninth Plan period are lying vacant, telling upon the academic standard of the institutions of higher education. Academics point out that direct recruitment of teachers was stopped after the introduction of various schemes of promotion in the early 80s. “Since hundreds and thousands of teachers were promoted as readers and professors under time-bound and merit promotion schemes of the government as well as career advancement scheme of the UGC, no post of reader or professor was advertised by any university. The last appointment of a university professor by the Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) through an all-India advertisement was made in 1977-1978,” claimed Patna University Teachers’ Association president Randhir Kumar Singh. According to Patna University’s annual report presented at the last senate meeting in January, the university has as many as 898 sanctioned posts of teachers, including 69 professors and 184 associate professors. However, the total number of teachers serving the university today is less than 300. “Even if fresh appointments to the post of assistant professor or lecturer in PU are made by the newly-constituted Bihar State University Service Commission (BSUSC), more than 50% of the sanctioned posts will remain vacant,” said Singh. He added, “Since all the teachers serving as professors and associate professors have been promoted under personal promotion schemes, they continue to occupy their original posts of assistant professors. Hence, as long as they remain in university service, there will be no vacancy for the post of assistant professor.” The greatest fallout of this mode of appointment, said Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar working president Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha, was the dwindling strength of teachers in colleges and postgraduate departments. “During the 60s and 70s, there were less than 10,000 students in PU whereas the number of teachers was 1,024. Today, when the number of students is more than 25,000, there are only 294 teachers. The same is the condition with all other universities in the state,” Sinha added. Former BPSC chairman Shiv Jatan Thakur observed that the old system of appointing professors and associate professors through direct ad should be revived to raise the quality of higher education. “Most universities in the state have become victims of inbreeding as no outsider has been appointed on superior posts for the last 40 to 45 years,” he said. BSUSC secretary Upendra Nath told this newspaper, “Appointments to the posts of professors and associate professors will be made by this panel when it receives a requisition from the state education department. At present, the commission is planning for the appointment of assistant professors only.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-direct-recruitment-of-professors-readers-in-universities-for-4-decades/articleshow/76820387.cms||B K Mishra
July 7, 2020||Surat||Surat: Diamond units and textile markets told to shut down||SURAT: All diamond polishing units and trading markets of Surat have been ordered to shut down till July 14 following a spike in Covid-19 cases in hubs like Varachha, Katargam and Mahidharpura.After unlock 1.0 on June 1, around 800 people associated with the diamond industry have been infected with the virus, with Katargam zone accounting for 1,522 Covid-19 cases. Similarly, four major textile markets on Ring Road and 152 shops in three other markets were shut by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Monday till further notice after more than three Covid-19 cases were detected among the textile shop owners and workers in the last few days. Sources said that about 400 cases have been reported from the textile industry and majority surfaced in the textile markets. The closure orders were issued by municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani, who said that the virus was spreading at a lightning speed in areas like Varachha, Katargam, Pal, Adajan, Rander and Chaprabhata||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-units-and-textile-markets-told-to-shut-down/articleshow/76823703.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||MPLAD fund suspension regretful: Preneet||Patiala: Terming it as highly regretful and problematic, Patiala MP Preneet Kaur has demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi clarify the decision to arbitrarily scarp MPLAD funds meant for public welfare. In a statement issued here, the Congress MP said the time-tested MPLAD Funds Programme initiated by Congress in 1993 had been instrumental in forging public infrastructure based on local needs. These allocations had inbuilt accountability as they were approved by elected representatives and suspending these funds have greatly impacted the pace of community development works, she said. Such decisions should be taken after consultation with all parties, she said. 7.7kg heroin seized Ferozepur: In a joint operation, the Border Security Force (BSF) and the crime investigation agency (CIA) wing of Ferozepur police seized 7.714 kg heroin near the Dona Telu Mal border outpost (BOP) on Monday. The BSF and CIA personnel also seized a pistol and a Pakistani SIM card after getting specific inputs about the bid to smuggle the narcotics into India. Officials said the consignment seemed to have been tossed up through the barbed fencing from across the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mplad-fund-suspension-regretful-preneet/articleshow/76822989.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara ZP to set up flying squads||KOLHAPUR: Satara zilla parishad will set up flying squads to check whether the lockdown norms are being implemented properly in the view of increasing number of Covid-19 cases in rural areas. The flying squads, which will cover 11 tehsils, have prepared a list of 128 areas to visit and supervise. Zilla parishad chief executive officer Sanjay Bhagwat said the flying squads will comprise officials from various departments like revenue, health, education, agriculture and animal husbandry. The flying squad will also discuss remedies with the village-level committee about effective implementation of the measures Meanwhile, Satara district has recorded 32 new Covid-19 patients till Monday noon, taking the total number of cases to 1,336. Of which 490 are active cases with 55 casualties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-zp-to-set-up-flying-squads/articleshow/76821138.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||PSPCL, DHBVN improve national rankings||Patiala: Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) have improved their last year’s ratings to get A-plus grade in the annual ranking for the year 2018-19. Both the bodies showed improvements in their operational and financial performance. The latest report released by the Union minister of state for power at the power minister’s conference has a list of 41 discoms that were assessed by ICRA and CARE after which the rating was prepared by the Power Finance Corporation. This year DHBVN is at the fifth place while PSPCL follows it. The Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) has been covered under A grade. Last year, PSPCL was ninth while DHBVN and UHBVN of Haryana were 11th and 16th, respectively, in the seventh annual rating. The eighth rating of ministry of power assessed 41 power utilities of different states. Six utilities have got A+ rating. The Gujarat discoms retained its top performance in the integrated ratings with all four power distribution utilities of the state topping the integrated ratings of state discoms. There were seven utilities each in A and B plus grade, followed by 9 in B grade, seven in C plus and five discoms in C grade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pspcl-dhbvn-improve-national-rankings/articleshow/76822982.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Manufacturers want govt help in making high-end bikes||Ludhiana: City’s bicycle and parts manufacturers are pressing upon the government to extend them help for making high-end bicycles and its parts to make the local industry capable of competing with China, which ranks number one in manufacturing and exporting of high-end bicycles. According to businessmen, the cost of acquisition of technology for manufacturing high-end bicycles and parts is very costly and it is not possible for every businessman to afford it, therefore the government must step in. Speaking on the issue, Charanjit Singh Vishivkarma, former president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) said, “The business of making bicycle and its parts has suffered a big blow due to coronavirus. On one side our production has taken a severe hit due to labour exodus, while on the other hand when we have opened our factories and start production, there are hardly any orders as the demand has been badly affected due to the lockdown. Otherwise as well the demand for the roadster bicycle is going down day by day for which our industry makes the parts. Considering all these factors its high time that our industry makes a shift and we start manufacturing high-end bicycles and parts which have huge scope both locally and as well as in the international markets as well.” Vishivkarma added, “Till now, China is the biggest manufacturer and exporter of the high-end bicycles and its parts and Ludhiana bicycle industry despite being the biggest manufacturing hub of the roadster bicycle and parts for years has not been able to make high-end bicycle parts. This is because the cost of acquisition of technology for upgrading the industrial units and making them capable to produce high-end products is very high and its not possible for every small unit to upgrade it. This is only possible if the government steps in and supports local industry by funding the upgrading to make our units equipped to produce high-end bicycle parts. With government’s help we can pin down even China globally by emerging as the number one manufacturers of high-end bicycle parts and bicycles.” According to Inderjit Singh Navyug, former president of UCPMA, “China has emerged to be number one in the manufacturing and export of high-end bicycles, the demand for which is on the rise. But on the other hand for decades now Ludhiana’s bicycle industry is dependant on the roadster bicycles, which are dying a slow death as their demand is falling drastically every year. There is huge danger of shutting down of thousands of micro and small bicycle parts manufacturing units if we fail to shift ourselves from roadster model to manufacturing of high-end models.” He added that, “In order to succeed in the mission of manufacturing high-end bicycles, every parts making unit needs to be upgraded by replacing the existing machinery and technology. Unfortunately, the cost of the high-end machinery and technology is very high, which the micro and small units cannot afford. Therefore, it is our request to government to help us in achieving this goal and along with bearing the cost of upgrading , launch initiatives like skill development and make research and development and common facility centres for our industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/manufacturers-want-govt-help-in-making-high-end-bikes/articleshow/76822231.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Bareilly||Rare orchid species now blooming at 47 locations||BAREILLY: Days after the rediscovery of Eulophia obtuse, a rare orchid species, in India inside the dense forests of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve, officials have now spotted this critically endangered species at 47 other locations within the reserve. Field director Sanjay Pathak and deputy director Manoj Sonkar are in touch with several botanists across the globe and are planning to carry out research work for the conservation of this rare species in the country. Pathak told TOI, “We have now spotted this orchid species at 47 locations due to the efforts of deputy director Manoj Sonkar. We are continuously in touch with Mohammed Sharif and other botanists and will soon carry a detailed survey to take steps towards its conservation. WWF-India has also assured us required support in this initiative.” Conservationist Fazlur Rahman, who was the first person to have clicked the picture, said, “I have been coordinating with the Dudhwa forest department for the past 15 years. These forests are full of amazing species and there are many secrets yet to be unveiled. I am sure that research work at Dudhwa by ace botanists and zoologists will deliver fruitful results.” In India, the species — listed as ‘critically endangered’ in the IUCN Red List of Endangered Species — was last sighted in Pilibhit in 1902, according to the documented records in Kew Herbarium in England. The species was originally described from Uttarakhand in the 19th century. It was collected by botanists from Gangetic plains but there have been no sightings in the past 100 years. In 2008, the plant species was sighted in Bangladesh for the first time. A 2017 study published in Kew Bulletin – a peer-reviewed journal published by Springer – which had Mohammed Sharif as its first author had reported that Eulophia obtusa was under serious threat due to habitat loss and reduction in the number of mature individuals in Bangladesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/days-after-sighting-of-critically-endangered-rare-orchid-species-eulophia-obtuse-at-two-locations-in-dtr-officials-now-find-it-blooming-at-47-other-locations/articleshow/76821145.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 7, 2020||Kolhapur||2 held for raping women in Sangli||KOLHAPUR: Two men have been arrested by Sangli police in two separate rape cases where the accused befriended the women on social networking sites. Both the accused were presented before the court and have been remanded in police custody. In the first incident, the accused — a resident of Nimbwade village of Aptadi tehsil — was arrested after a rape complaint was filed against him. “The accused promised to marry the woman and then raped her. Later, the accused refused to marry her following which the woman lodged a complaint with us,” a police officer said. In the second incident, the accused introduced himself as a consultant with an educational institution and befriended the woman. “Patil allegedly took the woman to his apartment in Sangli city and raped her,” the officer said. “The accused also took photographs and videos of the incident. We have arrested the accused under section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Information Technology Act,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-held-for-raping-women-in-sangli/articleshow/76821160.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Clerk held for accepting bribe||KOLHAPUR: The anti-corruption bureau arrested a clerk working with land registration office in Radhanagari for accepting a bribe of Rs 1.20 lakh. The accused, Sagar Anand Shigaokar, is a resident of Raviwar Peth in Kolhapur. The ACB, in a press statement, said that Shigaokar had demanded the money from the complainant to make necessary changes in records of amalgamation of land. After confirming the veracity of the complaint, a trap was laid at the land registration office by the ACB following which the suspect was arrested red-handed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/clerk-held-for-accepting-bribe/articleshow/76821156.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Agra||50 new Covid +ve cases in Meerut, 49 in Bareilly||Meerut/Bareilly/Agra: A journalist and a jeweller were among at least 50 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Monday. With the new cases, the tally has now reached 1,210, including one found in Kanpur, according to Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer (CMO). Bareilly also continued to report a spike as 49 fresh cases were detected in the district on Monday. The district had reported 253 cases, including 11 deaths, on June 30, but it rose to 435, including 17 deaths, on Monday. CMO Dr Vineet Shukla said, “We are providing immediate treatment to Covid-19 patients to break the chain of transmission.” In Budaun, three new cases were reported and all were from Dataganj block. The active cases here increased to 51. Moreover, there were at least 11 new Covid-19 cases in Agra district on Monday, taking the district tally to 1,306. These included two patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of severe acute respiratory syndrome and a patient with diabetes. Also, 22 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 1,206 cases, 82.77% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 135 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/50-new-covid-ve-cases-in-meerut-49-in-bareilly/articleshow/76821167.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Patna||7 deaths take Covid-19 toll near 100-mark in Bihar||PATNA: The state health department on Monday reported seven more deaths, taking the Covid-19 death toll to 97. With 276 new coronavirus cases, the tally reached 12,140. The number of active cases now stands at 3,027 with total 9,014 recoveries so far. The health department reported two deaths each from Darbhanga and Samastipur, taking the toll to seven and six respectively in the two districts, respectively. One death each was reported from Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur and East Champaran, taking the toll to five each in these districts. Though the death of a Patna resident was not reported by the health department, NMCH in its bulletin mentioned three deaths, including a septuagenarian of the state capital. NMCH epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said the deceased was 78-year-old and comorbid. He was a resident of Sriram Nagar Colony in Sandalpur and was admitted on July 2. He died on Monday due to cardiac arrest. Two other deaths at NMCH were of that of a Darbhanga native and a Muzaffarpur resident. “Darbhanga woman was 38 years old. She was admitted on June 27. She was suffering from lung cancer. The deceased from Muzaffarpur was from Saraiya Ganj Tower locality. He was 55 years’ old and suffering from hypertension and diabetes,” said Dr Mukul. A 64-year-old man from Kagzi Mohalla in Siwan died at AIIMS-Patna on Monday. However, this death was not mentioned in the health department bulletin. Details regarding Bhagalpur, East Champaran and Samastipur deceased were not given by the health department. As per information shared by the health department, Covid-19 cases were reported from 30 districts, with maximum 55 from Patna, followed by Darbhanga with 27 cases, Bhagalpur with 25 cases and East Champaran and Nalanda with 15 cases each. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 249 patients recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 9,014 at 74.25% rate, while average national recovery rate was 60.86%. In the same time period, 280 new cases have been registered. He said 6,213 samples were tested in the past 24 hours and so far total 2,64,109 samples had been tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7-deaths-take-covid-toll-near-100-mark-in-bihar/articleshow/76822245.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 7, 2020||Chennai||Senior surgeon Dr Chandramohan passes away at 63||Chennai: Senior surgeon Dr S M Chandramohan, who removed cancerous tumours of the stomach and colon, and replaced acid-ravaged food pipes in hundreds of poor people at government hospitals, died on Monday of a heart attack at Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research. The 63-year-old founder-director of Institute of Surgical Gastroenterology and Centre of Excellence for Upper GI Surgery at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital worked in government hospitals for more than three decades, treating several poor patients. He also published several research papers. At 4am on Monday, he complained of chest discomfort and was taken to a nearby hospital for an ECG that found “abnormalities”. He was referred to Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research in Porur. “He was being treated for a heart attack. He was responding well to treatment initially, but blood vessels in the heart ruptured. We could not revive him,” said senior surgeon Dr N Balaji Singh who treated him. Born into an agricultural family in Thanjavur, walking into a medical school in his home town was a dream come true for Dr Chandramohan. His teacher and senior vascular surgeon Dr N Sekar always found him to be one of the most hardworking medical students. “He was my first PG student. He passed out with a gold medal.” Dr Chandramohan went on to become a Fellow of American College of Surgeons (FACS) and Fellow of Royal College of Surgeons of Glasgow (FRCS). Many who knew him said that when he was not operating he was seeing patients in the GH ward or at his clinic, teaching medicos or talking to them about a research programme. While he learned, Chandramohan handed over the scalpel to many medical students. Senior opthlamologist Dr Mohan Rajan recalled his days as Chandramohan’s junior. “He was a PG student when I interned. Giving an intern the scalpel was unheard of then but he let me do hernia and appendix surgeries. I learned the art of fine sutures and the way to respect tissues from him. He had the ability to teach and encourage students and he did that till the end,” he said. Having founded Esoindia – an organisation to create awareness on esophagus, stomach and obesity among doctors and patients – he also led many young medicos into research and gave them opportunities to present their studies at international conferences. On Sunday, hours before his demise, he discussed new research with students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/senior-surgeon-dr-chandramohan-passes-away-at-63/articleshow/76822980.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Ludhiana||26 undertrials who tested positive shifted to quarantine centre||Ludhiana: A day after 26 cases of Covid-19 were reported from Central Jail, the authorities there are waiting for reports of 33 samples of inmates who were lodged in the adjoining barrack, from where the cases had been reported. Meanwhile, all 26 undertrials who have tested positive have been shifted to Meritorious School quarantine centre. An officer at the Central Jail said of the 32 undertrials of s barrack, 26 had tested positive and the remaining had tested negative. He added that they had again sent the samples of undertrials, who had tested negative, so that things could be confirmed again. “After we get undertrials from Brostal Jail, which has been designated as a special jail for all new undertrials, we keep them under quarantine for a minimum of 14 days. Later, before shifting them to regular barracks, we get their Covid test done. On June 9, we had got these undertrials from special jail and their samples were taken on July 2 before they were to be shifted to regular barracks. However, 26 of them tested positive, so they were sent to the civil hospital as the health department has to take care of them,” said an officer at the Central Jail. He said, “The samples of 33 more undertrials, housed in barrack number 3 have been taken on July 4 and their reports are expected soon.” He added that of the four special barracks, reports of all undertrials from barrack numbers one and two are negative. Rajiv Arora, jail superintendent, said that not a single case of Covid-19 had been recorded in the regular barracks and from among their staff members. He added that they were getting random sampling of the inmates done and had got tests of staff members, including four doctors at the jail, and other regular staff done. The jail superintendent said that one of the undertrials who had come from the special jail might have Covid and later it could have spread to other inmates at the barrack. He added that they had made four special barracks for the undertrials coming from the special jail and each barrack housed about 30-35 undertrials. Meanwhile, health department officials said that the 26 Covid positive under-trials were shifted from the civil hospital to Meritorious School, where they had been quarantined. “Most of them are asymptomatic. There is adequate security in the place there for the undertrials,” said health department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/26-undertrials-who-tested-positive-shifted-to-quarantine-centre/articleshow/76822239.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||No RTE admissions till demands met, say two major school associations||Nagpur: Two of the biggest English medium budget schools’ association in Maharashtra say they won’t give admissions under the RTE quota till their pending demands are met. Independent English Schools’ Association (IESA) and Maharashtra English Schools Trustees’ Association (MESTA) are firm on their decision to not proceed with RTE admissions for which seat allotment has already been done through online lottery. While both have one common demand regarding clearance of pending RTE bills, IESA says the other issue is about a new criteria to calculate reimbursements. Rajendra Dayma, president of IESA, said the change was made a few months ago and it will sound the death knell for their budget schools. “As per the rule, 25% of the total class strength is to be reserved for the RTE quota. So, the government will pay us for 25 RTE students in a class strength of 100. But now, the education department says that payment will be done for 25% of the number of students admitted in the general category,” said Dayma. He added that this sounds complex and that’s why many people failed to read the warning signs. “So, assume that 25 students take admission under RTE quota and only 50 come for the general quota. Now the government will not pay us for all 25 RTE students. Instead, they will calculate 25% of general admissions done (50) and pay us only for 12 or 13 students. This means no one will pay fees for the remaining RTE quota students” said Dayma. IESA has written to the state education department but so far no response has come. MESTA says the state education department is ignoring the precarious financial condition of budget schools. Sanjay Tayde-Patil, founder-president of MESTA, said pending RTE payments and refusal of general category of parents has put them in a tight spot. “How will our schools survive if such a thing continues. The government needs to intervene and help out budget schools immediately,” said Tayde-Patil. BOX Parents with fake RTE documents withdrawing admissions With the state government making it clear that parents who forge documents to secure free RTE admissions will face prosecution, some have discreetly started withdrawing. TOI was the first to report that to complete admission formalities, parents will have to give an undertaking that all documents are genuine and if not, they will face criminal charges. Now local authorities tell TOI that some parents are coming forward and withdrawing admissions and thus escaping prosecution. Others, who have not come forward, may simply not show up for admissions which will ultimately lead to cancellations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-rte-admissions-till-demands-met-say-two-major-school-associations/articleshow/76822988.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 7, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand becomes first state to provide water connection under Jal Jeevan Mission for Re 1||Dehradun: Under the Centre's ambitious Jal Jeevan Mission project through which it aims to provide piped water connection to rural and far flung areas, Uttarakhand has become the first state in the country to offer water connection at Re 1 for people with "financially weak background". For a water pipeline connection under the scheme, one has to pay Rs 2,350. However, for the public welfare, the Uttarakhand government on Monday announced to charge a mere Re 1. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat made the announcement during an event organised at Nangal Bulandawala in his assembly constituency of Doiwala on Monday. The CM said that under the ‘Jal Jeevan Mission’ in the state, a target has been set to provide 75% drinking water in rural areas in the next two years. “This year, there are plans to provide drinking water to 3.58 lakh houses under the scheme,” the CM said. Rawat pointed out that works are being done in 22 semi-urban areas for the availability of 16 hours of drinking water per day. A total of 96,797 houses in semi-urban areas are expected to benefit under the scheme. He added that through taps, the state's residents will get pure drinking water supply before 2024. With the initiative, Uttarakhand has become the first state in the country to provide water connection to common man at Re 1. “Top priority is being given to the project and before 2024, we have to deliver water to every household in the rural areas. For this, a target has been set for each year, in which the availability of water is being taken care of as well as its purity, and a complete plan is being prepared for it with quality water in all areas,” the CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-becomes-first-state-to-provide-water-connection-under-jal-jeevan-mission-for-re-1/articleshow/76821166.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Verka reduces animal feed prices by Rs 80 to 100 per quintal||Chandigarh: Verka on Monday decided to reduce the animal feed price by Rs 80-100 per quintal. Punjab cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the cut in animal feed rates for the second time within two months would give a major relief to the farming sector and provide Rs 3 lakh daily benefit to milk producers in the state. The minister said that Verka has started direct procurement of maize from grain markets. This direct purchase has provided farmers reasonable rates for their produce and also acquisition of top quality maize by Verka, he said. The quality of the feed would not be compromised owing to the reduction in prices, as good quality feed keeps intact the productivity factor in milch cattle, he added. Milkfed managing director Kamaldeep Singh Sangha said both the animal feed plants of Verka at Khanna in Ludhiana district and Ghania Ke Bangar in Gurdaspur district worked to their optimum capacity and provided the high quality animal feed for the milch animals of the farmers during the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/verka-reduces-animal-feed-prices-by-rs-80-to-100-per-quintal/articleshow/76822993.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Yamuna needs more water from Hathni Kund barrage’||NEW DELHI: Yamuna Monitoring Committee, in its final report to National Green Tribunal, has suggested increasing the amount of fresh water being released downstream from Hathni Kund barrage for revival of the river. It added that while 10 cumec (cubic metre per second) of water was indeed being released from the barrage, almost all of it was evaporating or percolating into the riverbed during the lean season before it reached Wazirabad. Consequently, there was no fresh water downstream of Wazirabad during the lean season and the river was sustained solely by sewage and industrial effluents, the report stated. It has recommended a change in the flow requirement, which could help sustain the river and survival of fish species such as Indian carp (Raiamas bola) and Indian trout (Banganadero). While 10 cumec of water was being released from Hathni Kund barrage from January to May each year, a minimum release of 23 cumec in January and February each, 26 in March, 29 in April and 34 cumec in May was required to sustain the environmental flow of the river, the report suggested. “The recommended water release during the lean season months (December to May) are aimed at maintaining required habitat conditions for fish species like Indian carp (Raiamas bola) and Indian trout (Banganadero). The study recommends the flow requirement for survival of these indicator species indigenous to the area,” said the report. Committee member BS Sajwan in the report said that the environmental flow of 10 cumec being released currently from Hathni Kund was “completely insufficient to maintain the flow as most of it disappeared after 70-80 km downstream during the lean season.” “The possibility of increasing this flow is difficult as the demand for Yamuna water is increasing,” said the report, asking NGT to recommend the e-flow suggested as a critical parameter for revival of the river. The report also suggested that Ministry of Jal Shakti and Upper Yamuna River Board, along with Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi, should rework the water sharing agreement between the states, which was made in 1994, to permit release of the recommended e-flow at Hathni Kund. NGT had formed the committee in 2018 to oversee the rejuvenation of the Yamuna. It submitted its final report on June 29 at the end of its tenure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/yamuna-needs-more-water-from-hathni-kund-barrage/articleshow/76823023.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||Spooked by high bills, only 32% consumers have paid June dues||Nagpur: The massive public awareness campaign launched by MSEDCL officials and energy minister Nitin Raut has failed to convince consumers that June power bills are not inflated and only 32% of them have paid it in Nagpur zone (Nagpur and Wardha districts) so far. The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) officials refused to tell TOI as to how many of these 32% consumers had paid full bills. They only said that the total collection was Rs143 crore. An MSEDCL spokesperson claimed that the company was not disheartened by the percentage. “Of the 13.95 lakh consumers, about 4.44 lakh have paid up so far. Of these, 2.87 lakh paid after June 15. This shows that our public awareness campaign is working,” he said. BJP MLC Pravin Datke, however, said 32% was a very poor figure and showed that people have lost faith in the MSEDCL and state government. “People have been paying bills honestly till now. However, June bills are inflated. Most of the consumers will not pay them until they are corrected. The earnings of people have reduced sharply due to the lockdown. State government should provide them free power up to 100 units, as promised by Raut. They should also be allowed to pay bill in three instalments,” he added. The non-cooperation of consumers is the worst MSEDCL is facing in recent times. Even when there were large scale complaints of its franchisee SNDL installing ‘fast meters’, consumers had paid their bills sooner or later. A retired senior MSEDCL officer told TOI that the discom should have sent meter readers in March, April and May to take the readings. “The readers don’t come in contact with anybody when they take readings. Covid distancing problem would not have arisen had meter readings been regularly taken. This would have avoided the present mess. MSEDCL officials should have foreseen it,” he said. The mistake of not taking readings was committed by other licensees in the state too and they are facing problem of low recovery. Reconciliation not done in some bills MSEDCL officials in Mumbai have admitted that there were errors in some bills and promised that the same would be corrected. “People with such problems should send us complaints on WhatsApp on the number 9833567777 or 9833717777 from their registered mobile numbers. They can also meet our officers in their nearest discom offices,” said spokesperson PS Patil. In many cases, MSEDCL staffers forgot to reconcile the fixed charges and electricity duty recovered in April and May in the bill for June. If the bills are not corrected, the consumers will end up paying them twice. Raut’s house gheraoed BJP women’s cell activists led by city president Kirtida Ajmera gheraoed the residence of energy minister Nitin Raut over high power bills. The activists stood around his house for some time and then submitted a memorandum to him making several demands. Even though such agitations are banned during lockdown period, city police let it go ahead. The demands include not increasing power tariff from April 1, providing 100 units free per month to all residential consumers, correcting all bills and allowing payment of bill in three instalments to consumers, withdrawing the present bills and issuing corrected ones etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/spooked-by-high-bills-only-32-consumers-have-paid-june-dues/articleshow/76822996.cms||Ashish Roy
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||Day of relief for Vid: Lowest +ves, highest recoveries of July||Nagpur: Monday was a day of relief from Covid-19 in July so far. After recording more than 140 cases constantly on first five days of the month, Vidarbha on Monday reported 112 new cases — lowest of July. The same day also saw 102 patients recovering, which is highest so far in July. Earlier, less than 100 persons had recovered in first five days of July. With this, total Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha reached 5,569 and number of recovered patients at 4,015. Recovery rate is still above 70% which is better than Maharashtra as well as the national average. A 65-year-old man from Yavatmal city died during treatment on July 6. As far as Covid-19 deaths are concerned, this is the lowest number in July. So far, 19 Covid deaths have been reported in Vidarbha in six days of July. Mortality rate of Covid-19 patients in Vidarbha is 3.16%, which is quite low as compared to state’s average of 4.25%. However national average is 2.85% which is quite better than Vidarbha. The 112 new cases registered on July 6 include Akola (39), Nagpur (26), Gondia (16), Yavatmal (8), Washim (7), Amravati (5), Gadchiroli (4), Bhandara (4), Chandrapur (2), and Wardha (1). Buldhana, which has been recording double digit increase since July 1, reported no new case on July 6. In fact, 14 patients recovered from Buldhana in a day. Monday’s recoveries in Vidarbha include Akola (28), Nagpur (20), Buldhana (14), Washim (12), Gondia (12), Amravati (8), Yavatmal (4), Gadchiroli (3), Bhandara (1). Recovery figure also crossed 4,000-mark, which is another good sign. Total number of active patients at present is more than 1,300. AKOLA: Infamous for Covid-19 deaths, Akola reported no death for the second consecutive day on July 6. Total 39 new cases were detected which include a 13-month-old girl, and two kids below 8 years of age. Total cases in the district surged to 1,742 including 1,286 recoveries and 89 deaths. AMRAVATI: With five of the total 237 reports received today from Sant Gadge Baba Amravati University lab turning out to be positive, Amravati touched the 700 Covid cases mark in a span of just four days. The district had reported its first case on April 4 last and reached 100 in next 43 days on May 16. The next two hundreds had been reached in 13 days each on May 29 and June 11, while further two 100s were breached in eight days each on a June 19 and June 27, respectively. The sixth 100 then came in five days on July 2 while it took just four days for the district to reach 700 mark today. These 700 cases include 27 Covid deaths and 470 recovered, 203 active cases, according to a civil surgeon’s office report. The report said a 21-year-old youth from Paratwada tested positive on Sunday night to take the town’s count to five and rural count to 81. A 55-year-old woman and a 29-year-old man tested positive from a family in Rampuri Camp locality here to take the locality’s count to four, while Chaprasipura and Amarnagar reported their first case today through males aged 33 and 58, respectively. The CS office report said that 11,494 persons have been tested in the district to date and 9,928 of them have tested negative. It said that 695 reports are still pending while 171 samples are being re-sent. The report said that eight patients were discharged from Covid Hospital today. CHANDRAPUR: Two more Covid-19 patients were detected in Chandrapur taking the total to 123 on Monday. New patients include a Hyderabad returned 30-year-old woman from Bhivapur ward and a 21-year-old resident of Mauda in Pombhura tehsil who was close contact of already positive patient. So far, 62 persons have been discharged after treatment and 61 patients are under treatment. WARDHA: One more a 54-year-old employee of MSEDCL was found positive. The employee had returned from Raigad district. The man works in Wardha division and is a resident of Nagpur. He has been admitted to Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural hospital in Sawangi for treatment. Even after reporting new cases daily in last three days, Wardha has only 15 active cases, which is lowest in Vidarbha. BULDHANA: For the first time in July, Buldhana recorded no new case on Monday. However, as the Covid-19 cases have surpassed 300 mark, the district administration has decided to observe complete lockdown in the district from July 7 to 21. Essential shops will remain open from 9am to 3pm daily. Strict curfew-like lockdown will be observed from 3pm to 9am next day. Dr Rajendra Shingne, guardian minister of Buldhana, said a proposal for Covid-19 testing lab in the city has already been submitted. “Presently, we are sending samples to Akola, Nagpur and Yavatmal. But, soon, Buldhana will have its own Covid-testing lab at a cost of Rs1.50 crore. In the meanwhile, we will also send samples to Jalna, where a new lab has been established,” he said. With no new case on July 6, Buldhana has 300 total cases, 190 of them discharged, 13 deaths and 97 active cases. GONDIA: Total 16 persons, including 9 who came back from Gulf countries as part of Vande Bharat mission tested positive in Gondia on July 6. Eight of them have come back from Kuwait and one from Qatar. Other 7 positives are locals from Gondia, Tirora and Salekasa tehsils. Total 12 patients recovered on July 6. Gondia now has 66 active patients, 41 of them are from Gondia, 4 from Tirora, 4 from Sadak Arjuni tehsils. Total 17 who returned from Dubai, Kyrgyzstan, Kuwait and Qatar are admitted in the GMCH. Authorities are still awaiting reports of 211 samples. GADCHIROLI: Four CRPF jawans from Wadsa tested positive on July 6 after a Covid-19 blast of 41 new cases reported on July 5. Three patients recovered and discharged on July 6 which took total number of active cases in Gadchiroli to 56 including 8 who are from other districts. Bhandara reported 4 cases while Washim saw seven new cases on July 6. Total cases in Washim reached 130. As 12 patients recovered the same day, number of recoveries in Washim surged to 96 and active cases here are 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-of-relief-for-vid-lowest-ves-highest-recoveries-of-july/articleshow/76823018.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 7, 2020||Ludhiana||2 brothers booked for culpable homicide||Ludhiana: The Daba police on Sunday booked two brothers for culpable homicide after a 55-year-old drunk man died during a spat with them in Dhillon Colony of Daba. The victim used to have liquor with the father of the accused. The accused used to blame the victim for making their father drink liquor and waste money. The deceased has been identified as Satnam Singh, a mason, of Dhillon Colony. The accused, Jaspreet Singh, 36, and his younger brother Jasvir Singh, 30, both labourers, of Dhillon Colony, gave Satnam a push after which he fell on the ground and died. Gurnam Singh, son of the victim, stated that his father used to consume liquor with Narinder Pal Singh, father of accused. On July 4, the duo had consumed liquor at a vend in the locality. Suddenly rain started when his father and Narinder were returning home. They took shelter under the shed of a shop. “When I went there to bring my father home, Jaspreet and Jasvir also turned up there. They started accusing my father of making their father waste money on liquor. When I objected to it, the accused slapped me. My father tried to intervene, but the accused thrashed him also and gave him a strong push. My father fell on the ground and his head hit the ground. I rushed my father to a hospital, where he died,” he added. ASI Gurdial Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Sections 304 (culpable homicide) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC has been registered against the accused at Daba police station on Sunday. He added that Narinder Pal had retired as peon from a government school a few months ago. He was using his pension to consume liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-brothers-booked-for-culpable-homicide/articleshow/76822246.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Five more residents of Koz flat positive||Kozhikode: An apartment in the city where five residents had contracted the virus on Sunday, had six more Covid-19 cases on Monday. Three of them are contacts of the apartment's security guard who committed suicide on June 27. Samples were collected from the area after it was confirmed that the security guard had contracted Covid though his source of infection is yet to be identified. Mayor Thottathil Raveendran and A Pradeep Kumar, MLA, warned strict action against those who take the precautions lightly. Addressing a news conference here on Monday, they said directions have been given to officials in this regard. Till now 23 have contracted the virus in the city limits, including four that came from abroad and five from other states. The remaining contracted the disease through contacts. “Now 16 persons are under treatment,” they said. The Mayor said samples are being collected from Kundayithode, Chakkumkadavu, Puthiyangadi, and Vellayil that are declared as containment zones. Licenses of 35 shops were cancelled for violating protocol and 124 were fined for not wearing masks, he said. Meanwhile, District Collector Sambhasiva Rao imposed more restrictions in the city. Valiyangadi, central market, SM Street, and Palayam have been declared as restricted areas. Movement of people and vehicles will be controlled by the police in these areas. Vehicles coming from other states to Valiyangadi will be registered before allowing entry. The employees in the vehicles will be subjected to thermal scanning, the Collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/five-more-residents-of-koz-flat-positive/articleshow/76821177.cms||---
July 7, 2020||India||Toppers in UP boards shrink from 585 to two||LUCKNOW: This year, too, was as bad at the top in the UP board results as previous years. The reasons it was less crowded at the top were also the same — no spiking of marks and a crackdown on the ‘copying mafia’ by the state government. From 585 in 2016, the number of students scoring 95% and above in class XII UP board exams remained at two, just like last year. Data accessed by TOI also show a sharp fall in the number of students scoring over 90% marks. In 2016 class XII boards, 16,845 students had scored 90% and above. This drastically came down to 1,976 in 2017 and only 49 in 2020. It was 50 last year. Trends show that there has been a steady fall in the number of top performers since 2017. The dip, said former CBSE chairperson Ashok Ganguly, was not surprising. According to him, early conduct of exams and measures to curb malpractices are possible reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/toppers-in-up-boards-shrink-from-585-to-two/articleshow/76824264.cms||Isha Jain
July 7, 2020||Mumbai||Don’t shift IPS officers without Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray’s nod: Sharad Pawar||MUMBAI: A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray set aside transfer orders of 10 deputy commissioners of police issued by Mumbai police chief Parambir Singh without the CM’s knowledge, NCP president Sharad Pawar stepped in to pacify the agitated Thackeray. Pawar, accompanied by home minister Anil Deshmukh, went to Matoshree on Monday to explain to the CM the situation on the transfers of DCPs. If a senior Shiv Sena cabinet member is to be believed, Pawar has asked the home minister Deshmukh to ensure that the CM is adequately briefed on postings and transfers of IPS officers, whether they are routine or out of turn. “Pawar told Deshmukh in the presence of the CM that it should not happen again,” the minister said. Parambir Singh had on July 2 shifted 10 DCPs in Mumbai without the CM getting to know of it. When senior Sena leader and transport minister Anil Parab found that 10 DCPs had been quietly shifted, he brought it to the notice of the CM who swung into action and asked the home department to immediately cancel all the transfers. The CM’s contention was that it was wrong to shift such a large number of DCPs without his knowledge. Significantly, it was found that Parambir Singh had briefed Anil Deshmukh on the proposed transfers, but the home minister had not informed the CM. According to reports, during the meeting with the CM in the presence of Sharad Pawar, Deshmukh defended his decision saying that it was well within the powers of the Mumbai police commissioner to effect transfers of officers and that there was no need to bring the matter to the notice of the CM. The Sena has taken the view that it is not a question of the rulebook but of convention, which suggests that internal transfers be brought to the CM’s notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dont-shift-ips-officers-without-cms-nod-pawar/articleshow/76823505.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
July 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Woman dies, 4 kids, driver injured in car-truck crash||TNNLudhiana: A woman was killed and her four children and driver injured after the car they were travelling in rammed into a stationary truck on Ludhiana-Delhi National Highway, near Bija, early on Monday. Sanjeeda, 42, of Tibba Road, along with her two sons and two daughters, was on way to Ludhiana from Khanna. When their car reached near Kishangarh road around 3am, the driver saw a heavy vehicle parked on the road but could not jam on the brakes in time and ran into it.Passersby called up the police. An ambulance took the injured to Khanna civil hospital.SMO Khanna civil hospital Dr Rajinder Gulati said, “The woman died at Khanna civil hospital. The four others have been referred to PGI, Chandigarh.”Police said the truck driver has been identified as Krishna of Uttar Pradesh.A case has been registered under sections 304 A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) of the IPC. In another accident, a motorcyclist died after a car hit him in Khanna.Another motorcyclist died of heart attack while he was driving to Doraha. The SMO said the two were brought dead to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-dies-4-kids-driver-injured-in-car-truck-crash/articleshow/76821198.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Patna||Trader shot at, robbed of Rs 10 lakh in Patna||PATNA: A wholesale dealer of pulses was shot at and robbed of Rs 10 lakh at Maroofganj under Malsalami police station in Patna City on Monday. The injured Abhishek Kumar alias Sonu was critical and undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Agamkuan. The incident took place around 12.10pm when Abhishek, along with his brother Manish Kumar, was on way from his shop to the Maroofganj branch of State Bank of India to deposit the cash. Five criminals on two motorbike accosted them and snatched the bag containing cash. One of the robbers fired at Abhishek when he resisted. The bullet hit Abhishek in his leg. His brother Manish, however, managed to escape unhurt and reported the incident to the police. While Manish claimed the robbers escaped with Rs 15 lakh, City SP (West) Jitendra Kumar said only Rs10 lakh was looted. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma visited the spot. “The robbers will be arrested soon,” he told reporters. Malsalami police station house officer (SHO) Sudama Prasad said raids were on to nab the criminals. The police obtained the CCTV footage from nearby shops to ascertain the identity of the criminals. Meanwhile, the traders of Maroofganj and Mansoorganj have decided to keep their shutters down on Tuesday to protest the incident. Basant Golbar, patron of Maroofganj wholesale grocery dealers association, said they would intensify the agitation if the police failed to arrest the culprits soon. Earlier, eyewitnesses told the investigating officers that the criminals intercepted the traders when they were about to reach the bank. “It seems the robbers were following the two brothers from their shop on motorbikes,” an investigating officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/trader-shot-at-robbed-of-rs-10-lakh-in-patna-city/articleshow/76822268.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Low pressure forms above Bay of Bengal||Visakhapatnam: A low pressure, extending up to 7.6 km above the mean sea level tilting southwestwards, has formed over northwest Bay of Bengal near south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh that is likely cause light to heavy rains across the state for the next few days, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD on Monday urged fishermen to not venture into the sea along the Andhra, Odisha and West Bengal coasts till further instructions from the departments concerned. On Monday, several parts of the state, including Visakhapatnam city, received light rains. “Visakhapatnam city registered maximum temperature of 28.2 degree Celsius on Monday,” said a senior Cyclone Warning Centre official to TOI. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/low-pressure-forms-above-bay-of-bengal/articleshow/76821204.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Hotels, restaurant owners seek reduction in power charges to overcome losses||Ludhiana: As the hospitality industry, including hotels, banquet halls, restaurants, et.c have still not been able to generate decent business due to fear among residents about coronavirus, the businessmen associated with the trade say in view of their losses, the government needs to extend a helping hand towards them and at least reduce the power charges for hotel, marriage palaces and restaurants or allow them to change their meter category to the small power category. If the power rates are reduced then lakhs of rupees of their expenditure would be saved every month and their losses would reduce. Giving more information on the issue, Amarveer Singh, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association, Ludhiana, said, “The situation is same for the hospitality industry as it was during the lockdown. The only difference is at that time we were suffering losses due to the closure of our hotels, marriage palaces, restaurants, etc. but now we are suffering even more when we have opened them but we have no customers. Regardless of full preparation and spending of huge money by all our members just to safeguard customers and staff during parties and dining out, we are receiving no positive response. People are so scared of coronavirus that they do not want to go anywhere else except for their homes and workplaces. It has been almost 15 days since the hospitality sector in Ludhiana opened up after lockdown but till date there is not even a single hotel , marriage palace or restaurant, which has been able to touch the level of even 50% of their sales as compared to the pre-lockdown time.” Singh added that, “The only way to survive right now is reduction in the cost of doing business as it would help in narrowing down the gap between our earnings and losses. Hospitality industry is highly dependent on electricity and it is the major factor in deciding the rates and calculating expenses. Presently, we are only allowed to install commercial meters and power is being charged from us at Rs 10 per unit and even more in some cases. If the rates of power are reduced, it will bring down our costs significantly and our losses would also reduce. Therefore, we request the state government to either slash the rates of power or allow us to switch to the small power category meters applicable for small industry or else a large number of hospitality industry units will be forced to permanently shut down because of rising losses” According to SS Rai, a hotel owner from Model Town, “The rates power are very high for hotels , marriage palaces and restaurants as we are billed under commercial connections, tariffs of which are the highest. Even if we keep our units closed, even then the minimum monthly bills of our properties comes out to be in several lakhs. As present, we do not have any business in hand, nor there are any queries for the future months. We request the government to reduce the power tariff for the hospitality industry to Rs 5 per unit for at least one year from now so that we can face this difficult time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hotels-restaurant-owners-seek-reduction-in-power-charges-to-overcome-losses/articleshow/76822255.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Masked, raincoat-clad thieves steal gold||KOLHAPUR: Three unidentified people broke into a jewellery shop near a containment zone in Satara, wearing raincoats and gloves to protect themselves from coronavirus ( and possibly also hide thier identity), and stole 780 gm of gold, amounting to Rs 20 lakh. The incident, which came to light on Sunday morning, was caught on a CCTV footage. Phaltan police team found that the unidentified suspects had dug a hole in the wall of a jewellery shop to enter the premises. The shop is situated on the boundary of a micro-containment zone in Raviwar peth. The shopowner said that 780 gm of gold, amounting to around Rs 20 lakh, was stolen. Phaltan city police inspector P D Poman said “We think that the thieves had worn raincoats, gloves and covered their faces to protect themselves from coronavirus. We have got some clues and will nab them soon”. Talking to TOI, Poman said that three thieves were caught on CCTV cameras in the shop, but their faces could not be seen. Even with the roads and lanes barricaded by the police, the thieves managed to break into the shop. The direction of the CCTV camera was changed, however, the movements of the thieves were still caught. Police did not rule out the involvement of locals in the crime. Police officials said that wearing of masks and gloves was a known method but wearing raincoats is a new phenomenon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/masked-raincoat-clad-thieves-steal-gold/articleshow/76821197.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||20 MD and MS seats vacant||Ahmedabad: The second round of admissions for postgraduate studies in medical and dental programmes in the state has been completed with 20 seats remaining vacant for MD and MS while 21 lie empty for MDS courses. The admission round, which completed on June 6, saw allocation of 1,550 seats for MD and MS courses and 250 seats being allocated for postgraduate in dental studies. The second round of admission on PG seats for medical and dental courses for the All-India quota which was to be held in June, was earlier been deferred for all states due to Covid-19 crisis. Candidates who have been allocated seats have to confirm their admission online between July 6 and July 10. They can confirm by paying the exam fees at the helpline centres and submitting the required documents. The second round was necessitated after 130 more students who got selected in the first round, recently withdrew their applications. As a result, there are about 600 vacant seats for which the second round was held. The first round of admission for PG medical and dental courses took place during the lockdown period. While most processes took place online, students and their parents were directed to help centres arranged for guidance and other required process. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/20-md-and-ms-seats-vacant/articleshow/76822249.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Agra||Post-Kanpur incident, four criminals arrested in three encounters in Firozabad, Bareilly dists||Agra/Bareilly: Four criminals were arrested in three separate encounters in two Uttar Pradesh districts of Firozabad and Bareilly that left one sub-inspector, a constable and three criminals injured. In back-to-back encounters in Firozabad on Sunday night, three history-sheeters were arrested, while two of them sustained bullet injuries. The accused have collectively 29 cases, including attempt to murder, robbery, and cases under the Gangster Act, among others, registered against them. Police identified the criminals as Vikas alias Boxer from Tundla, Sachin from Tilak Nagar and Babloo Kumar from Uttar thana area. Vikas — wanted in 15 cases, and Sachin were caught by a joint team of a special operation group and Shikohabad police in a late-night encounter, while Babloo Kumar — wanted in 14 cases — was arrested by the Uttar thana police. “Acting on a tip-off, police traced Vikas and his accomplice heading towards Shikohabad. In a bid to dodge police, the duo opened fire at police. However, in retaliatory fire, a bullet struck Vikas in his leg. Similarly, during the night checking, police found two men on a motorbike trying to escape, following which a police team chased them. As the accused fired shots, police, too, returned fire and a bullet stuck Babloo in his leg. He was arrested while his accomplice escaped,” a Firozabad police official said. Meanwhile, in Bareilly district, a sub-inspector, a constable and a history-sheeter identified as Aamir alias Kaatiya sustained bullet injuries during an encounter at Chureli Dam in Bahedi area on Monday. The accused — wanted in eight cases of robbery and cases under the Gangster Act had, along with his aides Sheru and Saleem, recently robbed a couple near Amariya village — was arrested, while a combing operation to nab his aides was going on. Confirming the arrest of a gangster after an encounter, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shailesh Pandey told TOI, “The accused and our two policemen sustained injuries, while three accused managed to escape. We have formed multiple teams and initiated a combing operation to nab them. The combing will continue till their arrest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/post-kanpur-incident-four-criminals-arrested-in-three-encounters-in-firozabad-bareilly-dists/articleshow/76821196.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Allahabad||106 cases in 5 days push recovery rate down to 66%||Prayagraj: The continuous spurt in novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases has derailed Prayagraj district’s recovery rate. With 106 cases being reported in the first five days of July, the district’s recovery rate has declined from 72% earlier to 66%. By Sunday evening, 392 Covid-19 cases were recorded in the city. Of these, 260 patients recovered and were discharged. According to the statistics released by the health department, the number of novel coronavirus cases reported on July 1,2,3,4 and 5 was 10, 16, 31, 22 and 27 respectively. On the same dates, 11, 10, 11, 9 and 13 patients were discharged respectively after recovery from Covid-19 Level One Hospital and Swaroop Rani Nehru Level Three Hospital. On June 30, the district tally stood at 286 cases and the number of patients who recovered was 206, leading to a recovery percentage of more than 72%. However, a rise in Covid-19 patients led to the recovery rate drop to 66% on Sunday. Most of the new cases during the first five days of July were recorded in Prayagraj’s urban areas and were primary contacts of a patient. Officials said that of the new cases which surfaced from July 1-5, most patients were asymptomatic. These patients were aged between 18 and 45 years. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “The number of patients has been increasing in the past one week. The spurt in cases has affected the recovery rate.” “However, once the strength of recovered patients increases, the recovery rate would automatically start increasing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/106-cases-in-5-days-push-recovery-rate-down-to-66/articleshow/76820888.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Karipur Haj house converted into CFLTC||Kozhikode: The state Haj house at Karipur in Malappuram has been converted into Covid first line treatment centre (CFLTC) where patients would be admitted from Tuesday. The 320-bed centre is the third CFLTC in district. Malappuram district authorities said the centre has been set up at the Haj house considering the increase in number of Covid-19 patients in the district. The centre will function under the supervision of Manjeri government medical college, which is the designated Covid-19 hospital, while the day-to-day activities will be overseen by the Kondotty taluk hospital. Fifteen doctors, 30 staff nurses, 30 cleaning staff will be deputed at the CFLTC apart from the required number of ambulance services. Volunteers of the trauma care helped the health authorities set up the CFLTC at the Haj House within a day. District medical officer K Sakeena said additional facilities could be made available at the centre and the capacity can be increased to 500 beds, if needed. Patients with mild symptoms will be admitted to the centre while those with serious conditions will be treated at hospitals where advanced medical facilities are available. Meanwhile, 35 people were tested positive for Covid-19 in Malappuram on Monday. Three of them had contracted the infection through contact. One of three who got infected through contact is a 43-year-old woman who came in contact with a person from Vattamkulam who was tested positive on June 27. The other two, hailing from Cheriyaparappur and Muttannur, were accused arrested by Tirur police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/karipur-haj-house-converted-into-cfltc/articleshow/76821208.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal again urges recovered patients to donate plasma||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday urged recovered Covid-19 patients to come forward and donate plasma. He also said that the recovery rate of people from the deadly virus in Delhi had gone up to 72%, while there was a considerable dip in the positivity ratio and death rate. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said the plasma bank set up by Delhi government is yielding positive results and helping Covid-19 patients to take plasma therapy, which improves their chances of recovery. “There is a mismatch between the demand and supply of plasma and its stock with the bank may get over soon. I request the people of Delhi to come forward in more numbers and donate plasma,” Kejriwal said. The CM added that some people might be getting worried they would have to go back to a Covid hospital. “We have set up the plasma bank at ILBS hospital, which is a non-Covid health facility. There are no corona patients there and you will not be infected,” Kejriwal added. According to officials, about 60 patients have so far donated plasma at the bank, while a government team was in touch with about 2,500 more recovered patients to come forward for donation. A corona survivor in the age group of 18-60 years, weighing above 50kg and recovered at least 14 days ago can donate plasma. However, the person should not have any comorbidity and the woman donor should have never got pregnant. Kejriwal urged the potential donors not to refuse to give plasma when they get a call from the hospital. “If you receive any such call, please do not refuse. While discharging a recovered Corona patient, the hospitals should also counsel them for plasma donation,” the chief minister said. Kejriwal also said that about 20,000-24,000 tests were being done in Delhi every day to identify and isolated infected persons. While the government has made arrangements for 15,000 beds, only 5,100 were patients in all the hospitals in Delhi. He added that the death rate has also come down to half. “There was a time when the death figure in a single day would be 125. Now, they have gone down to 60-65. We have to work to reduce it further,” the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-again-urges-recovered-patients-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/76823014.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Agra||Agra nullah a laundry area for SNMC’s dirty bed linen||AGRA: Contrary to the usual practice of cleaning dirty bed linen in the laundry with disinfecting agents, patients in the Sarojini Naidu Medical College (SNMC) are being provided linen washed near a deep nullah, which carries the city’s as well as the hospital's untreated sewage into the river. The situation gets worse during the monsoon, as blankets are kept to dry near the overflowing nullah. Last month, UP’s power secretary M Devraj, who was appointed as the nodal officer for containment of Covid-19 in Agra district, conducted an inspection at the SNMC. The officer had raised objections over the cleaning and drying of bed linen near the nullah. The SNMC administration was asked to make an alternate arrangement. However, even after much delay, the situation has not changed for the better. According to the sources, bedsheets – used in different wards of the hospital – after being washed are dried on a rope tied near the nullah and also on the ground. Stray dogs and monkeys are often seen rolling on them. Till the time of filing this report, SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala failed to respond to TOI’s calls. Divisional commissioner Anil Kumar said, “The SNMC administration will be questioned over washing of bed linen near the nullah and the lack of proper biomedical waste management. Suitable action will be taken to ensure that standard norms are being followed.” Since the last two years, the SNMC has been planning to develop mechanized laundry. However, the hospital administration has not been able to materialise the plan. Last week, TOI had reported that personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and bio-medical waste – including syringes, empty saline bottles and discarded bandages – were found dumped in the open near the post-mortem house of the SNMC. Bags of bio-medical waste were also spotted near the emergency building and other departments of the hospital. After a few days of improvement, following the TOI report, biomedical waste was again seen dumped on the way to the new surgery building on Monday. Family members of patients admitted at SNMC alleged that they have seen hospital staff regularly throwing medical waste out in the open without worrying about the consequences on people's health. What's worse is that stray animals often drag the waste, sometimes tearing and scattering them, adding to the risk of spreading infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/city-nullah-a-laundry-area-for-snmcs-dirty-bed-linen/articleshow/76821218.cms||Deepak Lavania
July 7, 2020||Trichy||Fresh cases being reported in Big Bazaar street||Trichy: Big Bazaar street, one of the most vulnerable localities in Trichy that recorded the most number of Covid-19 cases last month, is continuing to report fresh cases. After witnessing more than 50 positive cases in June from multiple sources, 13 cases were reported last week. The residents of Big Bazaar street are lamenting the lack of adequate measures in containing the outbreak, despite the surge in cases. The 700-metre long Big Bazaar street with more than a dozen lanes on either side is a mix of residential and commercial establishments, all closely packed. The first few cases reported in Big Bazaar street from June 17, were attributed to an engagement function conducted in the vicinity. The area was later detected as a cluster with the influx of returnees from hotspots. White Betal street, Nadu Gujili street, Chinna Setti street and Takkar lane have multiple Covid-19 positive cases. Lack of preventive measures like fever camps, random sampling and mass screening has been a concern among locals. “Most of the houses in Big Bazaar street have no compound walls, we share a common wall. Entrances of neighbouring houses have only 3-4 feet of breathing space, so the virus can spread easily. Trichy Corporation must acknowledge the severity of the situation and act,” said K P Rangaprasad, joint secretary, Satta Panchayat Iyakkam. The three wards falling under Big Bazaar street had five containment zones. The officials have reasoned that the positive cases have been cured and that no fresh cases have been reported in houses with positive cases. The civic body said that Kabasura Kudineer was distributed in all houses in the containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fresh-cases-being-reported-in-big-bazaar-street/articleshow/76822271.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kolhapur||11 Covid-19 cases in Kolhapur; lockdown in Ichalkaranji till July 14||KOLHAPUR: The total number of Covid-19 cases in Kolhapur district on Monday reached to 977 with addition of as many as 11 new patients. Of the 11 cases, five are from Ajara tehsil, three from Hatkanangle, two Gadhinglaj and one from Bhudargad. Meanwhile, the textile town of Ichalkaranji also reported three new cases, while four patients from the hotspot area Kudhce Mala were discharged from the hospital. Currently, the total number of cases stands at 73 and on Monday, the town level covid control committee took a decision to impose complete lockdown in Ichalkaranji from Tuesday to July 14. The vegetable market and other essential services will, however, remain open. The decision was announced by Ichalkaranji mayor Alka Swami. “People will not be allowed to move out of their homes except for medical emergency. Those caught moving without proper medical documents will face action,” she said. Sangli reports 15 cases A total of 15 cases were reported in Sangli on Monday that took the district’s tally to 519. However, the active cases stand at 229. Of the 15 new cases, three were from Mandur village which has become hotspot due to local transmission. Sangli collector Abhijeet Chaudhari on Monday held a meeting with private doctors’ association and appealed them to notify every covid patient to the authorities and ensure safety of the doctors and other staff by using protective kits. He also asked the doctors to ensure medical equipment for the patients only after disinfecting them after every use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/11-cases-in-kolhapur-lockdown-in-ichalkaranji-till-july-14/articleshow/76821228.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Trichy||More local transmissions surface in Trichy city||Trichy: As more people without any travel history to other towns, districts or hotspots have been testing positive for Covid-19 in the city in last one week, there is indication of upsurge in local transmissions. Although positive cases linked to returnees from hotspots have been declining, locals including skilled labourers frequenting between their houses and work locations testing positive have exposed local Covid-19 spread within the city. However, the local transmission is being downplayed by authorities who still blame the rise to Chennai resturnees. In June, at least 11 people including contacts tested positive for Covid-19, mostly traders and their family members without any travel history outside the city. However, within a week since July 1 such cases recorded without any travel history has surged to 21. Vathukara street falling in ward 57 alone has reported nine cases on July 5. Eight of the nine cases were identified as family contacts of a 50-year-old trader who runs an electronics shop on Chinnakadai street near Big Bazaar street, a hotspot in the city. Trichy Corporation officials said that the man has not travelled outside the city but developed symptoms last week, prompting him to give a sample for test. A week after he tested positive, eight of his family members contracted the infection as well. Similarly, two electricians from Woraiyur without travel history but attended complaints at a few houses have tested positive. “Positive cases due to Chennai influx is gradually declining. But people who travel within the city and their family contacts are turning positive in recent weeks,” a Trichy Corporation official added. In Ponmalai zone, a painter who only travelled within the city and three of his family members tested positive. Similarly, a city-based journalist without travel history outside the city tested positive as well. The conduct of an engagement and birthday party in Srirangam zone had resulted in more than 50 people testing positive. One more positive case has surfaced in Lingam Nagar under K Abishekapuram zone after a family hosted a birthday party for a toddler. The civic body officials are tracing the contacts, it is learnt that most of the people who attended the event were from the city. “There is no local transmission in Trichy city so far. Positive cases are being reported due to the contacts of Chennai returnees and an engagement cluster,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian told TOI. Covid-19 positive cases in Trichy city: Date | Daily count | Total  June 30: 31 | 421  July 1: 3 | 424  July 2: 6 | 430  July 3: 21 | 451  July 4: 17 | 468  July 5: 46 | 514 Since July 1, 21 cases have no travel history outside the city||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-local-transmissions-surface-in-trichy-city/articleshow/76822262.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 7, 2020||Trichy||Walkie-talkies provided to Covid-19 isolation ward in Pudukottai government hospital||Pudukottai: The Covid-19 isolation wards at the government hospital in Pudukottai have been provided with walkie-talkies to enable better communication among healthcare staff, patients and the consulting doctors. The devices will aid in communication among the stakeholders without the need for meeting in person. At an event held here on Monday evening, the district superintendent of police, Arun Sakthikumar, handed over four walkie-talkies to the government medical college hospital dean, Dr Meenakshi Sundaram. Around 200 Covid-19 positive patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital. Speaking at the event, Meenakshi Sundaram said that the walkie-talkies would enable easier and quicker communication with the staff on duty in the wards. Consultant physicians can enquire about patients and provide medical advice to the duty doctor without arriving at the isolation wards. The device would also help the doctors and health staff to communicate with the patients without having be in the vicinity of the patients, the dean added. Officials said that a similar facility would soon be established at the government medical college hospital in the district. Assistant medical officer of the hospital, Dr Ravinathan and various medical staff were also present the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/walkie-talkies-provided-to-covid-19-isolation-ward-in-pudukottai-government-hospital/articleshow/76822275.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Allahabad||KVs to promote failed class 9, 11 students||Prayagraj: Giving several schoolkids another chance at a bright future, Kendriya Vidyalayas (KV) across the country would promote class IX and XI students who failed to pass their final examinations. The failed students would not have to appear for a re-exam, but will have to submit a project in the subject in which they couldn’t score the passing marks. As per a letter signed by Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) joint commissioner Piya Thakur, if a class IX or XI student fails even in all five subjects, he or she would be assessed on the basis of a project submitted by the student and promoted to the next class. However, this would be a one-time measure taken by KVs in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, class IX and XI students who have failed one or two subjects used to appear for a supplementary exam. They would have to clear it to get promoted to class X or XII. If the student failed to score passing marks in more than two subjects, he/she would have to repeat a year. According to rough estimates, around 30% students in class IX and 20% in class XI fail to score passing marks and be promoted to the next class in KVs every year. This year, KVs had earlier announced that those who failed even in more than two subjects would be allowed to appear for a re-test. They would be promoted to the next class, if they score the passing marks. “The high percentage of students failing in class IX is because of the ‘no detention policy’ followed by KVs till class VIII. They are not allowed to fail a student till class VIII. When a student reaches class IX, their potential is tested for the first time and they get an idea about their calibre,” said former assistant commissioner of KVS PK Tiwari. However, as conducting re-tests is not feasible this year because of the Covid-19 outbreak, the students have been asked to submit projects instead. The results of these students would be declared by July 20. The joint commissioner’s letter mentions that the decision has been taken as Central Board of Secondary Education has also recommended that schools conduct online/offline/innovative tests for providing remediation to failed students and that the re-test can be conducted in all subjects in which students have failed. The topics for the projects should be from the curriculum of the respective classes and should have an element of inquiry, exploration, reasoning. They may also include data collection and its interpretation. Students would be provided about a week’s time to submit the project online. KVs would intimate the students about the projects independently. “We would be asking our students to submit the project online and they would be assessed on the basis of their individual efforts. This is an extraordinary situation and because of this such extraordinary steps are being taken for the welfare of the students,” said principal of KV’s IIIT-Jhalwa branch Vijejesh Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/kvs-to-promote-failed-class-9-11-students/articleshow/76820588.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chennai||Chennai’s slum areas no longer Covid hotspots, account for fewer cases||CHENNAI: The city’s slums and high density areas now account for just 7-10% of Covid-19 cases as against 30% in April, according to corporation commissioner, G Prakash. There are 1,979 such high density areas in the city and in the last 45 days, 1,500 have not reported a single case. In Royapuram, 234 cases were reported in the last two weeks of May with an average of 18 cases every day. This came down to just nine new cases on July 5. Of the 7,680 cases in the zone, only 566 were from these areas. In Tondiarpet, out of the 7,067 cases, 796 were from these areas. Madhusudhan Reddy, joint commissioner, health, said, there was a huge decline in cases in slums in the last 45 days. “In May, we decided to have a community intervention programme in these locations and the focus was to educate them about wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining social distance. So, we asked about 92 empanelled NGOs to undertake this task. On May 19, the work began and we started seeing results in a month,” he said. Every street was allotted to volunteers who visited about 200 households every day. They interacted with the household members for about an hour and informed them about the rules. “We have also achieved 70% compliance in wearing masks,” he said. In some areas in Tondiarpet, the fever clinics went home literally. “The doctors and nurses visited houses. We ensured that markets didn’t turn hotspots. Wherever cases were reported, markets were shut such as the one in Sharma Nagar,” said an official. In Stanley Nagar in Royapuram that reported 22 cases from May 15 to 31, only eight new cases have been reported since. The population of this area is 13,010 with 1,352 households. Similarly, BRN Garden which reported 36 cases from May 15 to 31, added only one new case after that. The population of this area is 2,500 with 417 households. In Nagooran garden in Tondiarpet, out of the 10,211 people living in 2,552 households, only 29 cases were reported with just five cases added in the last 20 days. Similarly in S M Nagar, only six new cases have been reported in the last 20 days. The total cases in this area is 17. Now, with more cases reported from the other parts of the zone, the Greater Chennai Corporation plans to rope in residential welfare associations and provide them with technical support and volunteer support to replicate the same programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/citys-slum-areas-no-longer-covid-hotspots-account-for-fewer-cases/articleshow/76823004.cms||Komal Gautham
July 7, 2020||Dehradun||LKD road where Noida couple died is narrow, poorly maintained||Mussoorie: The Lambidhar-Kimadi-Dehradun (LKD) road, where two accidents took place on Saturday and Sunday, one of which killed a couple from Noida, is a lesser-used alternate route that connects Hathipaon area in Mussoorie to Dehradun. It had been developed to be used in case of heavy traffic or roadblocks on the Mussoorie-Dehradun road. The road is narrow and in a poor condition. “The road is full of sharp turns. It lacks parapets or crash barriers, making it all the more dangerous for motorists,” said Jatin Kapoor, a local resident. The road has seen a total of three accidents since 2019, killing two persons and injuring 11. All three accidents involved tourists. Local residents who frequently use the road say that it is badly in need of repair. “The road is quite narrow and the landslides on it have made it extremely slippery and difficult to navigate. It is definitely not advisable to travel by this road. In particular, tourists from plains, who don’t have the measure of mountainous terrains, should avoid this route,” said Sam Pal Khurana, another local resident. Speaking to TOI, Superintending engineer of Public Works Department (PWD) Jagmohan Chauhan said that the LKD road is actually categorised as a village road and hence, has a single lane. “LKD being a village road, limited funds are allocated for its maintenance. However, we are getting estimates made for repair of this road and once we get the funds, will be able to improve the road’s condition,” Chauhan said. “We don’t have the exact details, but there have been at least eight to nine accidents in the past few years,” said Pankaj Masih from the local police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lkd-road-where-noida-couple-died-is-narrow-poorly-maintained/articleshow/76821224.cms||Anmol Jain
July 7, 2020||Kanpur||Posters of Vikas pasted at toll plazas||Kanpur: In order to zero in on the elusive gangster Vikas Dubey, accused of killing eight policemen on Friday, Kanpur and Unnao police have pasted his posters on various junctions on Kanpur-Unnao-Lucknow highway including at Nawabganj toll plaza, to make his arrest possible. Vikas Dubey is the main accused in shootout case in which eight police personnel lost their lives in Bikru village of the district on Friday. “We have pasted posters at every prominent junctions particularly at Nawabganj toll plaza so that if gangster take this route, he could be identified easily by toll plaza employees,” said a senior police official. "Posters of Vikas Dubey have been put up at all toll plazas across the highways in the state. If he will try to cross any of these plazas, inputs of his whereabouts would be obtained,” Inspector General of Kanpur Range Mohit Agarwal said. Sources said police's electronic surveillance system is also keeping a tab on the people, who could assist gangster Vikas to escape. “We have also given mobile phone numbers, so that one could alert police in getting him arrested. Police have already declared a cash reward for those who will help police in arrest of gangster. Police will keep secret identity of those who will provide informations with regard to his movement,” Agarwal added. Meanwhile, posters of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey have been put up in Lakhimpur district too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/posters-of-vikas-pasted-at-toll-plazas/articleshow/76822748.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Varanasi||Woman murdered, body buried by stepson||Varanasi: A youth in Bajardiha area killed his step mother over a property dispute a week ago and buried her under the floor of his house in Bajardiha area under the limits of Bhelupur police station. After getting complaint from the family of the deceased woman police exhumed the body and arrested the accused on late Sunday night. SP city Vikas Chandra Tripathi said that the accused youth Altaf Hussain was arrested after the recovery of body on Sunday midnight and sent to jail on Monday after being booked in a murder case. During initial investigation of police it came to light that he used to quarrel and manhandle his step mother Parveen Bano (40), her children as well as his own son frequently, he said. Altaf, a native of Badi Patiya Bajardiha area under the limits of Bhelupur police station, worked as a puncture mechanic at Teliana area. His father Ali Hussain had died seven months ago. He dwelt in his home with wife, a son, Parveen, her daughter and son. Due to very less space in home they all had to face difficulties which often led to quarrel. Locals noticed that Parveen was missing for past six days when they alerted her brother Moin, who dwells in Lullapura on Sunday. Taking note of it Moin gave a complaint to Bhelupur police alleging that Parveen has been murdered. After getting the complaint Bhelupur police swung into action and took Altaf under custody for interrogation. During interrogation he confessed to have killed Parveen and buried her body inside his home. Following the confession, the police engaged labourers for digging-up the floor of Altaf’s house and exhumed Parveen’s body buried in a 7-ft deep ditch. Later, police sent the body for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/woman-murdered-body-buried-by-stepson/articleshow/76822696.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Allahabad||Transport allowance row: AU seeks proof of profs’ attendance||Prayagraj: Following objections of an audit team against faculty members being paid transport allowance in June while the varsity was closed for summer, Allahabad University has sought proof from its teaching staff that they indeed visited the campus at least once in June from 2012-2017. The observations were made by a team reviewing AU’s financial records. AU has now asked faculty members who have withdrawn salaries for June 2012-2017 to prove that they had visited their department at least once in the month during the five-year period. If the teachers fail to submit an undertaking for the same before July 10, the amount paid to them as transport allowance during the five-year period would be taken back. AU registrar had issued a letter to teachers on July 3 asking them to submit the undertaking. The letter has spurred a lot of discontentment among teachers, especially those who have retired. Most of these teachers are in their 70s. “This is probably for the first time in AU’s history that a teacher has been asked to prove that they went to their department or lab in June. Someone should make them understand that research never stops, even during vacations. The government says that we should remain indoors because of the Covid-19 threat, but AU is insisting that we report to the campus to submit an undertaking. Is this a joke?” said a AU faculty member on condition of anonymity. AU’s finance officer Sunil Kant Mishra said, “We have asked the teachers to submit an undertaking based on the observations of the CAG. If they have visited their department even once in June in any of the five years, they are eligible for the transport allowance. We do know that academic activities continue even when the university is closed for summer vacations. Even a self-signed declaration by teachers would suffice.” AU also plans to recover the amount paid to non-teaching employees as bonus for 2015-16 and 2016-17. Officials said that the finance department had wrongly implemented an order which was not meant for employees of autonomous bodies such as AU. The amount would be recovered from HR arrears, which are yet to be released by e account section from employees. The amount would be recovered in equal installments from employees’ salary or from their pension. Sources say that each employee who was erroneously paid bonus would be returning Rs 12,000 to 14,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/transport-allowance-row-au-seeks-proof-of-profs-attendance/articleshow/76820821.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: MGMGH plans plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients||TRICHY: In the wake of the success of plasma therapy on a few Covid-19 patients in the state, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy has also decided to take up the method of treatment in the hospital soon. “We are going to start plasma therapy in our hospital. Our team will get in touch with recovered patients to rope them in for donating plasma,” dean of MGMGH Dr K Vanitha told ToI. As of July 6, Trichy district recorded 1,004 positive cases. Being a tertiary care hospital, MGMGH has treated 438 Covid-19 patients of Trichy district since the outbreak since March. As many as 145 asymptomatic patients who were undergoing treatment at the Covid care centre (CCC) set up at Bharathisdasan University at Khajamalai also returned home. The hospital also treated several patients from Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Perambalur and Karur districts also. The hospital has planned to provide the therapy for patients with breathing difficulties in order to save them. “Not everyone needs plasma therapy. Several patients recover after seven days of treatment. Patients with heavy virus load and comorbid conditions will require plasma therapy for which we are now working on,” said medical superintendent of MGMGH Dr R Yeganathan. It may be noted that not all the recovered patients can be taken for plasma donation. The doctors would prefer patients based on their fitness and health condition. The blood bank at MGMGH has been equipped with ‘Plasmapheresis’ equipment to separate plasma from blood. Orthopaedic surgeon Dr VR Ravi of Trichy, who is working on powdered plasma project, said that it was called passive immunisation. “The doctors will take 20 ml of plasma and administer it into the patient of the same blood group. The antibody that developed in the recovered patients could kill the virus. It would be difficult to cure the patient on the verge of death through plasma therapy,” said Dr Ravi. On the way to Madurai, state health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan met senior doctors of the public health department and administrators of the MGMGH at government circuit house in Trichy on Sunday. Sources said that he had a discussion with them on the Covid-19 treatment and preventive measures. The doctors said that the health secretary encouraged them to go for plasma therapy in MGMGH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mgmgh-plans-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76822280.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 7, 2020||Varanasi||City reports 25 new cases, 16 discharged from hospital||Varanasi: With 25 new cases, the Covid-19 positive cases tally in Varanasi reached 652 on Monday. Detection of 21 cases, including nine prisoners and eight staffers of the district jail in Sonbhadra in a single day, set alarm bells ringing in the administration as increase in number of cases has been slow here as compared to other districts surrounding Varanasi. District magistrate Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma confirmed that 25 new cases of Covid-19 positive came to light in the district with the arrival of lab test reports. It took the tally of positive cases in the district to 652. With the discharging of 16 patients from different hospitals of district, the total number of cured patients is 364 while 23 had died, he said adding now active cases in the district are 265. He further informed TOI that 11 new areas of the district were declared hotspots after which total figure of hotspots in the district is 311. Test report of 1,045 samples is awaited, he added. In Sonbhadra, where total number of positive cases was only 51 till Sunday, a sharp jump was noticed on Monday with the arrival of lab test reports. Chief medical officer Dr SK Upadhyaya said that 21 new infected persons came to light on Monday, which is highest figure of cases recorded in a single day in the district. More alarming was to see that 17 of them had come to light from district jail. Upadhyaya said that nine prisoners and eight prison staff, who had remained in contact of already infected police constable of Gurma police outpost, tested positive. He said that as these prisoners were sent recently to the district jail and were kept in outer cordon possibility of contacting other prisoners of the jail is less. But, he said, as precautionary measures all prisoners and jail staff are going to be screened. Apart from them, a district hospital staff, a driver of mining inspector, a sanitary staff and wife of other sanitary staff and a man of Lohra area have also been tested positive, he said adding, the total figure of positive cases in the district has reached 72, of which 34 have been cured while 38 are under treatment. In Ballia, three more positive cases came to light after which total tally of district reached 173, said DM Hari Pratap Shahi adding, 102 have been cured so far while two had died. He said, 69 active cases are being treated in the hospitals of Ballia, Azamgarh and Varanasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/city-reports-25-new-cases-16-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/76822728.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 7, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: No release from quarantine sans testing, says BMC||MUMBAI: In a bid to ramp up testing, civic authorities have decided to test high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients in institutional quarantine centres before discharging them. Testing criteria for high-risk contacts in home quarantine have also been eased and they can now get tested through self-declaration. The move comes following a warning from the central government to optimise testing facilities. The BMC has been conducting around 5,000 tests daily, which are half its total capacity. BMC commissioner I S Chahal issued a directive on Monday asking officials to test all high-risk contacts in institutional quarantine facilities. A senior officer said, “We are simplifying the test process to enable those in home quarantine to get tested at private labs, while BMC will test those in institutional quarantine facilities. Those in quarantine will have to undergo a test between the fifth and tenth days.” In a warning issued recently, the central government had stated, “It is observed that in some states/UTs the capacity utilization of the testing labs, particularly those in the private sector, is grossly sub-optimal. It is strongly advised that you should take all possible steps to ensure full capacity utilization of all Covid-19 testing laboratories.” Officials stated increased testing is likely to push up the the number of cases in the city. Till now, those in institutional quarantine, who are mostly from slum pockets, were discharged after 10 days if they did not show any symptoms in the last three days. However, there was a chance of asymptomatic patients going undetected and posing a transmission risk to the community. An assistant municipal commissioner from the western suburbs said, “Slums have common toilets, common meeting points and congested entry-exit areas. If any asymptomatic patient goes undetected from an institutional quarantine facility, he can spread it to at least 12 others each day. Hence, it is better to test all high-risk contacts before discharging them from institutional quarantine.” Conducting tests in quarantine centres is less challenging in the current circumstances. With more cases coming from buildings rather than slum pockets, officials stated the load on institutional quarantine centres has decreased. For instance, currently there are 2.45 lakh high-risk contacts in home quarantine as compared to 12,009 in institutional quarantine. BMC has set a target of quarantining 15 high-risk contacts of each Covid-19 patient. Around 8,000 contacts are traced daily, which includes family members, neighbours, and those who have closely interacted with the patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-no-release-from-quarantine-sans-testing-says-bmc/articleshow/76823509.cms||Vijay V Singh
July 7, 2020||Dehradun||Dug-up roads, inundated pits put commuters at risk||Dehradun: The lack of co-ordination between government departments for maintaining city roads has become a major cause of concern for commuters during monsoon. . While the Public Works Department (PWD) claims that the Smart City officials didn’t take permission to start works on several stretches, the latter puts the onus of repair on the PWD. City residents say that the civic bodies had promised to repair the road before the monsoon but the state of the roads has turned worse as repair works have been left midway. Ankur Uniyal, a local who often commutes via the Parade Ground stretch, said, “The development projects are actually causing more trouble to us. The roads are so slippery that major injuries can be caused to people. ” Several city roads have been dug up under Smart City projects. These stretches have been covered due to rainfall and are closed for traffic movements. At other locations, stagnant water on the road and half-done patchwork are a problem. A TOI spot visit revealed poor conditions of the roads at Darshan Lal Chowk, Parade Ground, Dalanwala, and Vasant Vihar areas. Mahesh Bhandari, president of Doon Residents’ Welfare Front, said “The permission to start road repair and transfer of funds for it are the matters that the government departments should take care of at the earliest. The monsoon has already arrived and the city roads are in a dilapidated state. On one hand, the civic bodies are conducting anti-dengue drives and on the other, potholes on the road have become breeding grounds for mosquitoes.” Jagmohan Chauhan, executive engineer at PWD, told TOI, “The Smart City authorities had taken permission for laying a three-kilometre pipeline between Convent Road and Subhash Road. We have received the funds for repairing the stretch and the layering along with blacktop will take place after the monsoon for technical reasons. Meanwhile, there are certain spots at Darshanlal Chowk and Rajpur Road where repair work was started by the Smart City body without our permission.” When queried, Ranvir Chauhan, chief executive officer, Dehradun Smart City Limited, said, “ I have sanctioned all the funds meant for road cutting and repairing work. For the remaining work, once we receive the cost estimates, the funds will be issued as well”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dug-up-roads-inundated-pits-put-commuters-at-risk/articleshow/76821242.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district receives 234.35 mm rain in a day||KOLHAPUR: The district reported 234.35 mm of rainfall on Monday with the water-level in dams and rivers increasing. Ajara tehsil received the highest amount of rainfall (34mm). Over the past couple of days, the district received rain after a break of ten days. As many as five barrages--Shingnapur, Rajaram, Rui, Ichalkaranji and Surve--along the Panchaganga river have gone down underwater. The transportation along these barrages have been stopped by blocking the ways with barricades. The discharge from Radhanagari dam has been initiated. Around 1,100 cusec of discharge has been taking place from Radhanagari. Discharge of around 400 to 600 cusec each from minor dams has also been started. The Radhanagari dam, which has a maximum water- level capacity of 590m, had 579m by Monday evening. So far, the catchment areas of the dam have received around 1,200 mm rainfall. Last year, in the same period, Radhanagari dam’s catchment areas had received around 1,050 mm of rain. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), Mumbai, has predicted light to moderate rainfall for next few days, therefore the water level of the river, which is currently at 17 feet, is most likely to decrease and the barrages may be opened again for transportation. The irrigation officials said the discharge from the dams will be carried out whenever there is rain in the catchment areas. However, it will be ensured that around 3.5 TMC live water storage in Radhanagari is maintained consistently so that water is available for irrigation and to ensure there is no flooding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-district-receives-234-35-mm-rain-in-a-day/articleshow/76821235.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur carnage: Three more cops suspended||Kanpur: After analysing CDR (call detail record), three more policemen were placed under suspension on Monday over allegations that they were in regular contact with gangster Vikas Dubey, the prime accused in the killings of eight personnel in Bikru village under the limits of Chaubeypur police station of the district on Friday. Senior superintendent of police Dinesh Kumar Prabhu said sub-inspectors Kunwar Pal and KK Sharma, and constable Rajeev of Chaubeypur police station have been suspended. “Their role was found to be suspicious during investigation. Their calls detail records were scanned after which they were placed under suspension,” the SSP added. Police sources said the three along with SHO Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari are under investigation for allegedly leaking information to gangster Vikas Dubey about the police raid. Officials further said apart from four, 30 more policemen are under scanner for their alleged links with the gangster. To recall, IG (Kanpur range) Mohit Agarwal, had stated that at least three more policemen were suspected to be in touch with the gangster and investigations were continuing to corroborate the same. “If the charges against them are found to be true, not only they will face police action, but will also be terminated from service,” Agarwal had said. Also to recall, SHO Chaubeypur was suspended on Saturday in view of allegations of his involvement in the killings. “In view of the allegations levelled against the SO, he has been suspended and all the allegations are being thoroughly looked into,” the IG had stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-carnage-three-more-cops-suspended/articleshow/76822909.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Don’t escalate treatment, kin of elderly tell doctors||MUMBAI: Doctors across private intensive care units (ICUs) in Mumbai have noted arise in ‘Do not escalate treatment’ requests from families, particularly when the patient is elderly with severe Covid-related complications. The decision, say doctors, is driven by a range of factors such as uncertainty about the treatment outcome, research showing poor survival among the elderly with comorbidities and even financial constraints. Intensivists fear that the lack of physical contact with the patient during hospitalisation could also be a key contributor. The son of an 85-year-old woman urged doctors at Bhatia Hospital to not put her on ventilator after she developed bad lungs. “The son said they didn’t want her to suffer any more. While ICUs commonly see such requests, it’s definitely more during Covid times,” said Dr Gunjan Chanchalani, chief intensivist at Bhatia Hospital. “Roughly, we may be seeing this in nearly 5% ICU admissions.” Some doctors told TOI that it was happening in 15-20% of extremely critical cases. ‘Do not escalate treatment’ simply means the family’s consent to withhold life sustaining therapies. In city hospitals, physicians said the requests range from not putting a central line, starting the patient on invasive or noninvasive ventilation, oxygen support to even carrying out dialysis. Doctors have mostly observed it in cases when the patient is aged above 75-80, has a chronic ailment prior to Covid infection and the prognosis is notencouraging. Dr Abdul Ansari, director of critical care at Nanavati Hospital in Vile Parle, said that some families are taking the decision to give up “sooner” than in non-Covid times. “There are families who outright refuse ventilator care. The downside is that some patients are not getting the chance to fight,” he added. Infectious disease expert Dr Tanu Singh of Kokilaben Hospital’s Covidcare team said there could be cost constraints. “The cost of antiviral medicines, such as Tocilizumab (Rs 40,000/vial) and Remdesivir (Rs 5,000/vial), could become prohibitive for families who may be going through job or income loss,” she said. According to Dr Arpita Dwivedy, head of critical care at Hiranandani Hospital, the trend is a mixed one. “Many families insist that we use everything, while others ask us to go slow.” BMC data shows that the case fatality rate for patients in the age groups of 80-90 and 91-100 is 19%. It declines to 15% for those aged 70-80 and further to 12% for those in the 60-70 age group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dont-escalate-treatment-kin-of-elderly-tell-doctors/articleshow/76824275.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Cattle trader murdered in Khanna||TNNLudhiana: Unidentified miscreants brutally murdered a cattle trader in Khanna on Sunday night.Jagmail Singh, 48, was a resident of Kalal Majra village.His son, Gursewak Singh, said in his police complaint, “I work at a mandi and return home around 8am. My father would sleep at the cattle shed near our house. He would return home in the morning.”On Monday, when Jagmail didn’t come home, the family got worried and went to see him. “On opening the locked door of the cattle shed, I found my father brutally murdered.”An acquaintance of the family said Jagmail had no enmity with anyone.Khanna DSP Rajan Parminder Singh said, “Unidentified accused murdered Jagmail with sharp-edged weapons. The cattle shed is about 150 metres from his house. We have clues, the accused will be arrested soon.”Jagmail’s wife said they wanted justice and severe punishment to the culprits. His son said they wouldn’t cremate the body till they got justice.The body was sent to Khanna civil hospital for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cattle-trader-murdered-in-khanna/articleshow/76821264.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Trichy||‘Award power plant orders given to Chinese firms to MSMEs’||Cleared/220 Words Trichy: Trichy-based BHEL Small Scale Industries Association (Bhelsia) has sought the Union government to award the thermal power project orders, that were reportedly given to Chinese firms, to BHEL, so that ancillary micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), which have become dormant without orders, can survive. “Due to the lack of work orders, MSMEs are under severe stress and our capacity utilisation is less than 25% of our potential now. While we starve for orders, private companies place thermal power plant orders with Chinese firms,” Rajappa Rajkumar, president, Bhelsia said. The association urged the Indian government to encourage the ministries to place orders for thermal power plants with BHEL. Since BHEL Trichy has expertise in thermal power plant projects, the ancillary units in Trichy will get subcontract orders. The association sought that fresh orders for power plants in Talcher, Odisha, Lara thermal power station in Chhattisgarh, Singrauli power plant, Madhya Pradesh and Cheyyur power project, Tamil Nadu, must be placed with BHEL. “If BHEL was given orders, hundreds of ancillary MSME units can manage to survive for three more years. Meanwhile, we will initiate the diversification plan to avail orders from railways and defence sectors,” Rajkumar added. Bhelsia has also planned to interact with Union ministers and request them to suggest private and public sector companies to place the orders with domestic companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/award-power-plant-orders-given-to-chinese-firms-to-msmes/articleshow/76822293.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur encounter: Slain deputy superintendent blew the whistle on gangster’s nexus with local cops||KANPUR: Deputy superintendent of police Devendra Mishra, whose head was severed and his toe chopped off by gangster Vikas Dubey and his men, had blown the whistle and accused the now suspended Station Officer Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari of shielding the don, and had informed his seniors in March, warning them that the nexus could lead to “grave consequences” if not checked. The startling revelation came to the fore as a letter written by Deputy SP Devendra Mishra to then SSP more than three months ago went viral on social media on Monday. TOI could not confirm the veracity of the letter purportedly written by Mishra, who was killed along with seven policemen in Bikru village by Dubey and his 60 aides on Friday. In the letter, Mishra had apprised the SSP about how Tiwari was shielding the gangster and sought action against him. Mishra said Tiwari was shielding Dubey, an inter-state criminal having more than 150 criminal cases registered against him, including the murder of BJP minister Santosh Shukla in Shivli police station in Kanpur Dehat in 2001. The Deputy SP had made specific mention of a complaint lodged under Sections 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (whoever intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause him to break the public peace, or to commit any other offence) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of IPC against Dubey at Chaubeypur police station on March 13 2020. Mishra said on finding that the investigation in the said case has led nowhere, a perusal of the same was done and he learnt that IPC section 386 was dropped from FIR by investigating officer Azhar Ishrat on the instructions of SHO Chaubeypur Tiwari. He further stated that the way in which Tiwari is conniving with the dreaded criminal and sympathizing with him puts a serious question mark on his integrity. “On the basis of inputs, it is also learnt that SHO is in regular touch with the gangster. And, if SHO doesn’t brings changes in his working style, it could lead to grave consequences,” Mishra had written. He had also recommended action against Tiwari for dropping IPC section 386 from the FIR, and not taking action against Dubey with regard to complaint lodged on March 13, 2020 at Chaubeypur police station. It is suspected that Tiwari may have tipped off Dubey about a police team being on its way to arrest him. Meanwhile, a 4.5 minute audio clip also went viral on social media — a recorded conversation between Dy SP Devendra Mishra, SSP Anant Deo and SO Vinay Tiwari. TOI could not verify the authenticity of the audio clip. In the audio, Mishra is clearly heard saying that Tiwari had allowed buffalo thieves caught by villagers to escape. He also complains to SSP about Tiwari showing laxity investigation in a rape case. Later, SSP Anant Deo is heard reprimanding Tiwari for not taking instructions of the Dy SP seriously and not taking action against criminals. When TOI asked SSP Dinesh Kumar Prabhu about the letter of deputy SP Devendra Mishra, he said, “A preliminary investigation has been conducted by me in view of the viral letter of deputy SP Devendra Mishra as CO Billhaur. No dispatch or receiving record of letter was found at the Circle Officer Billhaur’s office, SP (rural) office, SSP’s office and clerical office. Then also, we will investigate the genuineness of the letter and the charges. We will take action as per the facts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/slain-dysp-blew-the-whistle-ongangsters-nexus-with-local-cops/articleshow/76822991.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 7, 2020||Ludhiana||India-China border standoff hits electronics traders hard||Ludhiana: Strained India-China relation has dealt a severe blow to the computer and peripheral trade, with rates of most electronic items, including printers, USB drives and laptops, witnessing a spike due to the short supply, while items have gone out of stock.According to traders, this crisis is rooted in the fact that over 90% of the computers, accessories and peripherals sold in India are imported from China. Right since the start of 2020, first because of Covid-19 and then due to the standoff, the supplies from China have been disrupted, they said.Varun Gupta, a leading wholesaler of IT and peripheral items, said, “Ever since the border standoff between India and China, all big importers of electronic items have stopped their operations, as there are rumours that the government could ban import of some of these items or levy heavy taxes on the imported goods. Due to this, the IT trade has taken a big hit and the rates are increasing on a daily basis.”He further said the rates of several models of laptops have gone up by Rs 4,000-5,000, hard discs have become costlier by Rs 400-500 and even the rates of pen drives have increased by up to Rs 100. The situation is unlikely to improve unless the supplies from China become normal, he added.Ajay Jain, another IT trader from the city, told TOI, “This is an unprecedented situation for us, as the rates of some items are changing by the hour. Moreover, we had never seen such severe shortage of supplies. Importers are in a fix whether or not to process their orders placed with the companies in China. Even those, whose consignments have arrived, are facing difficulties in getting the same released, as the time taken for clearance of goods imported from China has also increased.”Another wholesaler of electronic goods, Sudheer Kumar, said, “We are facing an embarrassing situation due to the fluctuation in rates. In several cases, customers took rates of laptops from us, but by the time they confirmed their orders, the prices had changed. In some cases, we compensated for the price difference from our own pockets. But, if the difference is too much, we are helpless. Several orders were cancelled due to the difference in rates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/india-china-border-standoff-hits-electronics-traders-hard/articleshow/76821251.cms||Mohit Behl
July 7, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard kills toddler in Almora||Almora: A leopard killed a one-and-a-half-year-old boy in Udal village of Almora forest range on Monday evening. According to the forest officials, the body of the boy has been recovered and postmortem is being done. Villagers told that the boy, identified as Harshit, was playing in the courtyard of his house when the leopard ambushed him and dragged him towards the forest. His mother ran after the leopard but was not able to save the child. Later, the villagers found the body of the child nearly 200 meters away from the house. “The body of the child has been recovered and a Panchnama (record of observation by five people) has been filled. According to the procedure, a compensation will be given to the bereaved family,” Sanchita Verma, range officer of Almora Forest Division, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-kills-toddler-in-almora/articleshow/76821270.cms||Rohit Joshi
July 7, 2020||Trichy||Kuruvai cultivation in full swing in delta||Trichy: As kuruvai cultivation in the district has picked up momentum, farmers are busy raising nursery. The work is in full swing in Lalgudi block where transplantations are being carried out. In Thanjavur farmers have covered around 75,000 acres while the targeted area was more than one lakh acres in the district, officials said. Farmers are expecting a good harvest this year owing to timely release of water and subsequent enhancement in Cauvery river from Mettur reservoir. Farmers from Trichy district are preparing their lands for kuruvai cultivation, while farmers from Lalgudi, Manachanallur, Pullambadi, and Musiri have started nursery transplantation, as they would usually raise nursery using borewell water, officials said. Officials have targeted kuruvai paddy cultivation in the district on around 11,000 acres this year, expecting continuous flow in Cauvery river and a good monsoon this year. “Among the 9 taluks in Thanjavur district, farmers from Kumbakonam, Papanasam, Thiruvidaimaruthur, Orathanadu, Thiruvaiyaru and Thanjavur have taken up kuruvai cultivation in larger areas,” said A Justin, joint director of agriculture, Thanjavur district. “Farmers have almost completed raising paddy nurseries across the district. They are now busy with nursery transplantation work. As expected, the government is discharging required quantum of water in Cauvery from Mettur dam. We have asked the farmers to complete the process of transplantation of nursery as soon as possible by using irrigation water judiciously. If farmers could complete the process on time, they would have the chance of complete harvest on time,” Justin further stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kuruvai-cultivation-in-full-swing-in-delta/articleshow/76822284.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Jail ex-asst supdt booked for providing SIM card to inmate||Times News Network Ludhiana: Division 7 police on Monday booked Ludhiana Central Jail former assistant superintendent for providing a SIM card to a prison inmate.Besides the jail ex-official, Karanveer Singh, the case has been registered against undertrial Shubham Arora, 24, a youth Congress functionary from Central constituency, and his friend Ankush Arora, 24, of New Madhopuri.Pradhuman Kumar, assistant superintendent of Ludhiana Central Jail, said in his police complaint, “Jail staffers had found a cellphone and a SIM card in the bathroom of barrack 5 during a checking in April. Thereafter, a report was sent to Division 7 police station for investigation.” During probe, the police found that the SIM card was in the name of Dablu Kumar of New Shakti Nagar, Tibba Road. The cops rounded him up and during questioning, he revealed that he had given the SIM card to his friend, Ankush Arora, as he had misplaced his Aadhaar card. Assistant commissioner of police (East) Devinder Chaudhary said, “During interrogation, Ankush told that Shubham had asked him to provide a new SIM card through assistant superintendent Karanveer Singh. In the second week of April, Ankush had handed over the card to Karanveer Singh near the jail complex. And the jail official gave it to the undertrial.” “Dablu said Ankush fraudulently got the SIM card issued in his name as he was not aware that it was for a jail inmate. Therefore, a case has been registered under sections 420 (cheating), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and the Prison Act,” the ACP added. The ACP said the assistant superintendent was recently transferred from Ludhiana Central Jail and he would be arrested soon. Ludhiana jail superintendent Rajiv Arora could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. Past incidentsOctober 13, 2019: Assistant superintendent Jaswinder Singh Randhawa, warden Surjeet Singh and head constable Ravinder Singh were suspended after three inmates were caught using a cellphone in a high- security block October 14, 2019: Jail superintendent Rajiv Arora recovered cellphones from inmates Baljeet Singh, Rinku, Vikas and Manmeet Singh. Following the seizure, officials deployed on duty at the high-security cell were suspended October 23, 2019: Jail warder Hardev Singh was suspended for carrying a cellphone inside the jail complex. When the security deployed at the complex tried to frisk him, the drunk warder created a ruckus and misbehaved with the staff||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jail-ex-asst-supdt-booked-for-providing-sim-card-to-inmate/articleshow/76821245.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Trichy||Short circuit causes fire at recently opened govt hospital||Thanjavur: A minor fire that broke out near the maternity ward of Government Rajah Mirasdar Hospital in Thanjavur on Sunday night created panic among the patients. No one was injured in the incident. District collector visited the hospital and inspected the spot where the fire broke out. The short circuit was said to be the cause. According to fire and rescue services, the fire broke out on the second floor of maternity and neonatal intensive care centre at around 11.30pm on Sunday. Due to short circuit, electric wires caught fire on the second floor where around 50 women along with their infants were admitted. After seeing the smoke, all the patients ran with their children towards the ground floor. This created panic among the patients admitted in the hospital. On information, a team of personnel from the fire and rescue services rushed to the spot and doused the fire. The power supply was also disconnected. Government Medical College dean rushed to the spot and inspected the building and pacified the patients. After the power supply was restored, patients were sent back to their respective wards around 12.30 am. District collector M Govinda Rao visited the hospital on Monday and instructed the authorities to fix the problem. The three-story building was inaugurated by the chief minister of Tamil Nadu three months back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/short-circuit-causes-fire-at-recently-opened-govt-hospital/articleshow/76822286.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kochi||Aymanam reaches out to jobless residents||Kottayam: Aymanam grama panchayat in the Kottayam district has stepped forward to help its jobless residents during the pandemic. The panchayat has started collecting details of those who lost their source of income and are struggling to survive in the midst of Covid-19. The process Aymanam has initiated involves creating a job bank, besides helping employment seekers secure bank loans and keeping them updated with government subsidies and programmes under various departments to start small scale self-employment projects etc. Those interested have been asked to apply before July 15 and according to the local body, there were about 50 applications on the first day itself. Aymanam has also set up a help desk for the project named 'Athiveevanam' (survival). Aymanam panchayath president A K Alichan said that several residents of the panchayath have returned from abroad and other states losing their jobs. Many other residents have also become jobless. "We are providing all of them a platform to look forward to,” he said. As a first step, the panchayath is in the process of collecting details of all those who are facing a crisis. They will be classified according to their expertise based on which the job bank will be set up. Aymanam has also proposed motivational and training classes. "We will coordinate between the residents and government departments as well as banks," said Alichan. Aymanam has been facing a severe labour shortage after the migrant workers returned home. Alichan feels that the residents can fill the void. "The job bank will also be helpful for those who are looking for labourers. It will have details of technicians, plumbers, electricians, carpenters, etc," he said. The residents will be issued work cards and a directory will be published with their details. The rates of their services will be fixed on an hourly basis. "It will be helpful for those who seek their service. If the work can be finished in an hour there is no need to pay a day’s wage. In the same way, students can work for a short period and earn. They need not be full-time workers," he said. Meanwhile, the panchayath has decided to issue documents needed by its residents in connection with employment projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/aymanam-reaches-out-to-jobless-residents/articleshow/76821257.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
July 7, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Covid-19 fear stops public from saving accident victims||ALAPPUZHA: Fear of going into quarantine and in the worst case, contracting Covid-19, are forcing many to look away from accident scenes, and the authorities are worried. On Sunday, a two-wheeler rider, who was seriously injured, was left bleeding on the road for half-an-hour near Chunakkara Junction in Alappuzha after passersby didn't help. A senior police officer said they cannot force people to take accident victims, who are often strangers, to hospitals due to the present condition. “In the case of the accident on Sunday, the police reached the spot and took the injured to the hospital because passerby didn’t ,” he said. The officer has said, "vehicle users should understand the present situation and they should drive and ride very safely and carefully." "People should not come out to the road without proper need. Speeding and drunken driving are the major reasons for accidents. If any accident takes place, people may not take you to hospitals due to the present pandemic situation. So please keep it in mind whenever you use vehicles," he added. Authorities are finding it difficult to solve the predicament. Alappuzha district collector A Alexander told TOI that it is important to "find a solution to this issue, which is serious, immediately." "If accident victims are left to bleed on the road, it may lead to their death. I have decided to hold a meeting on Tuesday to discuss this issue with the police, motor vehicle, and health departments,” the collector said. The police are looking at solutions, including providing personal protective equipment (PPE), masks, and gloves to auto drivers at major junctions and train them in the procedure to help shift accident victims to the hospitals safely. "We need the support of other departments. If an accident occurs, information should be passed immediately to the nearest police station,” said a police officer. Alappuzha Medical College Hospital superintendent Dr R Ramlal said places, where there is no threat of a serious community spread of Covid-19, accident victims can be moved to the hospital using plastic sheets, gloves, and masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-fear-stops-public-from-saving-accident-victims/articleshow/76821306.cms||Sajimon P S
July 7, 2020||Ludhiana||3 masked men rob gas agency staffer in Lohara||Times News Network Ludhiana: Three masked miscreants robbed an LPG agency employee of Rs 11.65 lakh in Lohara, Daba, on Monday morning.Pawandeep Singh, 28, who works at Bachan LPG Agency, Lohara, said in his police complaint, “Every morning, I collect cash from godown and office of the agency to deposit in Gill Road branch of State Bank of India. On Monday, I have collections of weekend too. After collecting the three-day cash, I kept it in the boot of my two-wheeler. Around 9.30am, when I was driving through Sukhdev Nagar, near Star Road, Lohara, two masked men intercepted my way. Their associate, a turbaned man, was sitting on a black bike.”One of the accused attacked Pawandeep with a blunt weapon and the other took out his two-wheeler keys, opened the boot and picked up the cash. The loot was executed in less than a minute and the trio escaped with the cash bag.Pawandeep called up his employer Manjit Singh, who sounded the police. Manjit said, “Pawandeep has been working with the agency from the past eight years. To reach the bank, he alternatively takes two to three different routes.”Assistant commissioner of police (Industrial Area-B) Sandeep Wadehra said, “It seems that the accused were aware that every Monday Pawandeep carried huge cash with him. They also knew that the cash was kept in the boot of the two-wheeler. For, they did not even ask Pawandeep to hand over the money, but opened the boot, picked the cash and escaped. Either the accused did a recce or a known person was involved in it. No CCTV cameras are installed near the spot.” Police are scanning the footage of CCTVs installed in nearby areas to trace the accused.Panwandeep said the robbers’ bike had no registration number plate. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-masked-men-rob-gas-agency-staffer-in-lohara/articleshow/76821293.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two government-run hospitals get 275 ICU beds, more to come||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has increased the number of intensive care unit beds in Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital from 45 to 200 and in Lok Nayak Hospital from 60 to 180 beds. During a visit to Rajiv Gandhi Hospital on Monday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the availability of ICU beds would be increased in all hospitals run by Delhi government to ensure that adequate accommodation is available for people should the need arise in the coming days. Delhi currently has 1,900 ICU beds in its medical institutions. Both Lok Nayak and Rajiv Gandhi hospitals have been earmarked by Delhi government to treat Covid-19 patients and the two handle a significant load of corona patients requiring critical care. After a visit to review the facilities in the latter, accompanied by deputy CM Manish Sisodia, Kejriwal said more beds for intensive care would ensure effective treatment for critical patients and so result in fewer deaths in the city. “Rajiv Gandhi Hospital is playing an important role in our fight against coronavirus, and the paramedic staff, doctors and nurses at the hospital have been selfless in caring for and treating Covid patients tirelessly,” the CM said. Lok Nayak Hospital was the first in the city to be designated a Covid facility, followed by Rajiv Gandhi Hospital. Kejriwal appreciated the work of the healthcare staff and medical professionals in these hospitals. Kejriwal confirmed that 1,000 patients had so far recovered and returned home from Rajiv Gandhi Hospital. Appreciating the services in the hospital, Kejriwal said, “Till a few days ago, there were 45 ICU beds in this hospital. We are treating Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms or asymptomatic patients in their homes through our home isolation system. We have sent oximeters to their homes, and doctors have regular conversations with them and these patients have expressed satisfaction. In case, a patient’s condition deteriorates, he or she can get admitted to hospitals. So, we might need more ICU beds.” There are 5,100 patients admitted in the capital’s hospitals at present, though around 10,000 beds remain unoccupied. “We have 1,900 ICU beds, of which 750 are vacant. However, we are increasing the number of beds in intensive care units so that if there is a sudden spike in the number of Covid cases, we will not be found unprepared,” Kejriwal said. “If the number of ICU beds proves insufficient, it may lead to a higher number of deaths.” The CM added that the medical authorities had been told to increase the number of such beds by 500. The state government has already launched various patient facilities, including videoconferencing, at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital. “Covid patients admitted in hospitals cannot meet their relatives, so we have arranged for tablets here, through which the family members can see them or talk to them through videoconferencing,” the CM explained. “When relatives speak to them, the patients feel encouraged.” The government has also got bells installed in the nursing stations so that patients needing assistance or any other thing can ring them to alert the nurses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-state-run-hosps-get-275-icu-beds-more-to-come/articleshow/76823075.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Mumbai||After hotels, restaurants across Maharashtra too can open||MUMBAI: The Uddhav Thackeray-led government, which granted permission to hotels to resume operations (reported exclusively by TOI on Monday), is now set to allow reopening of 2.1 lakh restaurants that have been shut for more than three months. A final notification is expected in a week. A decision on permitting bars to open will be taken separately. “We are working out the standard operating procedure (SOP) and restrictions for restaurants. We have already allowed hotels to reopen. Both decisions will help revive the state’s economy,” a top bureaucrat told TOI on Monday. Hotels are expected to reopen on Wednesday with 33% capacity. The bureaucrat said restaurant associations appear to be divided on SOPs. A section of restaurateurs have said they should be allowed to operate with at least 50% capacity as 33% would be unviable. “We have taken note of the issues raised and will include them in the SOP. We are keen that restaurants open as soon as possible,’’ he said. Meanwhile, as reported by TOI, on Monday, chief secretary Sanjay Kumar promulgated a comprehensive notification to provide for reopening of 15 hotels across the state. According to the order, hotels and other entities providing accommodation services will have restricted entry and operate at 33% capacity. It also provides for seating arrangements, e-menus, disposable paper napkins, room service, and a 33% cap on gatherings and use of meeting halls too.Kumar has said hotels that are already being used for quarantine will continue unless decided otherwise by the district or municipal administration. Similarly, some part or even the entire balance capacity (up to 67%) can also be used for quarantine facility by the district or municipal administration. Thermal screening at the entrance is mandatory and only asymptomatic guests will be allowed in. Guests will be allowed only with face masks, which must be worn at all times inside the hotel. Arogya Setu app on mobile phones is compulsory and guests are advised to minimize the use of housekeeping services. If a person is found ailing, he should be isolated immediately, and the nearest medical facility must be informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-hotels-restaurants-across-state-too-can-open/articleshow/76823539.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Madurai||Plea against GO to divert flood surplus water from Mettur||Cleared/245 Words Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday ordered notice to the central and state governments on a public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the government order (GO) passed by the state to divert flood surplus water from Mettur dam to dry tanks at Sarabanga basin in Salem district. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam ordered notice, while hearing the petition filed by P R Pandian, secretary of the Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam at Tiruvarur district. Pandian stated that Cauvery delta region comprises Trichy, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. For generations the main occupation of the people in the region is agriculture and nearly 18 lakh acres of agricultural lands are fed by Cauvery water. He stated that the GO dated November 12, 2019 had proposed to divert water directly from the Mettur dam to develop new agricultural ayacuts at Edappadi, Sangagiri, Omalur and Mettur taluks in Salem district in order to irrigate 4,238 acres of lands that do not fall under Mettur irrigation project. Though it was stated that 555 mcft of surplus water is to be diverted for the scheme, water from the water-spread area in Mettur dam is to be lifted by pumping for this scheme instead of using the surplus water. Stating that the state government had proposed the scheme with complete disregard to the riparian rights of the Cauvery delta farmers, the petitioner stated that if this scheme is implemented, it would affect the livelihood of the delta farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-against-go-to-divert-flood-surplus-water-from-mettur/articleshow/76822294.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 claims three more lives, 22 from dist test +ve||TNNLudhiana: Three persons, including two from Ludhiana district, succumbed to Covid-19 at different hospitals here on Monday. Meanwhile, 22 persons from the district tested positive for the disease on the day.Health department officials said a 65-year-old man from Malerkotla died at CMCH on Monday. They said he was diabetic and hypertensive and also suffered from pneumonia. The second casualty is a 55-year-old man of Labour Colony in Ludhiana. He died of the disease at Mohandai Oswal Hospital. He too was diabetic and had a respiratory problem. The department said the third casualty was a 43-year-old man of Karimpura Bazaar, who was suffering from renal cancer. He succumbed to the disease at PGI, Chandigarh.Civil surgeon Rajesh Bagga said now the toll tally of district residents was 27 and of outsiders who died here was also 27. He said till now samples of 38,113 suspected patients have been taken. Of the 122 samples sent to GMC, Patiala, reports of 104 came as negative and of 22 as positive. Health department officials said of these patients, 16 are from the district and one each are from Sangrur and Mansa districts. They added that of the cases from Ludhiana, three are from Vikas Nagar, whereas one case each is from Halwara, Tunga Heri village, Dakha, Jagraon, Mullanpur, Habib Ganj, Jaspal Bangar, Mundiyan Khurd, Ambedkar Nagar, Civil Lines, Koom Kalan, Baraoudi and Gujjarwal. Officials said of the nine positive reports received from private hospitals and laboratories, six are from the district, two are from Jalandhar and one is from Gurdaspur. They added that of these six patients, two are from Aggar Nagar, whereas one person each is from Khanna, Labour Colony, Dhandran Road and Rishi Nagar.Of those who tested positive, five are police officials, including a woman cop posted at Dakha police station in Ludhiana rural police district. The civil surgeon said besides 22 Ludhiana district residents, five outsiders also tested positive on Monday. He said till now, 1,092 patients from the district and 226 from outside have contracted the virus. Health department officials said 373 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-claims-three-more-lives-22-from-dist-test-ve/articleshow/76821277.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Trichy||State highways, Trichy Corpn speed up pending road projects||Cleared/235 Words Trichy: The complete shutdown on Sunday and little movement of vehicles have come in handy for the state highways department and Trichy Corporation, as they relaunched the pending road projects. While relaying work on the congested Thanjavur main road near Gandhi Market was completed by the highways department on Sunday, corporation will complete the Anna Nagar link road in a couple of days. The state highways department relaid the 600m stretch on Thanjavur Main Road after initiating the project in 2018. The minimum width of the road has been increased from 9 to 12m now, to minimise the traffic congestion on the stretch that witnesses trucks and city buses. “Road markings will be given within the next two weeks. Since the road was not wide enough, we could not install a centre median,” an official with the department said. Locals, who stepped out on Monday morning were surprised to see the stretch relaid. Similarly, the long-pending Anna Nagar link road connecting Thillai Nagar and Sasthri road commercial streets with Cantonment is being relaid at a cost of Rs 35 lakh. Senior engineering section officials inspected the roadwork. “Low movement of vehicles, particularly buses, helped us expedite the civil work. Relaying work in all the four lanes will be completed in a day,” a corporation official said. The centre median on the 600m-long road was recently renovated by the corporation to place decorative plants as part of the city beautification drive.  Gfx: Pending road projects expedited:  1) Thanjavur main road: Length: 600m Present width: 9-10 metre Width after widening: 12-14m  Cost: Rs 2 crore 2) Anna Nagar link road  Length: 600m Cost: Rs 35 lakh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/state-highways-trichy-corpn-speed-up-pending-road-projects/articleshow/76822297.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 7, 2020||Bareilly||Families in govt housing flats deprived of water, electricity for 4 years||BAREILLY: Local residents living in the government's Aasra Awas Yojana flats in UP’s Moradabad alleged that they have been living without electricity and water supplies for the past four years and no infrastructure has been set up in the area to provide the basic amenities to them. Families have been facing a difficult time in the scorching heat. Locals said that they were forced to spend nights on the terrace during summers and depend on handspun fans. The situation worsens during the rainy season as they are forced to remain indoors. Located in Karula area under Katghar police station, the triple-storey housing yojana – with around 100 flats – was developed by Moradabad district administration during the Samajwadi Party regime around four years ago, to provide houses to families from economically weaker sections. “In the absence of electricity in the residential yojana, every summer we face a harrowing time. We either head outdoors to spend the night or make arrangements to sleep on the terrace. There is no infrastructure for electricity supply here and the place even lacks electricity poles. Also, there is no water supply here and only one hand-pump is installed outside, which is used by everyone to get water for daily use,” said Mareesha, a resident. Residents alleged that since the past two to three years, they made several complaints to the local district administration and even approached the power department offices located in Sitapur, Karula, Peetal Nagri, etc. However, the officials never paid any heed and said that the place does not fall in their jurisdiction and hence, electricity supply could not be provided. “The district administration officials used to assure action in the matter and we were told that electricity and water supply would be provided at the earliest. However, nothing has been done in the matter so far and we have been struggling to avail the basic amenities here,” they said. Moradabad district magistrate Rakesh Kumar Singh said, “A sum of Rs 11 lakh has already been approved for setting up of infrastructure required for electricity supply in the area and the power department has also been directed to take up the work. While the line laying of power supply will be commenced shortly, the civic body will take care of the water supply part. Developmental works in the yojana were to be taken up in a phase-wise manner, but the families got settled much before its development could take place. The work was already in process but due to the lockdown, it came to a standstill. All basic services shall be provided to the residents.” The yojana was developed by the local district administration around four years ago, to house the families in the district under economically weaker sections. As many as 108 flats under the economically weaker section (EWS) category were developed. At present, around 40 families have been living here for nearly four years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/families-living-in-govt-housing-society-flats-in-moradabad-deprived-of-electricity-water-supply-for-past-4-years/articleshow/76820026.cms||Maria Khan
July 7, 2020||Business||Aurobindo recalls 1,440 bottles of psychiatric drug||Hyderabad: Pharma major Aurobindo Pharma Ltd is recalling 1440 bottles of psychiatric drug Clozapine tablets of 100mg strength from the US market. The nationwide recall has been voluntarily initiated by the company’s US arm Aurobindo Pharma USA Inc. Aurobindo Pharma has cited the reason of the recall as “presence of foreign tablet’ following consumer complaint of Clozapine tablets 50 mg being present in 500 count bottles of Clozapine tablets 100mg”. The recall has been classified at Class II by the US drug watchdog US Food & Drug Administration. A Class II recall is classified by the USFDA as a situation in which the use of, or exposure to, a violative product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences or where the probability of serious adverse health consequences in remote. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/aurobindo-recalls-1440-bottles-of-psychiatric-drug/articleshow/76822296.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kanpur||3 dead, 33 new Covid-19 cases surface in Jhansi||Jhansi: In an all-time high, 33 new cases of Covid-19 surfaced while three deaths were reported in the district on Sunday. This is the largest number of patients surfacing in a day. In a Sunday late night medical bulletin issued by Jhansi DM, Andra Vamsi, 33 new cases have surfaced which include two district hospital doctors and three police personnel. Among the doctors, one is the CMS of district hospital who had recently suffered brain haemorrhage and is undergoing treatment in KGMU, Lucknow where his Covid test came out to be positive. The other doctor is the head of the Covid department at the district hospital. Apart from this, BJP district president has also come out corona positive in the initial test ,however his RT-PCR test result is still awaited. Among those whoe died is a 60 years old man from Mission Compound while two men aged 55 and 49 years are from the old city. With this, the total number of positive cases reported in the district has gone up to 277 of which positive turned negative are 105. Apart from this 27 have died so far while 145 are active positive cases. There has been an alarming rise in the number of positive cases in the district on day to day basis just after the announcement of Unlock 1.0. Seeing the situation, police and administration on Monday went around the entire city giving strict instructions to follow all the safety protocols failing which people will be penalized. “Seeing the present situation, we are rapidly increasing the number of sampling for Covid test. For this, we are taking help of IMA and other volunteer organizations. My appeal to everyone is to strictly follow the Covid safety protocol which mainly includes wearing of mask, maintaining social distancing and frequent use of soap and sanitizers. Maximum of the Covid related deaths are related to co-morbidity issues or organ failure,” said DM Vamsi. Apart from this, a help desk has also been installed at Jhansi Medical College where anyone can go and get the test done for which they have to show their Aadhaar card and give mobile number. Till the result comes, the person has to be in home quarantine. This will help in better treatment of the serious patients, who are already admitted in the medical college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/3-dead-33-new-covid-19-cases-surface-in-jhansi/articleshow/76822927.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Jaipur||Govt employees attending marriages accountable to report if guest exceed 50||Jaipur: Bikaner collector Namit Mehta’s July 4 order asking government employees to inform higher authorities if they attend a wedding where more than 50 people are present has put them in a difficult position. The order also stated that action could be initiated against officials who fail to comply with it. Political, cultural, religious, entertainment and sports events have already been forbidden this year.Despite repeated attempts, Mehta did not receive TOI’s phone calls.A senior Bikaner administration officer said, “We have come up with this order to keep a check on such activities that could later on become a super Covid spreader. The order will make government employees responsible.”Many employees, however, see this a mode of creating disruption in families.Vice-president of Rajasthan Primary and Secondary Education Teachers’ Association Vipin Sharma said, “Making government employees liable for such activities is not a solution to this problem. We agree that strictness should be maintained looking at the rising number of cases but with such orders, there will be problems within the household. It will create more problems for government employees than solving.”The order has been trending on social networking sites since Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-employees-attending-marriages-accountable-to-report-if-guest-exceed-50/articleshow/76823076.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Jaipur||1.3 lakh meals will be served through Indira Rasoi: Dhariwal||Jaipur: Urban development and local bodies minister Shanti Dhariwal said the state government is going to introduce Indira Rasoi Yojana in all the urban bodies of the state.The state government had made an allocation of Rs 100 crore a year for the scheme to realise the chief minister’s resolve of ‘no one sleeps hungry’ in the state, Dhariwal said.Dhariwal gave the details of the soon-to-be-launched scheme on the lines of Amma canteen in Tamil Nadu at the meeting with local bodies’ representatives.He said three senior officials were sent to Chennai and Bengaluru to study the scheme there and Indira Rasoi is a modified version of the scheme. He said two meals would be served to poor at Rs 8 per day and permanent canteen will be set up to prepare the food.He said, according to the plan, 1.30 lakh meals will be served daily. Dhariwal said those who were selected to run the kitchen would be given a one-time grant of Rs 5 lakh to develop basic infrastructure like modern kitchen, gas, furniture, uniform for staff etc., and Rs 2 lakh for annual maintenance. He said it is the responsibility of the respective local bodies to provide building to set up the kitchen.He said the kitchen will remain open from 8.30am to 1pm and 6pm to 9.30pm.The canteen will function on ‘no loss-no profit’ basis. He said those institutions or persons having their own buildings would be given preference in the allotment of kitchen. He said the kitchens would be set up near railways stations, bus stands, mandis and industrial areas.He said in the municipal corporation areas, the number of meals is restricted to 600 (300 for lunch and 300 for dinner) while in the nagar palikas, the number of meals is limited to 300 (150 lunch and 150 dinner). Chapatis, 100 grams of dal, vegetables and achar are part of the menu.The minister said the number of rasois at each local body would be decided on the basis of the land area and population. In Jaipur, 20 kitchens would be opened, while in Jodhpur it is 16 and Kota 15. Similarly, in Ajmer, Bikaner and Udaipur 10 each, while Bharatpur would get five kitchens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-3-lakh-meals-will-be-served-through-indira-rasoi-dhariwal/articleshow/76823067.cms||Joychen Joseph
July 7, 2020||Varanasi||PM Narendra Modi realised Kashmir dream of Syama Prasad Mookerjee: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath paid tributes to Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee on his 119th birth anniversary and planted a sapling in Gorakhnath temple on Monday on the occasion. “The dream of the great visionary leader, freedom fighter and nationalist, Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee was ‘Ek Pradhan, Ek Nishan, Ek Vidhan (One head, one flag and one law). BIP led by PM Narendra Modi made his dream come true with abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir,” said Yogi. CM Yogi accused Congress party of including Article 370 in the Constitution. “After independence, Congress hatched a conspiracy and introduced Article 370 in the Constitution and laid the foundation of terrorism in the country. Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee protested against Article 370. He sacrificed his life to end the permit system in Kashmir. His dream has finally come true and every law of India is now enforced in Jammu and Kashmir. I pay my humble tributes to the great leader,” Yogi added. “Everyone is proud of PM Modi after the abrogation of Article 370. On the 119 birth anniversary of Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee, every BJP worker is planting trees under ‘Every booth, five trees’ campaign of the party. It is important for environment conservation and will make the saying ‘Sarve Bhavantu Sukhinah, Sarve Santu Niramaya’ (May all be happy, May all be free from illness) come true,” CM added. Dr Mookerjee was detained for violating permit system, which required Indians to seek a permit to enter Kashmir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-modi-realised-kashmirdream-of-mookerjee-yogi/articleshow/76822706.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Lockdown: KSRTC reschedules services in Tvm||Thiruvananthapuram: In view of the triple lockdown declared in Thiruvananthapuram city limits, KSRTC has regulated its bus services. Public transport is suspended in city corporation limits and there will be no bus services from Pappanamcode, City (East Fort), Thiruvananthapuram Central, Peroorkada, Vikas Bhavan and Vizhinjam unit. Ordinary bus services via M C Road will be operated till Maruthoor Junction and bus services from Nedumangad depot and Venjaramoodu in this route have been regulated. The buses from Attingal to Thiruvananthapuram will be operated till Kaniyapuram and on Malayinkeezhu-Peyad route, the service will be operated till Kundamankadavu. Also, buses from Kattakada and Vellarada units in this route will be operated based on demand from passengers. On Malayinkeezhu-Pappanamcode route, buses will be arranged from Kattakada unit based on demand and buses will be available till Pappanamcode. On Thiruvananthapuram- Kaliyikyavila route, the buses will take diversion from Pravachambalam Junction and return via Valiyarthala. Bus services from Neyyattinkara and Parassala units too will be operated in this route. The services on Vizhinjam- Poovar route will be operated from Poovar unit and short terminate the trip at Chappath. The bus service on Peroorkada-Nedumangad route will be operated by Nedumangad unit and will end at Aramkallu Junction. Also, the Bus on Demand service from Neyyattinkara has been suspended till the restrictions are withdrawn. KSRTC relay services will be operated from Kollam to Alappuzha. The buses from the north region to Thiruvananthapuram will travel via NH till Attingal and via MC Road to terminate the trip at Venjaramoodu. “The required number of staff for airport and railway station duty has been arranged. The special services to transport people arriving from abroad and other states at airport and railway station will continue. Only those employees who had been assigned duties at the city-based depots would be permitted to enter the depot. Bus services will be operated on request from district administration for health workers,” said a statement from KSRTC. KSRTC chief office, city, said Pappanamcode central workshop will not function due to triple lockdown. The control room, security, depots with essential services and ticket and cash counters will be open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/lockdown-ksrtc-reschedules-services-in-tvm/articleshow/76821343.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Gangster Vikas Dubey claims political patronage in two old videos||KANPUR: In a couple of videos that went viral on Monday, notorious gangster Vikas Dubey could be seen exhibiting his political clout with two MLAs during an interrogation by Special Task Force in 2017. The lawmakers, however, have denied any link with the gangster. In yet another viral video, wherein he was seen giving an interview to some local electronic channel in 2006, he gives credit to a senior leader, who also fought the legislative elections from Chaubeypur area, for introducing him into politics. Both the videos caused ripples in political circles. In one such video that was shot during gangster’s interrogation by police in 2017, Vikas is admitting having his links with two BJP MLAs, one from Bithoor and another from Billhaur. In the video, he is seen confessing before investigators that the two had supported him when he faced police action in 2017. In one other viral video that is now being shared widely on social media, Vikas claims that a senior leader was his political mentor and who had introduced him into politics. In the video, Vikas is also seen saying that he is not a criminal and the criminal cases against him were lodged by his rivals who were jealous of his growing popularity. Meanwhile, both the MLAs have categorically denied having any links with the gangster. “Neither I have any relation with the gangster, nor have I met him even once. He is a criminal and speaking lie. In order to enjoy political patronage, he used the names of ruling party politicians like this only,” the Bithoor legislator said. The Billhaur MLA said the gangster is speaking an utter lie. “In 2017 assembly election, he (gangster) had campaigned for BSP candidate and even took part in a procession from Mandhana to Billhaur along with a Bollywood actress. It’s nothing but an attempt to malign his image. One can hang me, if one finds any association of mine with the gangster,” the MLA added. The two MLAs demanded a fair inquiry into the release of the video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gangster-claims-politicalpatronage-in-2-old-videos/articleshow/76822795.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Inquiry ordered against Karni Sena’s trust||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat charity commissioner on Monday ordered an inquiry against Karni Sena Charitable Trust over activities allegedly not in consonance with the objectives mentioned in its registration. A few other trusts will also face similar inquiries. Charity commissioner Y M Shukla said about Karni Sena’s trust that it is involved in giving memorandums to threaten officials for its self-interest. Shukla said that some trusts have themselves registered for the sake of registration and then indulge in activities with the malicious intent of getting income tax benefits. “Their main activity is to print letterheads and strike fear among people by giving memorandums to officials on letterheads,” Shukla said. “It is an immediate requirement to segregate these trusts, whose objective is to threaten people. These trusts are called bogus trusts. I have also requested the government to shut them.” Shukla further said that in the interests of society, activities of such trusts are required to be stopped. In such trusts, most of the trustees belong to one family and they are involved in unwarranted activities and the trusts work as shields, he said. Shukla said that he has issued orders to his deputies across the state to identify such trusts and take action against them. Most do not even submit their audited accounts, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/inquiry-ordered-against-karni-senas-trust/articleshow/76822300.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Councillor fails to get ventilator, bed at private hospsitals, dies in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A woman councillor from Sangareddy died from novel coronavirus late on Sunday at the state-run Gandhi Hospital after struggling to get a bed with ventilator for days in several corporate hospitals of the city. T Jayaprakash Reddy, a Congress party legislator from Sangareddy, alleged that he along with family members of the councillor had made rounds of several hospitals only to be turned away. “The hospital authorities also told me that there was already a long waiting list of patients before the number of the councillor, who had severe breathing problems, could come up for admission into the hospital,” he told TOI. Reddy quipped if a legislator could not get her party councillor a bed with ventilator in a private hospital, one can imagine the plight of a common man. “The situation on the coronavirus front in the state will turn worse and casualties will increase if immediate steps are not taken to upgrade the infrastructure in hospitals to treat patients,” he said. Recollecting the days leading up to her mother’s death, the councillor’s son said the district hospital authorities in Sanga Reddy advised them on July 1 to take her to Chest hospital at Erragadda for Covid-19 tests as there was no ventilator facility in the district hospital. Later, she was shifted to Gandhi Hospital after failing to get any bed in private hospitals. “Since July 1 we have been running around private hospitals after she developed symptoms of Covid-19. With no bed-cum-ventilator facility in private hospitals, we were advised to take her to Chest Hospital where her report came positive on July 3. She was shifted to Gandhi Hospital where she passed away yesterday,” he said. An angry Jayaprakash Reddy also released a video, where he appealed to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, municipal affairs minister K T Rama Rao and finance minister T Harish Rao to take steps and save people, many of whom were dying due to beds not being available in hospitals. He demanded that CM KCR should immediately ensure that one lakh ventilators and two lakh oxygen equipment is made available in every district hospital to treat Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/councillor-fails-to-get-ventilator-bed-at-pvt-hosps-dies/articleshow/76823114.cms||Roushan Ali
July 7, 2020||Madurai||Chennai micro-mgmt plan to be implemented in Madurai||Cleared/365 Words Madurai: Tamil Nadu health secretary J Radhakrishnan on Monday said 1,672 of the 8,443 streets in Madurai have at least one Covid-19 case. The health department has come up with a micro-management plan, as in Chennai, to tackle the rising number of cases, he said. Radhakrishnan and revenue minister R B Udayakumar conducted inspection of the measures taken to contain Covid-19 in Madurai. District collector T G Vinay and Madurai Corporation commissioner S Visakan were also present. The health secretary said of the 1,672 streets, at least 15 had three to four positive cases and 32 had more than five infections. He directed officials to pay special attention to the 1,672 streets even if they did not come under containment zones. As many as 2,109 houses have been barricaded. He said 1,477 beds had been created in private and government hospitals in Madurai thus far. Covid health centres have an additional 859 beds, whereas 465 beds are available in Covid care centres. Measures have been taken to provide additional lifesaving drugs to Madurai. Similarly, more beds with oxygen facilities were being created, he said. Radhakrishnan said late referral to hospitals was a big challenge for healthcare workers. People should approach government hospitals immediately after getting symptoms to avoid complications. During the inspection, he found many people without masks. “People should realise that by not wearing a mask, they are not only putting themselves at risk, but also putting others at risk.” Madurai Medical College Hospital dean has been empowered to recruit required lab technicians, nurses and doctors. In recent days, 14,000 health workers had been recruited throughout the state, he added. Radhakrishnan also said that Tamil Nadu has increased the number of Covid-19 tests to 35,000 daily. “Earlier, tests were conducted for patients with multiple symptoms. But instruction has been given to conduct tests even if there is only one symptom,” he said. “Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has given specific instructions to conduct tests for every person who wants to be tested for Covid-19. Tamil Nadu has the highest number of testing centres in the country. Soon, it will be the number one state with highest number of tests proportionate to population,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/chennai-micro-mgmt-plan-to-be-implemented-in-madurai/articleshow/76822299.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Dehradun||HC reserves judgement in Swamy's PIL against Devasthanam Act||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday reserved its judgement in the Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by BJP Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy challenging the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act. The bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe had been hearing the final arguments in the PIL since last week. The arguments from the petitioner Swamy as well as the state government and Doon-based NGO Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra (RLEK) were completed on Monday after which the bench reserved its judgement. While both Swamy and his counsel argued that the Act which brought control of 51 temples, including the Char Dham shrines, under the state goes against the freedom of religion and the right of a religious group to manage its own affairs guaranteed by Articles 25 and 26 of the Indian Constitution, the state government countered this, arguing that the Act is not in violation of any of the provisions of the two Articles. “Our argument has been that the Act is unconstitutional, since it violates the fundamental rights guaranteed by the constitution under Article 25 and 26. It has also been submitted that the government should have nothing to do with the management of religious affairs,” said Manisha Bhandari, the counsel appearing for Swamy. Meanwhile, the NGO RLEK quoted the ancient text ‘Manusmriti’ in favour of the Act, saying that according to the centuries-old text, the king (government) has the right to appoint priests since the king is the chief protector of dharma. The counsel appearing for RLEK also said that as per ancient Hindu laws, the priests have no right to manage the affairs of the temple. “We had argued that the controversy is about the monetary benefits from these temples. There is no provision in the Act that prohibits priests from performing religious rites in the temples. There is nothing in the Act that goes against either the Hindu law or Constitution,” said Kartikey Hari Gupta, the counsel appearing for the NGO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-reserves-judgement-in-swamys-pil-against-devasthanam-act/articleshow/76821311.cms||Prashant Jha
July 7, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19: Higher death rates in Madurai, Ramnad worry experts||MADURAI: Though there is a debate over the actual number of Covid-19 deaths in the state, the average death rate in the southern districts is 1.08%, less than the state average of 1.36%, as per the health department bulletin. Eight of the 10 southern districts are maintaining the death rate below the state average, but, the higher death rates against infections in Madurai at 1.59% and Ramanathapuram at 1.44% are worrying health officials. The death rate in Madurai is among the highest in the state – and more than Chennai. Meanwhile, Tuticorin with just five deaths in 1,271 total cases has maintained a death rate of 0.39%, among the lowest. On Monday, the total active cases climbed to 3,099, just short of thrice the number of people who have recovered and discharged till date. The number of deaths in the region is 10 on Monday, including seven cases in Madurai. “We have been provided with latest drugs available for Covid-19 care. We are following the treatment protocol and trying our best. However, deaths are unfortunately on the increase. Oxygen requirement has also increased. It is more important to reduce the incidence,” said Dr K Senthil, the head of the treatment protocol committee at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). He said that the only proven treatment as of now is use of oxygen and steroids depending on the severity of the symptoms. The latest approved drugs for Covid-19 treatment such as Favipiravir, and Remdesivir have already been supplied to GRH. According to doctors, still much is unknown about Covid-19 and it varies from case to case. Covid-19 patients have died due to the mere severity of the disease at GRH within a short period of time. “We don’t know if it is due to increased virulence of the strain of virus or whether there is a summation effect as we are seeing a large number of cases here in Madurai,” said a hospital source. “The death rate is still low. Most of them had comorbid conditions or were already in a critical condition. Very few Covid-19 patients required even oxygen. We have no shortage or lack of beds or oxygen supply as of now. We are trying to increase the bed capacity as well. But even then, the focus will be on only admitting symptomatic and critical cases,” said Dharmendra Pratap Yadav, Ramanathapuram district special officer for Covid-19. Among the factors that played a key role in maintaining lesser deaths in Tuticorin is the installation of the automated Electrochemiluminescence Immunoassay Analyser (ECLIA) a month ago. “It analyses three to four parameters that help identify patients with higher risk or intensity of the infection,” says collector Sandeep Nanduri. He said that five to ten patients showing serious or severe symptoms are tested using ECLIA. Two to three of them turn out to be at high risk and are treated as per protocol. Sandeep Nanduri added that age, comorbid conditions and delay in getting tested are among factors increasing the chances of death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/higher-death-rates-in-madurai-ramnad-worry-experts/articleshow/76822308.cms||M K Ananth
July 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||2018 heroin seizure case transferred to NIA||Ahmedabad: Investigation into the seizure of 5kg of heroin by the Gujarat anti-terrorist squad (ATS) in August 2018 was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday. Top Gujarat police officials said the 5kg was was part of 300kg consignment sent by Pakistan-based drug traffickers and distributed in North India. It was linked to a seizure of heroin in Punjab in 2020 and the case requires a multi-state investigation was thus handed over to the NIA. The seizures in Gujarat and Punjab are also linked to mafiosi Simranjeet Singh Sandhu, who is from Amritsar and was caught in Italy in January based on the Interpol notice sent at the behest of Gujarat ATS, said a top Gujarat police official. Gujarat ATS officials on Monday said that a team of senior NIA officers has come to Gujarat and the case is being handed over to them. In August 2018, Gujarat ATS arrested two persons, Abdul Aziz Bhagad and Rafiq Sumra, with 5kg of heroin from Jamsalaya in Devbhoomi Dwarka district. “As the investigation progressed, the names of Manzoor Mir and Nazir Thakkar of Kashmir and Shahid Sumra of Mandvi, who stored the consignment before sending it to Unjha, came to light. It emerged that one Haaji Jaan, who has links with the Pakistan-based terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed, had earlier sent heroin consignments of 300kg and 105kg to Mandvi from Pakistan. Bhagad and Sumra had taken out 5kg from the consignment secretly and were trying to sell in locally when they were arrested,” said an ATS official. ATS officials said that the drug consignment was first brought to Unjha in North Gujarat in small cars and was then transported to Punjab hidden in cumin bags sent through a private transport company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2018-heroin-seizure-case-transferred-to-nia/articleshow/76822311.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
July 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore’s Covid tally crosses 800, cluster may throw up more cases||COIMBATORE: The health department declared 60 people positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 802. The number of active cases stands at 525. The 60 cases include a massive Covid-19 cluster that broke out at Selvapuram, which currently has 34 confirmed cases of Covid-19 at the time of going to press.  On Sunday evening, 27 people, mostly goldsmiths from the area, tested positive for the virus. Officials said that the cluster number could increase manifold as they had collected 98 more samples from the area, which are being processed. “We ended up taking samples from a Maruti Gold Factory on Sunday, after one of their employees turned positive as part of a contact tracing initiative. We collected 43 samples from the factory on Sunday, of which 27 are positive,” said deputy director of public health, Dr G Ramesh Kumar. “We have now collected 98 more samples from the remaining employees of that factory and people working in nearby factories. We found no symptomatic patients,” he said. The factory is located at Ashok Nagar, which is adjacent to Ayyappan Nagar, a locality that recorded 23 cases of Covid-19 a few days ago. Officials are yet to trace the index patient in the cluster or their source of infection. “Selvapuram, where Chetti Veedhi is located, is densely populated. And in gold factories, they maintain no social distancing. In a 7ftx2 ft table, eight of them are sitting and working and in 10 ftx10ft room, there are two such tables,” said Dr Kumar, who visited the area twice on Monday. The district collector has now ordered closure of every street in Selvapuram where either a resident or worker has tested positive and directed to tighten containment measures. “We don’t want movement of people on the road or to work in the gold factories. We have shut down Maruti gold factory and will shut other factories where workers test positive. We will ensure provisions are handed over to those within containment zones,” said an official. To ensure beds in ESI Hospital remain available, health department officials moved 100 asymptomatic patients to the Covid care centre in CODISSIA, which was opened on Monday. They have 360 patients but can accommodate upto 800, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coimbatores-covid-tally-crosses-800-cluster-may-throw-up-more-cases/articleshow/76822310.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AIIMS video dissects steps for effective home isolation||NEW DELHI: In a video message, All India Institute of Medical Sciences has explained the steps to be taken by and for people who are in home isolation after testing positive for Covid-19. Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS, emphasises on the video that the patient — the family members too— must take adequate precautions, including using three-layered masks, properly disposing of them and watching utensils used by patients separately. As on Monday, there were 17,141 people in home isolation in Delhi. The video, the most recent to many AIIMS has released since the outbreak of the pandemic in the city to inform and teach the public about Covid-19, focuses on asymptomatic patients in home isolation. “It is very important to understand how home isolation can be achieved without infecting family members,” says Guleria in the film. “There should be enough space in the house to allow other family members to remain in quarantine so long as the patient is in isolation.” In the film, experts advise a patient to wear a three-layer mask at all times and change it every eight hours or if it gets dirty or wet. While throwing away the masks, one should first disinfect them with 1% sodium hypochlorite to prevent the virus from spreading. “Wash hands with soap for 40 seconds or use an alcohol-based sanitiser,” the video urges the patients, while telling them also to avoid all contact with elders or children. A caretaker should be available round the clock to provide health updates to the district surveillance officer. The caretaker must also take precautions like wearing gloves and triple-layer masks, and disinfecting both before disposing of them. Even when cleaning their room, caretakers should avoid contact. Disinfecting of common contact sites such as door knobs, utensils and clothes of the patient should be regular. “So far we have made 42 videos, using simple Hindi and English,” said Dr (Prof) Arti Vij, chairperson, media and protocol division, AIIMS. “Some have also been uploaded on the Union health ministry’s website, YouTube channels and other social media platforms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aiims-video-dissects-steps-for-effective-home-isolation/articleshow/76823108.cms||Sakshi Chand
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 66% of corona beds vacant, 401 ventilators available too||NEW DELHI: The occupancy of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in Delhi’s hospitals has reduced to 34%. As many as 10,051 (66%) beds of the total 15,301 are lying vacant. On Monday, the data uploaded by the hospitals on the ‘Delhi Corona’ app also showed 401 ventilator beds lying vacant. Beds are available for Covid-19 patients even in corporate hospitals such as Max Saket, Max Patparganj, Indraprastha Apollo, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital and Fortis Shalimar Bagh, among others, which were going full until about last week. AIIMS (Delhi), Safdarjung, Lok Nayak and GTB had 115, 62, 1,360 and 1,243 vacant beds, respectively on Monday. “New cases are decreasing and that is why the demand for beds has reduced. This is a positive change and if this trend holds for one or two more weeks, it would be safe to say we are past the crisis situation,” Dr Rommel Tickkoo, associate director, department of internal medicine at Max Saket, said. Delhi’s Covid-19 count crossed the one lakh mark on Monday. But, on the brighter side, there are only 25,620 active cases in the state. Out of this, government data shows, 17,141 patients are under home isolation. Nearly 5,000 patients, who have mild to severe symptoms or pre-existing illnesses, are admitted in hospitals. And the remaining patients are recuperating at Covid Care Centres and Covid Health Centres that are equipped with basic medical facilities. “A total of 547 Covid-19 patients are critical and require ventilator support,” said a senior official. Watch Covid-19: 66% of corona beds vacant in Delhi, 401 ventilators available too||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/66-of-corona-beds-vacant-401-ventilators-available-too/articleshow/76823105.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Teams to scan zones with zero Covid count in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In localities that have not reported Covid-19 cases so far, Delhi government is going to set up vigilance teams to work alongside the surveillance system to check the novel coronavirus from spreading. Each team, to be known as a nigrani samiti, will be constituted with the village head and local residents in rural areas and RWA members in urban areas. The teams will begin by listing vulnerable people of the area, namely the elderly and those with existing ailments that exacerbate Covid-19 infection. With Covid-positive cases stabilising for over a week and the positivity rate dropping, the state government wants to make sure that the curve continues to descend. The focus has shifted to mitigation and containment efforts besides saving lives, especially significant due to the gradual resumption of economic activities. According to the modified Covid management approach of Delhi government, surveillance was to be decentralised. The constitution of nigrani samitis and involvement of the residents’ welfare associations are the newer components of this approach. South West district, which has 77 villages and a vast rural belt, has started the process of involving the heads of the villages in keeping an eye on the virus. “The village heads and other prominent residents generally know most people in the village, their ages and medical history. They can help the authorities in keeping an effective surveillance on Covid,” said a government source. Officials in at least five districts confirmed that work on forming the nigrani samitis had begun. Delhi has over 350 villages scattered across the 11 districts, but many of them are urbanised and have become crowded with the influx of tenants. The new committees will list silver citizens and residents with comorbidities and maintain a vigil over new persons entering the villages, particularly those from Covid-affected localities and cities. These efforts will be boosted by periodic monitoring to be undertaken by the district surveillance officer. The RWAs in the urban areas too will make a list of senior citizens and people with ailments that could aggravate a corona infection. They will also screen residents, service providers and guest entries. The RWAs will also prevent entry of individuals arriving from areas where Covid has been reported, while ensuring that the locals download the Aarogya Setu app and employ it properly. Many of the RWAs are already grappling with internal politics on these measures, but the government expects them to bury differences to strengthen the fight against the coronavirus. “The panels will facilitate identification and surveillance of high-risk persons. The authorities will have a database of al the elderly and people with comorbidities, and will assist in keeping such citizens under special monitoring for early detection and immediate medical care,” said an official. Watch Covid-19: Delhi govt forms teams to scan with zero corona count||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teams-to-scan-zones-with-zero-covid-count/articleshow/76823087.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Four private labs barred from reimbursing cost of tests||COIMBATORE: The state government has banned four private laboratories in the district from collecting reimbursement from the Tamil Nadu Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme for Covid-19 tests they run in Coimbatore. The four labs Microbiological Laboratories, Orbito Asia, Bioline and Krishna Laboratory will also not be able to run samples collected by public health authorities or Coimbatore Corporation. This move comes after an insurance company, United India Insurance, found out that the said four labs were suddenly testing an extraordinary number of samples, some of them suspected to be unnecessary. However, in a letter accessed by TOI, Tamil Nadu Health Systems project director, Ajay Yadav, on Monday clarified to United Insurance Company Limited that the above mentioned four labs can continue to claim reimbursements for tests run for CMCHIS card holders and non-card holders from all adjacent districts, except Coimbatore. This is keeping in view “the heavy load of samples and lack of sufficient capacities in neighbouring districts,” his letter said. Ajay Yadhav, director, TNHSP, said “we have not debarred any laboratory from conducting tests, and don’t have the authority to do so. The labs are still allowed to run government collected samples from other districts, if they follow ICMR protocols strictly. The TNHSP core committee has asked them to run samples from other districts, because they don’t have adequate facilities to test so many samples. But Coimbatore in its government hospitals has enough facilities to run their own samples,” he said. On July 3, TNHSP informed United India insurance that the four private laboratories have been debarred from conducting RT-PCR testing for CMCHIS beneficiaries and non-CMCHIS beneficiaries, and that payments were not to be released pending an enquiry. The letter claimed that the labs have “submitted an unusually high number of RT-PCR cases under CMCHIS”. While Orbito Asia ran 29,200 samples, Bioline laboratory ran 16,663 samples, Microbiological laboratory ran 16,277 samples and Krishna Laboratory ran 6,838 samples, totalling 69,000 samples approximately. However, on Monday, TNHSP said the labs could run tests for individuals who approach them in Coimbatore, but cannot claim insurance reimbursement under CMCHIS for the same. They can claim the reimbursement for tests sent to them from “adjacent districts”. “The labs have to submit details or originating district of test sample, public health authority who referred the sample, % of entries made in ICMR portal and rate of positivity”. Yadhav said they have not found any discrepancies so far, but are conducting enquiries to verify the numbers. “This is a routine procedure that we do even for hospitals and other procedures regularly,” he said. While Orbito Asia refused to comment, Microbiological laboratory’s spokesperson clarified that they have clear documents for every government-sent sample they have tested so far and submitted for reimbursements. “The number of samples has increased in the last one month, because the number of cases has increased leading to the government authorities collecting more samples as part of contact tracing. They are giving us samples, to reduce their sample running overload. We run tests on 180 to 450 samples a day and not just from Coimbatore, but from Namakkal, Trichy, Tirupur and even Nilgiris. We are willing to face any enquiry. Of the 17,000 samples we have run for the government, we are yet to receive reimbursements for 9,000 of them,” she said. Meanwhile, the public health authorities in Coimbatore who now have to manage without private laboratories to test their samples, said they can manage with CMCH which can now run 1,500 samples a day and ESI which can run 200 to 250 samples a day. “ There will be slight backlog of cases everyday, because we collect more than 2000 samples a day, but we will manage,” said deputy director Dr Ramesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-pvt-labs-barred-from-reimbursing-cost-of-tests/articleshow/76822306.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
July 7, 2020||Dehradun||Doon constable on lone mission to sanitise city’s buildings||Dehradun: Constable Surendra Kumar, currently posted at the regional office of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), has taken it upon himself to sanitise the city’s work spaces and residential areas ever since the Covid-19 crisis started. He has been using his own funds to buy a spray machine and the chemicals required to make disinfectant liquid. Almost all police stations and police outposts in the city have been sanitised at least twice by Kumar, a resident of Defence Colony in Dehradun, who joined Uttarakhand Police in 2001. In the last fortnight, Kumar has managed to sanitise over 100 buildings—both private and public—in Dehradun and surrounding areas. “It all started when I, along with a couple of friends, thought of sanitising the municipal ward where we live. We took a spray machine from local farmers. Eventually my friends left and I continued to sanitise other parts of the city on my own,” Kumar told TOI. Last week, Kumar reached the office of Dehradun senior superintendent of police (SSP) and sanitised the entire building. It was a pleasant surprise for senior police officers, who lauded Kumar’s efforts. “My financial condition isn’t sound, but I am doing my bit. We cannot leave everything to the government. This deadly virus doesn’t spare anyone,” Kumar said. He added that he has now also started getting calls from people across the city, asking him to come over and disinfect their homes and offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-constable-on-lone-mission-to-sanitise-citys-buildings/articleshow/76821373.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 7, 2020||Kochi||Sai Swetha offers mobile phone to tribal teacher||Idukki: Sai Swetha, the teacher who won the hearts of children and parents alike through her characters ‘thanku poocha’ and ‘mittu poocha’, has offered a mobile phone to a tribal teacher, who held the cutouts of the two kittens and introduced the tale to the children of the Mannan community who understand only their tribal dialect, following a TOI report published on 5 July, 2020. Rajimol Rajesh, a volunteer at the local talent centre in Mannakkudy in Anchuruli, presented the Mannan version of the online classes for telecasting it through Victers channel. However, she didn’t possess a mobile phone or television to watch her classes online. Sai Sweta called up Samagra Shiksha Kerala programme officer Dhanya T Vasu and offered a mobile phone to the tribal teacher. “I am happy to see the tribal version of ‘thanku and mittu poocha’. Rajimol has performed very well and I hope the tribal dialect classes will help the kids in their community. I will arrange a mobile phone for Rajimol. I have already informed SSK programme officer and assured my support," Sai Swetha said. Dhanya too said SSK would provide more assistance to Rajimol. To ensure that lockdown doesn’t hamper the education of tribal children, SSK had announced a tribal version of online classes in the state. Meanwhile, SFI Idukki district secretary Thejus K Jose too handed over a television set and dish connection to the teacher. “The television was provided as part of SFI’s ‘first bell’ programme,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sai-swetha-offers-mobile-phone-to-tribal-teacher/articleshow/76821381.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Jaipur||Prime accused in bribery case tests positive; ACB calls 10 SHOs for questioning||JAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Monday questioned the SHOs of 10 police stations spread over Bharatpur, Sawai Madhopur and Dholpur in connection with the corruption case involving the ex-DIG of Bharatpur. Earlier, the ACB had questioned eight SHOs of different police stations in Bharatpur range. ACB ADG Dinesh M N told TOI, “The SHOs were brought in for questioning and sent back after that.” Since prime accused Pramod Sharma, who was arrested last month, tested positive for Covid-19, the SHOs did not directly meet him as he was kept in a separate room while they were being questioned. Since Sharma was in police remand for nine days, a team of half-a-dozen cops who looked after him will now be tested for the virus. Sharma has been sent to RUHS. Elaborating on the reason for bringing the SHOs for interrogation, the ADG said, “We are looking at the police personnel who came in contact with Sharma in the alleged corruption case.” ACB had arrested Sharma on June 24 while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh. He had demanded the bribe from the SHO of Udyog Nagar in Bharatpur for facilitating his good service record. Private bus owner Sharma used to extort junior police officers claiming to be a close aide of Bharatpur Range ex-DIG Laxman Gaur. While Gaur is awaiting posting order following the allegations, cops are yet to question him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/prime-accused-in-bribery-case-tests-positive-acb-calls-10-shos-for-questioning/articleshow/76823091.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Unitech seeks waiver of Rs 5,500 crore dues in Noida||NEW DELHI: In a boost for 15,000 homebuyers of Unitech, the Supreme Court-appointed board is seeking waiver of around Rs 5,500-crore interest and penalties charged by the Noida Authority, a reduction in interest rate from banks, and sale of some assets to raise funds to complete flats and villas without putting additional burden on those who booked these as far back as a decade ago. According to an assessment carried out at the behest of the new board after the promoters, the Chandras were booted out by the Supreme Court, it will cost around Rs 5,000 crore to complete the 15,000 incomplete dwelling units. While there are assets – including unsold inventory of around Rs 3,000 crore and land worth another Rs 6,000 crore or so – viability will be possible only after the banks and Noida Authority provide concessions. Unitech’s dues with Noida Authority alone are estimated at around Rs 8,000 crore of which close to Rs 5,500 crore is interest and penalties for delayed payment. Similarly, the liability to banks is estimated at around Rs 5,000 crore, with close to 40% of the amount in the form of interest liability, which is sought to be removed. The details of the plan along with assets and liabilities and the roadmap for completing the projects spread across nearly 200 Unitech group and related companies are to be presented to the Supreme Court later this week. Sources told TOI that the plan is to ensure that there is no cost escalation for homebuyers, many of whom have been paying interest on home loans with delivery in sight. Apart from the liabilities, Unitech also has a large land bank, some of which is seen to be prime property in areas like Noida, which will be disposed of in the coming months to raise funds. For instance, a 300-acre plot which has awarded to the company — which went belly up after the 2G scam — is proposed to be sold once the market conditions improve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unitech-seeks-waiver-of-rs-5500cr-dues-in-noida/articleshow/76823142.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Trichy||Charred body of minor girl found in Trichy||Cleared/200 Words Trichy: The charred body of a 14-year-old girl was found at the Mullikarumbur old bridge near Somarasampettai in Trichy on Monday. Police said they are yet to conclude the nature of her death. The cause of the death will be known after the postmortem is performed on Tuesday. The girl was identified as a resident of Adhavathur village. Her parents and relatives spotted her body near a saw mill near the old bridge on Monday afternoon. The upper portion of her body, including the face was found burnt. On getting the information, deputy inspector general of police, Trichy range, Z Annie Vijaya, superintendent of police, Trichy Zia Ul Haque visited the spot. The Somarasampettai police took up the inquiry. Preliminary inquiry revealed that at around 12pm on Monday, the girl had gone out informing her parents that she was going to attend nature’s call in a thorn bush nearby. However, as she failed to return for a long time, her parents and relatives started to search for her. They spotted the body near the bridge and confirmed her identity with the dress she had worn. The body was brought to the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy. Watch Shocking: Charred body of minor girl found in Trichy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/charred-body-of-minor-girl-found-in-trichy/articleshow/76822315.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Noida||Unitech seeks waiver of Rs 5,500 crore dues in Noida||NEW DELHI: In a boost for 15,000 homebuyers of Unitech, the Supreme Court-appointed board is seeking waiver of around Rs 5,500-crore interest and penalties charged by the Noida Authority, a reduction in interest rate from banks, and sale of some assets to raise funds to complete flats and villas without putting additional burden on those who booked these as far back as a decade ago. According to an assessment carried out at the behest of the new board after the promoters, the Chandras were booted out by the Supreme Court, it will cost around Rs 5,000 crore to complete the 15,000 incomplete dwelling units. While there are assets – including unsold inventory of around Rs 3,000 crore and land worth another Rs 6,000 crore or so – viability will be possible only after the banks and Noida Authority provide concessions. Unitech’s dues with Noida Authority alone are estimated at around Rs 8,000 crore of which close to Rs 5,500 crore is interest and penalties for delayed payment. Similarly, the liability to banks is estimated at around Rs 5,000 crore, with close to 40% of the amount in the form of interest liability, which is sought to be removed. The details of the plan along with assets and liabilities and the roadmap for completing the projects spread across nearly 200 Unitech group and related companies are to be presented to the Supreme Court later this week. Sources told TOI that the plan is to ensure that there is no cost escalation for homebuyers, many of whom have been paying interest on home loans with delivery in sight. Apart from the liabilities, Unitech also has a large land bank, some of which is seen to be prime property in areas like Noida, which will be disposed of in the coming months to raise funds. For instance, a 300-acre plot which has awarded to the company — which went belly up after the 2G scam — is proposed to be sold once the market conditions improve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/unitech-seeks-waiver-of-rs-5500cr-dues-in-noida/articleshow/76827200.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Madurai||Relief for students, teachers as new group system for Class XI, XII scrapped||edited Madurai: Teachers and students of higher secondary classes, on Monday, welcomed move to roll back the new group system for Class XI and XII with the option of choosing only three core subjects for a total of 500 marks in addition to two mandatory language papers set to be introduced for the academic year 2020-2021. The school education department had rolled back the new system after it faced opposition claiming that it would curtail career options for students going for higher studies. However, teachers and Class X students are still anxious about choosing groups and starting the lessons for Class XI. “Maybe for next year, the department can bring in a well-thought-out new flexible system to better match national boards,” said Senthilnathan M, president, private schools correspondents’ confederation. The new group system had caused confusion and fear among Class X students, who already had their board exams scrapped and would now be given marks based on quarterly and half-yearly assessments. “I was worried about which group to choose because I have not yet decided on what my aim is in future. Now, thankfully, I can be at ease and pursue first (science) group and have the option of going for engineering, medicine or arts,” said Shalini K, a student from a private school in KK Nagar set to join Class XI. Teachers further said that while the roll back of the system has brought more clarity now, much is still unknown in terms of whether the portions will be reduced for the following year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “There is still much uncertainty that should be addressed for the students to be at ease. Only then will we be able to at least plan for Class XI without further delay,” said Uma L, a Class XII biology teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/relief-for-students-teachers-as-new-group-system-for-class-xi-xii-scrapped/articleshow/76822322.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Another cop filmed drunk, held||Ahmedabad: Kagdapith police on Sunday arrested one of their own constables, Rakeshkumar Taviyad, for alleged drunkenness. Inspector M A Singh said they booked Taviyad for violation of prohibition laws and then released him on bail. Less than a week ago, an assistant sub-inspector with Naroda police was filmed in an inebriated condition and was later arrested, after the video started circulating on social media. According to police sources, they received a call for a domestic quarrel at Kantodiyavaas in Kagdapith on Sunday night. “As head constable Manojkumar Laljibhai prepared to go to the spot, he could not find the driver of the vehicle, Taviyad, so he took another driver along. He saw Taviyad on the way and made him get into the vehicle,” said a police source. When they arrived at the spot, Taviyad, in his alleged inebriated condition, started fighting with people. “The residents of the area quickly realized that Taviyad was drunk and shot video of him, which they posted on social media. This came to the attention of senior officers, who messaged the head constable to arrest Taviyad. He was booked under prohibition laws and was later released on bail,” said a senior official of Kagdapith police station. In the video, Taviyad is seen touching the feet of local residents, pleading with them not to film him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/another-cop-filmed-drunk-held/articleshow/76822318.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Salem woman, 40, hangs self at quarantine centre||Salem: A 40-year-old woman committed suicide in a quarantine facility in Salem city on Monday. The reason behind her suicide is still unknown, police said.The deceased was identified as K Mariammal, a homemaker from Pali area near Kondalampatty here.According to the Kannankurichi police, a neighbour had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 30, following which Mariammal was taken to the quarantine centre at the Salem Government Arts and Science College for Women by the health department officials. “She and her neighbours tested negative for the virus,” V Thangavel, inspector of Kannankurichi police station, told TOI.Health department officials had asked her to stay in the quarantine centre for a few more days though she had tested negative. On Monday morning, Mariammal was found hanging in a room.“She could have committed suicide due to fear of Covid infection,” Thangavel added.Police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/salem-woman-40-hangs-self-at-quarantine-centre/articleshow/76822316.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Hotels linked to hospitals again in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Within just a day, Delhi government on Monday reversed the order for delinking three starred hotels from hospitals. Sources said the hotels, located in Janakpuri, Dwarka and Aerocity, would continue to serve as extended Covid health facilities for the time being. Other districts that had started reviewing the arrangement with hotels have also suspended the exercise. While the government did not comment on why the order had been reversed, sources said the decision was taken to keep the Covid bed capacity “as is”. “The government has told the districts not to reduce the bed capacity. We still are in the middle of the Covid crisis. Though the number of patients currently requiring hospitalisation is still low, we may need more beds if the situation starts deteriorating,” said an official. The bulletin released by the department of health and family welfare on Monday stated that the current combined bed capacity of the capital’s hospitals was 15,301, but only 5,250 were occupied. After touching a peak of about 6,200 in the first week of June, the number of Covid-positive patients requiring hospitalisation remained static through the month at around 6,000 and started reducing in the last few days. Last month, the government had identified 40 hotels across the city and 4,628 rooms with basic health facilities, such as oxygen cylinders and concentrators, to keep Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms. The patients were to be charged Rs 2,500-4,500 per day as room rent. In his order on July 4, SDM (Dwarka), while delinking three of the four hotels in his area, said only 25 of the 900 rooms had been utilised by the hospitals till date. “On the other hand, these hotels are requesting to make arrangements so that their premises are utilised as they are incurring huge expenditure on salaries, maintenance and other related expenses for keeping the rooms ready round the clock,” the order read. While keeping 300 rooms at Hotel Welcome in Dwarka Sector 10 at his disposal, the SDM ordered delinking of the three hotels — Piccadilly at Janakpuri District Centre, Taj Vivanta in Dwarka and Pride Plaza in Aerocity. “Please refer to the order issued regarding delinking of hotels being extended Covid hospitals from hospitals. The same is withdrawn with immediate effect. This issues with the prior approval of chairperson (DDMA)/district magistrate (South West),” the order read. Interestingly, the SDM (Dwarka) had issued the July 4 delinking order with prior approval of Delhi government principal secretary, health and family welfare department. The officials of other districts also confirmed that hotel rooms had barely been used by patients and there was a plan to review the situation and delink them from hospitals, if required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hotels-linked-to-hospitals-again/articleshow/76823118.cms||Atul Mathur
July 7, 2020||Jaipur||New div commissioner and collector assume office||Jaipur: New Jaipur divisional commissioner Somnath Mishra and district collector Antar Singh Nehra took charge on Monday. While Mishra stressed on the need to engage youth and students to create awareness among people about Covid prevention and fight the challenge, Nehra said his experience as a collector in Bundi in fighting Covid will come in handy. Mishra also stressed on the need to conserve surface run-off of rainwater during the monsoon season. “In the current situation, the biggest challenge is related to public health (in view of Covid pandemic). We will engage students and youths in fighting the challenges (with regard to Covid situation). With respect to controlling locust attacks, we will seek help from scientists, farmers, youths and women to bring about a solution,” said Mishra. “We will have to ensure conserving every drop of rainwater and block surface run-off of rainwater during the monsoon season. We will also try to provide all possible relief to the farmers during Kharif season,” he added.Nehra, who was earlier Bundi collector said, “It will be my priority to quickly solve the problems of the people and complete various works with absolute transparency. Our emphasis will be on following the guidelines of the state government and health department in fighting Covid. I appeal to the people to follow Covid guidelines and protocol in preventing the spread of infection.”“Jaipur is a big district with a huge density of population. I don’t want to compare this district with Bundi, where no case was recorded till migrants’ movement started. We will take appropriate steps in controlling the spread of the virus after consulting with the health department and ensure that proper facilities are provided to those staying in quarantine centres, having come to the district from outside,” he added.He also assured that benefits of the state government’s welfare schemes would reach the beneficiaries in a time-bound manner. He also said he will work in coordination with JDA and Jaipur Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-div-commissioner-and-collector-assume-office/articleshow/76823132.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Swab samples collected from TNSTC workers||Coimbatore: The city corporation collected swabs from 64 Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) workers at the Ukkadam bus depot for Covid-19 test on Monday after an employee tested positive on Sunday.Samples were collected from all workers, who had visited the depot in the last one week, a senior TNSTC official said. Disinfectant was sprayed on the depot premises.The results are expected to be announced in a couple of days. Only technical and administrative staffs, along with some drivers and conductors to operate buses for government employees, were present at the depot as operations were halted since the beginning of the month based on the directions of the state government. “The depot has only 50% of the staff,” the official said.On Monday, as many as 27 buses to transport government employees and sanitary workers were operated in the district.Meanwhile, a section of TNSTC employees said that the corporation is forcing technical staff to visit the workplace regularly. “Even those staying in faraway places are travelling to their workplaces as senior officials are threatening to issue memos or mark absent. As operations are suspended, technical staff have no work in the depots,” general secretary of the Coimbatore Government Transport Workers Union M Velankanni Raj said. “This will make them susceptible to Covid-19 infection. The workers should not be compelled to come to workplaces till operations resume.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/swab-samples-collected-from-tnstc-workers/articleshow/76822341.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Take steps to cut mortality rate: Delhi LG||NEW DELHI: Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal has asked the authorities to analyse Covid-19 deaths and make interventions to check the number of deaths in Delhi. “Health department to ensure necessary interventions to reduce mortality rate. “Golden Hour” is crucial for saving the life of patients, therefore arrangements like ambulance, shifting of patients, ICUs, oxygen beds, etc to be given maximum importance,” the LG tweeted after the review. In a meeting with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, chief secretary Vijay Dev and other senior officials on Monday, the LG reviewed availability of medical infrastructure, human resources and community engagement for Covid-19 management in the capital. “The LG advised the health department to take measures to boost morale of the medical staff and confidence building for patients and their relatives,” the LG office said in a statement. Meanwhile, as part of community engagement in Covid-19 management, a total of 2,398 volunteers, three civil society organisations and 40 NGOs have registered with Delhi government till July 3. Many of them have been deployed in surveillance, survey, screening of the individuals and other Covid-19 management exercises. The LG reiterated to the authorities to train community resources and utilise them for supporting the health system and ensuring quality home and community care, prevention and control activities in the community, referral or transfer of sick patients, transfer of dead bodies among other exercises. The government has also ramped up healthcare infrastructure. Currently, there are 15,301 dedicated Covid beds, 10,155 oxygenated beds, 1,852 ICU beds and 888 ventilator beds in dedicated Covid hospitals. “A total of 1,82,022 antigen tests have been done since June 18. The fleet of ambulance has been increased from 337 to 602 bringing down response time to 30 minutes from 55 minutes,” the LG office said. The serological survey has been completed with 22,823 samples being collected. National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) is analysing its outcomes which will help the government re-evaluate Covid-19 strategy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/take-steps-to-cut-mortality-rate-lg/articleshow/76823128.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Madurai||NEET, JEE aspirants left anxious about future after postponement of exam dates||MADURAI: With the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Undergraduate) exam dates postponed once again due to the Covid-19 pandemic, exam aspirants are an anxious lot. The aspirants are worried about their college admissions and also fear the possibility of the exams being cancelled. The Union human resources development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Friday released the revised dates for the two exams to be held in September. While JEE (Main) has been scheduled to be held from September 1-6, NEET is set to be held on September 13. JEE (Advanced) meanwhile has been slated for September 27. However, there is still a possibility of further postponement depending on the Covid-19 situation. “We have already been waiting for far too long this year. Now, in Tamil Nadu and Madurai, Covid-19 cases are increasingly rapidly. There is still no surety as to whether the exam will happen in September. We are not able to focus well in this situation and are getting further stressed,” said Kirthika G, a NEET aspirant. Coaching centres for NEET and JEE on the other hand continue to hold crash courses, but have been forced to reconsider their plans with postponement of the exams. Class XII teachers who are overseeing the students’ preparations for NEET and JEE also expressed concerns of students getting lethargic as well. “The postponements have given extra time for preparation. However, it can lead to students lacking concentration. Many of my students are also worried whether the exams will be cancelled,” said Meenakshi Sundarma, a government school teacher and a NEET trainer. With college admissions looking set to begin, students are confused whether to enrol themselves in colleges or wait till the entrance exam results are out. “I aim to be a doctor and have registered for the NEET exam. However, my parents ask me if it is right to wait, when the exam is uncertain. They are suggesting me to join other courses in arts and science colleges as there is some clarity regarding these courses,” said Manikandan S, a NEET aspirant. Teachers and NEET, JEE trainers are hence hoping that admissions to all colleges take place at a uniform date, which would ensure that students don’t jump the gun and get themselves admitted in colleges before their entrance exams are over. Some educationists meanwhile have been calling for cancellation of the exams for the academic year as till now there is no clarity on when it would be safe to hold the exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/neet-jee-aspirants-left-anxious-about-future-after-postponement-of-exam-dates/articleshow/76825439.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Survey finds 1.6 lakh as high-risk in red zones||NEW DELHI: The screening of over 3.6 lakh people living in the 445 containment zones in the city has resulted in more than 1.6 lakh people being identified as symptomatic or high-risk individuals. However, only around 7.5% of high-risk individuals were found Covid-positive in rapid antigen tests. On June 30, Union ministry of home affairs had asked the authorities to complete by July 6 the door-to-door survey of all containment zones, the numbers of which had gone up on account of fresh demarcation. The initial deadline was June 30, but it was extended to July 6 as the number of red zones had increased from 280 on June 25 to 434 on June 29. This was the result of a fresh delineation strategy, leading to bigger containment zones getting divided into smaller areas. Sources in Delhi government said that 1,66,597 people living in containment zones were identified as symptomatic or high-risk individuals, which included senior citizens, pregnant women and people with comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular or kidney ailments. Rapid antigen tests of all symptomatic and high-risk residents were carried out and the positivity rate was around 7.5%. Those testing negative but showing Covid-19 symptoms were referred for RT-PCR tests. However, the combined data of these tests was not yet available. On Monday, Covid-positive cases in Delhi crossed one lakh, while the number of containment zones was 455. While 72,088 patients have recovered, there are 25,620 active cases. The number of deaths was 3,115. In all, 1,82,022 rapid antigen tests have been carried out since June 18. The serological survey of Delhi has also been completed and 22,823 samples have been collected. National Centre for Disease Control is analysing the blood samples, the outcome of which will help the administration re-evaluate its Covid-19 strategy. A door-to-door Covid survey was started in some districts on June 30 with priority being accorded to 100% screening of containment zones. The complete survey, however, has been put on hold for the time being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/survey-finds-1-6l-as-high-risk-in-red-zones/articleshow/76823123.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Madurai||2 held for circulating woman’s lewd pictures||239 (revised) Madurai: The Ramanathapuram district police have arrested two people for circulating lewd pictures of a woman after their efforts to extort money from her failed. Search is on for two more people. The arrested were identified as Syed Abubaker Badusha and Syed Sahabudeen. Badusha and his brother Haji were running an internet centre and mobile phone recharge centre in Ervadi. Sahabudeen was working in the centre. Sahabudeen developed an extramarital affair with a middle-aged woman from Ervadi a few months ago. She was living alone after parting ways with her husband. He started threatening her of releasing the pictures they took during their intimate moments on social media and demanded Rs 10 lakh from her. Badusha and Haji too were involved in the extortion attempt. As she refused to give the money, the trio shared her pictures to a few people in the town through WhatsApp with the help of their friend Syed Alim, who is residing abroad. The incident was brought to the notice of the district police superintendent V Varun Kumar through helpline number 9489919722. Based on his instructions, the Keelakarai all women police registered a case under various sections of IPC for cheating and under sections of the Information Technology Act. Police inquiries revealed that the accused have been involved in extorting money in a similar way a using mobile app. They have targeted women whose husbands are working abroad. Police are searching for Alim and Haji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-held-for-circulating-womans-lewd-pictures/articleshow/76822336.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Gold jewellery units, showrooms closed||Coimbatore: Gold ornament manufacturing units and jewellery shops in some parts of the city were ordered to close until further notice on Monday after some goldsmiths tested positive for Covid-19.Shops on Sullivan Street, Uppara Street, Thomas Street, Nanjappagowder Street, Sundaram Street, Kurumbar Sandhu, Karuppagounder Street, Big Bazaar street, Gandhipark and Raja Street will be closed, representatives of the Coimbatore Jewellery Owners’ Association said.As many as 30,000 gold manufacturing units in Coimbatore will be closed, representatives of the Coimbatore Integrated Goldsmith Association said.Goldsmiths and employees of jewellery shops suffering from fever, cold or cough should approach the nearest primary health centre or contact the corporation control room on 1077, 0422-2302323 or 97505-54321, a corporation official said.More than 50,000 goldsmiths are working in the units, president of the Coimbatore Integrated Goldsmith Association S Raghunathan told TOI. “The sector has been badly hit by the pandemic. Most of the goldsmiths work for daily wages. We will close the units to save their lives,” he said.Manufacturing units and jewellery shops depend on each other, said president of the Coimbatore Jewellery Owners Association B Muthuvenkatram. “Employees in both the sectors visit each other frequently. The 362 jewellery shops in the city will be closed from Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gold-jewellery-units-showrooms-closed/articleshow/76822335.cms||A Subburaj
July 7, 2020||Dehradun||IIT-R to launch 4-month course on AI in banking||Roorkee: In keeping with the shift towards digitisation that the Covid-19 outbreak has led to, IIT-Roorkee is soon going to launch an online programme on the use of artificial intelligence (AI) in banking systems. “Artificial intelligence has the potential to transform banking and improve compliance. The Covid-19 crisis along with growing security and privacy concerns has reinforced the need to leverage new-age skills to tackle emerging challenges,” AK Chaturvedi, director of the institute said. The institute is collaborating with WileyNXT, a digital education solutions organisation for the programme. The four-month joint certification programme will train IT professionals and graduates in implementing AI in the banking sector. About 32% of financial service providers in the country are already using AI — predictive analytics and voice recognition, among others. “What this will do is bridge an industry-wide skill gap. There is a tremendous emphasis on automation in the banking and finance sector. It has fuelled the demand for a digitally enabled workforce,” Vikas Gupta, managing director of Wiley India, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-r-to-launch-4-month-course-on-ai-in-banking/articleshow/76821389.cms||Tapan Susheel
July 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two duped by cyber criminals||Ahmedabad: Two complaints of cyber cheating were lodged at Sardarnagar police station on Sunday. Cyber criminals duped one Rajesh Nainani of Rs 79,000 and one Jairam Yadav of Rs 25,000. According to Nainani, he was at his friend’s shop when he got a call from an unknown number. The person at the other end told him that his PayTM KYC submissions were about to expire and his account would be blocked if he did not renew it. “The called told Nainani to download a certain application from the Play store, which he did, and to open his PayTM account. However, his phone ran out of charge at the time,” said a police source. The FIR says Nainani went home and put his phone to charge. “He then got a call again. The caller said that procedure he had to do wasn’t over and he should open the downloaded application. As he did so, Rs 20,000 was withdrawn from his PayTM account. When he asked the caller what was happening, he was told it was part of the procedure which would take a few more minutes. A total of Rs 79, 010 was siphoned off from his account before the caller cut the call. In the second case, Yadav said that he got a call on the morning of April 16. The caller told him he was calling from a direct-to-home (DTH) television service and would recharge his account. “The caller got him to provide his daughter’s debit card number and tell him the one-time passwords, purportedly to recharge the DTH account,” said a police source. “Within minutes, Rs 24, 998 was siphoned off from the bank account. We are tracing the caller through the phone number used,” said a senior Sardarnagar police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-duped-by-cyber-criminals/articleshow/76822343.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Half-eaten body of a newborn found||Ahmedabad: The body of a newborn baby, partially eaten by scavengers, was found near the Auda Housing Colony in Amraiwadi on Sunday. Police registered an offence against unknown person and are gathering CCTV footage from cameras installed nearby. According to police sources, children playing in the area saw the body and raised the alarm. “Locals gathered and informed the police control room. On getting the message we went to the spot and took the body into our custody, and sent if for a postmortem,” said a police official. A senior police official said it is possible that the baby was abandoned alive and its death was caused by dogs or scavenging birds. “We are waiting for the postmortem report to know whether the baby was alive or dead when it was left at the spot,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/half-eaten-body-of-a-newborn-found/articleshow/76822334.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kochi||Protocol violation in Kerala: Licence of 11 shops to be suspended||KOCHI: The Ernakulam rural police on Monday booked owners of 11 commercial establishments in the district for violating Covid-19 protocols. District police chief K Karthick said the department will initiate the procedures to suspend the licence of these shops under Shops and Establishments Act. Police said a recommendation to suspend vehicle permit and driving licence of 15 people too has been issued for violating Covid-19 protocols while using vehicles. Police also added that violators would face serious consequences if caught breaking rules. On Monday morning, teams of police officers led by rural SP K Karthick visited major markets in the district, including Aluva, Paravoor and the fish market at Varapuzha. “Token system would be implemented at Varapuzha market,” the SP said. Police also said wholesale dealers and retailers would not be allowed to run their businesses at the same time in the markets. The spots to conduct sales would be specifically marked and there will be separate entry and exits. Meanwhile, several wards under the Kochi corporation and panchayats, including Chellanam, Parakadavu, Amballur, Kanjur, Pangottoor, Pallipuram, Edathala and Keezhmaad, have been declared as containment zones. Police were deployed at the entrance of all containment zones and guidelines were announced through megaphones. City police too conducted patrolling early in the morning across the city. As many as, 13 people were booked for violating restrictions and 10 were booked for not wearing masks in the rural police limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/protocol-violation-licence-of-11-shops-to-be-suspended/articleshow/76821419.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Trichy||Cops gets training on maintaining good relationship with public||Trichy: Trichy city police organized a training program for police officers of all cadres under to educate them on dealing with public in a friendly manner. Commissioner of police (CoP), Trichy city, J Loganathan chaired the program attended by 120 police officers including assistant commissioners, inspectors and sub-inspectors attached to the city police on Sunday and Monday. The objective of the program was to give them training on how to have a humane approach towards people, while dealing with the violations during the Covid-19 lockdown. The program also discussed several aspects including the safety of people and police during the pandemic, relieving the stress of police personnel, handling critical situation in an effective way and handling offenders in a legal way. Loganathan said that the Tamil Nadu police prepared a standard operating procedure (SoP for the training program. “The training program gave police officers awareness about the role of police in maintaining a good society,” Loganathan told ToI. Besides the program, the city police also conducted a separate program on the topic – Police and Public good relationship training program - for police constables. The program was aimed at educating them about the behavioural corrections. Deputy commissioner of law and order, Trichy city, N S Nisha organised the training for police constables in Cantonment and Golden Rock range, while deputy commissioner of crime and traffic R Vetharathinam convened the program for the personnel in Fort and Srirangam range police. The CoP also said that police would also analyze whether they would need to organise one more training program after a week. The police personnel showing anger and emotions, while dealing with people will also be identified and given special attention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-gets-training-on-maintaining-good-relationship-with-public/articleshow/76822355.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 cases hit record one-day high in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: Covid-19 cases hit a record one-day high in the Nilgiris on Monday with 26 positive cases taking the tally to 150. Of the 26 cases, eight are returnees from other districts, 17 are primary and secondary contacts of an official of a needle manufacturing company here and a secondary contact of an earlier positive case with travel history.The Nilgiris, which was Covid-free till June 14, reported 150 cases in the last 20 days. The official of the private company, who is being treated at the ESI hospital in Coimbatore, accounts for 88 cases of primary and secondary contacts. Over 150 test results of his contacts are pending in the lab, health officials said.“As far as the eight positive cases of returnees from other districts are concerned, the cases will be cross-notified to the respective districts,” deputy director of public health Dr P Balusamy said. The districts include Ramanathapuram, Namakkal, Thoothukudi, Sivaganga and Madurai.The new cases were reported from Ooty town, Kotagiri, Wellington, Ketti, Yellanhalli, Katteri and Karakorai. Located closely, Yellanhalli and Ketti clusters continue to grow larger with seven more people testing positive for the virus on Monday. Ketti, Yellanhalli and surrounding areas had already reported over 30 cases.The needle manufacturing company is located at Yellanhalli, 6km away from Ooty. It employed 755 people and was locked after the first case was reported. Over 1,000 swab samples from the employees and their families were lifted for testing.While 71 patients are being treated at the Ooty Government Headquarters Hospital, 20 are under treatment in ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. As many as 59 patients were discharged after treatment.Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya requested the public not to travel to other districts unnecessarily as eight cases recorded on Monday were returnees from other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-cases-hit-record-one-day-high-in-nilgiris/articleshow/76822346.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Dehradun||Behrupiya artistes, who performed during US Prez visit to India, forced to sell vegetables to make ends meet||Dehradun: The sands of time have buried many folk art forms but Rajasthan's traditional Behrupiya performers still managed to hold their ground. However, the Covid-19-induced lockdown has come as a big blow for the Behrupiya community, which subsists on performances as costume artistes. With no performances in the past three and a half months, many members of the community — including those who had performed recently for US president Donald Trump during his visit to India — have been forced to sell vegetables to make a living. Behrupiyas — derived from “bahu-roop” or “many forms” — are costume artistes who used to perform in the courts of kings in earlier times. Nowadays, they perform at religious and cultural events while some are street performers as well. These artistes don various roles – ranging from jesters to Hindu Gods during their performances. Akram Khan, a Behrupiya who has performed with his five brothers during the Commonwealth Games in Delhi in 2010 as well as during US president Donald Trump's visit to India in February this year, told TOI, “Seven generations of my family have preserved this art. We inherited it from our father Shubhraat Behrupiya, a famous artist. No one in our family ever thought of pursuing any other career. This art makes us different from the others around us. We earned our living through performances in Rajasthan and other states but the pandemic has changed things for us.” He added that since there were no performances during the lockdown, his family has taken to selling vegetables to survive. “My brothers and I are forced to sell vegetables to keep our homes running, but we want to return to being Behrupiya performers. The art is close to our hearts and we won't let it die,” he added. Khan is not the only such performer facing this challenge. Other folk artistes of the Behrupiya community are also going through a tough time and many of them have taken to selling vegetables or borrowing food for surviving. These artistes told TOI that they used to earn Rs 1,000 for every performance before the outbreak of Covid-19 but are now forced to borrow money for their expenses. Khan’s elder brother Feroz said that he had to borrow Rs 5,000 on interest to start a small vegetable cart to meet the family expenses. “We do not have any savings. The loan is an additional burden but I did not have any other option. I hope that the government comes to our rescue and helps us tide over this difficult phase.” Another Behrupiya artist Gulzar Ahmad also narrated a similar ordeal. A native of Bandikui city of Rajasthan, Gulzar stays in Dausa for work while his wife and daughters stay in Alwar district. “When the lockdown was announced by the Prime Minister, I had nowhere to go. Since then, I have been living with my wife who works at a private school in Alwar. The school owner has been kind to us. He has provided us with food and shelter. I just hope that we get permission from the police and gram panchayats soon for performing in villages and earning our living,” said Ahmad. Meanwhile, Sanjay Pandey, additional director of department of tourism, Rajasthan, told TOI, “The government is making efforts to keep folk artistes engaged during these times. The folk artistes have been enrolled through a common website for online performances for which they will be paid.” When asked about this government initiative, the Behrupiya artistes claimed that they cannot afford data charges and many of them do not have smartphones to avail the benefits of this state-run programme. Suryan Behrupiya, another member of the community, said, “The love and appreciation we get from our audience is not letting us quit our art. We play various characters from Indian mythology. Our performances give hope to people. We are optimistic that this phase will pass and we will return to performing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/behrupiya-artistes-who-performed-during-us-prez-visit-to-india-forced-to-sell-vegetables-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/76821430.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Madurai||‘Over 9,000 people have flown into southern dists in June’||edited (Revised) Madurai: More than 9,419 people have reached Madurai and other southern districts through the Madurai airport in June, according to data available with the Airports Authority of India (AAI). It includes 1,372 passengers from other countries, who were repatriated under the Vande Bharat Mission and 1,089, who arrived using charter flights. A total of 6,963 domestic passengers from various destinations have arrived at the airport through 104 flights. Madurai airport director, S Senthil Valavan told TOI that almost 80% of the passengers, who returned from abroad, were natives of Madurai and southern districts. Remaining passengers were from central districts like Trichy and Pudukottai. Valavan said that health teams are available to test passengers, before allowing them to leave the terminal. Airport sources said that although Trichy airport is connected with more international destinations for regular flights, the highest number of flights from other countries are now operated to Madurai to bring back the stranded. With more international flights scheduled to arrive at Madurai, eyebrows have been raised over letting in a large number of people at a time when the Covid-19 infection rate has been rising in the city. However, health officials have said that there is no need to panic as there is proper mechanism is in place to check all the passengers. International passengers are put under institutional quarantine for a week before being allowed to go home, officials said. Vande Bharat flights are being operated from Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Doha and Dubai, while charter flights are arriving from Dubai, Male and Lebanon. Major chunk of passengers came from Singapore, Male and Dubai, Valavan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/over-9000-people-have-flown-into-southern-dists-in-june/articleshow/76822347.cms||V Devanathan
July 7, 2020||Dehradun||BJP MLA sits on protest at JL Nehru Hosp after woman dies due to ‘medical negligence’||Rudrapur: After a 45-year-old woman died at the Jawaharlal Nehru District Hospital on Monday allegedly due to medical negligence, Rajesh Shukla, Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Kichha, sat on a protest at the facility alleging that Dr Gaurav Agrawal, nodal officer for coronavirus patients at the hospital, has not been doing his duty “efficiently”. MLA Shukla claimed that Dr Agrawal has turned the hospital to a mere referral centre for patients. According to MLA Shukla, victim Parvati Devi, who hails from Kichha’s Bhanga village, was ailing and had lost blood platelets. When she was taken to the community health centre in Kichha on Sunday, the doctors referred her to the district hospital. Later, MLA Shukla called Dr Agrawal and requested him to admit the ill woman. “The woman was referred to a private trauma centre by JL Nehru District Hospital and the private facility again referred the patient to Dr Susheela Tiwari Hospital as her kin didn’t have the money for treatment,” said MLA Shukla. He added that the woman was brought back to JL Nehru District Hospital after her condition deteriorated but she succumbed to her ailment before she could be admitted. “If not for this lackadaisical attitude of the officials of the district hospital, the woman would not have died,” Shukla told TOI. Taking cognisance, additional district magistrate of Udham Singh Nagar JC Kandpal reached the spot and persuaded MLA Shukla to end his dharna. Subsequently, MLA Shukla ended the stir but demanded departmental action against Dr Agrawal. He has said that if stern actions are not taken against Dr Agrawal within one week, he will be staging a dharna at the Chief Minister’s office. Meanwhile, Dr Agrawal maintained that the patient was referred to a higher centre as her condition was critical and the district hospital is not well equipped to deal with such cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-mla-sits-on-protest-at-jl-nehru-hosp-after-woman-dies-due-to-medical-negligence/articleshow/76821415.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||PPE stock piles up as demand dries up in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The personal protective equipment (PPE), which was flying off store shelves following the Covid-19 outbreak in March, now has no takers. Manufactures and retailers from the city say they are sitting on piles of unsold PPEs as the demand in the market has dropped to almost zero. And despite offering hefty discounts, there is rarely a willing customer showing up at their door. Reason: Sufficient stock in hospital, who are primary buyers, coupled with the entry of too many players into the business. Many factory owners, some with no connection to the medical equipment industry, are also churning out PPEs now just to keep their machines rolling. “As we speak, I have an inventory of 4,000 PPEs. The demand has flattened over the last few weeks,” said Srinivas Gunishetty with multiple businesses in city. As opposed to selling a minimum of 50 pieces every 10 days in March, he is now selling about 10 pieces in the same period. “And that is despite being willing to sell at wholesale rates, even if the order is small.” A good 90 GSM PPE kit with an antimicrobial coat and seam taping — as approved by the medical fraternity — costs no less than Rs 550 to Rs 600 in the wholesale market. Retailers sell it for Rs 600 upwards. “But even at Rs 250 to Rs 300, nobody is buying,” rued Nikhil Jain, originally a stationery dealer from Secunderabad. He started sourcing PPEs, when his primary business wasn’t making any money. “But now even this has hit a roadblock,” Jain said confessing he too has bundles of disposable PPEs ready to be sold. Apart from too many people joining the business to make a quick buck, online portals too are adding to the competition, say local manufacturers. “When we started making PPEs in mid-April, there weren’t too many players. We were shipping out between 220 and 320 pieces (90 GSM) every day. Now, we don’t have a single order,” said Sridher G, who turned his textile factory making casual shirts into a PPE-making unit to keep his staff employed and save his coffers from running dry. The limited demand still trickling in is largely from hotels and private offices, dealers said. Admitting that all government hospitals in the state are sufficiently stocked with PPES, Chandrasekhar Reddy, managing director of Telangana State Medical Services & Infrastructure Development Corporation, said that the protective equipment was bought in bulk between March and May. “At present, we have stocks that will last us at least another 100 days. So we do not need to buy any new PPEs until then. After that, depending on the situation, we will take a call,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ppe-stock-piles-up-as-demand-dries-up-in-t/articleshow/76823154.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
July 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Cases surge in districts, 20,000 Covid tests daily now||JAIPUR: In just two days — Saturday and Sunday — the state reported 1,112 Covid cases, the biggest jump since the state had reported its first case on March 3. The surge in the last two days, mainly due to districts reporting increased cases, pushed the cases to a new high. While there were 480 cases on Saturday, Sunday saw the biggest ever spike with 632 cases. Also, new hotspots have cropped up recently in several districts triggering the sudden rise in case numbers. However, there are other reasons for the spike. First, increasing number of testing being done and second, some people not following the safety norms like wearing masks and following social distancing norms. “Earlier, we were conducting 15,000 tests per day, but now we have increased it to 20,000 per day,” said a health department official, adding that there are many other factors for the record spike in single-day which including different districts reporting increasing number of cases at the same time. A sudden surge in Covid infections has been reported from Pratapgarh district, where cases from district jail have been reported in increased numbers. In Dholpur, health authorities are grappling with Covid-19 because of super spreaders. In Jalore, more cases in rural areas have been diagnosed with due migrants testing positive. In Alwar, too, the health authorities are facing the challenge in contain the spread of the virus in Bhiwadi area, an industrial town. “In Bhiwadi, there is a company where at least 25 workers have been found infected. The industries have started functioning but due to lack of precautionary measures, workers have tested positive from a single company,” said Dr OP Meena, chief medical health officer, Alwar. Jalore, which reported the highest number of migrants reaching the town, have to take measures to contain the spread. “Recently, we have seen a surge of cases in rural areas where migrants have reached from different states. Today, 25 cases from a single village have been found. We are conducting preventive activities in the village. More than 2.4 lakh migrants have reached Jalore district,” said Dr Gajendra Singh Deval, chief medical health officer (Jalore). In Bikaner district, which once hogged the limelight for curing all 36 Covid-19 cases, has also reported a spike in cases. “The spike has been reported from the old city area such as Hussain Badi. In families where a single case was found infected, now others are being tested positive,” said Dr BL Meena, chief medical health officer, Bikaner. In Bharatpur, too, efforts are being made to contain the spread, but still the cases are constantly resurfacing in the area. The situation in Bharatpur turned worse when grain mandi and vegetable mandi reported cases. Record spike in cases Pratapgarh: Several cases in district jail Alwar: Industries in Bhiwadi area Jalore: Migrants testing positive Bikaner: More cases in existing hotspots Dholpur: Spurt in cases after super spreaders test positive||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cases-surge-in-districts-20000-covid-tests-daily-now/articleshow/76823139.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt revenues shoot up after Unlock 1.0||Gandhinagar: The state government’s income has witnessed a quantum jump after Unlock 1.0 guidelines came into force on June 1.  Key sources of government revenue – value added tax (VAT), state goods and service tax (SGST), motor vehicle tax (MVT), and stamp duty collection – registered a sizeable upsurge as compared to the preceding months when lockdown was being enforced in varying degrees. The state government, which, during the lockdown, had to borrow a hefty sum even to pay salaries of employees and repayment of interest on earlier debt, heaved a sigh of relief as revenue collections bounced back despite restrictions still in force on several economic activities. According to official figures, the income from VAT rose from Rs 765 crore in May 2020 to Rs 1,132 crore in June. SGST collection, which stood at Rs 492 crore in April, increased manifold to Rs 2,420 crore in June. Similarly, MVT revenue increased more than four-fold from Rs 29.41 crore in April to Rs 129.05 crore in June. Stamp duty revenue shot up exponentially from Rs 5.55 crore in April to Rs 501 crore in June. Although the state government is witnessing a steady increase in revenue between March and June this year, its revenues between March 2020 and June 2020 has dipped by Rs 8,874.66 crore as compared to the same period last year.  The state government revenue between March 2019 and June 2019 was Rs 25,352.43 crore, which reduced to Rs 16,477.77 crore for the period between March 2020 and June 2020. Deputy chief minister and finance minister Nitin Patel said, “State government revenue hit rock bottom during the lockdown. It is a very good sign that tax revenue has increased manifold although it has not touched last year’s level. We expect that the series of measures taken by the central and state government to boost the economy, will help us bounce back shortly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-revenues-shoot-up-after-unlock-1-0/articleshow/76822368.cms||Kapil Dave
July 7, 2020||Dehradun||Noida couple related to BJP, JDU leaders||DEHRADUN: The couple from Noida who were killed after their car plunged into a gorge on the Dehradun-Mussoorie road early on Sunday were closely related to BJP leader and former Union minister of state Rajiv Pratap Rudy and the secretary general and national spokesperson of JDU, KC Tyagi. Both leaders flew down to Doon on Sunday to attend the cremation of the couple, Neeraj Tyagi (56) and Shagun Tyagi (50). Rudy’s daughter had married the Tyagis’ son on June 29 and Shagun Tyagi happens to be the sister of KC Tyagi. Mussoorie circle officer (CO) Narendra Pant said, “The incessant downpour the night before and the dense fog that enveloped that entire route (Mussoorie to Dehradun) appear to have been primary causes of the accident. Prima facie, the driver failed to negotiate a sharp turn because of poor visibility.” The couple had dropped their newlywed son and daughter-in-law at a Mussoorie resort on Sunday and were returning to their home in Dehradun when the accident took place. The Tyagis’ 27-year-old daughter Arushi Tyagi and driver Ashok, who sustained serious injuries in the accident, are now undergoing treatment at a hospital. Sources told TOI that Neeraj Tyagi ran a construction business in Noida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/noida-couple-killed-on-mussoorie-dehradun-road-related-to-bjps-rajiv-pratap-rudy-and-jdu-leader-kc-tyagi-both-leaders-attend-funeral-in-doon/articleshow/76821435.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Universities in Delhi struggle to plan admissions in time of corona||NEW DELHI: Even as Delhi University has started its admission process, several other varsities of the city are in a fix. While some of the central and state universities have been repeatedly extending their deadlines for application, others are still waiting for University Grants Commission (UGC) to issue guidelines so that they can plan their academic calendar. Ambedkar University, Delhi, will be releasing its admission details on June 11. However, it claims to have readied alternative plans considering the pandemic. Nitin Malik, registrar of the university, said: “All the admission-related details will be announced on July 11. But we are also waiting for guidelines from UGC on the new academic calendar”. On being asked about the entrance admission tests the university conducts for the postgraduate and MPhil/PhD courses, Malik said, “the university will make a decision depending on the Covid-19 situation”. At Indraprastha University, which recently extended its admission registration deadline till July 20, plans are in place for a contactless online admission. Brigadier Upmanyu, the joint registrar of the university, stated that “we plan to start the admission process by early August. But the plans may change with the Covid-19 situation. We will, however, make sure that the whole process is conducted completely online and that students need not worry about safety and the whole process.” The joint registrar added that the university also has several courses in law, engineering and medicine, which have separate entrance exams. “The admissions in these courses will happen only after their all-India exams are conducted.” Jawaharlal Nehru University is waiting for a response from National Testing Agency. Since last year, JNU’s entrance exams were conducted by NTA. “We will comply with what the NTA decides as they have the responsibility ranging from registration to releasing the results. They are currently looking at the situation and as soon as they give us a go ahead, we will do the needful. If there is further delay, we will discuss the admission issue in our academic council meeting and think of a solution,” said registrar Pramod Kumar. According to Ahmed Azeem, the PRO at Jamia Millia Islamia, the university is yet to take a decision on admissions. “There is no final plan as of now. Our decision-making bodies will meet and decide things soon as per the situation considering Covid-19. We will also wait for guidelines from the Union HRD ministry or UGC. Our registration process has been extended till July 31.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/universities-struggle-to-plan-admissions-in-time-of-corona/articleshow/76823150.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Online classes get positive response: Delhi government||NEW DELHI: More than 1.35 lakh Class XII students and over four lakh KG to Class X students participated in the first day of Delhi government’s remote teaching-learning initiative on Monday. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia congratulated the teachers and parents on the successful launch of the teaching-learning process and asked the teachers to reach out to every single child in their classes. On the first day of the programme, students from KG to Class VIII received their first worksheet. It contained engaging and syllabus-agnostic activities to promote reading, writing, basic numeracy and happiness among children. Similarly, students in classes IX and X were handed worksheets for Hindi, science and mathematics. “All worksheets were shared with the students by the class teachers through WhatsApp groups. Around 4.15 lakh students accessed these worksheets. For students who don’t have access to WhatsApp, teachers would get printouts and hand them to their parents on a weekly basis,” said a statement issued by the government. Class XII students also attended online classes in English and history. These classes were streamed live on YouTube, with students asking their doubts in the comments section, which were answered by the teachers. “By the evening, the videos had been accessed by 1.35 lakh people on the streaming video platform,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/online-classes-get-positive-response-govt/articleshow/76823144.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Madurai||HC orders notice on appeal filed by NHAI||Cleared/220 Words Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday ordered notice on an appeal by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) challenging the order of a single judge, who had directed the central government to issue a fresh notification explaining the reasons for retaining two toll plazas within 23km stretch in Sivaganga district. A division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice P Rajamanickam heard the appeal. It maybe recalled that the single judge on May 29, while hearing a petiton filed by SP S Ilangoo, who had sought to remove the toll plaza at Shenbagampettai, had directed the authorities to come out with a revised notification by giving reasons in writing under first proviso to Rule 8(2) for retaining the toll plazas both at Lembalakudi and at Shenbagampettai both located in NH 36. The judge had accordingly ordered to revise the toll fee by taking into account the distance between Pudukottai and Manamadurai sector in NH 36 by correspondingly fixing the toll fee between Pudukkottai and Thirumayam and between Thirumayam and Manamadurai. The single judge had further said that the directives shall be undertaken by the authorities within a period of 60 days from the date of receipt of a copy of this order, failing which the toll plaza at Lembalakudi in NH 36 shall be construed as an unauthorised toll plaza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-orders-notice-on-appeal-filed-by-nhai/articleshow/76822357.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Madurai||Ramnad parotta masters eager to fly back to China to make a livelihood||RAMANATHAPURAM: Nearly 400 Indu sui bing (Indian fly parotta) masters from Puliyur area and adjoining villages in Ramanathapuram district who flew to India in January and February when Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak in China are restlessly waiting to fly back to China for work. Tension between the two countries following the stand-off at Galwan valley has not affected their decision to go back to the neighbouring country. “As an Indian citizen I am worried about the martyrdom of Palani from our district at Galwan Valley on June 15. He died protecting India. But I cannot condemn China. Though I am an Indian citizen, I rose to this level because of China,” says Umamani Kalingarathinam, 45, of Puliyur who is making a living as parotta master in China since 2004. It is not only employment, but they have friends there, whom they miss. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+: Why these Indian parotta masters want to return to China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ramnad-parotta-masters-eager-to-fly-back-to-china-to-make-a-livelihood/articleshow/76822364.cms||M K Ananth
July 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Traders seek meet to chalk out plans||Thiruvananthapuram: The district committee of Kerala Vyapari Vyavasaayi Ekopana Samithi has appealed to the district collector to convene an emergency meeting of merchants to discuss the present situation in the city. S S Manoj, general secretary of the samithi (Thiruvananthapuram district committee), said that district collectorate should take over the implementation of triple lockdown in the district. Steps should be taken to avoid a situation where perishable goods rot in shops that are being asked to down shutters overnight. He said that the merchants are all in support for measures to combat the spread of the disease in the district. Earlier, the merchants had raised dissent over the decision of city corporation to make them open shops only on alternate days since it resulted in huge losses for them, especially those selling perishable goods. He said that the declaration of lockdown in the city after all the shops closed after 7pm caused much distress to the public. They were caught unawares by the sudden decision to impose a week-long lockdown in the city. Meanwhile, district administration relaxed the restrictions imposed on shops on Monday. As per the revised order, milk booths, vegetable stalls, grocery shops, shops selling cattle feed, poultry feed and veterinary medicine shall be allowed to function from 7am to 11am and strict social distancing measures shall be ensured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/traders-seek-meet-to-chalk-out-plans/articleshow/76821438.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Contact cases of Covid-19 worry officials in Ernakulam||KOCHI: Health officials are a tad worried over the number of people getting infected via contact in Ernakulam and the cases where the source of infection remains unknown. Of the 312 patients in the district (till July 5), 44 (14.1%) were infected by contacts, the rest (268) came from abroad/other states. On Monday, the district reported 25 new cases of which 17 were infected by contact. Six persons were infected by a person from Vennala, who tested positive on July 4. Though district administration imposed lockdown in containment zones where contact cases were reported and source of infection was unknown, more contact cases are surfacing from rural and urban areas. Sources said many contact cases are emerging from Aluva and authorities are clueless about the source of infection in the first case from Aluva. Authorities say this is happening despite repeated pleas to maintain social distancing norms. One of the cases reported from Keezhmadu on Monday is of a construction contractor who attended a ceremony with 70 others, violating all Covid protocols. Over 25 people in UC College area alone were asked to undergo quarantine. “Lockdown is a temporary measure and we cannot continue it since the virus will be with us for years. People should follow standard protocols, wear masks, maintain social distancing in public places, wash hands frequently with soap or use sanitizer. Those with symptoms should stay at home and inform health officials. People should make these steps a part of their routine,” said a health official. As contact cases are increasing, health department asked major NABH-accredited private hospitals to buy antigen test kits to test those with symptoms of Covid. “Government has given permission to buy kits from an approved Delhi-based agency. Major 10 private hospitals in Ernakulam are ready to do testing. This will help identify cases at the initial stage of infection,” said the official. Meanwhile, the surveillance team found the source of infection in the case of patients from Kadavanthra (Naval Base) and Thrikkakara. “The Kadavanthra native was infected by a colleague who had fever and recuperated later. One of her colleagues even experienced loss of smell. The Thrikkakara native came in contact with an Aluva native who had Covid symptoms,” said a health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/contact-cases-worry-officials-in-ekm/articleshow/76821470.cms||T C Sreemol
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘No order for hiring guest teachers for online classes’||NEW DELHI: With no formal orders being issued by the Directorate of Education (DoE), most of the 20,000-odd guest teachers have not been called for holding online classes. About 3% of such teachers who were asked to join by the principals had no clarity on their salary payment. A school in Sultanpuri even asked the guest teachers to sign an undertaking that they would not demand any salary for taking online classes. In another school in Sunder Nagri, a teacher was asked to handle two classes. The head of Government Boys Senior Secondary School in F-Block of Sultanpuri said the school management committee had taken the decision to employ guest teachers, but they had not received any order from DoE for their re-engagement. That’s why the guest teachers were asked to sign an undertaking for not demanding salary for their services. Shoaib Rana, a guest teacher working at the school in Sunder Nagri, said, “No guest teacher in my school was called. When we saw the timetable, we realised one teacher had been given two classes. Even the physical education teacher has been employed, but not us.” On July 2, deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia had said that once online classes began, the services of guest and contractual teachers would be taken. These teachers have been without salaries since May. However, state education director Binay Bhushan said, “No formal orders will be passed by the headquarters and the authority to hire such teachers has been given to school heads. It is entirely need-based and they have to take a call on the requirement.” Many principals said it would be difficult to manage without engaging guest teachers. “I have just seven guest teachers in my school. The number in others is nearly 50%. It is going to be very difficult for us to manage the timetables and it will be cumbersome for one teacher to manage two classes,” said Yashwant Singh Negi, the principal of a school in Ghitorni. Yusra Khatoon, a chemistry guest teacher at a school near Jama Masjid in Old Delhi, was among the few who were called to teach classes IX, XI and XII. “In our school, half of the educators are guest teachers. The principal called and gave me work, which will be more than regular times. But we don’t know whether we will be paid,” she said. Moreover, students of KG to Class X are given worksheets for different subjects daily. Teachers have to send these worksheets to the district education offices. Parents who cannot send it on WhatsApp to teachers call them and hand it over at school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-order-for-hiring-guest-teachers-for-online-classes/articleshow/76823163.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||Jail staffers go on ‘mass leave’ after Covid blast||Nagpur: Around 40-45 prison staffers have remained ‘absent’ from work for the last few days, since the outbreak of Covid-19 in Nagpur Central Jail. The administration is being forced to consider the option of approaching the police with a complaint against them in near future. As of now, the prison administration is trying to issue notices to the absentee personnel to bring them back to work.Sources from Nagpur Central Jail said the administration is facing a shortage of staffers since 57 staffers are in isolation after testing positive, and a another 45 are not showing up for work. It’s learnt that the staffers have kept away from work even after they tested negative.Sources said there are roughly 350 staffers at Nagpur Central Jail, including many attending to administrative jobs. There are around 1,860 prisoners in the jail, including 34 corona positive, at the jail’s Covid Care Centre.SP, Nagpur Central Jail, Anup Kumar Kumre said there is massive shortage of staffers in the prison due to the absenteeism. “We are managing the prison with less manpower. First of all, we will try to make the staffers return immediately by sending them notices. In case no one turns up, action would be initiated,” he said.“Even I have showed up for work after testing negative, and did not remain seated at home. We are government servants and cannot act irresponsibly,” he said. Amid this, jail authorities and city police faced more anxious moments after a attempt-to-murder convict, who had tested positive, tried to flee from the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Monday. There was panic among the cops on duty, jail administration and also GMCH management after the Covid positive prisoner went missing from his ward.A source in Ajni police said a search was launched after the alarm was raised, a couple of hours after the convict became untraceable. “The convict was found in another room. He was hiding behind a bathroom,” said an official of Ajni police station. “The convict said he had gone to look for soap. No action was initiated as he could not escape,” said the official.Sources in the jail also said there is rift among some of the staffers over the spread of the infection inside the prison. “An unnecessary blame game has started among staffers, who had got into verbal duels with baseless accusations. Some of the staffers blamed some others for the outbreak after three-and-a-half months of keeping the place safe,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jail-staffers-go-on-mass-leave-after-covid-blast/articleshow/76822361.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 7, 2020||Bareilly||No PPE, Covid body wrapped in bedsheet in Budaun||BAREILLY: A family in Budaun was allegedly forced to wrap the body of a Covid-19 patient in a bedsheet and take it to the cremation ground after the district hospital told them they lacked personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. Hours later, when the family was making arrangements for final rites, a health staff team reached the spot with PPE kits. On Monday, the health director of Bareilly division directed officials to probe the violation of Covid-19 protocol. The 60-year-old man, who hailed from Budaun’s Bilsi town, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday afternoon at the district hospital and died on the way to a Covid-19 hospital. According to the deceased’s nephew, “At the Covid-19 level three hospital, we were told to go back to the district hospital as the patient had passed away. We returned to the district hospital and the body was kept in an ambulance. The staff told us that they have a shortage of PPE kits. After waiting for hours, we left with the body for the cremation ground. While we were making the arrangements for cremation, the health staff reached the cremation ground, covered the body, sealed it and provided us with PPE kits.” Chief medical superintendent Dr Harsh Vardhan alleged that the family forcefully took the body to cremation ground. “The hospital staff was preparing to properly seal the body, but the family left for the cremation ground. We will serve notice to the ambulance driver on why he left the hospital with the body.” According to protocol laid by the Indian Council of Medical Research, the body of a Covid-19 patient should be packed in a leak-proof zipped plastic body bag, which is locked properly to avoid spillage of any fluids. The guidelines also add that PPE is to be used while shifting the body in the mortuary if it involves direct handling of the body. Director (health), Bareilly division, Dr Rakesh Dubey told TOI that the chief medical officer (CMO) has been asked to look into the incident. Meanwhile, CMO Dr Vineet Shukla said the CMS of the hospital has been asked to submit a written explanation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/lack-of-ppe-kits-dist-hosp-tells-family-of-dead-covid-patient-kin-wrap-body-in-bedsheet-take-it-for-cremation/articleshow/76820192.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 7, 2020||Hubballi||Hampi ruins reopen to visitors||Hubballi: The ruins of Hampi, which had been closed to tourists following the enforcement of the lockdown from the third week of March, reopened to visitors on Monday. Deputy superintendent of Hampi circle of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) P Kalimuthu told TOI that the world-renowned monuments of Hampi would be open to visitors from 6am to 6pm. However, given the prevalence of the pandemic and the need to observe safety, ASI had decided to restrict the number of visitors to the ruins to 2,000 per day. We are issuing only e-tickets which can be obtained by scanning the QR code at the monuments. We have taken all the necessary precautions at Hampi to ensure safety of the visitors,” Kalimuthu added. It bears mentioning that, among all the monuments spread out across the ancient metropolis, the Virupaksha temple had been opened to public from May 7, while some of the smaller shrines such as Badavi Linga had been open for rituals. Shivashankar Banagar, a Hampi resident and amateur photographer, said that, on Monday, he spotted only five to six tourists at the stone chariot. “Tickets are being issued at the stone chariot, the museum and Kamal Mahal. Most restaurants and shops in Hampi have been shut, and the tourist turnout has dropped drastically,” Banagar added. Along with Hampi, other relics such as Vijayapura, Badami, Aihole and Pattadkal too reopened from Monday. ASI officials said that these temples too would remain open to visitors from 6am to 6pm, and tickets could be obtained only using QR code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hampi-ruins-reopen-to-visitors/articleshow/76822158.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Dehradun||37 new Covid cases found, state tally now 3,161||Dehradun: With 37 fresh cases, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally reached 3,161 on Monday. According to the health department, the maximum 20 cases were reported from Udham Singh Nagar on July 6. “On the day, five new cases were reported from Haridwar, four cases each from Dehradun and Nainital, three from Almora, and one from Pauri Garhwal,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. The official added that 62 patients of coronavirus infection recovered on July 6, taking the recovery rate of Uttarakhand to 81.81%. In some good news, Rudraprayag district achieved 100% recovery rate on the day as it managed to treat all the active cases.This comes a day after Tehri achieved 100% recovery rate. “With not even a single active case left, Rudraprayag has managed to achieve 100% recovery rate. Tehri was the first district in the state to treat all its patients,” added Tripathi. Currently, 505 cases are active across Uttarakhand. Among these, the maximum of 179 cases are in Nainital, followed by 111 in Dehradun, and 103 in Udham Singh Nagar. Four districts — Pauri, Pithoragarh, Chamoli and Champawat — have active cases in single digits. As many as 42 deaths were reported in Uttarakhand in the last three months. While 6,109 samples were pending for Covid-19 testing till Monday, the state has managed to test around 70,000 people till now. The health department also put several areas out of containment zones across six districts. Now, there are 76 such hotspots in the state. Notably, Uttarakhand had 93 containment zones on July 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/37-new-covid-cases-found-state-tally-now-3161/articleshow/76821448.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 7, 2020||Mysuru||12 new cases in Chamarajanagar||Mysuru: Chamarajanagar on Monday reported 12 Covid-19 cases including two children. While the district’s tally is 114 cases, there are 90 active cases. Deputy commissioner MR Ravi said 35 patients are undergoing treatment at the Covid-19 hospital and the remaining patients are asymptomatic and are being treated at the Medical College Covid Care Centre. The district health authorities are still awaiting the lab reports 1,236 individuals. Ravi said the district administration is getting ready to convert Santhemarahalli Community Health Centre as a Covid-19 hospital. As many as 20 people were discharged on Monday, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/12-new-cases-in-chamarajanagar/articleshow/76822473.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Meerut||Computer operator hails absconding Kanpur gangster, booked & arrested||Meerut: A computer operator, 26, employed as a contractual employee at the office of District Urban Development Authority (DUDA) in Baghpat, has been arrested for allegedly uploading posts on social media platforms praising absconding gangster Vikas Dubey, the main accused in the killing of eight policemen in Kanpur’s Chaubepur village.Avinash Mishra, who runs his Facebook account by the name of Pandit Avinash Mishra, had not only praised the gangster for the attack but even tried to provoke sentiments of people of the upper caste, local police alleged.Station house officer (SHO) of Baghpat Kotwali police station, AK Singh, said, “The accused has been booked under IPC sections 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence), 295-A (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and relevant sections of IT Act. He has been arrested.”A resident of Gaurithakur village in Devaria district Mishra was employed on contract with the Pradhan Mantri Awasiya Yojana department of DUDA.According to a senior police officer, who requested anonymity, “The action is a strong message to those who are trying to unnecessarily drag caste politics into the gruesome attack.”Seven policemen were shot dead and several others injured in an ambush by notorious criminal Vikas Dubey and his aides in Chaubepur village on Thursday night. Dubey and most of the other attackers are yet to be caught.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/computer-operator-hails-absconding-kanpur-gangster-booked-arrested/articleshow/76821484.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 7, 2020||Delhi||UGC, HRD asked to clear stand on Delhi University final exams||NEW DELHI: Taking serious note of the problems faced by final year students of Delhi University, Delhi high court on Monday asked the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the central government to convey their stand by Tuesday on holding open book examinations (OBE). “The UGC and the Union HRD ministry shall take a specific stand as to whether they recommend cancellation of final year examinations,” Justice Pratibha M Singh noted, while hearing a plea by students from Lady Shri Ram and other colleges. To understand the challenges faced by the students, the high court directed Delhi University to furnish data on the number of students enrolled in the final year and the number of students who have registered for the open book exams. It sought details of state-wise breakup of students and from where they would appear for the open book exams, along with the preparedness of the varsity website for handling the traffic, keeping in mind the recent glitches faced by students during the mock tests. The high court took note of the difficulties faced by the students and reminded authorities that “the novel coronavirus outbreak had caused considerable disturbance in the schedules for studies across educational institutions.” It said that several students may have already obtained employment and would be compelled to report to their jobs, while others may be scheduled to pursue post-graduate studies in India or in foreign countries. “Delhi University is a university of excellence. Studying here is a matter of pride as it attracts the best talent from across the country. Thus, the difficulties of the large expanse of students hailing from different regions need to be kept in mind. They cannot be judged on the basis of facilities available in a city like Delhi or other metros,” the high court observed. The court said that administrative authorities in-charge of conducting examinations, including UGC and the Centre, ought to also bear in mind that the Covid-19 pandemic had resulted in enormous mental distress and agony to students. There are families that are suffering medical illnesses and appearing for exams is not just a technological issue, but the state of mental preparedness of students also needs to be assessed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ugc-hrd-asked-to-clear-stand-on-du-final-exams/articleshow/76823170.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 37-year-old man falls off AIIMS Trauma Centre, dies||NEW DELHI: A 37-year-old journalist with a vernacular daily died after falling off the fourth floor of the AIIMS Trauma Centre on Monday. The AIIMS in a statement said he had jumped off the floor. Police are, however, probing the incident from all angles. DCP (south-west) Devender Arya said they received a call regarding the incident around 2pm and cops found the man lying in a pool of blood at the courtyard outside the Trauma Centre. He was rushed to the ICU where he succumbed to the injuries. A spokesperson from AIIMS Trauma Centre said the journalist was admitted to the Trauma Centre on June 24 with Covid-19. He had made significant recovery and was to be shifted from the ICU to the general ward on Monday. “Around 1.55pm, he ran out of the Trauma Centre. The hospital staffers ran after him but he managed to climb to the fourth floor where he broke a window and jumped off. He was lifted in an ambulance and taken to the ICU where he was treated but succumbed around 3.35pm.” Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan later tweeted that he was deeply shocked and saddened by the death of the young journalist. “I ordered AIIMS Director to immediately constitute an official inquiry into this incident, following which a high-level committee has been set up & shall submit its report within 48 hours,” he said. The deceased is survived by his wife and two daughters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/37-year-old-man-falls-off-aiims-trauma-centre-dies/articleshow/76823173.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||Convict falls while bathing in jail, dies in GMCH||Nagpur: A 40-year-old convict died in unexplained circumstances after falling unconscious while taking a bath in Nagpur Central Jail on Monday, triggering a Covid-19 death scare. However, the man, serving a sentence for sexual exploitation of a minor, later turned out to be corona negative.With 42 prisoners and 57 staffers already having tested positive, the latest death in the prison had initially raised a fear of possible Covid fatality, since many lodged in the barracks are yet to tested. There was relief among the prison staffers after the deceased’s Covid test came negative.The victim, Bablu Yadav, a resident of Palghar in Vasai, was lodged in Thane jail after arrest. After his conviction on charges of rape and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, Yadav was shifted to Nagpur Central Jail in June 2018.Jail sources said Yadav was taking a bath when he collapsed. It’s learnt that several other prisoners too were along with Yadav when he fell. Yadav was taken to the jail hospital, where he remained motionless. The jail staffers shifted Yadav to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), where he was under treatment for an hour before being declared dead.Yadav’s body was shifted in a body bag to the GMCH mortuary, where his swab was collected for the Covid test. Yadav’s post mortem would be conducted on Tuesday evening.SP, Nagpur Central Jail, Anupkumar Kumre said Yadav had no medical history of any chronic disease. “It was a surprise for many of us how he collapsed. We tried to revive him, but he did not respond,” he said.Dhantoli police have registered a case of accidental death. “We received intimation from the prison authorities about the death of the prisoner. It’s not yet officially clear how Yadav died,” said a Dhantoli police source. He also added that there was no mention of Yadav falling while taking a bath in the information from jail authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/convict-falls-while-bathing-in-jail-dies-in-gmch/articleshow/76822365.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 7, 2020||Dehradun||After being booked for violating distancing norms, Congress leaders resume protest against petrol price hike||DEHRADUN: After being booked recently for violating social distancing norms and holding protests without prior information, senior Congress leaders, including state chief Pritam Singh, resumed the stir against petrol, diesel, and LPG price hike from Monday. Congress members held protests outside different petrol pumps on the day. During the protest, the party members distributed pamphlets to people to inform them about the raised prices. Congress vice president Suryakant Dhasmana said that it was important to inform people about the policies and decisions of the Union government. “At a time when people are suffering from Covid-19, the government is troubling them further with its erroneous policies rather than providing respite to them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-being-booked-for-violating-distancing-norms-congress-leaders-resume-protest-against-petrol-price-hike/articleshow/76821475.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Row over JCB burial for Covid-19 deceased in Tirupati||TIRUPATI: In the second such incident in Andhra Pradesh, a Covid-19 patient’s body was buried using a JCB by civic officials in Tirupati. A couple of weeks ago a similar incident was reported from Palasa in Srikakulam district which had led to suspension of two civic officials. Following a social media furore after TDP leader Nara Lokesh posted a video on his Twitter handle on Monday, Tirupati municipal commissioner PS Girisha said that the man weighed nearly 180 kg and was buried using a JCB after taking the family’s consent as civic staff were struggling to lift the body. The elderly man had died at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS). “The body was first taken to Govinda Dhamam electric crematorium. But as he was overweight, the body could not go into the gas furnace. The body was then taken back to SVIMS. The family members then requested the staff to shift the body to Harishchandra burial ground in the city. The municipal staff carried out his final rites after they ran out of all other options. And they duly obtained the consent of his family members,” said Girisha. Earlier in the day, Lokesh had tweeted: “Yet another shocking instance of how the body of a Covid-19 patient is treated in AP. Authorities in Tirupati are seen using an earthmover to dump the body in a pit! Does the govt have the guts to show this video to the grieving loved ones? Can’t they respect the dead?” Dubbing the criticism as “uncalled for”, Girisha said that a JCB was brought as deep burial is a must for Covid-19 victims and a 14-feet pit had to be dug. “His family members after seeing the civic body staff struggle to lift the body from the ambulance advised them to shift the body into the pit and complete the burial formalities using the JCB,” the civic body chief explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/row-over-jcb-burial-for-overweight-man/articleshow/76823176.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||Inform prisoner’s family, lawyers within 24 hours of +ve test||Nagpur: The Bombay high court, hearing series of public interest litigations, has laid down Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the prison administration to follow to tackle coronavirus spread and also to uphold rights of the prisoners. The court instructed that the family members be intimated within 24 hours of any prisoners testing positive. The prison officials are also expected to keep family and lawyers of the prisoners updated about their being shifted to hospitals or to the Covid care centres for treatment. The court asked the jails to ensure screening of prisoners on a regular basis with thermal scanner and also keep updated information about their co-morbidities like hypertension, diabetes, heart related problems and so on.Stressing on the fact that the right to life of the prisoners cannot be curtailed, the court also suggested random testing as and when possible. The court also underlined the requirement that any prisoners developing symptoms must be tested for their Covid-19 without fail or delay. The guidelines also included an instruction for jail administration to follow the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), state health department and other guidelines related to Covid. Hearing petitions regarding the right of the prisoners, the court has also stressed that every prisoner must be allowed to speak to their family members through video or voice calls twice a month and similarly their lawyers should be also allowed to speak to them through telephone.SP Nagpur Central Jail Anupkumar Kumre said there were seven android phone available with him for the 1860 prisoners but for want of manpower and in the ongoing crisis after the outbreak of the disease inside the prison it has become a challenge for him to provide facilities as per the court guidelines.“We are trying to follow court’s order and follow the guidelines as much as possible,” he said. “Following the guidelines, the Covid care centre and temporary jails or quarantine facilities have been developed. We are also taking special care of the senior citizens and their needs in the special barracks created for them,” said Kumre.The court also instructed the state to update the e-prison web portal with the latest information regarding the situation in every jail in Maharashtra and also with the details of the inmates. The guidelines also included an instruction to the jail administration to provide email IDs on the websites for the lawyers to request for an appointment through mails with their prisoner clients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/inform-prisoners-family-lawyers-within-24-hours-of-ve-test/articleshow/76822370.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 7, 2020||Kochi||Covid treatment charges hiked in pvt hospitals||Kochi: State government has increased the rates for Covid treatment in private hospitals under Karunya Arogya Suraksha Paddhati (KASP) by more than 100%.Though it covers patients under KASP, a healthcare scheme of Kerala government, and those referred from government hospitals, the order is silent on the treatment cost for the general population who approach private hospital directly for Covid treatment. Private hospitals cater to nearly 70% of the population in the state.As per the revised rates, general ward rates will be Rs 2,300 per day, for high dependency unit (HDU) it will be Rs 3,300, for ICU without ventilator, the cost has been fixed at Rs 6,500 and for ICU with ventilator, it will be Rs 11,500 per day. The PPE cost will be Rs 1,000/unit, with a maximum claim limit of Rs 1 lakh/case.In contrast, the earlier KASP rates fixed by the government towards the cost of general ward treatment was Rs 750/day while that for ICU treatment without ventilator was Rs 1,500/day and ICU treatment with ventilator Rs 2,000/day. The HDU rate was Rs 1,250/day earlier.The government by a new order on July 6 said the new rates will be applicable for private hospitals for Covid management under KASP and also for the government- referred patients in private healthcare institutions that are not empanelled under KASP. “With regard to the execution of the packages, sufficient funds will be made available to the state health agency,” said an order from principal health secretary Dr Rajan Khobragade.Health department held series of discussions with the representatives of private hospital organisations to utilise the services of private healthcare institutions for effective management of Covid-19 crisis in the state.Though initially the state government wanted the private hospitals to follow the existing KASP health benefit package rates, during discussions the private hospitals said the amount was not sufficient and it needs to be revised for them to participate with the government in Covid management.Accordingly, the State Health Agency has recommended revised rates which will be made applicable to private hospitals for Covid management in Kerala. “Costly medicines and investigation are not included in the package,” added Dr Jayakrishnan A V, chairman of Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Hospital Board of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-treatment-charges-hiked-in-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/76821600.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Noida||Testing & screening up, Covid fatality rate falls in Gzb||Ghaziabad: The proportion of Covid deaths in the city compared with the overall infection count has fallen significantly over the last two weeks, an outcome the health department links to increased testing. Early detection is important in the treatment of Covid-19 because symptoms can manifest in a patient only at a critical stage after which there is little time for medical intervention. That’s why, globally, strategies to deal with the pandemic have focused on more and more testing. Ghaziabad’s case fatality rate (CFR) – percentage of patients who have succumbed to Covid-19 – was an alarming 5.5% on June 22. By July 5, it had dropped to come on a par with the national average (2.8%). Ghaziabad’s CFR was a cause for concern because it was much higher than the other major NCR districts. Both Noida and Gurgaon have had low CFRs – both below 2% despite higher case numbers. Delhi, which has seen over 1 lakh cases now, has a CFR of 3.09%. During the first 110 days of the Covid outbreak (March 5 to June 22), 49 Covid patients died in Ghaziabad. During the same period, 16,505 samples were collected. However, in the 13 days from June 23 to July 5, 15,654 people were tested. Eleven deaths were reported in this period. The city’s official death toll from the pandemic now stands at 60. A senior health department official said, “As home isolation of Covid positive patients is not allowed in Uttar Pradesh, all such people, asymptomatic or symptomatic, are admitted to hospitals for treatment. Earlier, when the testing was not that extensive, several patients turned up at hospitals at the last stage when either their blood oxygen saturation level had dropped to a dangerous level or they started reporting several other complications such as pneumonitis and acute respiratory distress syndrome. A majority of such patients succumbed to the virus.” However, since the government emphasised on reducing CFR, screening has been substantially scaled up. The health department has launched 135 Covid help desks across the city to identify people with ILI (influenza-like illness) and SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) symptoms. Health department data shows between March 5 and June 22, the case positivity rate in Ghaziabad was 5.3% when on an average 150 samples were being collected daily. During this period, 877 positive patients were detected. Compared to that, the positivity rate recorded a considerable increase to 7.6% in the past couple of weeks when sample collection rose eight times (an average 1,204 samples per day). This has been possible because of rapid antigen tests that are being undertaken across the national capital region. Noida and Ghaziabad have a daily testing target of 4,000 between July 2 and 12. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “The administration and health department are running several surveillance programmes simultaneously. While over 3,000 booth-level officers are conducting door-to-door screening, over 2,050 teams have been deputed under the 10-day special surveillance programme. We have also increased the number of testing centres.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/testing-screening-up-covid-fatality-rate-falls-in-gzb/articleshow/76823179.cms||Aditya Dev
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||Jail colonies still open, but 9 other areas turn c-zones||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has notified parts of nine localities in Laxmi Nagar Zone as containment zones for a period of 28 days after Central Jail staffers residing here tested positive for Covid-19 since June 30. BJP leader Omprakash Munna Yadav has also alleged that 10 families from two Central Jail colonies have shifted to four nearby residential areas due to fears of Covid-19 in the last 10 days.The number of novel corona positive patients connected to Central Jail increased to 124 on Monday. They are 57 staff members, 44 inmates and 23 family members of staffers.The officials of NMC Laxmi Nagar Zone told TOI, “Around 15 staff members of Central Jail who tested positive are residing in these nine areas. Therefore, parts of these areas were notified as containment zones between July 3 and July 6.”The containment zones are Jog Layout, Prashant Nagar, Chandramani Hall area, Hanuman Mandir area at Prashant Nagar, Nagbhoomi Layout near Chhatrapati Nagar, Ahilya Nagar at Jaitala, NIT Layout at Ajni Chowk, Lokseva Nagar and Hindustan Colony.Yadav, whose wife Laxmi is corporator from majority of these nine areas, told TOI, “I interacted with people and came to know 10 staff members of Central Jail have shifted with families from two jail colonies to four out of the nine areas names as containment zones. I reside at NIT Layout at Ajni Chowk. Staff members of Central Jail were in panic since some of them went into quarantine inside Central Jail. Therefore, these families shifted from their two colonies even though they were residing there without paying any rent. I also interacted with owners of homes where the staff members shifted, and even got some tests done at private laboratories.”Yadav, former chairman of Maharashtra Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (a rank of minister of state), added, “Central Jail is responsible since it allowed one staff member to be quarantined inside Central Jail with prisoners, after he cited health problems and also arrival of his son from Mumbai. Now, prisoners and staff members are in panic along with residents of these containment zones.”SP (Central Jail) Anup Kumar Kumre refuted Yadav’s allegations. “We have total 265 staff members but only 175 quarters in two colonies are suitable for residing. Therefore, some staff members reside in nearby areas since long. No one shifted from colonies to nearby areas after staff members and inmates tested positive.”Despite passing of six days, NMC is yet to notify the two colonies of Central Jail as containment zone and barricade them to restrict movement of people.NMC officials said, “We were busy in contact tracing and quarantining, so it got delayed. Also, we require permission from our higher officials as Central Jail colonies are restricted areas. We got clearance from higher officials on Monday and the two colonies will be notified as containment zones soon.”Yadav said, “NMC has not quarantined and tested all contacts. Have they even done contract tracing? Chances of spread of Covid-19 into other areas cannot be ruled out due to fault of Central Jail administration and NMC.”Out of 265 staff members, 57 are positive and many of the remaining tested negative. The Central Jail administration and NMC did not quarantine those who tested negative considering them as front-line workers. Even Kumre has reportedly tested negative and returned to his job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jail-colonies-still-open-but-9-other-areas-turn-c-zones/articleshow/76822378.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 7, 2020||Jaipur||Main accused in murder case arrested||Ajmer: City police on Monday arrested the key accused in the loot and murder of businessman Manish Moolchandani on February 21, 2019. Police have already arrested six other accused in this crime. DSP Priyanka Raghvanshi said Ranjeet Singh (25), a resident of Sambhar Lake of Jaipur, was arrested from Sikar jail on production warrant produced in the court on Monday which sent him to police custody. She said Ranjeet was the main accused who fired at the businessman. He is also wanted in different crimes of loot and murder in Jaipur, Sikar, Ajmer and Rajasmand districts.Police had earlier arrested Sitaram (22) of Jaipur, Arjun Singh (20) of Sikar, Moinuddin (28), Jitendra Singh (28), Shanker Lal (27) of Jaipur and Varun Choudhary (30) of Ajmer. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/main-accused-in-murder-case-arrested/articleshow/76823180.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Dehradun||450 saplings of herbs planted as Van Mahotsav starts in U’khand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand forest department launched Van Mahotsav by planting 450 saplings of medicinal herbs in Chandrabani area of Asharodi forest range in Dehradun on Monday. Divisional forest officers of respective divisions conducted the plantation drives in their areas. In Dehradun, the plantation exercise was kicked off by state chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, forest minister Harak Singh Rawat, MLA of Dharmpur Vinod Chamoli, Head of Forest Force Jairaj, DFO of Dehradun Rajeev Dheeman and other senior officers of the forest department. Around 300 saplings were distributed among the locals for planting while officials of other departments have also been directed to organise 'harela', keeping social distancing norms in place. This year, the forest department has a target to plant 178.82 lakh saplings in 17,985 hectares of land by spending a sum of Rs 10,971 lakh. "Though I do not have much faith in afforestation drives as the chances of these saplings remaining alive is very slim, we should focus on saving natural forests. And deadly disease like Covid-19 can be prevented if we focus on keeping our environment clean and green,"said Harak Singh Rawat. The plantation drive will be conducted under nine different projects of the forest department. Under CAMPA, 61 lakh saplings will be planted in 4,200-hectare land, while 25.83 saplings will be planted under JICA in 3,633-hectare land. These drives will be conducted under Namami Gange and other sub-heads too, like bamboo and bio-fuel spices plantation, National Bamboo Mission and Green India Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/450-saplings-of-herbs-planted-as-van-mahotsav-starts-in-ukhand/articleshow/76821488.cms||Shivani Azad
July 7, 2020||Bareilly||Post-Kanpur incident, four criminals held in 3 encounters||AGRA/BAREILLY: Four criminals were arrested in three separate encounters in two Uttar Pradesh districts of Firozabad and Bareilly that left one sub-inspector, a constable and three criminals injured. In back-to-back encounters in Firozabad on Sunday night, three history-sheeters were arrested, while two of them sustained bullet injuries. The accused have collectively 29 cases, including attempt to murder, robbery, and cases under the Gangster Act, among others, registered against them. Police identified the criminals as Vikas alias Boxer from Tundla, Sachin from Tilak Nagar and Babloo Kumar from Uttar thana area. Vikas — wanted in 15 cases, and Sachin were caught by a joint team of a special operation group and Shikohabad police in a late-night encounter, while Babloo Kumar — wanted in 14 cases — was arrested by the Uttar thana police. “Acting on a tip-off, police traced Vikas and his accomplice heading towards Shikohabad. In a bid to dodge police, the duo opened fire at police. However, in retaliatory fire, a bullet struck Vikas in his leg. Similarly, during the night checking, police found two men on a motorbike trying to escape, following which a police team chased them. As the accused fired shots, police, too, returned fire and a bullet stuck Babloo in his leg. He was arrested while his accomplice escaped,” a Firozabad police official said. Meanwhile, in Bareilly district, a sub-inspector, a constable and a history-sheeter identified as Aamir alias Kaatiya sustained bullet injuries during an encounter at Chureli Dam in Bahedi area on Monday. The accused — wanted in eight cases of robbery and cases under the Gangster Act had, along with his aides Sheru and Saleem, recently robbed a couple near Amariya village — was arrested, while a combing operation to nab his aides was going on. Confirming the arrest of a gangster after an encounter, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shailesh Pandey told TOI, “The accused and our two policemen sustained injuries, while three accused managed to escape. We have formed multiple teams and initiated a combing operation to nab them. The combing will continue till their arrest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/post-kanpur-incident-four-criminals-arrestedin-three-encounters-in-firozabad-bareilly-dists/articleshow/76820242.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Noida||Noida tops Covid table in UP but at bottom in testing contacts of patients||Noida: Listing and testing of immediate contacts of Covid-19 patients is the poorest in Noida in the entire state, data on the state portal tracking the pandemic numbers shows. Though Noida has reported the maximum number (2,831) of novel coronavirus cases in the state so far, the percentage of immediate contacts tested here has been abysmally low -- a mere 24.5%. It is also lagging in the listing of contacts. Noida has listed an average of two contacts for each Covid-19 patient compared with Lucknow’s average of seven and Agra’s 10. Ghaziabad has also listed two contacts per patient, but it has tested most of them. The second-lowest in terms of testing contacts of Covid patients is Rae Bareli (which has only tested 30%). The report (proportion of contacts tested of the total number of contacts listed) was compiled for the period between June 1 and July 4. Across all the 75 districts, the government has been monitoring the number of cases reported in this period, number of contacts listed by the surveillance teams, average number of contacts traced per positive patient and total number of contacts tested. In Noida, 2,259 positive patients were detected and 3,981 of their immediate contacts were traced. In neighbouring Ghaziabad, for 1,728 positive patients, surveillance teams found 3,300 direct contacts. However, in Hapur, 7,651 contacts were identified for only 580 cases. Similarly, in Lucknow, 6,316 people were tested as immediate contacts of 968 positive individuals. In Ghaziabad, 97.5% of listed contacts were tested, Lucknow tested 95.8% of contacts and Hapur too took samples of 88.6% contacts. For all of UP, 87.8% of contacts were traced and tested between June 1 and July 4. Meerut, the other big NCR district, has tested 92.7% of contacts of Covid patients. Noida had actively started tracing and testing contacts in April but the pace seemingly slowed down after May 18 when the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) released revised guidelines and issued a nine-point testing strategy. Though the guidelines mentioned that direct and high-risk contacts of confirmed cases have to be tested between the fifth and 10th days, officials in Noida tested only immediate contacts who reported symptoms such as fever and cough. The administration and the health department also stopped sharing details of number of samples collected and samples processed. A software engineer, who stays with his wife, children and elderly parents in Sector 100, said he tested positive for Covid-19 on June 15 and has recovered. “However, nobody visited my home for contact-tracing, sanitisation, sample collection or to collect garbage,” he said. A similar complaint was escalated by Greater Noida West resident Chhabi Yadav. “On July 3, a Covid case was detected in my housing society. The family had allowed their domestic helper to work. The helper also worked in two other flats in the society at the same time. However, after the confirmation of Covid-19 case, no contact-tracing was carried out.” Officiating chief medical officer Nepal Singh said some samples of immediate contacts collected recently could not be sent for testing. He said, “We will get them processed soon. A lot of cases have been reported on a daily basis and our hands have been full. Also, since chief medical officer Deepak Ohri was found positive on July 4, data entry and record keeping work has been disrupted.” District magistrate Suhas LY had a different explanation. “Figures have not been updated recently on the state portal and I have asked the health department officials to feed the data. Residents can lodge their grievances online on this link (tinyurl.com/gbn-covid-help) and we will look into it.” Sources in the health department said that for every positive case identified in UP since June 1, at least six people have been traced. While around 20,000 cases have been reported in UP in June, health authorities have reached out to 1.2 lakh contacts for screening and testing. However, UP’s testing numbers remain low compared to other states that are seeing big case loads. Among states with more than 20,000 cases, UP had the second-lowest testing number – 3,956 per million as of Monday night – after Telangana. In comparison, Delhi is conducting 32,477 tests per million.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-tops-covid-table-in-up-but-at-bottom-in-testing-contacts-of-patients/articleshow/76823193.cms||Shalabh
July 7, 2020||Meerut||Meerut family accuses dist hosp of providing wrong Covid information||MEERUT: A Meerut family has alleged that PL Sharma District Hospital provided the Covid-19 report of their kin four days after his death that “deprived him of better treatment” at a private hospital. An inquiry has been set up in the matter. The deceased’s nephew Pankaj Lodhi Rajput said, “My paternal uncle was admitted to the district hospital on July 2 and we were told that his Covid-19 report would be given within four hours. He was admitted at 3 pm and his report arrived by 7 pm, but they did not inform us about it. It was only after his death at 9:30 pm on July 2, we were told that his report had come positive. Even then, they did not hand over the report to us, while told us to take the body home. The body was not covered as per the norms and handed over to us.” Rajput and other family members protested at the district hospital on Monday, alleging that it was due to the “negligence of the hospital that did not start treatment even after the report came” that their kin died. “The hospital authorities gave us the report on Monday which is negative. Had we been told that he had tested negative, we would have taken him to any private hospital. It is due to the negligence of the hospital staff that we faced this trauma and even discrimination from our neighbours since we were told that my uncle was Covid-19 positive,” said Rajput. Dr PK Bansal, superintendent-in-chief, district hospital, said, “These are wrong allegations. Even then, I have ordered an inquiry into the matter to find if there was any lapse.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/family-accuses-dist-hosp-of-providing-wrong-covid-info-report-given-4-days-after-death-tested-patient-negative/articleshow/76821499.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 7, 2020||Jaipur||Farmers in Dungarpur earn Rs 25.38L by growing veggies||Udaipur: At a time when coronavirus has severely impacted livelihoods of millions of farmers across the country, around 100 farmers in Surata gram panchayat of Dungarpur district are rejoicing at the bumper produce of about 1,03,580 kg of vegetables, out of which 70,350 kg has been sold to generate an income of around Rs 25.38 lakh so far.Even during the lockdown period of April and May, when the country was trying to deal with scarcity of essentials, the farmers here produced around 24,580 kg of vegetables and sold more than 17,050 kg. This generated an additional income of Rs 5.88 lakh for them. Surata was earlier dependent on vegetables supplied from Modasa in Gujarat. Now, around 60% to 70% of the need for vegetables is met locally and the vegetables are farm fresh. Under the aegis of PAHAL (Promotion of Agriculture and Horticulture for Advancement of Livelihoods), a pioneering social project by the DS group, 100 farmers were helped and trained for ‘wadi’ development. ‘PAHAL’ encourages farmers to maximize the use of small land dwellings to produce seasonal vegetables and fruits in three tier, i.e. below the ground, at shrub level and creepers at height. Doing so allows producing more from less land, while being more resilient to pests, as monoculture tends to be.The objective is to introduce profitable vegetable cultivation to meet the local demand and simultaneously generate additional income for the farmers and secure their livelihood. “No one wants to leave their family and search for work in neighbouring states. But we had no choice. I have to feed my children, my family. But once I enrolled for PAHAL project, my life has changed. I am able to earn substantial additional income, which has improved my living conditions,” says Kanti Lal, a farmer. Pari of village Dol Kunjela is happy that her husband is staying with the family now and also earning good money. “My husband used to go to Gujarat for four months in a year to work as a daily wage labourer, but now, we all are staying together and we have a secure livelihood, with an additional income too,” she says. The DS group has helped the beneficiaries by linking them with government schemes like Sukanaya Samriddhi Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana (PMMVY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Rajasthan Social Security Pension Scheme and Rajshree Yojana. So far, around 100 farmers have enrolled in PAHAL and another 200 tribal farmers residing in Surata and nearby gram panchayats are in the process of being enrolled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-in-dungarpur-earn-rs-25-38l-by-growing-veggies/articleshow/76823184.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Jaipur||Girl immolates self after being spotted with youth by mom||Kota: A girl, around 18 years old, allegedly set herself on fire after she was spotted with a neighbour by her mother on the rooftop in a village under Gendoli police station of Bundi on Monday. Police have lodged a case of rape and abetment to suicide under sections of IPC against the 20-year-old youth, who is absconding. The girl’s body was handed over to the family members after post-mortem. “Initial investigation revealed that the girl’s mother on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday caught the girl with the youth in a compromising position on the rooftop,” Shivraj Meena, superintendent of police, Bundi said. “The youth fled while the mother and the girl went to sleep,” he said. Around 5am when the mother got up to go to the toilet the girl immolated herself. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/girl-immolates-self-after-being-spotted-with-youth-by-mom/articleshow/76823187.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Dignity in death eludes Covid victims in AP||VISAKHAPATNAM: When a noted orthopaedic surgeon from Nellore was diagnosed with Covid-19 in the first week of April, he was shifted to a corporate hospital in Chennai for better treatment. Within a week of receiving treatment, however, the doctor succumbed to the virus. When the corpse was taken to a crematorium in Ambattur, there was opposition from the locals. Left with little choice, officials took the body to another crematorium where the final rites were performed amid secrecy in the early hours the next day. This was not an isolated incident. Instances of locals residing near graveyards resisting the final rites of Covid-19 victims or relatives abandoning the dead on the misconception that the funeral would lead to an outbreak in the area have been reported in Kurnool, Guntur, Srikakulam and East Godavari districts. Opposition from locals have dealt a double blow to grieving families coming to terms with their loss. Recently, a swab sample collected from a deceased 70-year-old man in Srikakulam turned out to be positive for Covid-19 ahead of the final rites. When his relatives were informed, many abandoned the body and left. Municipal officials then transported the body to the graveyard in an earthmover, drawing severe criticism for the inhumane handling of the dead. In Guntur city, officials had to convince locals living in the vicinity of a crematorium to allow the funeral of Covid-19 victim after protests were held. The cremation of another Covid-19 victim was similarly opposed in Rajahmundry recently. In many cases, local opposition has meant that those dying a natural death or of other diseases are deprived of the right to a dignified death, amid the suspicion surrounding those who die of Covid-19 and fears of virus transmission. In Rowthulapudi in East Godavari, a local teacher stepped forward to conduct the last rites of an elderly woman after nobody came forward. Special chief secretary, medical and health department, Dr KS Jawahar Reddy, said that the novel coronavirus cannot survive for more than six hours in a dead body. “We request the public to not panic and create problems for the funeral of the Covid-19 deceased. The virus cannot be transmitted after six hours. We have to honour the deceased,” said Dr Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bodies-abandoned-in-many-cases-due-to-local-protests/articleshow/76821497.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||Covid task force formed in Ngp, pvt docs too roped in||Nagpur: A district-level task force having multi-disciplinary medical experts was set up on Monday to tackle the increasing number of Covid cases. While the task force is headed by Dr Ajay Keolia, dean of Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), Nagpur, dean of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Dr Sajal Mitra will be the co-chairman.In view of the increasing number of Covid cases across Maharashtra, the state department of medical education and drugs had passed a resolution directing formation of a task force in every district.Apart from deans and medical superintendents of both the GMCHs, heads of medicine, anaesthesia, chest and TB, microbiology, and community medicine departments of both the institutes are statutory members of this task force. The authorities have also roped in eminent private doctors from different fields to get benefit from their expertise.These private doctors include Dr Prakash Deo (community medicine), Major (Dr) Milind Bhrushundi (HIV and viral diseases), Dr Ravindra Sarnaik (chest and TB), Dr Vinay Kulkarni (anaesthesiologist), Dr Nirmal Jaiswal (internal medicine) and others. Dr Nirmal Jaiswal is already leading a team of doctors treating Covid-19 patients at Wockhardt Hospital, the only private Covid-19 facility in Nagpur.“This task force will report to the state-level task force in Mumbai. As Covid-19 conditions are different on ground in every district, these experts will share their views to achieve best results on local levels,” said Dr Keolia.Similarly, such task force is being formed in all districts of Vidarbha. In districts with a government medical colleges, dean of respective GMCH will be heading the task force as chairman while in other districts, civil surgeon will be the chairman. In Vidarbha, Akola, Yavatmal, Chandrapur and Gondia have GMCHs apart from two GMCHs in Nagpur. Amravati, Wardha, Washim, Bhandara, Buldhana and Gadchiroli will form the task force under the chairmanship of respective civil surgeons.Meanwhile, a high-level inspection committee comprising of district collector Ravindra Thakare, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, representatives of World Health Organization (WHO), Indian Medical Association (IMA), and other experts visited the GMCH and IGGMCH Covid hospitals on Monday. “The authorities, including collector, not only examined the set-up and infrastructure but also entered the Covid-19 wards wearing PPE kits. They interacted with patients and sought their feedback about treatment and facilities,” said a senior official at GMCH who was present during the inspection. However, neither the officials at both the hospitals nor any member of the inspection committee shared any of their observations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-task-force-formed-in-ngp-pvt-docs-too-roped-in/articleshow/76822401.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Senior BJP netas booked for violating lockdown norms during protest||NAGPUR: Jaripatka police have registered offences against senior BJP netas for reportedly violating lockdown norms while staging a ‘peaceful agitation’ near the residence of state energy and guardian minister Nitin Raut at Mecosabagh on Monday. It’s learnt, BJP workers had no permission to stage the demonstrations. Police booked the BJP netas and party workers for “blatant violation” of norms that allowed only five protesters, followed by Covid distancing and wearing masks after informing local police. A video clip, available on social media and also with TOI, shows one of the leaders having a heated exchange with senior inspector Khushal Tijare of Jaripatka police station. The video also shows several women protesters standing close to each other, violating Covid distancing norms. Tijare said a senior BJP neta, Lata Yerkhede, had approached police station for permission to stage the agitation but it was denied. “We will invoke relevant sections against the agitators for the breach of lockdown norms,” he said. Hordes of senior BJP leaders, like ex-MLA Milind Mane, two former mayors Nanda Jichkar, Archana Dehankar and others, assembled at Mecosabagh ground to launch the stir demanding resignation of Raut over high electricity bills. BJP women’s cell activists led by city president Kirtida Ajmera gheraoed the residence of Raut. The activists stood around his house for some time and then submitted a memorandum to him making several demands. The women party workers, clad in black attires symbolically to highlight their protest, made a human chain from Mecosabagh ground up to the lane near the minister’s residence. They also raised slogans demanding resignation of the minister. The demands included not increasing power tariff from April 1, providing 100 units free per month to all residential consumers, correcting all bills and allowing payment of bill in three instalments to consumers, withdrawing the present bills and issuing corrected ones etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sr-bjp-netas-booked-for-violating-lockdown-norms-during-protest/articleshow/76822451.cms||Ashish Roy
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 1,831 new cases, 11 deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday reported 11 Covid-19 deaths, the second-highest single-day toll since the outbreak, and 1,831 new cases. Meanwhile, governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said she will meet private hospital owners on Tuesday to thrash out charges of excessive billings for Covid-19 treatment. Tweeting about the meeting, Soundararajan said she wants to look at bills and availability of beds in private facilities, among other issues. Several people responded to her tweet saying that private hospitals are charging extra and a few even wanted her to advise the government to impose another lockdown as the Covid-19 cases are surge across the city. The coronavirus toll rose to 306, while the overall caseload jumped to 25,733, the sixth-highest among all states. As many as 2,078 people were released from various hospitals, taking the recoveries to 14,781. The government on Monday decided to recruit doctors and nurses at the hospital levels, instead of doing it through centralized notification to save time. “The decision was taken as the government is not getting a good response from a unified centralized notification. We have also decided to conduct antigen tests from now on,” said an official after a review meeting held on the number of more kits to be obtained. “All the people who do not have symptoms should be sent for home isolation with care. All the hospitals should make sure that required essentials are adequate,” health minister Eatala Rajender said, as he directed district government hospital superintendents to be available in district centres only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-1831-new-cases-11-deaths/articleshow/76822456.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Woman electrocutes husband to hide affair||JAISALMER: The death of a 35-year-old man due to electrocution around 20 days back turned out to be a cold-blooded murder by his wife to hide infidelity, the Barmer police claimed on Monday. The crime occured in Deengarh area under Chauhatan police station area of Barmer district. Police said that Manaram had come to know about his wife, Papu Devi’s (30) illicit relations, so she planned to get rid of him. Now, the deceased’s brother has lodged a police case against the widow and her alleged lover. According to information from the police, Togaram, resident of Deengardh has lodged a case that on June 14 his brother Manaram was sleeping at home. On June 15, Manaram’s wife Papu Devi told Togaram over the phone that Manaram is not talking. When the family members reached there they found there was blood on Manaram’s feet. Devi told them that he had been electrocuted, hence there was blood o n his feet. Police was informed and after post-mortem, the body was cremated. After 12 days of death, the deceased’s father and others questioned Devi and she confessed her crime. She told them that she was having an affair with one Hanumanram and her husband Manaram came to know about this. Devi, along with her lover made a plan. The couple first gave sleeping pills to Manaram. They then put live wire on his fingers due to which he was electrocuted. Police said Hanumanram has confessed to the crime. Watch Woman electrocutes husband to hide affair in Rajasthan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-electrocutes-husband-to-hide-affair/articleshow/76823194.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Jaipur||Pulwama martyr’s bust installed at Sangod college||Kota: A day after the wife of Hemraj Meena, who lost his life in an attack on the CRPF convoy in Pulwama in February 2019, accused Congress MLA Bharat Singh of creating hurdles, the local administration installed the martyr’s bust at the government college in Sangod on Monday.“In the presence Hemraj Meena’s wife Madhubala, his daughter and other family members, the bust was on Monday installed amid a ceremony on the premises of the government college in Sangod, which has also been renamed after the martyr as Shaheed Hemraj Meena Government College,” SDM, Sangod, Sanjeev Sharma said. The installation of the statue was delayed due to lockdown, he added.Madhubala on Sunday held a press conference in Kota and alleged that MLA Singh was creating hurdles in the installation of the martyr’s statue. Since she refused to contest against Om Birla, Lok Sabha speaker and MP from Kota, in the parliamentary elections, the Congress MLA was raising obstacles in the installation of her martyr husband’s bust, she had allaged.Singh, following allegations by the martyr’s wife, shot a letter to SDM Sangod on Monday and directed him to install the bust on the government college premises immediately. The MLA termed the allegation by martyr’s wife baseless saying he had respect for her and it was his duty to get the martyr’s bust installed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pulwama-martyrs-bust-installed-at-sangod-college/articleshow/76823200.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||Buldi shops following rules, but it’s biz as usual for hawkers||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Mission Begin Again for the phase-wise opening after the three-month lockdown is biting the dust on the busy Sitabuldi main road. Though the shopkeepers are opening their establishments on alternate days, the hawkers are running their businesses daily on either side of the stretch.TOI on Monday took a round of the locality and found that the shopkeepers have been following the unlocking norms but the busy road has narrowed due to street vendors brazenly violating the guidelines issued by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. The hawkers are ignoring Covid distancing norms and none of them was wearing mask.“The guidelines clearly deny hawkers to do vending across the city limits. Despite this, they can be spotted on either side of the road. Even the traffic police’s kiosk at the busy Variety Square is being encroached upon,” said shopkeepers.“Why no action has been initiated upon them. Is the Mission Begin Again rule different for them,” asked shopkeepers.A majority of shopkeepers preferred to share their views requesting anonymity. They said whenever they give statements against hawkers, they start facing harassment from them. “Businessmen are paying all mandatory government taxes and are also following the rules. We are also being fined heavily for keeping our shop half open for cleaning purposes etc,” they said. A few shopkeepers took to social media to express their anguish against the NMC for its inability to take action against hawkers. Officers of NMC’s Dharampeth zone and Sitabuldi police, that are hardly a few meters from the road, have turned a complete mute spectator, said Parag Thakkar, a shopkeeper.Vice-president of Sitabuldi Merchant Association Pradip Gupta said they are not against hawkers. “The NMC should rehabilitate them to some open spaces like they did for vegetable markets during lockdown period,” he said. Shopkeepers pointed out that during first week of Mission Begin Again (started in June), the Dharampeth zone succeeded in ensuring no comeback of hawkers. Now, the situation is complete contrary.Assistant municipal commissioner Prakash Warade admitted that hawkers are creating chaos and assured to look into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/buldi-shops-following-rules-but-its-biz-as-usual-for-hawkers/articleshow/76822412.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 7, 2020||Vijayawada||33 women welfare office staff test +ve||Guntur: The state women and child welfare commissionerate in Guntur was closed after 33 employees tested positive for Covid-19. According to information, a senior officer in the commissionerate tested positive two days ago. The senior officer used to travel frequently to Hyderabad. Nearly 130 employees in the commissionerate were tested on Friday and the results were sent to the individuals on Sunday. Secretary of women and child welfare, directed the commissionerate officials to declare a holiday on Monday in order to carry out disinfection operations in the office. The entire area of women and child welfare commissionerate was contained by civic officials. After finding that majority of the employees of the women and child welfare department were residing in apartments in Brodipet area, the district administration declared the entire area as a red zone. The Brodipet area, consisting of just nine lanes, has reported nearly 95 positive cases for Covid-19. Besides the employees from the women welfare department, scores of students staying in the boys hostels in the area also tested positive in the last four days. Meanwhile, 197 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Guntur district on Monday and the district has 1,229 active cases at present, after the treatment and discharge of 775 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/33-women-welfare-office-staff-test-ve/articleshow/76821535.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Jaipur||2 kids drown in water tank||Jaisalmer: Two cousins, Lokendra (8) and Pradyuman (7), drowned in a water tank near Sultana village under Mohangarh police station area in Jaisalmer district on Monday. Police have lodged a case and begun investigation.Mohangarh SHO Manak Ram Vishnoi said that one Jetha Ram has a farm with a water tank at 1AGM of Indira Gandhi Canal area near Sultana village. Two brothers, Kuldeep and Narendra Singh reside in front of the village. They were working in the field when their children Lokendra and Pradyuman got into the tank to take bath and drowned.On not seeing the children anywhere the families searched for them and found their bodies floating in the tank. They were taken to the government hospital where they were declared dead. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-kids-drown-in-water-tank/articleshow/76823196.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Goa||‘Hundreds’ attend party at Morjim, Russian held||PANAJI/MAPUSA: There seems to be no let-up in Goa’s party scene in the beach belts of north as police on Sunday night arrested a Russian national and a hotel owner for organising a party at Morjim. They were later granted bail. The Morjim party comes over a month after locals foiled an attempt by foreigners to host a rave party at Pernem. Like the Pernem case, at Morjim, too, it was the locals who informed police after they saw several vehicles parked near the hotel. Locals claimed there were at least 300 persons at the venue—mostly foreigners—and alleged that none of them were wearing masks or maintaining social distancing. In a video that has gone viral, locals alleged that guests began gathering at the venue in the evening and police were called at 9pm but showed up only at 10.30pm. They demanded that all the guests who violated curfew orders must be arrested and even questioned the cops on how the foreigners were “allowed to escape”. As per the Centre’s guidelines, Goa has restricted movement or gathering of people between 10pm and 5am except for medical or other emergencies. In the video, one of the cops is trying to pacify the locals by saying an offence would be booked against the organisers but is silent on why action is not being taken against those who were not wearing masks. Pernem police said an offence has been registered under environmental and noise laws. They also said the organisers had gathered 20-25 foreigners, and this was in violation of section 144. Sources said this is not the first such party involving foreigners since the lockdown began. They said that in Ashvem, some foreign nationals had organised a party in a stone quarry. Another was held in Arambol, from where police seized some musical instruments. In April, foreigners planned rave parties in the jungles of Pernem’s coastal belt, but the attempt was foiled by Paliem and Arambol locals. Meanwhile, Morjim sarpanch Vaishali Shetgaonkar said strict action would be taken against violators. “We will not allow such night parties in Morjim,” she said. As soon as the matter came to the notice of the panchayat, a meeting was convened at 11.30am on Monday, she said, and a show cause notice was sent to the hotel owner. “A copy has been forward to Pernem deputy collector and police station,” she said, adding that in the light of new cases popping up everywhere, the government should rethink its decisions to let hotels reopen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hundreds-attend-party-at-morjim-russian-held/articleshow/76823217.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Jaipur||Perils of lockdown: Mom, kids separated across Indo-Pak border||JODHPUR: Janta had no idea that her first visit to ailing mother in Mirpur Khas in Pakistan 12 years after her marriage in India will separate her from her family. Janta, with her three children and husband, left for Pakistan in February, but could not return in stipulated time due to the lockdown and suspension of train service between the two nations. Last week, when both the nations agreed to roll out special shuttle service for persons stuck on both sides of the border, the family prepared to move. Her husband Leelaram and three children, being Indian citizens, were given permission to return, but she was denied. “We moved from pillar to post to get permission for her well in time, but she was not given permission by the High Commission of India in Islamabad. And I had to leave with my children for India leaving my wife behind,” said Leelaram. Leelaram, who came to India in 1986, obtained Indian citizenship and got married to Janta of Mirpur Khas 12 years ago. “We have applied for her citizenship as per rules here, but despite being eligible, she has not been given citizenship,” Leelaram said. On a Long-Term Visa (LTV) in India, she left to see her mother with her husband and children with NORI (No Objection to Return to India) visa from Indian authorities for 60 days return permission. Interestingly, given the expiry of this stipulated period due to lockdown and absence of transportation service, Leelaram and children had their visa extended while leaving for India, but Janta’s visa was not extended by the High Commission in Islamabad, in the absence of which she was not allowed to board the train to India. “I have heard the matter and have urged Indian government to extend visa of Janta,” said president of Seemant Lok Sangthan Hindu Singh Sodha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/perils-of-lockdown-mom-kids-separated-across-indo-pak-border/articleshow/76823209.cms||Ajay Parmar
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman murdered at Parkal||Parkal: A woman was murdered allegedly by her nephew at Madaram colony in Parkal town in Warnagal Rural district on Monday. The deceased was identified as Bandari Radhamma (65). According to ACP P Srinivas, it is alleged that the accused, Venkatesh, hit her on the head with a long wooden block killing her on the spot. A dispute over a small piece of land near their house is said to be the reason behind the murder. The accused later reportedly surrendered before the local police. Police have registered a case and shifted the body for postmortem to the local government hospital, and the investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-murdered-at-parkal/articleshow/76821545.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
July 7, 2020||Vijayawada||40 personnel of APSP battalion add to tally||Tirupati: Nearly 40 police personnel from the Andhra Pradesh Special Police (APSP) battalion, Anantapur posted on duty at Tirumala have tested positive for Covid-19. A senior official of the rank of a DSP and on deputation at the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam’s (TTD) vigilance and security department also tested positive. Following a spike in Covid-19 cases among staffers working with the TTD, police and other departments at Tirumala reviewed staff postings at the hill town on Monday. Speaking to TOI, Tirupati SP A Ramesh Reddy confirmed that nearly 40 police personnel at Tirumala tested positive. “A majority of them are from the APSP battalion, Anantapur. They were all housed at the police barracks at Tirumala. We have immediately shifted them to the Covid hospital in Tirupati where our personnel are being administered treatment. The barracks where they stayed have been sanitised thoroughly and a new group of police personnel have now been posted on duty. We have taken all necessary precautions to ensure that our police personnel as well as the visiting devotees continue to remain safe,” said Ramesh Reddy. Meanwhile, TTD executive officer Anil Kumar Singhal and officials of the Chittoor district administration led by collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta reviewed the situation at Tirumala at a review meeting held at the TTD’s administrative building in Tirupati on Monday. EO Anil Kumar Singhal directed officials to speed up testing of all employees on duty at Tirumala. “Separate rooms are to be allotted for staffers working at Tirumala. The kitchen at Srinivasam pilgrim amenities complex at Tirupati should be handed over to the Chittoor district administration,” Anil Singhal directed. Additional EO AV Dharma Reddy, CVSO Gopinath Jatti, JEO P Basanth Kumar and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/40-personnel-of-apsp-battalion-add-to-tally/articleshow/76821552.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 7, 2020||Meerut||UP: Hanging by rope, official pulls out 5 deer from Ganga||MEERUT: On the verge of his retirement, a 58-year-old forest official risked his life to maneuver his way into gushing Ganga river to pull out five swamp deer, one by one, while being tied to a rope whose other end was precariously held by a colleague on a bridge several feet away. In a video, forester Mohan Lal can be seen lowering himself in the water with just a rope tied around his waist. It happened on June 21, but the video started doing rounds after almost two weeks. While five deer of the herd were washed away, the other five were rescued. Lal is posted in Muzaffarnagar Forest Division and was deputed at Haiderpur Wetland near Bijnor Barrage. “The incident occurred a fortnight ago when the flow of water in Ganga was quite forceful because of incessant rains in the hills. It was there I saw a herd of swamp deer in distress. Around five were already dead and floating in the raging water stream and an equal number were struggling to survive. It was also the time when barrage gates were being cleaned and there was a rope on one side of a gate,” Lal said. According to the eyewitnesses, it was Lal who took the initiative and got himself tied with the rope at the waist, took the help of a gate cleaner and lowered himself down into the water. Soon, Lal caught hold of one of the deer’s leg and pulled it towards his side. He pulled out four other animals in a similar way. “It was a coordinated effort. I used the rope to tie these animals’ legs, one by one, while others on the top of the gate helped in pulling them aside. The gate was then closed to lower the impact of water force and that is how the five swamp deer could be saved from imminent death,” Lal added. Muzaffarnagar divisional forest officer (DFO) Suraj (who goes by his first name) said, “It was indeed a heroic effort by Mohan Lal considering his age. Swamp deer is a state animal. Recently, it was really heartening to see hundreds of them in the marsh land here. His efforts call for appreciation.” In all, 143 swamp deer, listed as "vulnerable" by the International Union of Conservation of Nature (IUCN), were spotted last Tuesday and the sighting has been consistent for a couple of days. At present a team of Wildlife Institute of India (WII) is surveying the 18,000-acre wetland. According to authorities, if the report is favorable, Haiderpur Wetland might be declared Swamp Deer Reserve after government approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hanging-by-a-rope-forest-official-58-pulls-out-5-swamp-deer-from-swollen-ganga/articleshow/76821548.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 7, 2020||Goa||Sawant tells cops to be more strict||Bicholim: Chief minister Pramod Sawant directed the state police authorities to adopt strict measures against those violating social distancing norms and not wearing masks. He also told the police to create awareness by using loudspeakers and going around the areas thrice a day. He was speaking at a special meeting convened by him at the Bicholim police station to review the preparedness to tackle the spread of coronavirus. Sawant stated that in the initial stages of the lockdown, the police were asked to be strict and the outcome was that the state was in the green zone. “However, now, as the situation has worsened, it has again prompted the state government to take strict measures against those violating the law,” Sawant said. The chief minister also said the next three months are very crucial and hence it is necessary that people behave responsibly. Regarding selling of fruits and other items by vendors and hawkers, the chief minister advised the BMC and other councils in the state not to allow anybody to sell on the roadside, but only in the market area. He said that the migrants have started coming to Goa and hence it is the duty of the contractors employing them to conduct their check-up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-tells-cops-to-be-more-strict/articleshow/76823191.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kochi||Triple lockdown move leads to total confusion in Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The first few hours of triple lockdown in the capital illustrated the apparent lack of coordination between the departments that were supposed to manage the situation. The collector, in an order issued on Sunday night announcing triple lockdown, listed a few phone numbers of the police stating that people can contact them to get groceries and essential items delivered at their doorsteps. But, the state police chief issued an order at noon stating that police won’t provide such service and the public can buy commodities from the nearest open shop. Confusion prevailed among residents in the first few hours of the lockdown as the numbers, publicized through various media as well as the collector’s official social media page, remained inaccessible. While some were switched off, others were unreachable. People soon started venting out their frustration on social media. By noon, the state police chief issued a fresh statement clearing the confusion. DGP Loknath Behera said that police cannot become an online supply chain company overnight while it had an important responsibility of enforcing lockdown. So, people can visit their nearest grocery shop and purchase necessary items provided they carry a self-declaration. However, police will deliver items to people who are in no condition to move out of their homes such as senior citizens who are staying alone. Hence, general public are requested not to inundate the emergency helpline numbers with request for delivery of goods, which in turn would adversely affect the needy. From Tuesday onwards, shops that sell grocery, fruits and vegetables will function from 7am to 11am. Medical stores will function as usual. Collector Navjot Khosa said 10 janakeeya hotels will be started by Kudumbashree units to provide food for the stranded and the needy. For booking food from Janakeeya hotel, one can ring 9061917457, 8921663642, 9400939914 or 9020078480 before 8am. Companies at Technopark will be allowed to function with minimum staff. Chief secretary Vishwas Mehta also requested the DGP to allow necessary staff to work in essential government departments during the lockdown. As lockdown was announced at night, many residents couldn’t restock essential goods. The collector’s announcement that police will supply essential items came as a relief. But, everything changed on Monday morning, when lockdown commenced. Meanwhile, district administration said that the helpline numbers were provided by higher officers in the police department. Behera said all online food delivery firms have been directed to operate from Tuesday. Special care must be taken while delivering food to senior citizens living alone. In case of emergency and special medical needs, people can contact the police at 9497900999.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/triple-lockdown-move-leads-to-total-confusion-in-capital/articleshow/76821565.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 8,000 for quarantine? Telangana workers in Gulf say can’t afford it||HYDERABAD: With the state government doing away with free quarantine facility for those returning home by chartered flights from various countries, lakhs of Telangana workers in the Gulf have urged the government to restore the facility. Workers from Telangana who had booked their tickets to return home on chartered flights — organised by their companies, various organisations or groups of people — were in for a shock when an additional Rs 8,000 was charged during ticketing. The workers were informed by the Telugu Association of Saudi Arabia on the new rules that had been put in place by the Telangana government. According to a circular (dated July 5), Rs 8,000 per passenger for seven days of quarantine in a ‘standard hotel’ will have to be deposited prior to the flight take-off. The amount will have to be remitted to the bank account of the Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation. Reacting to this, the Telangana Gulf Workers’ Joint Action Committee observed a demands’ day on Sunday and said free quarantine should be extended to all the Gulf returnees irrespective of the flight — Vande Bharat or chartered — they take. Guggilla Ravi Goud, JAC convenor, said free quarantine must be provided to workers, some of whom would inevitably travel by the chartered flights also. When the Vande Bharat flights began operating, the Gulf workers had demanded that the government provide them free quarantine. After several days of protests, the demand was agreed to. But, paid quarantine was introduced for those travelling by a chartered flight. The Gulf workers argue that they are forced to depend on money from their families in Telangana to buy flight tickets at an additional 50% cost. “Another Rs 8,000 on quarantine will be a huge burden on us,” the workers’ JAC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-8000-for-quarantine-gulf-workers-say-cant-afford-it/articleshow/76821585.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 7, 2020||Goa||Politician with a healing touch succumbs to Covid-19||Born on May 15, 1952, in Amona, Dr Suresh Kuso Amonkar made his debut in electoral politics at the age of 47. After passing his MBBS examination from Goa Medical College in 1976, Amonkar began his medical practice in rural Sanquelim treating patients coming from remote areas with his healing touch. He entered the portals of the Goa legislative assembly for the first time after winning the 1999 assembly polls from Pale constituency on the BJP ticket, defeating his nearest rival Gurudas Gawas of the Congress by a sizeable margin. He returned to the assembly for the second term to represent the Pale constituency after winning the 2002 elections as a BJP candidate, once again trouncing Congress who had fielded Gawas this time, too. However, Amonkar failed to retain his seat for the third term as Gawas, once again contesting as the Congress candidate, defeated him in the 2007 polls. Amonkar was the health minister in the short-lived Francisco Sardinha-led coalition government in 1999-2000 and also held portfolios of social welfare, and labour and employment. He retained his position in the cabinet of the Manohar Parrikar-led government from 2000-2005 where he was minister for health, labour and employment, and factories and boilers. During his stint as health minister, Goa came close to achieving the distinction of becoming the first state in the country to make HIV testing compulsory for couples before registration of their marriage. Despite Amonkar’s proposal in that regard having the strong backing of then chief minister Manohar Parrikar and other coalition partners in the government, the move fizzled out. Amonkar, was also BJP state president for two terms. He quit the BJP after he was denied nomination to contest the 2008 by-election in Pale constituency caused due to Gawas’s demise. He rebelled against the BJP, which had fielded Pramod Sawant in the polls. He contested as an independent candidate and ended up in a distant third position, as Congress candidate Pratap Gawas, brother of Gurudas, defeated Sawant. Ahead of the 2012 assembly elections Amonkar returned to the BJP-fold in November 2011, but was denied the ticket by the BJP, which preferred to nominate Sawant as its candidate. The gamble, however, paid off for the BJP as Sawant defeated Congress’ Pratap Gawas by a mammoth margin. In 2016, Amonkar joined the Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) party headed by rebel RSS chief Subhash Velingkar, which supported Konkani and Marathi as the medium of instruction (MoI) in primary education. “GSM is the real BJP”, was Amonkar’s reaction on joining the new party. He contested the 2017 assembly polls as a GSM candidate, but ended up in the third slot. Since then Amonkar returned to practising medicine in his hometown Sanquelim. Afflicted by a kidney ailment, Amonkar was on dialysis treatment for quite some time before he was detected positive for Covid-19 last month. He was admitted to the ESI-Covid hospital on June 21 in a serious condition and breathed his last on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/politician-with-a-healing-touch-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/76823207.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||MLAs Hostel Covid care centre ready, receives first patients||Nagpur: Covid care center (CCC), which will offer medical care for Covid-19 cases that have been clinically assigned as mild or very mild, is ready at MLAs Hostel.Initially, only asymptomatic patients will be treated here. The divisional commissioner has made it clear all positive patients (symptomatic or asymptomatic) will be examined in one of the Covid hospitals (GMCH, IGGMCH, or AIIMS). Depending upon the result of their initial tests, only very low risk patients will be sent to CCC. “CCC at MLAs Hostel will accommodate asymptomatic low risk patients. However, it has also been observed in pathological and radiological investigations that some of the asymptomatic patients develop changes. Accordingly, special attention may also be needed for them,” states a letter issued by divisional commissioner Dr Sanjeev Kumar to the three government hospitals in city. The letter further describes the standard operating procedures of the CCC. As per the guidance document on appropriate management of suspect/confirmed cases of Covid-19, there are three types of Covid dedicated facilities. CCC is first of these that offers care only for cases that have been clinically assigned as mild or very mild. CCCs can be set up in hostels, hotels, schools, stadiums, lodges etc., both public and private.MLAs Hostel, which was earlier being used as a quarantine facility, has been converted into CCC. TOI was the first to report this on June 18. Now, the facility is ready and first 30 asymptomatic patients have been admitted here. More are set to join them following the SOP given by the divisional commissioner. GMCH and IGGMCH will provide on-call specialist 24x7 for this CCC. Two ambulances will be available here in case of emergency. Doctors will conduct round of the CCC twice a day and interact with every patient. This model of CCC has been successful in Akola so far, which has highest number of Covid-19 patients in Vidarbha after Nagpur. Akola has established CCC at the hostel of Punjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV). More than 400 patients have already recovered at this CCC. While there is an SOP for admission to the CCC, discharge is only on recommendation of doctors. If patient remains asymptomatic upto 9th day of the admission, doctors may allow discharge on 10th day.SOP for asymptomatic patients: - All positive Covid-19 patients will be first admitted to GMCH, IGGMCH or Aiims- Doctors will conduct necessary investigations of these patients - Depending upon results, only low risk patients will be referred to CCC- GMCH and IGGMCH will ensure availability of on-call specialist 24x7 at CCC- Doctors should take a round at least twice a day for all patients in CCC- Two ambulances will be in place 24x7 at CCC - GMCH will provide on-call specialists in 1st and 3rd week, IGGMCH in 2nd and 4th||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mlas-hostel-covid-care-centre-ready-receives-first-patients/articleshow/76822462.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Social distancing, masks forgotten as locals roam freely||Vijayawada: Krishna district registered 55 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking its tally to 1,798. One new death was registered on Monday. The death toll in district rose to 70. Out of all cases, 672 patients have been discharged and 1,056 are active cases. Meanwhile, a former legislator from the district who recently participated in Covid-19 relief activities tested positive on Monday. Workers of the party to which the leader belongs have been asked to stay in home quarantine by officials. In Vijayawada, residents continued to roam in groups on the streets and disregard social distancing. At retail markets in Ganghinagar, Governorpet and Labbipet, business was as usual despite these areas being declared as containment zones. In the absence of monitoring by the city police and authorities of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC), people were seen moving about without masks in Bandar Road, Eluru Road and Tikkle Road. Tension prevailed among the employees at the Director Town and Country Planning (DTCP) office after an office attendant tested positive for Covid-19. Employes who were in contact with the attendant have been requested to stay in home isolation for at least one week. — Venu Lanka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/social-distancing-masks-forgotten-as-locals-roam-freely/articleshow/76821576.cms||Venu Lanka
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||KMC, cops push for test shield for frontline workers||Kolkata: Three seemingly isolated incidents — the death of a KMC vector control officer at medical college, several lab technicians of a pathology centre at Taltala getting infected with Covid or showing symptoms and a DCP (traffic) of Bidhannagar Police falling sick — over the last week have left frontline Covid warriors worried. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Kolkata Police have now joined hands to boost testing among the ground workers.State health policymakers said they had long believed that protecting the Covid warriors was the first step towards ensuring a robust Covid-19 combat plan. The Bengal police has proposed random tests for its personnel. “We are testing symptomatic patients. The GRP has been handling over 292 Sramik Specials and there were scares of more cops getting infected in New Jalpaiguri and Kharagpur. Hence, we arranged for tests and enhanced quarantine facilities,” said DG (Railways) Adhir Sharma.In Kolkata, following a strong demand from guards and other employees at the Rajarhat quarantine centre, the KMC health department has initiated Covid testing for them. The scare is palpable among the employees there and they want pool tests at the earliest. The KMC health department also needs to quell Covid scare among several laboratory technicians working at malaria and dengue clinics since they are coming in close contact with patients who go to the facilities for blood tests. “We need to bring all such lab technicians under a mandatory Covid test to enable them to work free of worries,” a KMC official said. Similarly, the Baruipur police is the first of the blocks, having tested 1,200 of its personnel in the past few weeks. “We have now brought in a testing pattern, going from one police station to another,” SP (Baruipur) Rashid Munir Khan said. Senior officers regularly reach out to personnel of all ranks who work on the frontline. Meanwhile, in Kolkata, both KMC and Kolkata Police have teamed up to test their personnel. The civic body has started conducting random tests on cops and KMC conservancy staffers on ground and are visiting residential complexes. The decision was taken after several Covid-19 cases were reported from housing complexes in the past 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-cops-push-for-test-shield-for-frontline-workers/articleshow/76822486.cms||Saikat Ray
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||Forensic tests in Kolkata start under new SOP||KOLKATA: As the new Covid SOP for spot visits kicked in on Monday, Forensic experts found themselves challenged in facing three major cases. Their findings are crucial for the police to build a solid case. The first challenge is at Parnasree where the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) team have to determine whether the fire, in which a mother-daughter duo died at their residence on Saturday, is a case suicide or an accident. The second challenge is on Southern Avenue where a 45-year-old woman was murdered by a cab driver, her neighbour. The team have to ascertain how the murderer committed the crime and dumped the body off EM Bypass. The final challenge is in the high-profile Writers’ Building case where a 5th Battalion constable reportedly shot himself. The forensic experts have to track down the trajectory of the bullet. The FSL team and police made two major observations in the Southern Avenue murder case. “They told us how the accused had possibly attacked the woman and left her sitting on the rear seat to make it look like he was ferrying a passenger. They have also helped us develop a certain footage that showed the accused, Shiv Shankar Das, picking up the victim, Laxmi Das, in his car,” said an officer. “In the Parnasree case, we have found certain leads from the spot to understand whether it was a suicide or an accident. We expect FSL inputs by Wednesday,” said an investigating officer. Earlier, forensic experts had demanded a safer working environment. This prompted Lalbazar to issue an SOP to be followed during a forensic team visit to a site. According to the SOP, OC has to be present at the spot and vehicles must be sanitized. PPE have to be arranged by the respective police stations. The area ACP has to ensure that all measures in this regard are taken. If required, s/he, too, has to be at the spot. The local police will also have to brief the FSL team about micro containment zones, if any, around the crime scene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/forensic-tests-start-under-new-sop/articleshow/76822489.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 7, 2020||Lucknow||Most ASI monuments reopen in city||Lucknow: After a gap of 100 days, most of the Archeological Survey of India-protected monuments in city, including Residency, Clock Tower and Satkhanda reopened for tourists on Monday. However, restrictions will continue in Bada Imambada, Chhota Imambada, Hussainabad Picture Gallery, Teele Wali Masjid and Jama Masjid where entry was allowed earlier only for religious purposes as they double up as places of worship. Also, some of the monuments falling in containment zones will remain out of bound. The decision was taken after Union culture ministry gave a go-ahead to ASI to reopen all protected monuments across the country for visitors from July 6. “The monuments will remain open from 6am to 5pm and only online booking through ASI website will be available. Visitors will have to wear a mask and strictly follow social distancing. No group photography will be allowed,” said Manoj Saxena, ASI superintendent, Lucknow circle. “As of now, only 1,000 tourists are allowed in a day and every visitor will be thermally scanned,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/most-asi-monuments-reopen-in-city/articleshow/76823205.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Goa||Shops of those not wearing masks will be sealed, says Lobo||Saligao: Calangute MLA and waste management minister Michael Lobo, on Monday, said that shopkeepers and vendors from Mapusa market not wearing masks would be dealt with sternly and their shops and stalls would be sealed. An FIR will also be registered against the owners. Speaking to reporters at an awareness meeting, Lobo said, “I have noticed many shopkeepers are not wearing masks, but henceforth if they fail to wear masks, their shops will be sealed.” Among those who attended the meeting were Mapusa MLA Joshua Dsouza, Aldona MLA Glenn Ticlo, Siolim MLA Vinod Paliencar, deputy collectors Akshay Potekar and Manu Haghe, DySP Gajanan Prabhudessai, PI Tushar Lotlikar and health officials. . “If crowds are noticed at a shop, the shop owner will receive a stern warning from the police and deputy collector,” he said. As to whether another lockdown was the need of the hour to curb the spread of the virus, Lobo said, “Lockdown is not the only solution. What’s important is compulsory masks, no shaking hands and maintaining safe distance. This is the time when the cases are at the peak.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shops-of-those-not-wearing-masks-will-be-sealed-says-lobo/articleshow/76823197.cms||---
July 7, 2020||World||US trade groups urge China to increase purchases of US goods, services||WASHINGTON: The US Chamber of Commerce and over 40 trade associations on Monday urged top American and Chinese officials to redouble efforts to implement a Phase 1 trade agreement signed by the world's two largest economies in January despite pandemic-related strains. In a letter to US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Chinese Vice Premier Liu He, the groups said they were encouraged by the progress so far, but urged a significant increase in China's purchases of US goods and services. They said combating the novel coronavirus pandemic and restoring global growth depended in part on successful implementation of the US-China trade deal, which helped defuse a nearly 18-month trade war marked by tit-for-tat tariffs. The agreement called for China to purchase $200 billion in additional US goods and services over the next two years. Jeremie Waterman, who heads the Chamber's China Center, said some progress had been made on structural issues and purchases of farm goods, but China needed to step up its purchases of US manufactured goods, services and energy to meet its targets now that its economy was starting to recover from the pandemic. "There are areas where we see less progress and where we think it's critical that both sides redouble efforts," Waterman said. US-China tensions have spiked in recent months over the origins of the coronavirus outbreak and passage of a new national security law that limits Hong Kong's autonomy. US President Donald Trump had said that "decoupling" the two economies remains an option, and his trade adviser Peter Navarro jolted markets last month when he said the US-China trade agreement was "over," although he quickly backtracked. White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows said on Monday the US president was considering several executive orders targeting China and manufacturing, but gave no details. The US industry groups listed specific recommendations in an annex to the letter, including increased purchases of US aircraft and components, cars and medical devices, as well as cloud services and U.S. energy products. Accelerated implementation of the trade deal would help both countries while paving the way for Phase 2 talks on other key issues such as subsidies, cybersecurity and digital trade, they said. "Amid increasing bilateral tensions across the relationship, working together to improve trade and grow commerce can provide important benefits to both economies and help to improve relations," they wrote in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-trade-groups-urge-china-to-increase-purchases-of-us-goods-services/articleshow/76824342.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||Buses back on roads, but cabs vanish||Kolkata: Plenty of buses, both private and government-run, eased the peak- hour commute in the city. From 8am to 11.30am, state transport undertakings (STUs) have maintained the frequency of bus services at an interval of five to eight minutes on major routes and on medium-level routes, buses ran at an interval of 12 to 15 minutes. The frequency remained 20 to 30 minutes on less popular routes. Buses might be back in operation but now, many taxi drivers have gone off roads, demanding fare revision. On Monday, STUs (WBTC, NBSTC and SBSTC) ran nearly 1,800 buses in the city. More than 3,000 private buses also hit the roads, to the relief of commuters. “We did not let people wait longer for bus. The dispersal was faster and we heaved a sigh of relief,” said a WBTC officer. Since the rush of commuters is limited to peak hours, the demand fell sharply after noon. That is why, many private buses stayed off the roads in the afternoon. “Nowadays, non-peak hour travel has become rare. So the number of commuters suddenly drops after noon. We also scale down the operation accordingly,” said a private bus operator. Meanwhile, the process of including bus workers in Sasthwya Sathi scheme has also been initiated. This will encourage the bus drivers and conductors to resume their duty, said a transport department officer. Bus operators said there is a shortage of bus drivers and conductors as most of them have gone back to their native villages in various districts or neighbouring states. The sudden sharp decline in the number of cabs, both metered and app-based, spelt trouble for commuters looking to travel to their workplaces without jostling for a seat in public transport. Cab operators said the drivers were unable to recover operating costs due to the rise in diesel price. The number of cabs has dropped to less than half as compared with the ones that operated in mid-June. Members of various taxi operators’ associations said the number would drop further if the fare was not revised. In case of app-cabs also, the higher operating cost is preventing operators from hitting the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/buses-back-on-roads-but-cabs-vanish/articleshow/76822525.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 7, 2020||Lucknow||Steepest single day spike sees 79 Covid-19 patients||Lucknow: In the steepest single day spike in Covid-19 patients, the city on Monday witnessed 79 fresh cases, propelling the tally to 1,403 since the outbreak on March 11. It was also the fastest growth recorded so far with as many 100 cases being added in just 24 hours. As infection spread to new areas with over 300 cases—both in clusters and individuals—authorities declared 68 more localities as containment zones, taking the number to 190. The fresh cases included 18 employees of 102 emergency ambulance call centre, nine police constables, four home guards, three employees of the health directorate, an officer of UP information directorate and daughter-in-law of UP minister Rajendra Pratap Singh. The call centre run by GVK EMRI that operates the 102 service was closed on Saturday after 32 employees tested positive. The first case here was reported on June 29. Now 18 more employees have been found infected, taking the centre's tally to 51. GVK EMRI spokesperson Sunil Yadav said that 102 service will be run from the building housing call centre for 108 service. “The six constables, residents of reserve police lines had come in contact with cops deployed at the office of DCP traffic and had tested positive earlier,” said CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal. Two constables deployed at police headquarters and a constable of Madiaon police station were also found to be infected. A portion of UP information directorate was closed for sanitization after a senior finance officer was diagnosed with Covid-19, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/steepest-single-day-spike-sees-79-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76823222.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
July 7, 2020||Goa||Ex-Goa health minister Suresh Amonkar dies of Covid||PANAJI: Former health minister Dr Suresh Amonkar, 68, became the state’s 8th person to die of Covid-19 after he succumbed to the infection at the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao, on Monday. Amonkar, a former state BJP president, tested positive for the virus 15 days ago. Health officials said that Amonkar suffered from chronic kidney disease. After he tested positive, he was shifted to the Covid hospital. While he initially responded well to treatment, his condition deteriorated last week, after which he was put on ventilator support. Amonkar is the state’s second politician to succumb to Covid-19. On Saturday, Pascoal D’Souza, 72, an MMC councillor, died of the infection. The state’s active Covid-19 count dropped to 745 on Monday after 125 persons were declared cured and discharged, taking the total past the 1,000 mark. This is this the first time the number of recovered persons in a day numbered more than twice the fresh cases, which was 52 on Monday. The drop in new cases came as a relief for the state, which saw 374 cases from Thursday to Sunday. Of the 745 active cases, 85 are being treated at the 220-bed ESI-Covid hospital, while the rest are in Covid care centres around the state. Cases have recently been detected in more than 40 locations across the state. On Monday, a part of Indiranagar, Chimbel, was declared a containment zone. The area saw extensive testing even before the declaration came. Chimbel has so far seen 52 positive cases, including 28 in Indiranagar. Meanwhile, Dharbandora and Margao too saw a rise in cases on Monday, and they now have 10 and 22 cases respectively. Curca reported four positives, including one of a junior engineer at the electricity department in Panaji. Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Monday also chaired a meeting at Usgao to discuss containment measures. The meeting was attended by art and culture minister Govind Gaude and Ponda MLA Ravi Naik. Over 20 persons have tested positive in Ponda, and six in Usgao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/former-health-min-suresh-amonkar-dies-of-covid/articleshow/76823231.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Kuwait expat bill may hit 3 lakh Telugus||HYDERABAD: Several workers from the Telugu states will be affected because of a new law that Kuwait intends to bring in to reduce the number of foreign workers in that country. Kuwait’s plan will affect nearly 8 lakh Indian workers, of which around 3 lakh are from AP and Telangana. “The workers who return home will have to find a means of livelihood. The state government must facilitate loans for them so that they can be self-employed and engage themselves in the work they are good at,” said social worker P Basanth Reddy, president of Gulf Telangana Welfare and Cultural Association. Most of the workers from the state are employed in the construction industry, service and hospitality sector. “Many, are suffering due to lack of jobs. Thus, not many will resist the idea of leaving the country unless they have a secure job,” said Muralidhar Reddy, who works in Kuwait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kuwait-expat-bill-may-hit-3-lakh-telugus/articleshow/76821588.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Three cops, including a DSP, infected by virus||Visakhapatnam: In what could be called a worrying trend, many policemen have been testing positive for Covid-19 in recent days. In the last 24 hours, three cops have tested positive — a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) from Srikakulam, and a circle inspector and sub-inspector from a police station in Vizag. A couple of weeks back, two police stations in Nellore and Eluri had to be sealed and sanitised after several personnel contracted the virus. With the number of cases witnessing a spike in Vizag in the last few weeks, the frontline warriors in the war against Covid-19, which include the cops, are facing the wrath of the virus. Out of the city’s 303 clusters, 111 have been marked as ‘very active’ clusters, 126 are ‘active’ clusters, while the remaining 67 are marked as ‘dormant’ clusters. While 30 more clusters have been de-notified in the last 24 hours, around 26 new clusters have been added to the ‘containment’ list. A 40-year-old circle inspector, who was recently transferred to a police station under Dwaraka sub-division in Vizag, and a 36-year-old sub-inspector from the same police station are among the three cops who tested positive in the last 24 hours. Last week, three more staff from the same police station — a crime wing CI, a home guard and a woman head constable — had tested positive. A DSP-rank officer currently posted in Srikakulam district has also tested positive. A DSP from Srikakulam, a circle inspector and a sub-inspector from a police station in Vizag have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/three-cops-including-a-dsp-infected-by-virus/articleshow/76821594.cms||Siva G
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR union mulls indefinite stir to protest privatisation||Hyderabad: The South Central Railway Mazdoor Union (SCRMU) on Monday held protests at Secunderabad, Kacheguda, Hyderabad, Kazipet, Guntur, Vijayawada, Guntakal and Nanded railway divisions against Centre’s move to privatise the rail operations. The union is also planning an indefinite strike on 109 routes of Indian Railways. Holding red flags and banners, the protesters raised slogans to save railways. Speaking to TOI, K Srinivas Reddy, the president of SCRMU, said: “Any move to privatise the Indian Railways will be strongly opposed. Our protests will only intensify in the coming days if the government fails to consider our demands.” The unions said that privatisation of railways will have an immense impact on at least 3 lakh employees, farmers, daily wagers and other vulnerable sections of the society. “The private players will not be able to run the services at the same price. The time difference between the Tejas Express trains run by IRCTC from Lucknow to Delhi and the regular train on the same route is just 10 minutes and yet there is a price difference of almost Rs 1,000. How will the common man be able to afford this service?” asked Ch Shankar Rao, general secretary, SCRMU. Vowing to continue their protests against the privatisation drive, the union members said that there is no reason to privatise the routes since they are providing good quality service at an affordable fare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-union-mulls-indefinite-stir-to-protest-privatisation/articleshow/76822503.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||Health dept to tap potential donors||A clinical trial on passive immunisation with convalescent plasma is taking place at the state-run Infectious Diseases & Beliaghata General Hospital in a joint project with CSRI-IICB, for which plasma is collected at MCH. Fifteen donors have contributed to the plasma pool. Health department officials said they were working on the mechanism on approaching potential plasma donors. “A plasma bank is a repository where all plasma collected from donors will be kept under specific conditions. It requires precise record-maintenance,” added Bhattacharya, who is also one of the investigators in the clinical trial. Any person who has recovered from Covid-19, who does not have certain underlying health conditions, can be a donor after about 21 days of testing negative.Alok Roy, the chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital, which is planning the first privately run plasma bank, said: “Recovery should be the rule in Covid treatment and death the exception. We believe plasma will help in that direction, which is why we planned the bank. We started with one donor on Monday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/health-dept-to-tap-potential-donors/articleshow/76822492.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kochi||Govt refutes NCDC data on +ve cases in other states||Kochi: The state government has come up with a report challenging National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) data regarding 110 people from Kerala testing positive in other states as on June 30, 2020. As per the report prepared by the state health department, at least 43 people had left Kerala before January 30, 2020, when the first Covid-19 case was reported in Kerala. A field study conducted by the department showed that another 57 persons didn’t get the disease from the state. A maximum of six persons mentioned in NCDC data could have contracted the disease from Kerala, states the report prepared by the public health division headed by Dr Meenakshy along with the state surveillance unit. Majority of the 43 persons left Kerala more than one or two years ago. “In the list from NCDC portal, 110 persons were tested outside Kerala and found positive as on June 30, 2020. Of these, three were duplicate entries and are excluded from the report. Out of 107, details of 96 persons could be studied through field investigations. The departure time study shows that 90 persons have not contracted the virus in Kerala and six persons have possibility of getting infected in Kerala,” the report states. Health department authorities asked district medical officers to verify NCDC data. “First, the phone numbers and addresses of persons in NCDC were collected from the respective states where the said persons tested positive. When we cross-checked, we found that at least half of them had left Kerala months ahead of the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak,” said health department officials. Health officials in various districts visited the addresses of 57 persons as per the data. “When we conducted a study on penetration of the disease in those areas during the period, it was found there were hardly any cases in most such places. Contact list of persons we could identify was prepared. The contacts were subjected to diagnostic tests, but all of them proved negative,” said a health official. Officials in each district conducted detailed study of the six persons suspected to have got the disease from Kerala. It was found that chances are less for two to contract the infection from Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-refutes-ncdc-data-on-ve-cases-in-other-states/articleshow/76821601.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Banks in Telangana sanction over Rs 2,500 crore to MSMEs||HYDERABAD: As part of the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’, that also provides credit support for MSMEs, banks in Telangana have sanctioned Rs 2,513 crore and disbursed Rs 1,688 crore to MSME beneficiaries under the guaranteed emergency credit line of 20% as on June 30, 2020, the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) was informed on Monday. Hit by Covid-19, MSMEs sought support from the government following which the Centre, as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, had announced Rs 3 lakh crore collateral free automatic loans for businesses including MSMEs, Rs 20,000 crore subordinate debt for MSMEs and Rs 50,000 crore equity infusion through MSME Fund of Funds, among others. Apart from credit support to MSMEs in the state, the SLBC said Rs 231 crore has been disbursed to farmers as 10% emergency credit line to help them battle Covid-19 woes. The banks in the state have also launched PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi, a microfinance scheme for street vendors) on July 1. Meanwhile, launching the annual credit plan for 2020-21, SLBC informed that the current financial year’s annual credit plan outlay is pegged at Rs 1.61 lakh crore as against Rs 1.46 lakh crore in 2019-20 (an increase of 10.52%). Of the total credit plan, priority sector share stands at Rs 1.22 lakh crore in FY21 (Rs 1.11 lakh crore in FY20). The disbursals under agricultural sector are projected at Rs 75,142 crore (Rs 68,597 crore projections for FY20) and MSME disbursals are projected at Rs 35,197 crore (Rs 31,355.25 crore projected for FY20) for 2020-21. Highlighting the performance of banks in the state in 2019-20, SLBC president, Om Prakash Mishra said total deposits grew by Rs 30,168 crore during the year to Rs 4.84 lakh crore as on March 31, 2020. The total advances of banks grew by Rs 36,544 crore during the year to Rs 5.70 lakh crore as on March 31, 2020. On the financial inclusion front, banks have covered all the 255 unbanked rural centers with population above 5,000 with banking outlets. “All the villages within 5 km radius have been covered with banking infrastructure … except nine villages…due to connectivity problems,” a release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/banks-in-t-sanction-over-rs-2500-crore-to-msmes/articleshow/76821598.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Rapid antigen tests reveal 4 +ves among 98 on Day 1||KOLKATA: The rapid antigen test kits procured by Bengal government for Covid case detection threw up encouraging results on Monday. As many as 98 people — all frontline healthcare workers — took this rapid test and four among them tested positive. Four positive results were separately corroborated with the RT-PCR tests. School of Tropical Medicine (STM) immediately evaluated the test results in RT-PCR mode and confirmed all four results. The state had procured 10,000 such kits. Available at Rs 450 a kit, rapid antigen testing does not require any specialized machine like RT-PCR and can show the result within 30 minutes, enabling quick detection. It is a point-of-care detection that can be done either at the bedside or at home. “The healthcare workers were picked up randomly for the rapid antigen tests,” said a senior health official. Based on Monday’s results, STM will now distribute a batch of 1,000 test kits to state-run hospitals. These will be selectively used in hospitals that have started non-Covid services, especially surgical procedures, sources said. The results thrown up by these kits will continue to be evaluated by STM, as on Monday. After STM’s evaluation of the first lot of 1,000 kits, the state will send out the other 9,000 kits to government facilities across the state. “It could be useful in emergency cases or for pre-operative procedures where the test results are immediately needed,” said STM director Pradip Mitra. “Advantages of such rapid antigen tests are quick detection at cheaper rates and point-of care testing where all positive results are considered truly positive while the negative results, especially in highly suspected cases need confirmation by RT-PCR tests. They have to be confirmed as RT-PCR tests is the gold standard,” microbiologist Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury of Peerless Hospital said. The test is done on nasal swab samples and does not require bio-safety enclosure. It is performed outside the conventional laboratory settings. While the chances of giving false positive is less, the chance of giving false negative, specially on asymptomatic patients with low viral load, is high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rapid-antigen-tests-reveal-4-ves-among-98-on-day-1/articleshow/76822512.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Fatorpa virus outbreak under control, say health officials||MARGAO: The Covid outbreak at Bomdamol, Fatorpa, appears to be veering under control as after testing almost 50% of the population from within the containment zone, the rate of detection of positive cases has been on a decline. Sources said that since Bomdamol was declared as a containment zone on July 2 after 19 positive cases were detected from the locality, only three more have been found infected until Monday. A health department official described the situation as “well under control.” However, almost all of the 22 cases found positive in the Bomdamol were also found to have had links to Ambelim. Sources said two women from Bomdamol who were first detected positive had visited a house in Ambelim for preparing doce, a Goan sweetmeat, for a wedding in the family. As they continued to mingle with others in the locality on their return, it is suspected that they passed on the infection to many more. Besides, some from Bomdamol, it is learnt, also attended a funeral in the village, and contracted the virus. Some persons from the buffer zone were also found to be positive subsequently. Health department officials said that timely detection of positive cases in Bomdamol helped avert a widespread outbreak. “People from this area work as house maids and farm helps in Cuncolim and surrounding areas where they are mostly engaged in the work of bathing infants, cleaning utensils, washing clothes, etc. Had they gone undetected, cases would have spiked over a larger area rendering the task of containing the spread a tad difficult,” a health worker said. Health officials attached to the Balli PHC have been closely monitoring the situation. Sources said that 111 throat swab samples were drawn on Monday, which includes people from Veroda, Cuncolim, Morpirla and also from within the Bomdamol containment zone. The reports are awaited. Significantly, a health worker attached to the Balli primary health centre (PHC) and who was recently relieved from his duties at the ESI-Covid hospital, has tested positive. Sources said that though the worker was directed to resume duties in the Balli PHC from June 30, he was advised to self-isolate for a few days. When his swab sample was tested the fifth day, the report came positive. He has been admitted in a Covid care facility, sources said. Meanwhile at Moti Dongor, 715 more throat swab samples were collected for testing. The health department has already tested nearly 1400 swab samples from within the containment zone. Of the nearly 1,000 samples drawn in the last lot, five had tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fatorpa-virus-outbreak-under-control-say-health-officials/articleshow/76823215.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Goa||Flight from Qatar arrives, brings 172 passengers to Goa||Panaji: The first repatriation flight from Qatar landed at 8:30pm on Monday with 172 stranded Indians. The IndiGo Airlines flight has been organised by Goan Welfare Association, Qatar (GWA) in collaboration with the Indian Cultural Centre (apex body of Indian Embassy in Qatar). Another flight is expected on July 8. “The arrangements were done very well. Everything is going very smoothly at the airport. We were given self declaration forms at Doha itself. Kadamba buses have been arranged to take us to the hotels,” said Janice Fernandes, a passenger on the flight. The passengers, including some from Maharashtra and Karnataka, had their swab samples collected at the airport after they paid to get tested. Though the Centre has planned several Vande Bharat Mission flights to repatriate the expat community, the flights are inadequate with a long list of people registered with the Indian Embassy for repatriation. This prompted the association to arrange for special flights. According to president of the asociation Simon D’Silva, many Goans have been waiting to return since February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/flight-from-qatar-arrives-brings-172-passengers-to-goa/articleshow/76823221.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Irrigation dept to spend 50% of its budget on power bill||HYDERABAD: The irrigation department may have to cough up about Rs 7,000 crore to power utilities this year towards power consumption charges. The irrigation department, which has submitted its indent to power utilities, said it may utilize 5,900 MW of power for operating 48 lifts and pump houses under various lift irrigation projects, especially Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project for 2020-2021 fiscal. “Last year, the irrigation department had utilised 2,400 MW for irrigation projects. As Kaleshwaram project is expected to be operational to draw 2,000 million cubic (tmc) feet of water daily, the power demand is likely to go up to 5,900 MW,” a Telangana power utilities official told TOI. The irrigation department has informed power utilities that peak power demand for irrigation sector is expected in October and November with 3,100 MW and 3,000 MW respectively, while it would be between 500 MW and 750 MW in the non-peak time. Water reaches all projects during the monsoon and it is released downstream from August. The power requirement indent was submitted to the power utilities by the irrigation department as it has to make arrangements by entering into agreements with private power producers and get approval from the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) by incorporating it in the annual aggregate revenue (ARR) for discoms. The irrigation department had earmarked Rs 11,000 crore for 2020-2021, however, the power bill projection alone is 50% of the allocation. Sources in TSGenco and Transco said the government is yet to pay last year’s power consumption charges. Meanwhile, the power utilities have decided to collect Rs 5.80 per unit which comes to about Rs 8 per unit with other charges. “If the department does not operate lifts or consume less than the projected power (in non-peak season), the department has to pay 20% of the fixed charges. The department is seeking to reduce power tariff to Rs 3 per unit, but the state government and TSERC have to decide on the tariff,” a chief general manager said. Irrigation department sources said they will go for open access method of procuring power to reduce power bill, if required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/irrigation-dept-to-spend-50-of-its-budget-on-power-bill/articleshow/76821613.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Junior doctors request meet with Andhra Pradesh CM||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh Junior Doctors Association (APJUDA) has drawn chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s attention to issues of lack of clarity on dates for PG final exam, stipends, Covid-19 quarantine and treatment facilities. In a letter on the chief minister’s official Twitter handle, state panel members of APJUDA requested they be given an opportunity to meet the chief minister and discuss and work out solutions to their problems. “It is unfortunate that the burning issues of junior doctors of AP (PGs and interns) who are actually bearing the clinical burden of Covid-19 patients in the state and are frontline warriors are not being properly attended to or responded to even though we have been making representations about our problems since the last five months to all the authorities concerned but without any response,” stated the letter. State president of the association, Dr N Deepchand said, “The all-India super-specialty PG entrance dates have been released and the exams are supposed to be held in September. So if exam dates for our final year post-graduation are not finalised and completed by August, it will affect the state PGs and we will not be able to write the super-specialty PG exams. A circular or notification should be immediately released clarifying the PG exam dates.” “Also, our stipend hike is pending since January but we did not even receive our stipend for the last two months. Our last hike was in January 2018 and our stipends are way too low compared to Telangana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. We are asking for a 15 % stipend hike,” Deepchand said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/junior-docs-request-meet-with-cm/articleshow/76821610.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 7, 2020||Noida||Unitech board to seek waiver of Rs 5,500cr Noida dues, interest relief||New Delhi: In a boost for 15,000 homebuyers of Unitech, the Supreme Court-appointed board is seeking waiver of around Rs 5,500-crore interest and penalties charged by the Noida Authority, a reduction in interest rate from banks, and sale of some assets to raise funds to complete flats and villas without putting additional burden on those who booked these as far back as a decade ago. According to an assessment carried out at the behest of the new board after the promoters, the Chandras were booted out by the Supreme Court, it will cost around Rs 5,000 crore to complete the 15,000 incomplete dwelling units. While there are assets – including unsold inventory of around Rs 3,000 crore and land worth another Rs 6,000 crore or so – viability will be possible only after the banks and Noida Authority provide concessions. Unitech’s dues with Noida Authority alone are estimated at around Rs 8,000 crore of which close to Rs 5,500 crore is interest and penalties for delayed payment. Similarly, the liability to banks is estimated at around Rs 5,000 crore, with close to 40% of the amount in the form of interest liability, which is sought to be removed. The details of the plan along with assets and liabilities and the roadmap for completing the projects spread across nearly 200 Unitech group and related companies are to be presented to the Supreme Court later this week. Sources told TOI that the plan is to ensure that there is no cost escalation for homebuyers, many of whom have been paying interest on home loans with delivery in sight. Apart from the liabilities, Unitech also has a large land bank, some of which is seen to be prime property in areas like Noida, which will be disposed of in the coming months to raise funds. For instance, a 300-acre plot which has awarded to the company -- which went belly up after the 2G scam -- is proposed to be sold once the market conditions improve. “There are sufficient assets with the company that can be leveraged to complete the projects without burdening homebuyers,” said a source familiar with the deliberations. In January, the Supreme Court had appointed a seven-member board chaired by former road transport secretary YS Malik, along with builders Niranjan Hiranandani and Jitu Virwani, bankers B Sriram and Renu Sud Karnad, former NBCC CMD AK Mittal and chartered accountant Girish Ahuja to run the company. Inset 3 cos in fray for Lotus projects Realtors Purvanchal and SMV Jaipuria along with UV Asset Reconstruction Company have submitted plans for insolvency resolution of Granite Gate Properties, the company building Lotus Panache and Lotus Boulevard housing complexes in Noida. Around 3,500 homebuyers were left in the lurch as the company, whose top executives were arrested by UP Police, failed to deliver the apartments. Resolution professional Chandra Prakash confirmed the three plans had been submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/unitech-board-to-seek-waiver-of-rs-5500cr-noida-dues-interest-relief/articleshow/76823232.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Goa||Antibody testing to start at Mangor: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday that the state government would commence antibody testing at Mangor Hill, the state’s first containment zone. He said that besides knowing whether the person tested is Covid positive or negative, the test will also reveal if the person’s body has generated the antibody to fight the infection. He also said that the antibody tests would confirm that persons who are Covid-19 positive can’t spread in the infection after 15 days have elapsed. Meanwhile, reacting to demands to reopen Mangor Hill, Sawant said that the government can’t yet open it since the area is still reporting cases on a daily basis. “If cases had reduced, we would have thought about reopening it,” he said. He also said that the state government has “given relief” to residents who live there and want to go to work but can’t. “Those who wish to go to work must get a Covid-19 test done, and if their results are negative, they can go to work,” Sawant said. “However, they must make arrangements to stay elsewhere and not return to Mangor Hill.” Also, the state government has decided to allow shops selling essential commodities in the area to open. He said that of the 8,000-odd persons residing at the containment zone, 2,000 have already been tested, and 100% of those having co-morbid conditions have already been tested. He said that if anyone else with co-morbid conditions wishes to be tested, the government is ready to do the test. Sawant on Monday met MLAs from Mormugao taluka and MMC councillors to elicit their views on the Covid crisis in Vasco. He said that it has been 35 days since Mangor Hill was declared a contaiment zone, and that the government understands the problem of the people. He also told reporters that the people of Mangor Hill should have patience and wait for another 15 days, and that the government is set for a cleanliness drive in the area by engaging workers from Mangor Hill itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/antibody-testing-to-start-at-mangor-cm/articleshow/76823243.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Police: Delhi riots-accused received funds from foreign accounts||NEW DELHI: The investigation into the funding of the Delhi riots has found that money from some foreign accounts in the Middle East and UAE was allegedly transferred to riot-accused, Meeran Haider, a month before the riots had broken out. Delhi Police’s Special Cell has recovered a register from the Jamia student in which they found hand-written entries of the amount that was transferred into various accounts. Police also claimed to have recovered some of the cash from Haider’s account. The register has been sent for a handwriting analysis to establish whether the entries were done by Haider himself. Cops recovered the diary while probing into a suspicious transfer of Rs 5 lakh into Haider’s account. During the search at his house, cops found Rs 2.5 lakh. Haider, who has been booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), will be questioned regarding the suspicious transfers and their connection to the riots. Probe had revealed that Popular Front of India was also involved in logistically backing the anti-CAA protests. It was also found that Jamia Coordination Committee of which Haider was a member, was formed specifically to organise the protests against the CAA. The members of the committee were present at the different protest sites at the time of the violence. Cops analysed the call details of the members of the committee to establish this fact. Haider, who was arrested for his role during the north-east Delhi riots, was a key member of the JCC. He had been coordinating with all the other members in continuing the protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-riot-accused-received-funds-from-foreign-accounts/articleshow/76823301.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Gas leak: Govt panel indicts LG Polymers||Visakhapatnam: A high power committee constituted by the Andhra Pradesh government to probe the styrene vapour leak at the LG Polymers plant here has accused the company of not following safety protocols during the lockdown. In its 4,000-page report, the committee said that the accident occurred due to uncontrolled styrene vapour release from the M6 tank and qualifies as a major accident as per the the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989. Apart from poor design of the tank storing the styrene gas, inadequate refrigeration system, absence of circulation and mixing systems and poor safety protocol, slackness of management and insufficient knowledge among staff of the chemical properties of styrene led to the accident. Apart from the above-mentioned conclusions, the committee has also observed that the alarm system was not used despite there being a total of 36 activation points, including one at the factory gate. Using the alarm could have alerted the people in the vicinity. The committee also observed that the factory has absolutely no stocks of inhibitors and negligible stocks of terminators which could have been used to minimize the impact. The report of the committee is similar to the one prepared by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) appointed team earlier. It was submitted to chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday. The CM has said that the report will serve as guidelines on how to avert mishaps in future and if necessary, the government will make necessary amendments to the existing laws based on it. He had earlier said that the government will initiate legal action against that personnel responsible for the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gas-leak-govt-panel-indicts-lg-polymers/articleshow/76822539.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||ED slaps Rs 7,220 crore FEMA notice on Kolkata firm||KOLKATA: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) slapped a showcause notice on a Kolkata-based jewellery house for siphoning off Rs 7,220 crore —the highest ever under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA)—in alleged illegal foreign exchange deals. The promoters of Shree Ganesh Jewellery, Nilesh Parekh, Umesh Parekh and Kamlesh Parekh, also came under the lens of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence. The jewellery house came under the scanner after its name emerged as wilful defaulter of bank loans. DRI took up the case in 2018 followed by the ED, which found that the promoters had allegedly defrauded a consortium of 25 banks. They had allegedly opened shell companies overseas and had huge outstanding for foreign bills drawn on the jewellery house. The consortium of banks was duped by floating a number of shell companies in India and abroad and subsidiaries in Dubai, Singapore and Hong Kong. They purportedly made exports of gold jewellery to those related overseas entities from their manufacturing unit at Manikanchan SEZ in Kolkata. The ED on Monday charged the jewellery house under the FEMA “for resorting to unauthorised foreign exchange deals, holding of foreign exchange outside India and laundering of Rs 7,220 crore as export proceeds”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ed-slaps-7220cr-fema-notice-on-firm/articleshow/76822543.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Lucknow||Musical tunes to chase away isolation blues at RML hosp||Lucknow:Music therapy will now help asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and those experiencing mild symptoms at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS) deal with anxiety and depression as they undergo treatment in isolation wards. The institute has installed an FM radio broadcasting-based music system in the common area of the isolation wards in its 200-bed Covid-19 Hospital, after discussions with a team of psychiatrists and psychologists. The experts were of the view that a patient in isolation tends to think negatively and is more likely to slip into depression. Music can help divert such thoughts towards positivity, they told authorities. “On the recommendation of the experts, we have installed an FM radio-based music system in the common area. Patients can listen to the music and even dance a bit if they want. It will make them feel good and reduce their stress levels, and help them recover sooner,” said RMLIMS spokesperson Dr Srikesh Singh. The hospital has cubicles at a safe distance from each other for Covid-19 patients, who have to be isolated. The nursing station is in front of the cubicles and that’s where the speakers would be put up for all to listen to music. The volume of the music has been fixed at a level so that does not disturb those napping during the day. They system would be switched off at night. “Not just patients, but even the hospital staff has given a positive feedback,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/musical-tunes-to-chase-away-isolation-blues-at-rml-hosp/articleshow/76823233.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Goa||Follow norms,Vishwajit tellsValpoikars||Valpoi: Valpoi MLA and health minister Vishwajit Rane on Monday warned that the licences of shops operating in Valpoi will be cancelled if the shopowners fail to follow the required social distancing norms. Rane told reporters that he has directed the police and other authorities concerned to strictly impose fines on those not wearing masks at public places in Valpoi. “Two special ambulances will be stationed in the Valpoi and Poriem constituencies of Sattari taluka, which will only be used for Covid-related emergencies,” Rane said. After locals informed the Valpoi MLA that youth from his constituency were being harrased by a multi-national company for not attending their duties due to the Covid pandemic, Rane said he will take strict action against the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/follow-normsvishwajit-tellsvalpoikars/articleshow/76823228.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kochi||Sree Chitra develops portable ventilator||Thiruvananthapuram: The Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences & Technology (SCTIMST) has developed an Emergency Breathing Assist System (EBAS), to meet the huge demand for ventilators in the fight against Covid-19. “The device is not a replacement for a mechanical ventilator but works as a bridge for a few hours to a few days before conventional mechanical ventilation can be provided,’’ said SCTIMST director Dr Asha Kishore. A team of engineers Sarath S Nair, Vinod Kumar V and Nagesh D S from the department of medical device engineering and professors Thomas Koshy and Manikantan from the department of anaesthesia developed the specifications and technology. The knowhow and design of EBAS were transferred to Wipro 3D in April 2020 for further joint development. The product is now ready for commercial production under the brand name ‘Air Bridge’ and will be jointly launched by SCTIMST and Wipro 3D Bengaluru on Tuesday. SCTIMST president Dr V K Saraswat will launch the product. The device is portable, battery-operated and user-friendly. Air Bridge can be used for ventilator support in Covid-19 related or non-Covid related emergency situations in hospital wards and during transportation of patients in ambulances . It can also be used in small hospitals without central oxygen supply system using oxygen cylinders in emergency situations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sree-chitra-develops-portable-ventilator/articleshow/76821627.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Goa||Ticlo attends party, CM says will probe||Panaji: Even as a video of chief minister Pramod Sawant urging people not to attend social gatherings is making the rounds on social media, another viral video is showing BJP’s Aldona legislator Glen Ticlo at a party in Calangute in utter disregard to pandemic-related safety norms. The video shows over 25 people in attendance, none of whom are wearing masks or following social distancing. Ticlo, however, denied knowing about the party and said that he received a phone call from one of his councillors from Mapusa asking him to come to the place at Calangute for a few minutes. “I just went there. I did not know that there was a party going on. When I arrived, I saw that there were some youth. I wished them from a distance and left. I asked them to maintain social distancing and wear masks,” he said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that he will inquire into the matter. In the video, as Ticlo enters the venue with a mask draped around his chin, he is welcomed by the organisers and other guests, and a person can be heard referring to him as a special guest “for the special party, lockdown party”. The 21-second clip proceeds to show Ticlo speaking on his phone while standing at the entrance of the venue —allegedly a resort in the tourist hub of Calangute. People can be seen dancing and socialising without masks. “I don’t know whether it was politically motivated, as someone inside the must have made the video viral,” the Aldona MLA said. On Sunday, Sawant appealed to the people not to visit each other. “We should avoid functions like birthdays and weddings,” he said. “People should not invite anyone to their houses. All Goans must take care, as asymptomatic Covid-19 patients can come to your house and spread the virus.” Leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat said that it is an unfortunate incident when on the one hand the government is trying to stop the spread of the virus and appealing to people to maintain social distance and wear mask and on the other ruling party MLAs are doing just the opposite. “It is wrong to flout the rules in this manner,” Kamat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ticlo-attends-party-cm-says-will-probe/articleshow/76823254.cms||Murari Shetye
July 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fishermen in Andhra Pradesh trapped between low price, catch||VISAKHAPATNAM: The lockdown imposed from mid March followed by the annual fishing ban in mid-April rendered thousands of fishermen in the state jobless. But the fishing season, which commenced in the first week of June, has not brought any relief to the fishermen. Owners of mechanised boats said the prices of brown prawn are on the decline and they are incurring losses. General secretary of Dolphin Boat Operators’ Welfare Association, D Ganga Raju said marine food exporters have fixed the price of a kg brown prawn at Rs 330, which is untenable. Exporters are more focused on Indian-farmed Vannamei shrimp, which has a high demand in other states and abroad. “If we get at least Rs 420 per kg for brown prawn, we will get some profits,” he said. Meanwhile, seafood price is on the rise, especially popular varieties such as silver pomfret and seer fish. Traders cited low catch of the popular varieties as the reason for it. In the retail market silver pomfret or white pomfret is being sold at Rs 1,300 to Rs 1,500 per kg. Seer fish costs Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,200 a kg or even more depending on the size, D Sudhakar, a seafood lover and resident of MVP Colony told TOI. The price of both the varieties at the fishing harbour — where the prices are usually lower than that at retail markets — is also above Rs 1,100 and Rs 800 a kg respectively, he added. A fishing boat owner, M Naidu, told TOI that a majority of the fishing boats are returning with a catch of brown prawn (around 600 kgs a boat), whose price is dipping, while some boats are returning with low quantity of popular fishes, which is pushing up prices and driving away buyers. “In this entire scenarios, we continue to lose,” Naidu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fishermen-trapped-between-low-price-catch/articleshow/76821633.cms||Nalla.Babu
July 7, 2020||Kochi||Restrictions tightened at Chalai, Palayam markets||Thiruvananthapuram: Concerns soar over emergence of Covid cases as one more headload worker at Kumarichantha tested positive on Monday. To date, two fish vendors, two headload workers and another worker at Kumarichantha tested positive. The headload worker who was tested positive on Monday is a resident of Poonthura. A 22-year-old Assam native employed at a hotel, and staying at Poonthura, too tested positive. Four contact cases and three import cases were reported in the district on Monday. Two contact cases were reported from Parassala; a 55-year-old man and a 2-year-old boy. The 55-year-old man has no travel history. The baby is of 25-year-old woman from Parassala who recently tested positive. The new cases emerging from Kumarichantha have become worrisome for authorities. The city corporation has been focusing on containment activities and regulations at Palayam and Chalai markets. Kumarichantha was off the radar and suddenly cases are popping up daily from this market amongst varied section of people. Some cases reported from the market are residents of Poonthura where a major cluster of infections was reported. Incoming trucks from neighbouring states are suspected to be sources of infection. Authorities are hopeful that the present lockdown in the city will help avoid a situation like Tamil Nadu’s Koyambedu market which was a Covid hotspot. A 29-year-old man who returned from Saudi Arabia on July 5, a 33-year-old man who returned from UAE and a 49-year-old man who returned from Qatar also reported positive on Monday. As many as 1,364 persons were brought under observation in the district on Monday. 18,811 persons are currently under room isolation in houses and 2,050 persons are under institutional quarantine in the district. 64 persons were admitted to hospitals in the district with disease symptoms and 32 persons were discharged. 267 persons are under observation in hospitals in the district. 294 samples were sent for testing on Monday and 367 results were received on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/restrictions-tightened-at-chalai-palayam-markets/articleshow/76821652.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: 11 more deaths in Haryana, 499 positive, tally 17,504||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 count reached 17,504 on Monday with 499 new positive cases. The day also saw 11 deaths, raising the fatality count in the state to 276. Also, 391 patients recovered from the virus, taking the overall count of cured patients to 13,335 and the recovery rate to 76.18%. At present, the state has 3,893 active cases, including 41 patients on oxygen support and 19 on ventilator support. Of the 499 new cases in the state, 418 were reported from Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak and Sonipat. Faridabad got the highest number of cases, 123. It was followed by Gurugram (109), Rohtak (104), Sonipat (82), Karnal (16), Nuh (13), Palwal (12), Kaithal (9), Jhajjar (8), Sirsa (7), Yamunanagar (5), Ambala (4), Panchkula (3), and Fatehabad and Panipat (2 each). Three patients died in Faridabad, one succumbed to the virus in Gurugram, four in Rohtak, two in Sonipat and one in Nuh. The death count in Gurugram is now 101. Nuh reported its first death due the virus. Also, the fatality count is now 95 in Faridabad, 20 in Sonipat, and 12 in Rohtak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/11-more-deaths-in-hry-499-ve-tally-17504/articleshow/76830612.cms||Manvir Saini
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata's Sonagachhi resumes business, behind mask||KOLKATA: With business slowly returning to Sonagachhi, a standard operating procedure (SOP) has been put in place to minimize the risk of sex workers contracting the novel coronavirus. Masks and sanitizers, made by the women themselves, have been made mandatory while, those meeting clients have been taking a shower after every session. Even the rooms are sprayed with sanitizers after each slot. The red light area had shut its doors to customers during the lockdown. With no work and no earning, the 5,000-odd sex workers depended on the ration and essentials provided by police and various NGOs during the period. But acute financial crisis is now forcing some girls to resume business. “We are giving ration to the girls even in July. We have asked them not to entertain customers this month. But it is difficult to control everyone. Currently, we have 12 thermal guns at our disposal. Our volunteers check the temperature of whoever is entering Sonagachhi, including clients and other outsiders,” said Smarajit Jana, founder of Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee (DMSC) that works for the welfare of sex workers at Sonagachhi. To create awareness, DMSC has organized meetings with the women, all of whom have been given masks, soaps and sanitizers. Many from the district are themselves making masks and sanitizers. Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee secretary Kajal Bose said, “A few girls have started work as they are facing financial crisis. Very few customers are visiting now. Getting transport isn’t easy. Those who are working have to wear masks. Even customers are expected to wear masks. Otherwise, the girls will not entertain them. This is for the safety of everyone.” Bose added the women had been given soaps, handwash, facewash and liquid sanitizers. They were also sanitizing rooms to protect themselves from the viral attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sonagachhi-resumes-biz-behind-mask/articleshow/76822558.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
July 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ambulance ferrying 12 Covid-19 patients turns on side, 4 hurt||PUNE: Four Covid-19 patients suffered minor injuries on Monday, after the ambulance they were travelling in turned on its side on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass in Bavdhan. There were eight other positive patients in the ambulance as well. Soon after the accident, the patients assaulted the ambulance driver Manoj Londhe, who suffered injuries on his hands, an officer from Hinjewadi police said. All the 12 patients were sent to a Covid-19 treatment facility in Lavale in another ambulance, which was provided by corporator Kiran Dagade Patil.  “We have admitted all the 12 patients. Four of them suffered minor bruises,” a health official from the facility said. The corporator told TOI there were 12 patients in the ambulance from different slums in Kothrud.  “The ambulance was on its way to a treatment facility in Balewadi. When it reached near HEMRL around 3pm, the driver applied sudden brakes in an attempt to avoid dashing against a motorcycle. The ambulance then turned on its side and stopped after skidding for a distance,” he said, adding that he sent an ambulance to the spot after he was informed of the incident. The patients were then sent to Lavale, he said. An officer from the Hinjewadi police said the ambulance was driven by a PMPML driver. “The administration has acquired private ambulances to shift Covid-19 patients to the treatment facilities. The PMPML drivers have been deployed for these ambulances,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ambulance-ferrying-12-covid-patients-turns-on-side-4-hurt/articleshow/76823234.cms||Mihir Tanksale
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Waive power bills of BPL families, MSMEs, says Congress||HYDERABAD: Congress condemned the silence on the part of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao over complaints of inflated electricity bills and demanded that he immediately convene a cabinet meeting to waive electricity bills for all the BPL families and micro, small and medium enterprises. The party also demanded that the government adopt the telescopic method to calculate tariff per unit of power consumed. “People have now started getting bills for the month of June. Most of these bills include huge arrears as people were not able to pay their bill for the lockdown period,” said Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy. Congress leaders and members staged protests at various places against the steep electricity bills and later submitted copies of memorandum addressed to KCR and to the electricity department officials demanding 100% waiver of power bill to BPL families, MSMEs and to shift to non-telescopic method of billing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waive-power-bills-of-bpl-families-msmes-congress/articleshow/76821641.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Goa||45 policemen infected with coronavirus||Panaji: As many as 45 police personnel, including an inspector, have tested positive in the state. Nine personnel have been cured, while 36 are yet to be discharged. They have been lodged in various Covid care centres. The tally of police personnel getting Covid infection shot up last week after 16 personnel attached to Ponda police station tested positive leading to temporary shutting of the station for sanitisation. Some of the personnel were posted in Vasco. Initially, a police personnel hailing from Sattari taluka tested positive after a Covid case was detected in Morlem village. Two days ago, a IRB personnel posted at the gate of legislative assembly tested positive leading to testing of more than ten of his contacts in the assembly complex. Apart from an PI, the list includes two police drivers, four PSI, two ASIs, five head constables, one lady head constable, 22 police constables, two lady constables, five home guards and one female home guard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/45-policemen-infected-with-coronavirus/articleshow/76823235.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19: 11 more deaths in Haryana, 499 positive, tally 17,504||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 count reached 17,504 on Monday with 499 new positive cases. The day also saw 11 deaths, raising the fatality count in the state to 276. Also, 391 patients recovered from the virus, taking the overall count of cured patients to 13,335 and the recovery rate to 76.18%. At present, the state has 3,893 active cases, including 41 patients on oxygen support and 19 on ventilator support. Of the 499 new cases in the state, 418 were reported from Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak and Sonipat. Faridabad got the highest number of cases, 123. It was followed by Gurugram (109), Rohtak (104), Sonipat (82), Karnal (16), Nuh (13), Palwal (12), Kaithal (9), Jhajjar (8), Sirsa (7), Yamunanagar (5), Ambala (4), Panchkula (3), and Fatehabad and Panipat (2 each). Three patients died in Faridabad, one succumbed to the virus in Gurugram, four in Rohtak, two in Sonipat and one in Nuh. The death count in Gurugram is now 101. Nuh reported its first death due the virus. Also, the fatality count is now 95 in Faridabad, 20 in Sonipat, and 12 in Rohtak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/11-more-deaths-in-hry-499-ve-tally-17504/articleshow/76830613.cms||Manvir Saini
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 11 more deaths in Haryana, 499 positive, tally 17,504||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 count reached 17,504 on Monday with 499 new positive cases. The day also saw 11 deaths, raising the fatality count in the state to 276. Also, 391 patients recovered from the virus, taking the overall count of cured patients to 13,335 and the recovery rate to 76.18%. At present, the state has 3,893 active cases, including 41 patients on oxygen support and 19 on ventilator support. Of the 499 new cases in the state, 418 were reported from Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak and Sonipat. Faridabad got the highest number of cases, 123. It was followed by Gurugram (109), Rohtak (104), Sonipat (82), Karnal (16), Nuh (13), Palwal (12), Kaithal (9), Jhajjar (8), Sirsa (7), Yamunanagar (5), Ambala (4), Panchkula (3), and Fatehabad and Panipat (2 each). Three patients died in Faridabad, one succumbed to the virus in Gurugram, four in Rohtak, two in Sonipat and one in Nuh. The death count in Gurugram is now 101. Nuh reported its first death due the virus. Also, the fatality count is now 95 in Faridabad, 20 in Sonipat, and 12 in Rohtak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/11-more-deaths-in-hry-499-ve-tally-17504/articleshow/76824042.cms||Manvir Saini
July 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KU to go ahead with final semester PG exams||Thiruvananthapuram: In view of the triple lockdown in the capital city and the following restrictions on public life, Kerala University (KU) has decided to postpone all exams except the final semester postgraduate examinations scheduled from Tuesday. An official statement from the varsity here on Monday said the only examinations that would now follow the schedule would be that of S4 PG MA/MSc/MCom, MSW and CSS. New dates for other undergraduate and postgraduate examinations would be announced later. The university had come under severe criticism for its decision to conduct all degree, PG and LLB examinations despite the spread of pandemic. Even while the university authorities claim to have taken all precautionary measures at the examination centres, there were widespread complaints about the measures taken at these centres. The horrendous experience thrust upon students got aggravated further on Monday when the university postponed examinations in colleges only within the corporation limits. As the city weighed down under the effect of triple lockdown, majority of students who pursue their studies in government/private colleges in the city outskirts had a harrowing time when they tried to reach these institutions at the mercy of law enforcers. The case of Abhilash V J, a resident of Poonthura, is an example. He could not write the fourth semester BA economics exam that was held at St Xavier’s College, Thumba, as he lost valuable time during police checking. Poonthura station house officer inspector V S Sajikumar said that the officers who stopped the youth might have been under the impression that the college was in the city limits. The college is in Kadinamkulam panchayat with its south periphery wall sharing border with the city corporation border. The KU authorities have said that the university would conduct special examinations for any student who fail to attend an examination due to Covid -restrictions. They would just need to submit a certificate from the revenue authorities regarding the special condition that prevented the student from attending the examination. This very condition, say students, forced them to rather sneak through the lockdown restrictions as they were more shuddered by the harrowing time they might have to encounter in obtaining such a certificate form a village office during this pandemic time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ku-to-go-ahead-with-final-semester-pg-exams/articleshow/76821665.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chennai||Can’t restrict schools from holding online classes: Madras high court||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Monday refused to stay online classes for school students till the Centre frames guidelines for conduct of such classes. A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha refused to grant any interim relief, as additional solicitor-general of India R Sankaranarayanan informed the court that the Union government is in the process of framing the rules and is likely to publish them by July 15. The issue pertains to pleas moved by S Saranya and M A Vimal Mohan to regulate conduct of such classes organised by private educational institutions. According to the petitioners, all educational institutions, under the guise of imparting education at the ease of home via online classes even during this pandemic, are pushing young students to great mental and physical suffering. Due to such compulsory online classes from Classes I to XII, parents are forced to expose their children to smartphones and other similar gadgets with uninterrupted internet connectivity. Such exposure is hazardous to their physical health and mental development, the petitioners said.  “It is well established by ophthalmologists and doctors worldwide that continuous viewing of mobile phones is hazardous to eyes,” they claimed. The fact being so, exposing kids to six hours of continuous use of smartphones for online classes six days a week, and further more to complete tasks assigned to them by the school, is nothing but knowingly pushing the children to a world of blindness, he said. Therefore, the petitioner wanted the court to direct the government to restrain such institutions from conducting classes online for more than 2 hours a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cant-restrict-schools-from-holding-online-classes-court/articleshow/76823237.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Ahmedabad district crosses 22,000-mark in total cases||AHMEDABAD: With 183 new Covid-19 positive cases in 24 hours, Ahmedabad district on Monday crossed 22,000 total cases (22,075). With seven deaths in a day, the total death toll for the district now stands at 1,491. Ahmedabad for third consecutive day remained second highest in the state after Surat – on July 3, both the districts had recorded 204 cases each. Comparison of the two districts reveal that Ahmedabad added last 1,000 cases in six days, whereas Surat – that crossed 6,000 total cases on Monday – took five days. In July so far, Ahmedabad has recorded deaths of 50 Covid-19 positive patients compared to 30 for Surat. It was sixth consecutive day for Gujarat to record a new highest tally with 735 cases. Since July 1, Gujarat has recorded 675, 681, 687, 712, 725 and 735 daily cases of Covid-19, recording an 8% rise in six days. The state’s total tally is now at 36,858 whereas the state’s death toll is 1962. Vadodara district added 65 positive cases, followed by Bhavnagar (35) and Banaskantha (24). The deaths included seven from Ahmedabad, six from Surat, two from Aravalli and one each from Banaskantha and Kheda. A total of 423 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 26,323. The discharges include 240 from Ahmedabad, 86 from Surat, 21 from Bharuch and 11 from Sabarkantha. With the update, the state now has 8,573 or 23.2% of total Covid-19 positive patients as active patients whereas recovered and deceased patients consist of 71.4% and 5.4% of the tally. Gujarat carried out 4,340 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 4.18 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-district-crosses-22k-mark-in-total-cases/articleshow/76822561.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Using technicians for swab collection against ICMR rules: Assn||Warangal: Lab technicians in Telangana claim that the government is forcing them to collect swab samples for Covid-19 test against the directions of ICMR. According to Telangana State Government Medical Lab Technicians Association, the health ministry directed the state governments in April to utilise the services of ENT specialists and postgraduate trainees to collect swab samples. “The state government is not following rules when it comes to collecting samples. The authorities are forcing lab technicians to collect samples,” alleged a member of the association who works at the Kakatiya Medical College. President of the association, Sudhakar, said, “Technicians have no expertise in collecting samples. Who is responsible if we cannot get proper results due to poor quality of sample collection. We are also appealing the state government to take measures to protect the lab technicians and their families .” The association is worried that since many technicians are working on contract basis, the regular employees are concerned about their safety in this pandemic situation. Of 1,060 technician posts, 582 are lying vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/using-technicians-for-swab-collection-against-icmr-rules-assn/articleshow/76821666.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
July 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Protest after names go missing from beneficiary list||Vijayawada: Tension prevailed after 20 residents of Prodattur village of Kankipadu mandal in Krishna district climbed up a water tank demanding their names to be included in the government’s housing scheme on Monday morning. According to the protestors, they had received slips from the revenue department citing that they were eligible for the housing scheme last year after the government announced the YSR Housing Scheme. To their shock, they found their names were missing in the final list issued by the same department. Protestors threatened to jump unless the government intervened. Meanwhile, police reached the spot and managed to bring them down safely from the tank. police said that they would take up the issue with the necessary authority to have a proper discussion in the matter. The YSR Housing Scheme is an ambitious project which aims to provide homes for the poor. The welfare scheme was supposed to be launched on a grand scale on July 8 which happens to be former CM YS Rajasekhar Reddy’s birth anniversary. But, later, the government deferred it to a later date as it awaits an order from the Supreme Court after a petition was filed against the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/protest-after-names-go-missing-from-beneficiary-list/articleshow/76821658.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Yamunanagar tops Haryana recovery rate||YAMUNANAGAR: With a Covid-19 recovery rate of 88.8%, Yamunanagar in Haryana is the best-performing district in the state, while Rewari is at the bottom with a recovery rate of 29.5%, according to data released by the state health department on Monday. Up to Sunday, Yamunanagar had recorded 107 positive cases, of which 95 patients had been discharged and 12 cases were active. The state’s recovery rate was 76.1%. Yamunanagar is followed by Panchkula with a recovery rate of 85.8%. Of the 120 positive cases in Panchkula, patients have been discharged in 103 cases. Ambala stands at third rank, with recovery rate of 84.9%. Of the 371 positive cases here, 315 patients have been discharged, four have died, and 52 are being treated. Civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said a higher recovery rate reinforced the fact that Covid was beatable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/yamunanagar-tops-hry-recovery-rate/articleshow/76824043.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 7, 2020||Noida||Yashoda hosp starts plasma therapy||Ghaziabad: Yashoda Hospital in Kaushambi has started convalescent plasma therapy, which will help the health facility treat critical Covid patients. So far, the hospital had used this therapy on six patients admitted in the ICU and all of them showed positive results. These patients are still under treatment, said Dr Sunil Dagar, the chief operating officer of Yashoda. He added that the youngest of these patients was just 38-year-old. Under this therapy, plasma is taken from the blood of a patient who has recovered from Covid and infused into an active patient. Antibodies from recovered patients help others fight the infection. It causes the virus to weaken in the patient’s body, said a statement issued by the private hospital. Plasma therapy is administered when the effect of the use of steroids is not seen in patients and when there is no other form of treatment left. But before using the therapy, the patient’s permission is needed. Four other patients suffering from Covid-19 can be treated with the blood extracted from the body of a person who has recovered. But this requires the plasma donor to fully recover from Covid-19. Usually, after 14 days, when the donor displays no symptoms of Covid-19 and his test results are negative after two consecutive trials, he/she can give plasma after a thorough screening. “Plasma derived from a recovered patient can help another in need. This is helpful in treating emergencies,” a doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/yashoda-hosp-starts-plasma-therapy/articleshow/76823255.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Virtual session on Fulbright grant||Hyderabad: The Global Education and Careers Forum and the US India Educational Foundation (USIEF) have decided to organise a virtual informatory session on the Fulbright fellowship opportunities in the United States. Scheduled to be held on July 16 between 11 am and 12.30 pm, the session will provide information about different Fulbright grant offerings to Indian citizens and corresponding eligibility criteria, application deadlines and grant benefits. The participants will also get a chance to ask questions and interact with the Fulbright commission (USIEF) staff. “Teaching faculty, PhD students, research scholars, heads of institutions, mid and senior-level academic administrators are invited to attend the session,” read a circular issued by the commissioner of technical education’s office. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/virtual-session-on-fulbright-grant/articleshow/76822557.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Goa||‘Health centres to have special teams for swab-collecting’||Panaji: As Covid-19 cases continue to rise across Goa, the state government has said it will soon post dedicated teams at primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs) for swab-collecting and testing. Health minister Vishwajit Rane, after a meeting with CM Pramod Sawant, said that the teams will be recruited on contract basis on top priority. “The team will report directly to the respective health centre,” Rane said. “They will work only on collecting swabs and co-ordinating with testing centres.” He added that once the new teams are posted, the health centres’ existing staff will be redirected to their regular activities. Rane also said that the state will expand the scope of testing as suggested by the ICMR. A health official told TOI that with cases rising everyday, it has become difficult for PHC and CHC staff to focus on other activities. “At times, we are unable to deliver our regular services, though we try our best to balance the work,” he said. Across the state’s health centres, regular work has been impacted over the past few weeks as its staff are deployed for Covid swab-collecting and testing. The official said that without additional help, it would be difficult for health centres to offer unhindered service to people in the event that cases further spike. “The trend shows that at least this month, we will see cases rising,” he said. “It is a good move on the part of the government to have special teams for swab collection and co-ordination. It will reduce our burden.” The problem is especially severe in areas where the government has declared containment zones, as since the focus has been on Covid patients, those with other ailments have to wait to get medical attention unless it’s an emergency. Meanwhile, Rane also said that steps will soon be taken to streamline the food service at Covid care centres. “It is being thoroughly streamlined, and monitored by the health secretary,” he said. There have been complaints about the service at Covid care centres, and that not adequate cleaning staff are posted there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/health-centres-to-have-special-teams-for-swab-collecting/articleshow/76823241.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: No infection found in 48 cops after 10 turn Covid-19 positive||PUNE: Forty eight personnel of a police station in the city tested negative for Covid-19 on Monday, days after 10 of their colleagues tested positive for the contagion and were referred to various facilities for treatment. Besides, another 18 police personnel have been placed under institutional quarantine. “The reports of 48 other personnel, whose swabs were earlier sent for tests, came negative on Monday,” a senior officer from the police station said. DCP Pournima Gaikwad told TOI, “Those on duty have so far shown no symptoms, whatsoever, of Covid-19. We collected and sent their swab samples for testing as a precautionary step” Another officer from the police station said 10 personnel testing positive for the contagion, include three police officers. “Immediate family members of two of these officers too have been tested positive,” he said One of the 48 personnel testing negative said his swab samples were collected on Friday, along with his other colleagues. “Till Monday morning, I did not know the results. I was under stress for three days. Thankfully, all of us came negative on Monday,” he said. His colleague said one of the 10 positive personnel was discharged from the hospital after four days of treatment. “There are over five containment zones in our jurisdiction. We have been asked to keep detailed record of people coming in and out of the containment zones. Moreover, we have also been asked to take action against the people flouting social distancing norms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-infection-found-in-48-cops-after-10-turn-positive/articleshow/76823236.cms||Mihir Tanksale
July 7, 2020||Lucknow||Former deputy mayor dies of coronavirus, Lucknow toll at 26||LUCKNOW: Covid-19 claimed two more lives in the city including that of former deputy mayor of Lucknow Abhay Seth (66) on Monday. He became the first politician to have died due to the disease in the city, taking the toll to 26 with over 80% casualties in the past month. Under treatment at SGPGI after testing positive on June 27, Seth died around 1.45am due to respiratory failure. “The patient had a history of cardiovascular disease and diabetes. He slipped into a state of respiratory shock due to the infection and died,” said SGPGI medical superintendent Prof RK Singh. His son Alok said, “We had taken him to Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences after he developed cough and fever. He tested positive for Covid-19 test there and was shifted to SGPGI. On Sunday night, he was put on a ventilator after his oxygen level fell drastically.” Seth, who was in the business of real estate, is survived by his wife, son, daughter-in-law and grandson. A grassroots worker of the BJP, he rose to become deputy administrator of Lucknow Municipal Corporation and served for a brief period from May to November 2002 before being elected as deputy mayor, a post he held till February 2006. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath condoled the death of the former deputy mayor. A condolence meeting led by mayor Sanyukta Bhatia was held at LMC office. Another Covid-19 death was reported from KGMU. Gomtinagar resident Rajkishore (48), a clerk in the Sitapur Road vegetable market, was admitted on Sunday night with breathing problems and died within two hours due to respiratory failure. KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh said that the patient had asthma, diabetes and lower respiratory tract infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/former-deputy-mayor-dies-of-coronavirus-city-toll-at-26/articleshow/76823246.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Lucknow||Woman gives birth to baby boy waiting in queue for Covid test at RML hospital||Lucknow: A 22-year-old woman was forced to deliver her baby while standing in queue for a Covid-19 test at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences on Monday. The staff at the emergency had refused to admit her till she got tested for the virus. The woman, Palak, was in labour when she arrived in the hospital but was asked to go to the triage area where tests through the TruNat machine are done. She could barely stand but managed to somehow for 15 minutes before her amniotic sac ruptured and she delivered the baby on the spot. The incident led to panic in the area, forcing medical staff to react and shift the woman and the newborn to a ward. The institute has ordered an investigation into the incident and a faculty member and two each senior and junior residents of the obstetrics and gynecology department have been asked to be off duty. The woman’s husband, Raman Dixit, a daily wager, told TOI that Palak was ninth months pregnant and labour started around 7am. He rushed her to the hospital. However, staff in the emergency ward of gynaecology did not admit her saying that as per protocol, she first needed to undergo a Covid-19 test. “The test cost Rs 1,500 and I was not carrying so much cash. I made my wife stand along with a relative in the queue for Covid-19 test and went home to bring the money. On return after 20 minutes, I found that my wife had already given birth to a boy and was admitted in the ward,” said Raman. The woman and her baby are now fine, said Dr Srikesh Singh, spokesperson of RMLIMS. “A three-member committee will submit its report in three days. Till then, the five staff members will remain off duty. The head of obstetrics and gynecology has been asked to explain why instead of providing emergency care, the woman in labour pain was sent for Covid-19 testing,” said officiating director of RMLIMS Prof Nuzhat Hussain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-gives-birth-to-baby-boy-waiting-in-queue-for-covid-test-at-rml-hospital/articleshow/76823271.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chennai||Higher consumption reason for hefty power bills, Tangedco tells HC||Chennai: Tangedco has said consumers are getting huge electricity bills since they spend more time at home due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The consumption calculation adopted by the corporation is in line with statutory regulations, it told the Madras high court on Monday. Additional advocate-general P H Aravindh Pandian made the submission on a plea moved by M L Ravi, alleging that the methodology adopted by Tangedco to calculate power consumption during the Covid-19 lockdown period is arbitrary and unjust. Filing his written arguments, Ravi submitted that Tangedco has relied on the previous bill amount to arrive at the present payable instead of considering units consumed the preceeding month. This results in low tension domestic consumers having to pay 12% to 50% higher charges than permitted under the Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code. Such method adopted by the corporation has affected 96% of domestic consumers, who have been forced to pay up to 50% higher charges, he added. Power bills are collected on a bi-monthly basis in the state. The charges are calculated based on different slabs for those who consume below 100 units, 101 to 200 units, 201 to 500 units, and above 500 units. While the government provides full subsidy for the first 100 units to all consumers, every unit consumed beyond that was charged at different rates for those falling under different slabs, he said. The petitioner further alleged that such mode of calculation has affected thousands of consumers using 100 to 500 units every billing cycle who had to shell out more money, but does not harm the affluent who normally consume over 500 units every billing cycle, he said. Recording the submissions, a division bench of Justice MM Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha adjourned the hearing to July 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/higher-consumption-reason-for-hefty-power-bills-tangedco-tells-hc/articleshow/76823251.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||7 contacts of BJP MLA test positive||Kurukshetra: Seven of the total 17 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Kurukshetra on Monday are contacts of Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha, said Kurukshetra civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh. He said Sudha was discharged from a private hospital in Gurgaon after he tested negative. Sudha had tested positive in June. The official said after contact tracing of MLA Sudha, 11 of his contacts had tested positive, including four on Saturday and seven on Monday. MLA’s positive contacts include his personal assistant (PA) of Masita House, some workers, and relatives from Krishna Nagar Gamdi and New Colony. On Monday, in a video released on social media, MLA Sudha urged the people who came in contact with him to undergo Covid-19 testing to avoid the spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/7-contacts-of-bjp-mla-test-positive/articleshow/76824045.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Goa||87,000 students in Goa to get an egg a week in midday meal||PANAJI: When schools reopen for the new academic year 2020-21, an additional supplement of an egg every week will be added for the first time to the midday meals served to students of primary schools in Goa. Many other states are already supplementing the midday meal with eggs, milk and fruits. The Goa government too had considered serving fruits some years ago through the horticulture corporation, but plans fizzled out as retaining the freshness of the fruit till the time it reaches the student might prove difficult. Now, over 87,000 primary school students will get an egg as part of their midday meal once a week for six months. Until now, only vegetarian meals were served in Goa. The additional expense for serving eggs will be shared by the Centre and the state government, with Goa spending Rs 42 lakh more for the midday meal scheme in 2020-21. “After detailed discussions, the project approval board-midday meal approved the proposal of the state to provide an egg once in a week for six months to 87,500 primary school children at an estimated expenditure of Rs 105 lakh, comprising of Rs 63 lakh as central share and Rs 42 lakh as state share,” states the approval by the central government to the state’s proposal. The review meeting of the midday meal scheme in Goa had to be held by the central government officials with state officials over video conferencing in March this year due to the pandemic. At the review, it was found that 85,386 primary school children had availed the midday meals during 2019-20, or 89% of the total enrolment. At the upper primary school level, 54,477 or 83% children were served the meals. In previous reviews, Goa had been asked to consider adding supplementary nutrition to the midday meals like milk, eggs or fruits. “A total of 26 samples of meals were collected by the Food & Drugs Administration (FDA) from randomly selected schools for testing their energy and protein. Only three samples were found substandard for which necessary remedial actions were taken by the state directorate of education,” Goa informed the central government officials at the review. During previous academic years, state officials had said that schools were facing internet connectivity problems while updating live data to the automated monitoring system on the quality and quantity of midday meals served. Nearly 55% of the schools had provided live updates to the automated system during 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/87000-students-in-goa-to-get-an-egg-a-week-in-midday-meal/articleshow/76823274.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||How did Khajaguda lake shrink? HC quizzes Telangana government on two different maps||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Monday directed the municipal administration department and Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) to explain within two weeks why the extent of Khajaguda lake in Jubilee Hills has shrunk by 1.5 acres in five years (between 2014 and 2019). A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy also directed HMDA to furnish the two maps it had uploaded on its website earlier. The two maps are not available on the HMDA website anymore. The bench earlier appointed advocate MV Pratap Kumar as amicus curiae to assist the court in the matter, while hearing a PIL filed by social activist Lubna Sarwath. While summoning the signed and unsigned maps along with the latest map that was uploaded onto the HMDA website, the judges sought counters from the state government and HMDA and posted the case to July 21 for further hearing. Pratap told the bench that there were allegations of constructions being allowed in the full tank level (FTL) area of the lake,which is also known as Pedda Cheruvu. He brought to the notice of the court about two maps pertaining to this lake uploaded by HMDA onto its website on February 25, 2014. While one map that was signed by the authorities was showing the extent of the lake as 38.004 acres, the second map — unsigned — shows the extent as 38.40 acres. There is also a third map, uploaded by HMDA on September 19, 2019, showing the extent as 37 acres. “The extent of the lake was reduced by nearly 1.5 acres in the last five years,” he said. According to the petitioner, the state government is taking up several work from the western boundary of the lake and up to the Biodiversity junction. Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao had also inspected several work such as laying of roads across lakes, including Khajaguda lake, Lubna said. She alleged that several lakes in the city were being filled in the name of development and urged the court to intervene as several aesthetic heritage rocks are also being blasted for paving the way for laying roads. According to her, the authorities were changing maps of lakes to justify their actions. She brought to the notice of the bench about an earlier order of the high court that imposed a blanket ban on any construction. The high court, in its previous order, had said that it would not allow any deviations at the lake even for the purpose of public purpose, she recalled. “In fact, the chief commissioner of land administration had issued a circular in September 2003 stating that all land covered with water bodies should be included in the revenue department’s prohibition list,” she pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/how-did-khajaguda-lake-shrink-hc-quizzes-t-on-2-different-maps/articleshow/76823270.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Asad takes jibe at PM||Hyderabad: Taking a jibe at PM Narendra Modi, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Monday tweeted his dissatisfaction with the Centre’s handling of the LAC issue and asked why it was trusting the Chinese. “I’ve 3 queries: 1 By ANY chance does “de-escalation” mean “Let China do what it wants?” 2 According to @PMOIndia “na koi ghusa hai, na koi ghusa hua hai”, then why “de-escalation”? 3 Why’re we trusting China when it’s betrayed June 6 agreement, which also promised “de-esclation”?,” he tweeted. He further said that the violence in Delhi was a pogrom. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asad-takes-jibe-at-pm/articleshow/76821677.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||53% of 162 new cases from city’s west||Ahmedabad: The western part of Ahmedabad accounted for 53% of the 162 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the city on Sunday. In all, 87 cases were recorded from the western part. Of the eight deaths registered on Sunday, five were from the west. The West Zone which includes the wards of Sardar Patel Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Ranip, Paldi, and Vasna recorded 33 cases. That was the highest figure from any civic body zone for the day. This was followed by the North West Zone, which reported 30 fresh cases. The North West Zone spans areas such as Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia, and Gota. The South West Zone, which includes Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Maktampura, and Sarkhej, reported 24 cases. Of the five deaths in the west, one each was reported from the West Zone and the South West Zone. Three deaths were reported from the North West Zone. Of the eight deaths overall in the city, one each was from SVP, Sola Civil, and UN Mehta hospitals; and two from Civil Hospital. Three deaths were reported from a private hospital. Currently, the western part of Ahmedabad accounts for 49.22% of the total active cases in the city. Till Monday morning, the city had a total of 3,153 active cases of which 1,552 are from the western part. Of these, the West Zone has 606; the North West Zone, 479; the South West Zone, 467. As for other zones, 228 are from the Central Zone, 450 from the North Zone, 463 from the East Zone, and 460 from the South Zone. On Sunday, 201 patients were discharged. Eighty-six of them were from the West Zone, 46 from the North West Zone, 36 from the South West Zone, 18 from the East Zone, and 12 from the South Zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/53-of-162-new-cases-from-citys-west/articleshow/76822568.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: PMR tally nears 30,000, toll inches closer to 900||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 1,245 positive cases on Monday, pushing its tally to 29,844. Of these, 886 were recorded in the Pune Municipal limits, 258 in Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and 101 in the rural as well as Cantonment areas. The latest addition of cases has pushed up PMC limits’ tally to more than 22,000-mark, while that of PCMC beyond 5,000. The region’s death tally reached up to 890 on Monday with 21 more patients succumbing to the infection in the last 24 hours. PMC health officials said 630 patients were discharged on Monday after being declared cured. About 7,912 patients were admitted to various hospitals and Covid centres for treatment till Monday night. As many as 368 patients were at critical stage, of whom 64 were on ventilator support. The PMC’s swab collection continued to remain over 4,000 even on Monday, with 4,284 samples collected in the last 24 hours. Among the deaths, six patients died at the Sassoon hospital. These inluded a 72-year-old man from Hadapsar, a 79-year-old man from Sangamwadi, a 62-year-old man from Yerawada, a 50-year-old man from Hadapsar, 37-year-old man from Kondhwa, an 82-year-old woman from Solapur Bazaar. A 59-year-old man from Bibvewadi died at Naidu hospital. The patients who died of the Covid-19 at private hospitals include a 67-year-old man from Shaniwar Peth, a 52-year-old man from Mangalwar Peth, a 63-year-old man from Hadapsar, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-tally-nears-30000-toll-inches-closer-to-900/articleshow/76823250.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 7, 2020||Pune||Man under ‘stress’ hangs self at facility in Pune's Kondhwa||PUNE: A 55-year-old Covid-19 patient was found hanging from a wall’s iron hook with a dupatta at one of the rooms in a civic isolation facility at Yewalewadi in Kondhwa, around 10am on Monday. The police said the man — a vegetable vendor residing AT Upper Indiranagar in Bibvewadi — and his 26-year-old son were admitted to the facility on July 4 after they tested positive for the virus. “Around 400 patients from Bibvewadi, Kondhwa and adjoining areas have been admitted to the facility, which is a women’s hostel of a private collage,” senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of the Kondhwa police told TOI. “We searched the entire room, but could not find any suicide note. His son and other persons at the facility told the police that the man was under tremendous stress ever since he had tested positive. We suspect he may have taken the extreme step because of it,” Gaikwad said. Citing investigation, Gaikwad said, the victim, his son and two other patients were admitted in the room, where the death occurred. Around 9.45am on Monday, the centre’s authorities called all the patients to have breakfast. His son and the other two patients proceeded towards the dining area, but the man stayed back and told them he would have his breakfast later. Soon after they left, the man closed the door from inside and took a dupatta and tied it to an iron hook attached to a wall that was meant for hanging clothes. Around half-an-hour later, his son and the other two patients reached the room and found the door shut from inside. They pushed open the door and found the man hanging from the hook. They raised an alarm and the centre’s authorities rushed to the spot, following which the police were called, the officer said. “Our men donned PPE kits and then entered the isolation facility. We followed the protocol and then performed the spot panchnama,” Gaikwad said. A case of accidental death has been registered with the Kondhwa police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-under-stress-hangs-self-at-facility-in-kondhwa/articleshow/76823253.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabadmay start central panel rates in pvt hospitals||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The VK Paul Committee’s recommendations regarding charges for Covid beds in private hospitals should be followed in Noida and Ghaziabad as well, a senior bureaucrat said on Monday. Officials said the UP government may soon implement the same rates across the state.The central government committee, headed by Niti Aayog member VK Paul, was set up by the Union home minister earlier in June. It had recommended that private hospital in Delhi should charge between Rs 8,000 and Rs 10,000 a day for regular isolation beds, Rs 13,000-15,000 a day for ICU beds without ventilator and Rs 15,000-18,000 for ICU beds with ventilator. The rates were yet to be implemented in NCR cities. The suggestion to implement the panel’s recommendations was made during a visit by additional chief secretary (medical education) Rajneesh Dubey to review the Covid preparedness in Noida and Ghaziabad on Monday. Noida and Ghaziabad are the two districts that have reported the maximum cases in UP. In Noida, Dubey, along with nodal officer for the district Narendra Bhooshan, met officials from the health department and the district administration. “We have recommended that the rates be implemented for 60% of the Covid patients in the hospital, 20% of the beds be used for CGHS patients and 20% for normal patients,” said Bhooshan. District magistrate Suhas LY said the recommendations would be reviewed and implemented. To arrest the high attrition rate of healthcare workers in some hospitals, officials said an FIR would be registered against such staff in Noida. The step was taken after Sharda Hospital reported that four doctors had resigned recently, four refused Covid duty and 55 nurses left. “We were told to send a notice to these staff and wait for two days. If they fail to report, a complaint will be filed in the next two days. If they still do not respond, the administration can take steps to arrest them,” a spokesperson for Sharda said. Dubey also asked officials to increase testing and surveillance in both the districts. During the drive going on in Noida and Ghaziabad since July 2, antigen testing has not been able to meet its daily target of 3,000 samples a single day. “We were told that the teams are not enough for antigen testing. We have asked the health department to increase the number of teams from 17 to 40,” Bhooshan said. Earlier in the day, Dubey held a meeting with officials and doctors of the Indian Medical Association in Ghaziabad. He asked the officials to emphasise on tracing and treatment of patients. Dubey also directed the health department to increase the number of lab technicians to fulfil the target of 4,000 tests daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-gzb-may-start-central-panel-rates-in-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/76823260.cms||Snehil Sinha
July 7, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19 patient writes to NMMC against hospital, probe ordered||NAVI MUMBAI: A 30-year-old Covid-19 positive patient from Kopar Khairane wrote to NMMC seeking action against Hiranandani Hospital (Vashi) for allegedly overcharging and for discharging him despite being “symptomatic”. The patient, given a negative test report while being discharged, later tested positive. The hospital denied allegations and said it had followed government protocol. NMMC’s newly-appointed audit panel will probe the matter. The patient, who tested positive, was admitted to Hiranandani on June 20 and was discharged on June 26. “Despite symptoms, I was discharged after seven days and had to pay Rs 1.25 lakh. Repeated complaints were ignored. I took a loan from relatives to pay inflated hospital bills. Another test was done few days later and the report showed positive. I exhausted my savings,” said the patient, undergoing treatment at another hospital now. A Hiranandani Hospital spokesperson said “He had a history of renal stones with recurrence. Covid treatment protocol was initiated and he responded well. He had no fever, cough or breathlessness for three days and maintained good oxygen saturation. He was explained home care norms during discharge and his case was addressed properly.” The spokesperson said, “Patients with mild symptoms are discharged after 10 days and if they do not have fever for three days. Moderately symptomatic patients are discharged if they are asymptomatic for three days or after 10 days of symptom onset. A negative report is not a prerequisite for a patient's discharge and false negative results are not unknown.” Gajanan Kale, Navi Mumbai unit chief of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS), said “We have demanded they get the bill refunded from Hiranandani and that an FIR be filed.” NMMC chief Annasaheb Misal said the audit panel report is expected in few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/covid-patient-writes-to-nmmc-against-hosp-probe-ordered/articleshow/76822596.cms||B B Nayak
July 7, 2020||Goa||14 reappointed nurses at Goa Medical College get job letters||PANAJI: Appointment letters were handed over to 14 nurses attached to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital after the government approved their reappointment. The appointment is contractual and limited for a period of one year. Appointed in 2014-15 against leave vacancy, their services were extended every year. Earlier this year, the Goa government decided to discontinue their services even as it was clear that more nurses will be required in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The issue turned controversial, and subsequently, the government decided to reappoint the nurses. A health department official, said it was wrong in the first place to continue with the services of the 14 nurses even after the leave vacancy period had ended. “The second folly was to discontinue their services when nurses are required,” he added. The cabinet last week granted approval to appoint 30 nurses on contract basis for Covid duties. The nursing staff is required as the state has to expand its covid care facilities in view of the rise in cases since the last fortnight. More than 500 beds are available in covid care centres that have opened across the state, while plans are afoot to add 500 more beds by converting hostels within the campus premises of Goa Engineering College at Farmagudi. Another health official said that the services of nurses are required at covid care centres as well as for regular services in the hospitals. While the priority remains Covid duties, patients arriving with other complaints, especially emergency cases, cannot be turned away, he said. The official said that they may have to appoint more nurses if cases doesn’t show a downward trend this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/14-reappointed-nurses-at-gmc-get-job-letters/articleshow/76823252.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cases on upswing in Visakhapatnam, railway coaches may be pressed into service||VISAKHAPATNAM: Isolation coaches readied by the Waltair division of Indian railways may soon be pressed into service as the number of Covid-19 cases in Visakhapatnam continues to rise. The state government has so far handled cases with infrastructure available to it. While the Railways had prepared the coaches in April, there has been no need to use them till date. However, the district which has registered nearly 1,300 Covid-19 cases, will require a greater number of additional beds soon. Nearly 800 cases are under treatment at present. “The district is registering an average of 50 cases per day. We have 6,000 isolation beds, including hotels. At least 4,000 isolation beds will be required soon keeping in view the future situation. We are currently working on arranging the beds. The isolation beds at the railway station are also being considered,” a heath officer told TOI. When contacted, Waltair divisional railway manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava said the Railways had prepared a set of railway coaches as isolation wards during the lockdown. “We already kept ready all facilities, including a ventilator for each coach. It is the state government’s decision to use them,” Shrivastava told TOI. “With the conversion of around 60 coaches by our Waltair division, nearly 500 isolation beds can be availed on a contingency basis in Visakhapatnam,” said the railway officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cases-on-upswing-rly-coaches-may-be-pressed-into-service/articleshow/76821674.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||T decides to set up PV memorial||Hyderabad: The Telangana government has decided to set up PV Narasimha Rao memorial at PV Gyan Bhoomi on the banks of Hussain Sagar lake, said MP K Keshava Rao, who is heading the committee for centenary celebrations. Rao said that the state has sped up the works and a design for the proposed memorial will be finalised by the end of the month. The panel met finalise on a few planned projects. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-decides-to-set-up-pv-memorial/articleshow/76822565.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Rajgurunagar shuts down after nCoV death, 15 cases||PUNE: A week-long lockdown began on Monday in Rajgurunagar about 45km from Pune, after 15 nCoV cases and a death were recorded in the last seven days. Khed tehsildar and Rajgurunagar’s officiating municipal chief officer Suchitra Amle said only medical, groceries and milk stores shall remain open from 7am to 1pm during the week while hospitals, banks and government offices will function as per their schedule. Amle said, “Our staffers will collect a fine of Rs500 from people found not wearing a mask or spitting. People from seven hotspots are not allowed to work anywhere.” Till June 28, Rajgurunagar had the distinction of being the only municipal town among the 13 in Pune district with no Covid-19 case. After the phased opening of the lockdown and relaxations in the state, the tehsil witnessed increased movement of people to and from Pune and Mumbai. Khed’s incident commander and sub-divisional officer Sanjay Teli told TOI, “All the 15 positive cases in Rajgurunagar are from three families. A cancer patient from one family was visiting a private hospital in Pune where he may have contracted the infection. Thereafter, three members of his family, besides, two of his friends and their family members who came in contact with him, tested positive.” After extensive contact tracing, people have been placed under home quarantine for next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rajgurunagar-shuts-down-after-ncov-death-15-cases/articleshow/76823258.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Noida||Noida GM transferred back to irrigation department||Noida: KK Agarwal, general manager of New Okhla Industrial Development Authority (NOIDA), has been repatriated to his earlier department — irrigation. Holding the charge of five work circles, Agarwal was supervising crucial infrastructure and civil projects in the city, such as the Sector 71 underpass and Bhangel elevated road. However, during a high-level review, it was found that Agarwal was taking too long to execute the civil works, was being negligent, and in some instances gave incorrect reports to senior officials. On the basis of the feedback, Agarwal was sent back to the irrigation department on Monday. He had joined the Noida Authority on December 18, 2018 and had spent around 20 months during his tenure as the general manager of Noida. To streamline supervision of civil works, all the sectors in the town have been divided into 10 work circles. While the first five work circles are under general manager Rajeev Tyagi, the other five were under Agarwal’s jurisdiction. Chief executive officer of the authority, Ritu Maheshwari, would ask the industrial development department to find a replacement for Agarwal. In the meantime, Tyagi is expected to officiate as general manager of the entire 10 work circles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-gm-transferred-back-to-irrigation-department/articleshow/76823266.cms||Shalabh
July 7, 2020||Chennai||Five more elite Tasmac outlets for Chennai, suburbs||CHENNAI: Five new elite Tasmac shops will come up in the city and on its outskirts as the state owned marketing corporation is expanding its footprint in the premium alcohol segment. The elite shops generate revenue of nearly Rs 500 crore a year, of which more than 70% is from outlets operating in Chennai, Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts. Chennai and suburbs currently house 31 elite Tasmac outlets, 10 of which were added to the Chennai Metropolitan Area during the past year. There are 52 elite outlets operating in other parts of the state. The new shops will come up at Sholinganalllur Junction on OMR, link road connecting OMR and ECR at Kelambakkam, Avadi, Kumananchavadi and Chengalpet town. Necessary approvals have been obtained from respective district authorities and the shops will be inaugurated after pandemic-linked restrictions over reopening Tasmac outlets are lifted. The elite shops, selling premium brands of Indian Made Foreign Liquor and IFL besides beer, operate largely in malls and shopping complexes. The outlets sell nearly 200 popular international brands. “The five elite shops that are in the pipeline in and around Chennai will be opened when the regular Tasmac outlets, shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic, reopen for business,” a senior Tasmac official said. The marketing corporation, which is a cash cow for the government, is also contemplating to setup an elite outlet in Cuddalore town, to cash in on the neighbouring Puducherry hiking its previously lower liquor prices. Due to competition from the Union territory, Tasmac did not open an elite shop in Cuddalore town in the past. It has premium shops in Chidambaram in Cuddalore district and adjacent Villupuram district. With the price difference now gone, authorities are looking at seeing it as a potential business area. “The idea is in a preliminary stage though,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/5-more-elite-tasmac-outlets-for-city-suburbs/articleshow/76823259.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
July 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Women of fisherfolk community in Visakhapatnam make masks||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following a rise in Covid-19 cases among members of the fisherfolk community in the city, some organisations are imparting training on making masks to women in the community. The training also includes designing masks with cartoon motifs that can attract children. In the last couple of weeks, areas inhabited by the fisherfol community in the city, including fishing harbour, Jalaripeta, Peda Jalaripeta and Appughar have seen around 250 Covid-19 positive cases. The fishing harbour has been temporarily closed. Awareness is being generated to make people here wear masks. Narava Prakasa Rao, secretary of the organisation Bala Vikas Foundation (BVF) said, “Since the fisherfolk community lives in close proximity to one another, once a positive case is spotted, the virus spreads in no time within the community. We decided to engage the women of the community in stitching masks for their own use and also as a source of livelihood.” To encourage the habit of wearing masks, the NGO Vizag Smiles in collaboration with BVF, has trained five women from the community, who in turn are teaching other women. So far, 25 women have been trained this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/women-of-fisherfolk-community-make-masks/articleshow/76821711.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: No relief for Jalandhar, gets 84 of Punjab’s 208 cases||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded 208 new Covid-19 cases, including five deaths, on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 6,491 and the casualty count to 169. Bulk of the cases were contacts of positive cases and patients co-infected with influenza like illness. Of the total cases reported in the last 24 hours, 148 (71.15%) were from Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Sangrur districts. So far, 4,494 patients have been discharged and 1,828 are still under treatment. Jalandhar contributed the highest number of cases to the tally with 84 people testing positive, including 45 contacts of positive cases. The source of six cases could not be traced by the health team in Jalandhar. There were 25 cases in Ludhiana, 19 in Patiala, 15 in Mohali, 12 in Gurdaspur, 11 in Amritsar, nine in Sangrur, seven in Faridkot, six in Mukstar, five each in Kapurthala and Bathinda, four in Fatehgarh Sahib, three in Pathankot, and one each in Nawanshahr, Mansa and Ferozepur. Among the deceased, three are from Ludhiana, and one each from Sangrur and Muktsar. The death toll is expected to rise as 52 patients are on oxygen support and six on ventilator. 30 cases in NawanshahrDistrict officials in Nawanshhr said 30 people had tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Monday, but the state government’s bulletin on the virus reported just one case. Of the 30 new patients, 27 are related to each other and all of them had attended a marriage function in the last week of June. Nawanshahar MLA Angad Singh’s personal secretary, who was on leave due to this marriage function from June 25, is also among those who tested positive. It is learnt one of his uncles, a chemist in Rahon, tested positive a few days ago. As health department traced his contact history, it came out he attended a marriage function. It is learnt quite a few of those who tested positive are local shopkeepers trades and they might have interacted with many people after attending the marriage function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-relief-for-jalandhar-gets-84-of-pbs-208-cases/articleshow/76824048.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Goa||Upset over loss of promotion benefits for teachers, NCC writes to edu dept||Margao: With as many as 50 NCC teachers standing to lose out on promotion benefits owing to non-inclusion of the National Cadet Corps in the list of organisations imparting in-service training to teachers, the authorities concerned have written to the state director of education to undo the anomaly. NCC teachers who spoke to TOI, requesting anonymity, said that repeated follow-ups on the matter ended up with both the education department and the SCERT (State Council of Educational Research and Training) passing the buck. “NCC training is the toughest in comparison with the training imparted by other organisations. Besides, NCC teachers have to accompany the students selected for various trainings, camps or events held in various parts of the state. Excluding NCC for consideration of in-service training for granting senior/selection scale amounts to grave injustice to NCC teachers,” a NCC teacher said. Commanding officer, I Goa Naval Unit NCC, Captain Dean Mendonca recently wrote to the director of education over the matter. “In spite of the teachers undergoing various trainings and undertaking various activities, their efforts and training are not considered for in-service training courses for senior scales,” he said. Mendonca pointed out in the letter that NCC teachers have to qualify and undergo various rigorous trainings and courses at defence establishments at Officers Training Academy (OTA) at Kamptee and Gwalior. This includes, Mendonca wrote, pre-commission training course for 3 months, refresher training course of 3-4 weeks every 4 to 8 years, attending at least one 10-day NCC camp every year and outstation camps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/upset-over-loss-of-promotion-benefits-for-teachers-ncc-writes-to-edu-dept/articleshow/76823295.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: No relief for Jalandhar, gets 84 of Punjab’s 208 cases||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded 208 new Covid-19 cases, including five deaths, on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 6,491 and the casualty count to 169. Bulk of the cases were contacts of positive cases and patients co-infected with influenza like illness. Of the total cases reported in the last 24 hours, 148 (71.15%) were from Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Sangrur districts. So far, 4,494 patients have been discharged and 1,828 are still under treatment. Jalandhar contributed the highest number of cases to the tally with 84 people testing positive, including 45 contacts of positive cases. The source of six cases could not be traced by the health team in Jalandhar. There were 25 cases in Ludhiana, 19 in Patiala, 15 in Mohali, 12 in Gurdaspur, 11 in Amritsar, nine in Sangrur, seven in Faridkot, six in Mukstar, five each in Kapurthala and Bathinda, four in Fatehgarh Sahib, three in Pathankot, and one each in Nawanshahr, Mansa and Ferozepur. Among the deceased, three are from Ludhiana, and one each from Sangrur and Muktsar. The death toll is expected to rise as 52 patients are on oxygen support and six on ventilator. 30 cases in NawanshahrDistrict officials in Nawanshhr said 30 people had tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Monday, but the state government’s bulletin on the virus reported just one case. Of the 30 new patients, 27 are related to each other and all of them had attended a marriage function in the last week of June. Nawanshahar MLA Angad Singh’s personal secretary, who was on leave due to this marriage function from June 25, is also among those who tested positive. It is learnt one of his uncles, a chemist in Rahon, tested positive a few days ago. As health department traced his contact history, it came out he attended a marriage function. It is learnt quite a few of those who tested positive are local shopkeepers trades and they might have interacted with many people after attending the marriage function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-relief-for-jalandhar-gets-84-of-pbs-208-cases/articleshow/76831536.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Goa||Some Zuarinagar locals might escape: Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha||VASCO: Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha on Monday informed South Goa superintendent of police (SP) Pankaj Kumar Singh that there are chances residents of the Zuarinagar containment zone could hoodwink the police and move out of the area through certain exit points inorder to join duty. Singh, who met Saldanha at her office in Cansaulim, told her that the police would maintain a strict vigil at all entry/exit points. The South Goa SP, along with Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Dessai discussed issued pertaining to the Zuarinagar containment zone. “There is absolutely no possibility of people escaping from here. Police are keeping a close watch. However, we have told the local panchas to show us the spots and necessary action would be taken,” Singh told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/some-zuarinagar-locals-might-escape-saldanha/articleshow/76823257.cms||Ruvina Khan
July 7, 2020||Pune||Asymptomatic patients should be willing to isolate at home: Officials||PUNE: Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said on Monday that asymptomatic individuals should themselves opt for home quarantine if their houses have enough space. Mhaisekar, during a teleconference with the press on Monday, said the strain on hospitals and Covid-care centres could ease if asymptomatic patients — those with no clear symptoms of Covid-19 such as a cold or sustained fever — choose to stay home. He added that all those who wish to self-isolate should adhere to home quarantine rules and use oximeters to monitor oxygen saturation levels. Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram said asymptomatic patients shouldn’t worry about isolating at home. “You don't need to worry, as long as one follows the rules,” he said. The Indian Medical Association too has supported the idea of home quarantine for asymptomatic patients. “Home-based care is the most practical solution as the asymptomatic but infected patients are never completely by themselves. They are being regularly supervised by a doctor through video calls during the isolation, a recent statement from the Hospital Board of India, the IMA's hospital wing had said. “The designated doctor can guide the patient on the correct use of the pulse oximeter device and monitor her or his health status through video calls. If there is a drop in the blood oxygen level, the patient can be immediately shifted to a nearby Covid-care centre or a specialised hospital without delay,” surgeon Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Hospital Board of India, told TOI recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/asymptomatic-patients-should-be-willing-to-isolate-at-home-officials/articleshow/76823264.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Siddhivinayak temple to undergo major repairs||MUMBAI: Siddhivinayak temple in Prabhadevi will undergo structural repairs later this year. An audit has discovered cracks in the building, and the marble cladding has come loose and petals on the dome need reinforcement. Siddhivinayak trust chairman Aadesh Bandekar said, “We issued an e-tender. We had ordered a structural audit few months back, which discovered cracks in the structure. You can see marble pieces missing on the exterior. We receive so many devotees daily, so we must secure the structure properly as their safety is paramount. Repairs will ensure the temple is safe for 30-40 years.” The trustees are yet to determine the cost, timeline and if it will be closed completely or partially during work. Siddhivinayak is inviting companies and individual devotees to contribute material like steel, marble and cement. Bandekar said, “This will reduce cost and help save temple funds, that can be put to better use like giving medical assistance to needy persons.” Repairs consultant Chetan Raikar said, “It was reconstructed about 25 years back. It is an RCC structure and has age-related corrosion damage. The marble cladding is dislodging. It is preventive maintenance that the entire marble will be removed and the frame structure will be repaired for corrosion. The marble will be refitted and cracked marble will be replaced with that of the same geological classification.” Bandekar denied work undertaken 25 years ago was not robust. “The temple is close to the seafront, so there is natural corrosion,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/siddhivinayak-temple-to-undergo-major-repairs/articleshow/76822662.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt in fix over re-exam for Class XII absentees||CHENNAI: Despite completing evaluation of Class XII answer scripts nearly a month ago, the directorate of government examinations (DGE) has not been able to release the results as the state government is undecided about conducting re-exam for 671 students who were absent for the final Class XII exam. Evaluation of Class XII answer scripts was completed on June 10. While the state government had announced that it would conduct re-exam for 34,864 students who failed to appear for the last exam, only 671 among them were found to have missed just the final paper. The others failed to appear for all exams. “The department had planned a retest for the 671 candidates on June 25 but the exam was postponed following the complete lockdown imposed in Chennai and neighbouring districts,” a source said. The government was rethinking its decision to hold a re-exam due to rising Covid cases in Chennai and other districts. “It is yet to decide whether to conduct the re-exam, or withhold the results of these students and release it for others. It is the main cause for the delay,” the source added. Last week, a new issue cropped up as a few hundred Class XII students had arrears in Class XI chemistry subject. The final exam for Class XI students for subjects including chemistry had been postponed and was cancelled subsequently. It was announced that students would be awarded marks based on their quarterly, half-yearly marks and attendance. “Collecting records including answer scripts, mark registers and progress reports for Class XI subjects started just now. It will take four or five days to complete,” a district education official said. Officials concerned have meanwhile, used the delay to verify the Class XII results multiple times. “Parents and students are anxious to know the results, so they can plan their higher education. They have been waiting for more than three months now. The state government can conduct a supplementary exam for the 671 students after releasing the results,” said N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tambaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-in-fix-over-re-exam-for-class-xii-absentees/articleshow/76823265.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu govt in fix over re-exam for Class XII absentees||CHENNAI: Despite completing evaluation of Class XII answer scripts nearly a month ago, the directorate of government examinations (DGE) has not been able to release the results as the state government is undecided about conducting re-exam for 671 students who were absent for the final Class XII exam. Evaluation of Class XII answer scripts was completed on June 10. While the state government had announced that it would conduct re-exam for 34,864 students who failed to appear for the last exam, only 671 among them were found to have missed just the final paper. The others failed to appear for all exams. “The department had planned a retest for the 671 candidates on June 25 but the exam was postponed following the complete lockdown imposed in Chennai and neighbouring districts,” a source said. The government was rethinking its decision to hold a re-exam due to rising Covid cases in Chennai and other districts. “It is yet to decide whether to conduct the re-exam, or withhold the results of these students and release it for others. It is the main cause for the delay,” the source added. Last week, a new issue cropped up as a few hundred Class XII students had arrears in Class XI chemistry subject. The final exam for Class XI students for subjects including chemistry had been postponed and was cancelled subsequently. It was announced that students would be awarded marks based on their quarterly, half-yearly marks and attendance. “Collecting records including answer scripts, mark registers and progress reports for Class XI subjects started just now. It will take four or five days to complete,” a district education official said. Officials concerned have meanwhile, used the delay to verify the Class XII results multiple times. “Parents and students are anxious to know the results, so they can plan their higher education. They have been waiting for more than three months now. The state government can conduct a supplementary exam for the 671 students after releasing the results,” said N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tambaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/govt-in-fix-over-re-exam-for-class-xii-absentees/articleshow/76831617.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu govt in fix over re-exam for Class XII absentees||CHENNAI: Despite completing evaluation of Class XII answer scripts nearly a month ago, the directorate of government examinations (DGE) has not been able to release the results as the state government is undecided about conducting re-exam for 671 students who were absent for the final Class XII exam. Evaluation of Class XII answer scripts was completed on June 10. While the state government had announced that it would conduct re-exam for 34,864 students who failed to appear for the last exam, only 671 among them were found to have missed just the final paper. The others failed to appear for all exams. “The department had planned a retest for the 671 candidates on June 25 but the exam was postponed following the complete lockdown imposed in Chennai and neighbouring districts,” a source said. The government was rethinking its decision to hold a re-exam due to rising Covid cases in Chennai and other districts. “It is yet to decide whether to conduct the re-exam, or withhold the results of these students and release it for others. It is the main cause for the delay,” the source added. Last week, a new issue cropped up as a few hundred Class XII students had arrears in Class XI chemistry subject. The final exam for Class XI students for subjects including chemistry had been postponed and was cancelled subsequently. It was announced that students would be awarded marks based on their quarterly, half-yearly marks and attendance. “Collecting records including answer scripts, mark registers and progress reports for Class XI subjects started just now. It will take four or five days to complete,” a district education official said. Officials concerned have meanwhile, used the delay to verify the Class XII results multiple times. “Parents and students are anxious to know the results, so they can plan their higher education. They have been waiting for more than three months now. The state government can conduct a supplementary exam for the 671 students after releasing the results,” said N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tambaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/govt-in-fix-over-re-exam-for-class-xii-absentees/articleshow/76831618.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ghorpadi neighbourhood registers spike in Covid-19 infection||PUNE: The Bheemnagar slum pocket in Ghorpadi, which has registered 421 Covid-19 cases in the last 13 days, has now been sealed. The first cases in the area — part of the Dhole Patil Road ward — emerged on June 23. City health officials said they are now carrying out screening and contact tracing measures across the slum. Dayanand Sonkamble, the assistant commissioner of the Dhole Patil Road ward office, said: “There has been a significant surge in Covid-19 cases since June 23. Over 1,600 residents have been traced and tested so far. We are also using the newly procured rapid antigen test kit to screen the population.” The PMC has been keeping up the doorstep delivery of ration kits to residents here. Along with the supply of essentials, officials said they have been distributing masks, hand sanitizers and other hygiene products among households. “We have started surveys to identify high-risk individuals, including the elderly and those with comorbid conditions. Their health is being monitored daily,” Sonkamble said. A sizeable number of the slum's households also rely on community toilets. Sonkamble said these toilets are now being disinfected many times over a single day. But health activist Sanjay Dabhade insisted the PMC provide the area with mobile toilets. “The community toilets of the slum are in bad shape. The civic body should deploy mobile toilets in the area to address this problem,” Dabhade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ghorpadi-neighbourhood-registers-spike-in-infection/articleshow/76823262.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 7, 2020||Noida||Noida: Waste plant on plot near temple stirs row||NOIDA: The construction of a waste management facility by the Noida Authority adjacent to ‘Kalibari’ in Sector 26 has become a point of contention between the temple’s committee and the authority. The waste management facility has compost machines, which segregate and remediate the bulk of residential waste. Despite the committee’s objection, the Noida Authority, which has set up similar plants in sectors 15A, 52, 30, 100 said that it is in compliance to solid waste management rules (SWM) 2016. “Currently, 16 such machines are operational in Noida while 11 are under installation process,” said officer on special duty (OSD) Noida Authority, Indu Prakash. While a vacant, open plot or a green belt can be utilised to set up such a structure, the RWA of the sector said no such land is available in the sector other than the plot adjacent to the temple complex. “A bio-gas waste management facility is being created on the land adjacent to Kalibari temple in Sector 26. Such facilities are not desirable in residential areas as they are prone to health hazards because they emanate poisonous gases such as methane and hydrogen sulphide,” said Rajat Banerjee, a member of the temple committee. While a letter from Ashok Arya, president Noida Bengali Cultural Association (NBCA) Noida Kalibari, has been issued to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and NGT chairman on the matter, the NBCA members maintain that the plot where the waste plant is coming is shown as ‘park’ in master plan of the lease document of Noida Authority. However, the plot has been maintained by the temple complex where it houses its annual Durga puja celebrations.“This would be detrimental to residents as well as employees of a bank located adjacent to the plot,” said Banerjee. He added that a petition on the matter has also been submitted to Noida CEO Ritu Maheshwari by NBCA. “The plant, which is under construction, is merely 10 metres away from the temple complex. It flouts all CPCB and NGT norms,” said Banerjee. The claim was denied by Noida authority as well as by the RWA. Mahendra P Singh, deputy director horticulture Noida Authority, said the facility is at least 70 metres from the temple complex. Sector 26 RWA president Govind Sharma said the facility cannot be shifted elsewhere for lack of space. “While all norms of SWM 2016 are being followed, the facility is set up in this plot as it’s vacant and we do not have any vacant plot or green belt as required,” said Sharma. The plant, which is set up by Noida authority on 95% subsidy nad 5% cost borne by the RWA, has come up at a cost of Rs 40 lakh. “We have already paid our end of Rs 2 lakh to the authority, which is setting up similar structures across Noida in compliance with SWM 2016. All residents are segregating their waste and disposing to the waste collector, which will bring it to this facility for further remediation,” said Sharma, adding that the manure from remediation will be used to help maintain the sector’s greenery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/waste-plant-on-plot-near-temple-stirs-row/articleshow/76823287.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||As cases rise in Telangana, so does demand for plasma donors||HYDERABAD: As the count of coronavirus cases continues to see a sharp rise in the state, an increasing number of patients and their family members are seen taking to social media to connect with plasma donors. Many in need of plasma infusion are floating messages with details of the patient’s blood group, name of the hospital where he/she is admitted and contact details. The therapy involves the infusion of plasma, from a recovered Covid-19 patient, into a recovering patient as a source of antibodies. One such message doing rounds on messaging group reads, “Please share until we find a donor. Urgent – Plasma needed of Covid recovered patient to save a life. The donor must have tested negative for 24 days for coronavirus prior to today. (sic)” Another post on social media, from Vamsi, read, “EMERGENCY: anyone who has recovered from Covid-19 or know someone who can donate plasma. My mother is in a critical condition on a ventilator in Yashoda hospital, Malakpet Hyderabad. (sic)” These SOS messages from family members have helped many. Among them is a senior employee in Telangana’s Industries department, who was recently tested positive. He found a plasma donor after his daughter sought help on social media. “Upon reaching KIMS Begumpet his oxygen levels dropped. He was shifted to the ICU immediately and was put on a ventilator. We are currently in a helpless situation,” the daughter had tweeted, while requesting municipal minister KT Rama Rao to help her in arranging for a blood donor for plasma therapy. A donor was found about an hour later. While some are able to benefit by posting their requests on social media, experts say that there is a dire need for creating a platform exclusively for this purpose where donors and recipients can coordinate. “We have been facing several issues in getting plasma for coronavirus treatment. There is an urgent necessity for government to launch a plasma bank similar to one which was recently inaugurated in Delhi,” Dr Kishore Raju, consultant pulmonologist at Prathima hospitaltold TOI. “Anyone who has fully recovered from Covid-19 and is free of symptoms for 14 days can donate plasma,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-cases-rise-so-does-demand-for-plasma-donors/articleshow/76822672.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Mother-son duo assault doctor in Hyderabad, booked||HYDERABAD: A mother and son were booked for allegedly manhandling a doctor at the Asian Institute of Gastroenterology in Somajiguda on Monday. The son was taken into custody while the mother, who suffers from blood pressure complications, is a patient at the hospital. Sherin Fathima (54) had come to the hospital on Monday morning on a wheelchair when Dr Pavan Kumar went to inspect her. Fathima and her son Khaja Aafaq Ahmed allegedly got into an argument with the doctor over masks and sanitisers. “When the doctor asked them to take up the issue with administration, they started verbally abusing the doctor,” said a police official. The doctor, in his complaint, alleged that Fathima slapped him while he was being beaten by her son who also tore his PPE and safety gear. A case was registered against the mother and son at Panjagutta police station under relevant IPC sections and Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions Act, 2008. Khaja Aafaq Ahmed, a degree student, was taken into custody from his home in Tolichowki later on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mother-son-duo-assault-doc-booked/articleshow/76822661.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Consumer gets Rs 25 lakh power bill; revised to Rs 2,000 after correction||SECUNDERABAD: A north Lalaguda resident was in for a rude shock when an unusually high electricity bill came knocking on his door, recently. While complaints about excessively high bills, being issued by the Telangana State Southern Company Limited (TSSPDCL), have been pouring in since last month, A Krishna Murthy clearly didn’t imagine that he’d be asked to cough up Rs 25.11 lakh for his home! And that too for not using anything more than three fans, three tube lights and an air-conditioner. As per his bill (Unique Service Number: 100293954), generated by TSSPDCL’s Padma Rao Nagar circle, Murthy was charged Rs 25,11,467 for his electricity consumption spanning 122 days (between March and July). Fortunately for the consumer, help came calling when his plight caught the attention of deputy speaker T Padma Rao after the bill was widely circulated across multiple platforms. Rao noticed it and alerted his staff to look into the issue on priority. “When we inspected the consumer’s premises at Lalaguda on Monday and sent the electricity metre to our MRT lab in Erragadda for testing, we found that the abnormally high bill had been issued to the consumer due to defective metre,” said B Balu, AD (E), TSSPDCL, Padmarao Nagar circle. He added: “We have replaced the defective metre and fixed a new metre at the premises. Now, based on the consumption and connected load of the service, a revised bill of Rs 2,095, has been issued to him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/consumer-gets-rs-25l-power-bill-revised-to-rs-2k-after-correction/articleshow/76822681.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Convicted of rape, driver gets 10-year jail in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 22-year-old driver on Monday was sentenced to 10 years of imprisonment by a local court for the rape of a minor girl. After the trial, the first additional metropolitan session’s judge court in Nampally found the driver guilty of raping the 14-year-old girl at her Saidabad house on June 20, 2017. While awarding the 10-year jail term, the judge also imposed a fine of Rs 12,000 on the convict. “The convict also threatened the girl to not reveal about the assault to others. He was found guilty of rape and criminal intimidation and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years,” additional public prosecutor K Pratap Reddy said. The girl had informed childline workers that her mother was an alcoholic and whenever she stepped out of the house for work, the driver — who was their neighbour — would sneak into their home and rape her.  Based on a complaint, Saidabad police had arrested the accused under sections 376(2)(i) and 506 of the IPC and section 3 r/w 4 of Pocso Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/convicted-of-rape-driver-gets-10-yr-jail/articleshow/76822695.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Home isolation near impossible for Hyderabad’s poor||HYDERABAD: While medical experts are instructing asymptomatic Covid-19 patients to quarantine themselves at home, many families living in densely populated areas and in packed houses have no means to adhere to this guideline. Swathi, a resident of MS Maqta, stays with her in-laws and three children in a compact room which includes a kitchen and a bathroom. “If one of us gets infected, there is hardly any space for isolation. As the affected person needs a separate room, bathroom and utensils, home quarantine is next to impossible for people like us,” said Swathi, who is concerned over the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city. Scores of families with over 10 members are staying in one-room accommodations. “Only people with symptoms are being admitted. Gandhi Hospital is not admitting positive asymptomatic patients. If these type of patients don’t have enough space at home, they are kept for only four days. If they don’t show any symptoms then they are sent home,” said a junior doctor at Gandhi Hospital adding that asymptomatic patients should be kept under strict home isolation. “Asymptomatic patients need to be isolated. Their family members should take all precautions like physical distancing, wearing masks,” he added. With hospitals struggling to accommodate people, activist Yuvneshwari K, who works with slum dwellers in Miyapur says the poor are facing a challenging situation. “I know families with 10 to 15 members who are staying in a house as big as a kitchen of an apartment. Some hospitals are providing isolation rooms at a cost of Rs 1,000 per day. But where will the underprivileged get that kind of money?” said Yuvneshwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/home-isolation-near-impossible-for-citys-poor/articleshow/76822653.cms||Aditi Mallick
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||In grip of coronavirus scare, gated societies in Hyderabad still enforce curbs||HYDERABAD: Even with Unlock 2.0 in progress, several gated communities in the city are yet to lift restrictions with many residents, who earn their secondary income by taking tuitions or selling baked goods or other items, not being allowed to resume their business. This, despite both buyers and sellers staying in the same community. “The number of Covid-19 cases across the city has seen a steep rise after the unlock process began. So, it has become crucial for societies to have restrictions in place in order to protect outselves,” said Nanda Kishore K, a resident of a gated community in Nadinguda, which has more than 2,000 flats. “Even if we do allow movement between blocks inside the community, the chances of transmission of the virus can increase,” Kishore added. According to the residents, there are about 20 to 25 tuition teachers in the community, of which hardly two or three have started taking online classes. About 30 households in the society are into the food business. The association members from various gated communities said that the state should announce that individual gated communities or resident associations can have restrictions in place so that people take guidelines seriously. “Starting from July 6, we have re-imposed restrictions and have closed common areas, game zones and are asking residents to not move unnecessarily. But rarely does anybody listen to us. Their argument is that the government has already started the unlock process,” said Sai Krishna, the general secretary of a well-known gated community in Chandanagar. “In fact, we have stopped people from selling meal boxes inside the community and also fined one of the households Rs 5, 000 for violating norms. Now, they are secretly selling the meal boxes within the community,” said Krishna, adding that a little help from the government will help gated communities contain the spread of coronavirus. Meanwhile, few communities, are encouraging teachers, who are also residents of the same communities, to take online classes — be it dance, music, or guitar, so that children can indulge in their hobbies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-grip-of-virus-scare-gated-societies-still-enforce-curbs/articleshow/76822718.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Travelling to or through Punjab? e-registration is a must for you||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has made the self e-registration process mandatory for each road traveller entering or transiting through the state from Monday midnight. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had earlier ruled out dilution of the 14-day mandatory home quarantine for domestic entrants because of the high risk posed by those coming from Delhi or the national capital region, in particular. The Punjab government has now strongly advised road travellers entering or transiting through the state to self-register either through Cova App or through a weblink https://cova.punjab.gov.in/registration before embarking on the journey. The online self-registration would help the travellers in avoiding any inconvenience due to crowding and long queues at the Punjab border checkpoints. Those asymptomatic travellers who are entering Punjab and not merely transiting it will have to undergo self-quarantine at their homes for 14 days. During the quarantine period they are required to report their medical status daily either by calling 112 or through the Cova App. Whereas, for the symptomatic passengers, the state health department would give appropriate instructions at the check-point. All the relevant details about the visitors or residents coming into Punjab would be shared with the concerned health authorities and police stations through a real-time alert system. Thereafter, the concerned police station would keep a regular check both through physical and technical means (geo-fencing) on the incoming visitors at their given addresses for their protection and the health safety of other people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/travelling-to-or-through-punjab-e-registration-is-a-must-for-you/articleshow/76824062.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Mangaluru||74 new Covid-19 cases on coast, 2 fatalities in Dakshina Kannada||Mangaluru/ Udupi: In a minor break from the seemingly rampant surge, fresh positive cases of Covid-19 in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada settled for a double digit, with the districts combining for 74 new cases. Udupi accounted for 40 of these new cases, taking the total number of such cases there to 1,362, and the 34 cases in DK pushed the total to 1,276. DK also recorded two fresh fatalities to the pandemic, taking the toll to 25. “The two who succumbed to coronavirus include a 52-year old resident of Mangaluru, who was admitted to the ICU of district Wenlock Hospital on July 2 with co-morbid conditions that included high blood pressure, diabetes, pneumonia and heart ailment,” DK DC Sindhu B Rupesh, said, adding the other victim was a 62-year-old man, who died at a private hospital. He was admitted there on June 27. The district health authorities also discharged 30 patients from Wenlock Hospital on the day that they also shifted six patients from the hospital ICU to the general ward after they responded to treatment. At present, 3 patients with co-morbid conditions are undergoing treatment at the ICU, the DC said, adding the district has seen the discharge of 584 patients so far, leaving 667 active cases for treatment at the hospital. The DC gave the break-up of the fresh cases: 17 primary contacts, nine cases of influenza-like illness, one case each of severe acute respiratory infection, sample collected after surgery, pre-surgery sample (ruptured ectopic pregnancy, four pre-surgery samples before delivery and one a community random sample. The percentage of total positive cases against the district’s population of 20,86,649, as on date, stands at 0.06. Udupi DC G Jagadeesha said the total positive cases in the district is 1,362. Of them, 1,154 have been discharged, leaving 205 active cases. With results of 1,640 swab samples awaited, the DC said the administration has set up 14 empowered teams to monitor different aspects of pandemic management in the district, including monitoring the arrival of patients at railway station, home quarantine and health of new mothers and their babies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/74-new-covid-19-cases-on-coast-2-fatalities-in-dakshina-kannada/articleshow/76822545.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 7, 2020||Pune||Collector warns of ‘lockdowns’ if people violate mask, social distancing rules||Pune: District collector Naval Kishore Ram warned on Monday that the administration would have no choice but enforce strict lockdowns in areas where people ignore Covid-19 precaution rules or guidelines. The collector issued the warning while reiterating that he is likely to consider bigger containment zones to improve monitoring of cases. “While the state has the prerogative to declare a lockdown, we can decide to remove relaxations in an area that has been registering a spike in cases. We will also implement strict measures if people are seen not observing precautions such as social distancing and use of masks,” Ram said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collector-warns-of-lockdowns-if-people-violate-mask-social-distancing-rules/articleshow/76823267.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Private medical colleges in Hyderabad await clarity on Covid patients’ treatment, expenses||HYDERABAD: While the state government had announced nearly two months back that 21 private medical colleges will begin treating coronavirus cases, a lack of clarity between the government and medical colleges has resulted in a delay of services. Managements of medical colleges said they want the government to bear the expenditure incurred for treatment while they will provide staff and beds. However, of the 21 medical colleges, only few in the city suburbs which are affiliated to private corporate hospitals have begun treatment. Reliable sources told TOI that these hospitals were charging patients directly. This, even as the government had announced that it would provide personal protective equipment (PPE), masks, drugs and other essentials from its side. Barring two private medical colleges, the rest are still waiting for the government to provide clarity on the expenditure it will bear. While the government has assured private medical colleges of free supply of essentials, sources in the government said that treatment in some facilities had not started as some of these colleges had been demanding Rs 16,000 per patient for treatment. “Initially, private medical colleges were supposed to make 10,000 beds available for treatment of Covid-19 patients,” said a highly placed source in government. He also said that with case load now hovering around the 25,000 mark, it was time they began services. There is, however, no clarity yet on when medical colleges which are affiliated to private hospitals will begin treatment. These institutions will only be treating mild and asymptomatic patients while severe cases will be directed to government hospitals. When contacted, state nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sravan said, “We have asked private medical colleges to be ready with beds at any time. Some of them will begin operations soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/private-med-colleges-await-clarity-on-covid-patients-treatment-expenses/articleshow/76822353.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Private lab in Hyderabad to begin Covid testing soon||HYDERABAD: Vijaya Diagnostic Centre, the private lab which was doing Covid testing, the results of which were kept in abeyance, will begin the testing in the coming few days again. Speaking to TOI, its managing director S Suprita Reddy said that they have tested 12,000 samples so far, of which 4,500 samples had tested positive. “As a private lab, we are supposed to enter the details of all the samples which test negative and positive in he government portal. Since we wanted to provide details of those who tested positive first, we had uploaded only the positive cases,” she said. Reddy said they had to take a call since the coronavirus positive patients have to admit themselves to the hospitals based on their test reports. The reports of some of the tested patients which were kept in abeyance are deemed to be positive, she said and they are all receiving medical treatment. “The positivity rate is 31% of all the samples we had tested. The Covid-19 positivity rate is high as we are yet to upload details of the samples which came negative,” she said. Suprita said they are now going to give a break-up of all the samples which had tested negative. “Once we increase the rate of uploading of our reports, we will resume collecting samples and testing,” she added. She denied any pressure or facing lack of coordination from the government. “We are not facing any coordination issues. Cooperation between the government and our lab is smooth,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-lab-to-begincovid-testing-soon/articleshow/76822700.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Volunteers trained to take up last rites for Covid victims||Mangaluru: Over the last few days, media is abuzz with disturbing videos of how coronavirus victims are ill-treated during the last rites. Besides this, reports of locals opposing the burial/ cremation of victims are also on the rise. In an attempt to ensure that the last rites of such victims are conducted with dignity, PFI has trained 30 volunteers in the city. PFI state secretary A K Ashraf told TOI: “With three teams in Mangaluru, we are hoping to reach out the needs across the district. Volunteers have been told about the dos and don’ts of handling bodies. A similar programme was conducted across India, including Maharashtra, where families reportedly would not turn up to claim the body. This is where our volunteers chip in to do the needful.” Following Covid-related deaths in Dakshina Kannada, national member Ashraf, along with Dr Naveen Kumar V, imparted the training, and the same was given to volunteers in Udupi recently. “We hope to set up teams of 30 members each in every district. We are reaching out to the administrations of all districts seeking permission to conduct training,” Ashraf said. Dr Kumar, dermatologist at the district Wenlock Hospital and the resource person for the training programmes, said they follow the guidelines issued by the central government on dead body management. “Since Muslims do burial and it calls for good number of men for the last rites, the volunteers will assist in the process. Training is imparted on how to assist, how to wear PPEs, and the like. So far, around 150 people from different organisations have been trained in Mangaluru,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/volunteers-trained-to-take-up-last-rites-for-covid-victims/articleshow/76822621.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Konkani girls from Kochi, B’luru say aye to armed forces||Mangaluru: Two beneficiaries of Vishwa Konkani Student Scholarship Fund (VKSSF), set up by World Konkani Centre a decade ago, have carved a niche for themselves in the armed forces. While the scholars in the past decade have branched out into various areas, Reshmi Gopinath Bhat and Megha N Shenoy have opted for the rigours of the armed forces. Reshmi, daughter of Sobha and Gopinath, employee at Kochi Tirumala Devaswam Temple, graduated from the 94th Aeronautical Engineering Course at Air Force Technical College (Jalahalli, Bengaluru) on May 29. Dr Megha, daughter of E D Narasimha Shenoy and Gomathi Shenoy, Bengaluru, has been selected as assistant medical officer in Border Security Force (BSF). She is currently serving at one of the Covid facilities of BSF. Reshmi, electronic and communication engineer from Adi Shankara Institute of Engineering and Technology (ASIET, Kalady, Kerala), was placed in aerospace domain at TCS for three years. She was the lone woman from among 16 graduates who completed the aeronautical engineering course. The grads have undergone 74-week training which covered 22 weeks at AFA Hyderabad in aeronautical engineering, and field-related skills. Dr Megha, an MBBS graduate from Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS), served as medical officer at a primary health care centre in Mandya district during her rural service stint. While working there, she applied for the armed forces. Both the girls have been active in the alumni association of the scholarship programme. Corporate social leader T V Mohandas Pai, who instituted VKSSF, the means-cum-merit scholarship to help talented yet economically backward students across Konkani-speaking communities progress in life, said the example that Reshmi and Megha have set has raised the bar for future crop of VKSSF scholars. “While their community, these scholars have also set out on the path of serving the country in their respective areas,” Pai noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/konkani-girls-from-kochi-bluru-say-aye-to-armed-forces/articleshow/76821518.cms||---
July 7, 2020||India||Fearing virus, man shuts doors on wife||BENGALURU: A 38-year-old woman who returned to the city from Chandigarh last week was denied entry into her house by her husband, fearing she would infect him and their 10-year-old son with coronavirus. Rakshita (name changed), who was separated from her family for three months because of the lockdown while she was in her hometown, returned to her residence expecting a warm welcome. Her husband’s reaction to her arrival, however, stunned her. He demanded she quarantine herself elsewhere for 14 days and also furnish a Covid-negative certificate before stepping inside the house. With all doors shut and nowhere else to go, she approached Varthur Police seeking help. Personnel from the police station accompanied her to the house only to find it locked. Before leaving the spot, the cops asked her to find shelter at a relative’s place or to call up after her husband returned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fearing-virus-man-shuts-doors-on-wife/articleshow/76824361.cms||Kiran Parashar
July 7, 2020||Lucknow||All diploma courses to be of one-year duration, says Lucknow University||LUCKNOW: All the diploma courses offered by Lucknow University will now be of one year, while earlier the duration of some courses was two years. In order to bring uniformity in diploma and certificate courses offered by various departments, LU has drafted new guidelines for courses and sent them to all departments on Monday. Diploma courses have been divided in two categories. In the first category, any certificate, diploma and PG diploma course with 30 or more seats will be allowed to run only if a minimum of 20 seats are filled. The fees for such courses will mandatorily be a minimum of Rs 18,000 per semester. In case of specialized diploma, certificate and PG diplomas having less than 30 seats, the course will be allowed only if a minimum of 15 seats are filled. The minimum fees for these courses will be Rs 37,000 per semester. And if the university gets University Grants Commission approval for running the course online, the minimum fees will be Rs 18,000 per semester and minimum seats will be 30. However, the students pursuing diploma courses will not be counted as regular students, but will be given permission to use e-resources and reading room facility. The government employees, defence personnel and corporate-sponsored candidates taking admission in diploma courses will have to shell out more money than others. The development fee, which is part of the total, will be Rs 19,000, significantly higher than Rs 4,000 for other candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/all-diploma-courses-to-be-of-one-year-duration-says-lu/articleshow/76823277.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||Identify new hot spots, CP asks cops||Kolkata: On a drive to find out how a couple of areas in south Kolkata ended up as Covid hot spots, Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma instructed cops to ensure the barracks were isolated from the police station areas as much as possible and also ensure social distancing is maintained on the streets. The CP discussed the issues on Monday when he reached Golf Green for the south suburban division’s crime conference.In the evening, Labazar stated that it has decided to enforce a number of measures based on the commissioner’s orders. “Keeping in mind the spurt in Covid cases, all OCs should do data analysis to identify hot spots and which areas are to be made containment zones. DCs, in consultation with special CP and joint CP (headquarters), will take up inclusion of more areas, which are heavily affected. Strong physical-distancing measures, proper sanitization and access control must be done,” said a message from commissioner Sharma. During the meeting, the CP also wanted to know about the possible reasons of Covid spurt in a few police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/identify-new-hot-spots-cp-asks-cops/articleshow/76822635.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||Use video to hold GBs, meetings: NMC to office bearers||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided not to hold any physical general body and other consultative committee meetings. In a notification, NMC said the decision is a precautionary measure against the Covid-19 spread in civic offices. Deputy municipal commissioner and in-charge NMC secretary Ranjana Lade said, “General body meeting or any other subject committee meetings in NMC should be convened only if necessary. Instead of holding meetings that require physical attendance, they should be conducted through videoconferencing.” However, the administration has allowed three meetings convened by mayor Sandip Joshi on Tuesday (July 7). Joshi will be reviewing incomplete cement roads, assessing problems in starting new academic sessions in NMC schools, civic body’s preparedness for the Ganesh festival and smart parking in Ramdaspeth area. On June 12, the civic administration had first allowed mayor Sandip Joshi to convene a general body meeting convened after a gap of three months. Two days later, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe advised the cancellation of the meeting. This was rejected by the mayor. Mundhe, who was opposed to the meet, then sought advice of state government if the general body meeting could be convened when there was spike in positive coronavirus patients in the city. The government gave a green signal to hold the meeting by adhering to social distancing norms and other mandatory precautions. The meeting went on for five days during which political parties grilled Mundhe on many aspects. Joshi was not available for comments on the ‘videoconferencing’ decision taken by NMC. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke said that the civic administration should share the preparations with the panel members. “I have written a letter to the secretary seeking information on how it will prepare minutes of such meetings and how other procedures of the standing committee will be followed on video conferencing,” he said. Leader of opposition and senior Congress corporator Tanaji Wanve said NMC is following instructions of Maharashtra government. “The government had taken the decision following spike in coronavirus patients across the state especially in cities like Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad and Nagpur,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/use-video-to-hold-gbs-meetings-nmc-to-office-bearers/articleshow/76834179.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 7, 2020||Shimla||Covid-19: In Himachal Pradesh, 14 more infected||SHIMLA: Fourteen persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Monday, taking the state’s tally for the virus to 1,077. Also, 26 patients recovered in the state, with which the number people who have defeated coronavirus in the rose to 750. Among the new patients, four are from Chamba, three from Solan, two each from Hamirpur and Kangra, and one each from Mandi, Una and Bilaspur. Patients who have recovered include 11 from Kangra, nine from Hamirpur, two each from Una and Bilaspur, and one each from Chamba and Una. At the moment, 303 cases are active in the state, 13 have migrated out of state, nine have died of Covid-19, and two patients died of reasons other than coronavirus. Among districts, Kangra has reported the highest number of cases to date, 290. There are 74 active cases in the district. In Hamirpur district, 267 cases have been reported so far and 69 cases of them are active. In Una, 127 cases have been reported so far and 29 of them are active. Of the 119 cases reported in Solan, 38 are still active. A total of 89,305 persons had been tested for Covid-19 and 88,223 of them were negative. Results of five samples were still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/in-himachal-14-more-infected/articleshow/76824077.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Lucknow||Three more cops suspended after CDR scanning||Kanpur: After analysing the call details of 115 cops who were under scanner for their alleged complicity with gangster Vikas Dubey, three more policemen were suspended in Kanpur on Monday. It is alleged that they were in regular contact with Vikas Dubey, the prime accused in the killings of eight cops in Bikru village under the limits of Chaubeypur police station of the district on Friday. Chaubeypur SHO Vinay Tiwari is already under suspension. SSP Dinesh Kumar Prabhu said that sub-inspectors Kunwar Pal and KK Sharma, and constable Rajeev of Chaubeypur police station had been suspended. “The action as taken after their role was found to be suspicious during the investigation. Their calls detail records (CDR) were scanned after which they were placed under suspension,” the SSP added. Police sources said the three along with SHO Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari are under investigation for allegedly leaking information to gangster Dubey about the police raid on Thursday night. Officials further said apart from four, 30 more policemen are under scanner for their alleged links with the gangster. To recall, IG (Kanpur range) Mohit Agarwal, had stated that at least three more policemen were suspected to be in touch with the gangster and investigations were on to corroborate the same. “If the charges against them are found to be true, not only will they face police action, but also be terminated from service,” Agarwal had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/three-more-cops-suspended-after-cdr-scanning/articleshow/76823296.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||65-year-old man is Ytl city’s 1st Covid casualty||Yavatmal: With one more person succumbing to the coronavirus infection on Monday, the death toll in the district has gone up to 14 till date. Eight new Covid cases were also reported on Monday which took the number of total cases to 75. Monday’s casualty — 65-year-old man — is the first death from the city. Among the eight tested positive today are two from the city (including the deceased) and six from Digras, three men and three women. The district administration has now sealed five localities again and strict restrictions have been imposed on movement of people, particularly people above 65 years and children. In the last 24 hours, the GMCH received 87 test reports of which 79 are negative. The GMCH has sent 5,982 swab samples till date of which 5,427 tested negative. A total of 555 reports are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/65-year-old-man-is-ytl-citys-1st-covid-casualty/articleshow/76834199.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Noida||Half of Noida’s Covid cases have come in just two weeks||NOIDA: A weekly analysis of Covid numbers in Noida shows that about half of the district’s total cases have been reported in the past fortnight. Between June 22 and July 5, 1,346 people have been found to have Covid in Noida, which accounts for almost 49% of the total cases (2,765) reported in the district so far. Noida has the highest number of Covid cases in the state, followed by Ghaziabad. The first 1,400 cases in Noida had come in 16 weeks, while the other half was added in the past two weeks. The last week, between June 22 and 28, saw the biggest spike in cases — 732, which means an average of more than 100 patients a day. Residents called for stricter containment measures, such as better contact tracing, early isolation and sampling. “Contact tracing and random tests are a major cause for concern across Noida. In Arun Vihar, several cases have been reported, but no contact tracing is happening here. They are neither putting barricades around the house where a person has tested positive nor a poster,” said Colonel Shashi Vaid (retired), president of the Arun Vihar RWA that covers sectors 27, 28 and 37. According to him, Arun Vihar has so far reported 49 cases, of which 12 are active. Officials attributed the rising numbers to easing of restrictions. They said people should come forward to get themselves tested if they develop symptoms as early detection is the key to keeping the fatality rate low. “The number of cases will increase since testing has been scaled up. We are testing more people with ILI and SARI symptoms and their primary contacts. Our goal is to manage those with comorbidities. It is good if more cases are being identified and treated early. This will prevent patients from getting serious,” said Suhas LY, the district magistrate. He added that the health department was isolating everyone who has tested positive within 24 hours of getting information. The DM, however, appealed to residents to voluntarily report symptoms. “Sometimes, private labs take time to report cases. If people test positive at private facilities, they can contact our district helpline number and they will be isolated at the earliest. People should take responsibility, too, so that the chain of infection is broken,” Suhas LY said. The relief for Noida, though, is its low case fatality rate (CFR). With 2,765 cases till Sunday and 28 deaths, Noida has a CFR of just 1%. Along with Chennai so far, Noida has the lowest CFR in the country among cities that have reported more than 2,000 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/half-of-noidas-covid-cases-have-come-in-just-two-weeks/articleshow/76823300.cms||Snehil Sinha
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||AI MRO overhauls 100th aircraft amid lockdown||Nagpur: Amid Covid lockdown, Air India’s maintenance repair and overhaul (MRO) depot at Mihan-SEZ hit a century. The facility built by Boeing and handed over to Air India has completed overhaul of the 100th aircraft since it began operations in 2015. The score could have been higher had it not been for the pandemic. Yet, the MRO here played a key role, especially in upkeep of the Boeing 777 aircraft deployed in the Vande Bharat operations. The Boeing 777 aircraft was deployed for long distance flights to destinations like the US, to bring back stranded Indian citizens. During the lockdown, the Nagpur MRO was the only facility which had enough manpower to carry out the mandatory checks of Boeing 777 so they could fly again. The other two facilities are in Mumbai and Delhi. However, during the lockdown, these two facilities could not function at the required capacity, said a source. This led to the Nagpur MRO catering to the Boeing 777 deployed in Vande Bharat. The Nagpur MRO had an advantage as it is located in a special economic zone (SEZ), where the lockdown rules for rest of the district were not entirely applicable. Chandrashekhar Kharkhanis, general manager of the MRO, said so far four of the Vande Bharat flights have flown out of the MRO after completing phase checks, which are done after every 2,000 hours of flights. “The MRO remained shut only for 10 days after the lockdown was imposed on March 23. It was working with 5%, 25% and even 100% strength at times, in line with government guidelines for Covid prevention,” he said. Work on the fifth Boeing 777 is underway currently. The 100th aircraft flew out on June 21 after which one more plane rolled out from the MRO. The team worked hard during these days, he said. Kharkhanis said there are plans to increase the capacity so that the MRO here can take up overhaul of Boeing 787 planes also. This will require adding manpower and equipment. The new facility can be created in the coming months, subject to approvals by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), he said. However, as the MRO here has still not resumed working at full strength, it is affecting some of the other operations. The MRO has put on hold periodic check of aircraft. This is an advanced check undertaken after all other tests done on completion of certain flying hours. This need not be a concern as few flights are operational due to the lockdown at present, said a source. IN A NUTSHELL MRO is among key investments in Mihan-SEZ Built by Boeing as part of offset agreement following Air India’s aircraft purchase during UPA regime MRO became operational in 2015 Facility was built by Boeing and handed over to Air India MRO has overhauled its 100th plane during the lockdown 4 Boeing 777 flew from here to operate Vande Bharat flights||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ai-mro-overhauls-100th-aircraft-amid-lockdown/articleshow/76822645.cms||Shishir Arya
July 7, 2020||Noida||3-member panel will keep check on hotspots||Ghaziabad: In its bid to aid the health department in containing the spread of Covid-19, the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation (GMC) has constituted a three-member committee in all its 100 wards of the municipal. The committee comprises the councillor of the ward, GMC’s cleanliness supervisor and Asha worker. It has been tasked to keep an eye on potential Covid hotspots in each ward and ensure sanitation and cleanliness work is carried out. “The GMC, which has been at the forefront to tackle Covid pandemic, has formed a committee in each of its 100 wards which will primarily keep track of Covid patients and movement of people into its wards from other states,” said municipal commissioner Dinesh Chandra. “Our three-member inspection committee will aid the surveillance team from the health department which are primarily tasked to carry out such work,” added Chandra. “This committee will look for areas where the issue of cleanliness is not being taken up in an effective manner,” he said. In containment zones, the role of the committee will be to act as a go-between for the health department and residents. “The committee will have a list of people who have moved into each ward and will ensure that 14-day isolation and other precautions are being fulfilled by them,” said the commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/3-member-panel-will-keep-check-on-hotspots/articleshow/76823304.cms||Abhijay Jha
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||Beliaghata OC and son beat virus, donate plasma||Kolkata: The Beliaghata officer-in-charge, Pradip Kumar Ghosal, and his son Abhishek Ghosal (26), who had contracted Covid-19 and got cured, donated plasma at Medical College Hospital on Monday. The movement to donate plasma in Kolkata Police was started by sergeant Ekhlaque Ahmed last week. On Monday, Tanmoy Mandal (27), a lab technician with AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake, too, donated plasma. So far, 15 volunteers have donated plasma at Medical College Hospital. “My entire family of four was infected between May 25 and 26. Being the Beliaghata OC and since I was working with ID Hospital, I had an idea about why plasma donation was being talked about excitedly by the doctors. At the OPD, doctor Yogiraj Ray asked me and my family were willing to donate. My son, who is employed with Tata Mechanics and my daughter Arpita Ghosal (22), who is pursuing her MSc in statistics, were the first to volunteer. I was touched when my wife also agreed to donate too,” said Pradip.“My daughter will be donating next week. My entire family got treated at Beliaghata ID. I saw MSVP Asish Manna, doctor Kaushik Chowdhury and NICED chief Shanta Dutta not only fight the disease, but also strive every moment to find a path to win over it. I will more than willingly try and save lives in the same manner that these doctors saved my entire family’s lives,” added the OC.DC (ESD) Ajoy Prasad hailed the family’s move. “When your entire family is there with you, you do know that you are doing something good. It’s encouraging and we hope others will also come forward,” he stated. “Since my recovery, I wanted to donate my plasma. Arijit Ghosh of AMRI Hospital, who had donated earlier, guided me on how to go about it,” said Tamnoy.The 27-year-old had got Covid-19 infection on April 29 while he was working in the hospital. He had been treated at AMRI Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/beliaghata-oc-and-son-beat-virus-donate-plasma/articleshow/76822648.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 7, 2020||Business||Airlines selling tickets for ghost flights?||MUMBAI: Sachin Shetty bought three tickets in the second week of June for a Mumbai-Mangalore nonstop flight for July 5. Four days before departure, the low cost carrier told him the flight was cancelled and his money had been moved to a credit shell. He later learnt that Mangalore is not connected to Mumbai by direct flights now, so why did the airline sell him the ticket? Businessman Brijesh Sutaria on May 30 booked a Mumbai-Delhi flight ticket for June 7. The next day, the airline told him his flight was cancelled and his Rs 4,200 had gone into a credit shell for later use. Flight cancellations due to new restrictions by a state, like one recently by West Bengal government, are understandable. But in the past few weeks, passengers like Shetty and Sutaria found they were sold tickets for flights not scheduled at all or were likely to be cancelled later due to low demand. “The day after I booked the ticket, I got a message from the airline that the flight had been cancelled due to operational reasons," said Sutaria. “Are airlines offering tickets on non-existent flights? They could be collecting public money, putting it in a credit shell for 730 days with no interest," Sutaria alleged. He believes he was sold the ticket for a Mumbai-Delhi flight that was not scheduled at all. Shetty was sold a ticket on a non-existent Mumbai-Mangalore flight. “The airline message did not mention why the flight was cancelled. It gave an option to reschedule, but I could not find a flight on any other day, so the money went into credit shell.” An aviation source said, “There are no non-stop flights now from Mumbai to cities like Chennai, Trivandrum, Mangalore and Panjim, so it is surprising tickets were sold on non-existent routes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/airlines-selling-tickets-for-ghost-flights/articleshow/76824366.cms||Manju V
July 7, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur: Three more held for helping Vikas Dubey, his aides spot cops, kill them||KANPUR: Police have arrested one Kshama Dubey, along with two others, from Bikru village for allegedly helping Vikas Dubey and his men in spotting the policemen who were hiding near her house when the shootout was on during the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. Two others who have been arrested are Rekha Aginhotri, the wife of Dubey's lieutenant Daya Shankar and his neighbour Suresh Verma. SSP Dinesh Kumar Prabhu said that they were part of the gang that laid a trap for the police team which was raiding Bikru village. Kshama Dubey is wife of Vikas's nephew Sanjay Dubey and the two live a couple of paces away from the gangster's house. According to the SSP Kshama did not open the door when policemen under attack were pleading with her to allow them to hide in her house.  "Instead, Kshama informed Vikas and his aides about their (policemen's) location. Armed with semi-automatic weapons, Vikas's aides reached her house through roofs and shot dead all the policemen, who were standing near the doors of her house," said the SSP. Similarly, Rekha, who also worked as a maid at Vikas's house, helped shooters in zeroing on a group of other policemen, who had taken refuge behind a wall opposite Vikas's house. "When shooters opened fire at policemen, Rekha was cheering them and yelling that none of the policemen should return alive," said police officials. Likewise, Suresh Verma, too, was applauding the shooters. "We have arrested the three from their hideouts and booked them under Section 120 B. They would be produced in the court and sent to jail later," said the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-more-held-for-helping-dubey-his-aides-spot-cops-kill-them/articleshow/76823302.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 7, 2020||Chennai||Tamil poet Bharathidasan's son dies||Puducherry: Revolutionary Tamil poet Bharathidasan's only son Mannarmannan, a Tamil scholar, died in Puducherry on Monday. He was 92. He is survived by three sons and a daughter. Mannarmannan had been battling ailments related to old age for the past few years. The last rites ceremony will be held at 4pm on Tuesday. Mannarmanan, who served at the All India Radio, has authored close to 50 literary works. He had served as the president of Pudhuvai Tamil Sangam for several years. He received several awards including Tamil Nadu government's Thiru Vi Ka and Kalaimamani awards and Puducherry government's Tamilmamani and Kalaimamani awards among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-poet-bharathidasans-son-dies/articleshow/76822650.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sanjivani Seva launched for asymptomatic patients||Ahmedabad: After launching Dhanvantari Arogya Rath and Doctor Mitra schemes to arrest the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, AMC on Monday started Sanjivani Van Seva for asymptomatic patients who are under home isolation. “Sanjivani vans will have a team of trained paramedical staff, who will visit the residence of the person, every day,” said Rajiv Gupta, ACS, forest and environment, and incharge of the team handling Covid-19 situation in Ahmedabad. The Sanjivani team will check the medical condition of home-isolated patients. The paramedical team will have vitamin-C, vitamin-D tablets and other necessary medicines with them. Gupta said each urban health centre will have its own Sanjivani Van. It will move in wards under its jurisdiction. In all, 75 such teams will be operating in the city. “Each team will have two paramedical staff and there will be one doctor who will be incharge of 10 such teams,” said Gupta. “As soon as the doctor gets any adverse report about the patient who is home quarantined, he will rush to his/her residence and will have a detailed investigation of the patient,” he said. A standard operating procedure has been made and circulated among the teams. The team will take care of asymptomatic patients who have been advised home quarantine. The Sanjivani Van will ensure that the patient’s health report is available every day with the corporation’s health department. Earlier, the AMC had launched Dhanvantari raths which are basically mobile clinics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sanjivani-seva-launched-for-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/76822655.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man moves HC after wife dies sans medical care||Ahmedabad: The husband of a pregnant woman, who died allegedly due to lack of medical care at VS Hospital, moved the Gujarat high court on Monday, seeking directions to the authorities to inform people about the functioning of non-Covid hospitals so that lives can be saved.The petitioner, Abdullahkhan Pathan, a resident of Dariapur, stated in his petition that his wife, Rozminabanu, died with twins in her womb when she was being rushed from one hospital to another on June 22. When they went to Lokhandwala hospital in Dariapur and Shifa Hospital in Jamalpur, they were told that these facilities had been converted into Covid care centres. She was then taken to VS Hospital, where she was told to go to LG Hospital as treatment would not be available at VS Hospital. She died on the way to LG Hospital.The aggrieved petitioner questioned the state government’s statement made before the high court on June 18, just four days before this incident, when the HC was informed, “At present Sheth VS General Hospital and Sheth Chinai Prasuti Gruh is functional with 500-bed capacity and running departments of general medicine, general surgery, orthopaedics and gynaecology for non-Covid patients.”The petitioner later states, “Within four days, when the applicant reached VS Hospital, there was no facility available whatsoever and everything vanished all of a sudden, and three innocent lives were lost.”After highlighting that the government did not reveal the truth about the VS Hospital before the HC, Pathan states that he felt that it was his duty to come before the HC and inform it so that no other patient dies or suffer due to such gross negligence on part of medical practitioners across the state. He sought HC directions to the government to widely publicise which are the non-Covid hospitals. He argued that more deaths in last three months have occurred due to diseases other than Covid-19, as people died due to unavailability of medical treatment.Like Pathan, Congress MLA Gyasuddin Shaikh also filed a plea in the HC, demanding that VS Hospital be started full-fledged, with its 1,100 beds. The MLA also sought directions to the authorities to ensure LG Hospital, Shardaben Hospital and other private hospitals do not turn away patients for non-Covid treatment on the pretext of unavailability of their Covid-19 reports.Both petitioners have urged the HC to hear them during proceedings on the suo motu PIL over Covid-19 and the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-moves-hc-after-wife-dies-sans-medical-care/articleshow/76822656.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rural A’bad reports 15 cases||Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad district, barring the municipal areas, reported 15 fresh cases on Monday, taking the rural areas’ total to 891. On Monday, majority of the new cases were reported from Dholka and Sanand talukas. Rural Ahmedabad reported one more death, taking toll to 57. Of the 15 cases reported in the district on Monday, six each were reported from Sanand and Dholka while three cases were reported from Viramgam. Taluka-wise, of the 891 cases in the district, 260 are from Dholka, 180 from Daskroi, 185 from Sanand, 98 from Viramgam, 89 from Bavla, 26 each from Dhandhuka and Mandal, 18 from Detroj, and nine from Dholera. As on Monday, 1,040 people are under home quarantine in Ahmedabad district. On Sunday, this number was 1,070 people. In the last week, 342 people completed their home quarantine period. The district has 79 active cases and five people are being treated at Covid care centres in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rural-abad-reports-15-cases/articleshow/76822654.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Goa||Rare frog species makes appearance in Tambdi Surla||Keri: The Amboli bush frog, a rare species of shrub frog endemic to the Western Ghats that was first found in the forests of Maharashtra’s Amboli and Amba, is now making its presence felt in forested areas of Tambdi Surla, Sanguem. Gajanan Shetye, a wildlifer from Keri in the Sattari taluka, says evergreen patches of private forests in Tambdi Surla, the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and the Ragado and Jamboli rivulets have become crucial to the survival of the amphibian. Scientifically known as Pseudophilautus amboli, this critically endangered species can also be spotted in Castle Rock-Londa, near the Jog falls, Mavingundi and Kudremukh-Malleshwaram in Karnataka. The males are distinguished by a large and transparent vocal sac while calling out to females during mating. The eggs of this species lack a hard shell and are composed of jelly-like layers that protect each embryo. While most other frog species are born as tadpoles, the Amboli bush frog is different. Miniature frogs emerge directly from each egg upon them hatching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rare-frog-species-makes-appearance-in-tambdi-surla/articleshow/76823346.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
July 7, 2020||Lucknow||LDA has no record of don’s house||Lucknow: Documents related to the house of gangster Vikas Dubey in Krishnanagar are ‘missing’ from the records of Lucknow Development Authority (LDA). His family has also not been able to provide the copy of the map approved by the authority. However, the map of the house of Vikas’s brother Deep Prakash Dubey located in the same locality has been found in the LDA records and prima facie, no irregularities have been detected. LDA executive engineer Kamaljeet Singh said that a team of LDA inspected Vikas’s house in Indralok Colony of Krishnanagar on Sunday. The inspection was done after officers could not find any documents of the house constructed in 1990 in their records. Singh said the papers of Deep’s house built in 2005 were intact in LDA records. But, an inspection of that was done on Monday to find any irregularity in construction. LDA vice-chairperson Shivakant Dwivedi said that officers will check records again and if they are not able to trace the documents of Vikas’s house by Tuesday, it will be presumed that the residence was built without LDA’s approval. “We will serve a notice asking Vikas’s family to provide valid documents. Legal action will be taken if they fail to provide documents,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lda-has-no-record-of-dons-house/articleshow/76823309.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Nashik||56 cured Covid-19 patients agree to donate plasma in North Maharashtra||NASHIK: A total of 56 patients cured of novel coronavirus in North Maharashtra have so far agreed to donate plasma at two government medical college hospitals (GMCHs). While the Dhule-based government medical institute has been able to convince 54 patients, the Jalgaon-based GMCH has identified two patients who have shown willingness to donate plasma. One patient has already donated the plasma at the Dhule GMCH. Under the state government's ambitious Project Platina, it is planning to conduct plasma therapy at all the 21 government medical colleges in the state. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray recently launched Project Platina, arguably the world's largest convalescent plasma therapy, to treat Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms. The GMCHs would be providing free plasma therapy to severely infected patients. According sources in both the GMCHs, the therapy would begin at both the medical institutes after receiving the nod from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the state committee comprising experts from AIIMS, Nagpur. Officials at both the institutes told TOI that they have all the medical equipment and trained manpower to undertake plasma therapy and were just waiting for the approval to start the trials. Officials of the two GMCHs involved in the project said there is unfounded fear among a section of cured patients and their family members, which was preventing from donating plasma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/56-cured-covid-patients-agree-to-donate-plasma-in-n-maha/articleshow/76820569.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||AIIMS director consulted for Bharatsinh||Gandhinagar: Doctors of a private hospital in Ahmedabad, where former Union minister Bharatsinh Solanki is being treated for Covid-19, have consulted Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences). Other top doctors have been consulted as well for the treatment of Solanki, who has served as the Gujarat Congress president twice.Solanki, 67, was shifted from a Vadodara hospital to an Ahmedabad hospital last week after his condition did not improve. Solanki was reported to be corona positive on June 23 at a private hospital in Vadodara.Amit Chavda, the current state Congress president, said: “Doctors have consulted Dr Guleria and the top doctors of Lilavati Hospital in Mumbai.” Chavda said special injections to rapidly improve Solanki’s condition have also been given. “His condition is slowly improving, but he still requires oxygen support,” Chavda said. “Doctors expect further improvement in his condition soon.”Solanki reportedly got infected with coronavirus during the June 19 Rajya Sabha election, which he contested as a Congress candidate. He came in close contact with a large number of people that day.Vaghela tests negative, dischargedFormer Gujarat chief minister and veteran politician Shankersinh Vaghela, who tested corona positive on June 23, was discharged on Monday after recovering fully. He had been admitted to a private hospital.“I was perhaps overconfident that I will not get infected with Covid-19,” Vaghela said. “I visited Civil Hospital and many other places and got the infection. I am thankful to the doctors for good treatment and ensuring my fast recovery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aiims-director-consulted-for-bharatsinh/articleshow/76822675.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||ANHA wants no-mask fine to be Rs 10k||Ahmedabad: An association of city hospitals has requested chief minister Vijay Rupani to increase the fine for not wearing masks in public from Rs 200 to Rs 10,000 as is the case in Kerala, through a letter on Monday. The Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) said the move will not only result in stringent implementation but ‘will also drastically reduce the infection rate’. The letter also brought up the shortage of the antiviral drug Remdesivir in the state, seeking intervention of the state government to ensure proper supply. “We have seen an increase in the number of cases from the western part of Ahmedabad. One of the major reasons is, people have lowered their guards and are not taking standard precautions,” reads the letter. “Following the Kerala government, Gujarat also should impose stringent penalties of Rs 10,000 per instance for not wearing masks, with mandatory community services in the Covid Samras Hostels or being a part of the tracking and isolation team for periods ranging from one week to one month for repeated offences.” Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said international studies have showed that even if 80% of people wear masks properly, the infection rate can be reduced drastically. “The penalty of Rs 200 is not working as a deterrent for repeat offenders. As enhanced fines have helped lowering traffic violations, we believe the move could help ensure better adherence to the rules,” he said. Figures from the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) reveal that till July 4, a total of 70,486 Amdavadis were fined Rs 60.29 lakh for not wearing masks in public. Likewise, 2,274 challans for Rs 4.55 lakh were issued through CCTV monitoring till April 28. Availability of the antiviral drug Remdesivir is an issue and the next stock could arrive only by July 10, said AHNA members. “Remdesivir is required urgently as it will help save patients on ventilator. As of now, none of the hospitals have any stock and relatives are made to search for it frantically… We are seeing increased number of patients in ICU for the last two days and many of them would require Remdesivir in the coming days,” the letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/anha-wants-no-mask-fine-to-be-rs-10k/articleshow/76822659.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Akalis booked for violating Covid-19 norms||PATIALA: Patiala police registered a case against Akali MLA from Sanour Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra along with state president of Youth Akali Dal Parambans Singh Romana along with other local leaders for breaching the Covid protocol by staging a protest near the private residence of the chief minister Amarinder Singh. Gurpreet Singh Rajukhanna, Satbir Khattra, Harpal Juneja and some unknown persons have also been booked in the case, registered at the Civil Lines police station. Earlier in the day, the Youth Akali Dal (YAD) staged a protest near Capt Amarinder Singh’s in Patiala while demanding that excessive fees charged by private schools be reimbursed to parents. YAD gave a three-day ultimatum to the state government to resolve the issue. Led by YAD president Parambans Singh Romana, party workers protested near YPS roundabout, after they were stopped from reaching the CM’s house. Later, they handed over a memorandum to district authorities, stating that the government should step in and ensure parents were reimbursed excessive fee charged by private schools. Romana said schools controlled by the chief minister’s family were extorting money from parents even as his government had announced that it would file a review petition against the high court verdict in favour of private school managements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/akalis-booked-for-violating-covid-norms/articleshow/76824096.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chennai||Roads choked, shops packed as Chennai resumes business after 'intense' lockdown||CHENNAI: Emerging from a 100-day lockdown, punctuated by a brief, fortnight-long exit, the city on Monday opened up to brisk business. Roads were covered in heavy traffic and retail nerve centres such as T Nagar and Broadway among others registered considerable crowd movement. In residential areas too, there was activity with tea shops and bakeries packed. Arterial roads including Anna Salai, Poonamallee High Road, Nungambakkam High Road and Basin Bridge junction in north Chennai were choked since morning. As many as 400 signals, which till the previous evening had remained on the blink, were operated to streamline traffic, police said. Additional police personnel were deployed on stretches where a large number of vehicles were expected. Barricades placed on flyovers and important roads to restrict movement of vehicles were removed. Several cars, two-wheelers, autorickshaws were seen whizzing along as people started going to their workplaces despite the normal lockdown set to be in place till July 31. In places like Basin Bridge, lines of vehicles stretched for a long distances in traffic snarls that last more than an hour, much to the chagrin of motorists and police personnel. While many motorists had taken precaution for Covid-19 by wearing masks, many of them violated the helmet rule. Police too turned a blind eye towards the helmet rule and kept checking people for masks, as it is deemed to be the immediate concern. “Our personnel were making continuous announcements through public address system, warning against people riding pillion on bikes. Those who were caught for not wearing masks were booked under section 179 of M V Act,” said a police officer. In business hubs like T Nagar and Purasawalkam, commercial establishments were bustling with activity that mirrored the pre-lockdown days in mid-March. Staff at retail outlets in T Nagar and Pondy Bazzar struggled to attend to consumers thronging their shops to purchase non-essential commodities. Shops in places such as Anna Nagar and Thirumangalam too recorded good business that virtually disappeared after the outbreak of Coronavirus. K Deepak, who runs a consumer durables shop at Tirumangalam near Anna Nagar, said shops across categories were packed. “The number of people that ventured out for shopping was the usual crowd that visits on Mondays. We except brisk business this month (July) because spending on academics particularly for higher education institutions has come to a grinding halt because all colleges are shut due to Covid-19,” he said. Noting that business during June and July was less when compared with other months due to expenses incurred for academic purposes, he said it may transfer to other segments in the coming weeks. Traders in the wholesale textile market of Washermenpet in north Chennai the number of customers was just 10% of the usual visitors. “Retail traders visited on day one to purchase from wholesale shops. But, retail textile showrooms at Washermenpet remained shut,” said A V S Marimuthu, a wholesale trader. Not all stakeholders were happy. Protests erupted at the Kasimedu fishing harbour and at the Pulianthope slaughter house, with scores of workers demanding that the government allow them to resume their businesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/roads-choked-shops-packed-as-chennai-resumes-business-after-intense-lockdown/articleshow/76822660.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Five fake scribes arrested for blackmailing doctor||Rajkot: Five fraudsters posing as scribes were arrested for allegedly blackmailing a doctor in Savarkundala of Amreli district on Sunday. Police said the accused tried to extort Rs 50,000 from Dr Rajesh Nakrani, who has a degree of Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery. “The accused, Arman Dhanani, Anwarkhan Pathan, Hanif Karjala, Ashok Rawaldev and their unidentified aide, accused Dr Nakrani of practising as a quack and demanded money from him on July 2. The accused had donned the garbs of TV reporters with booms and cameras and ID cards of a fake TV channel,” said an official from Savarkundala taluka police station. “The accused asked Dr Nakrani whether he had permission from the government to run the clinic. Then they started accusing Dr Nakrani of having a bogus degree and extorted money from him,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/5-fake-scribes-arrested-for-blackmailing-doc/articleshow/76820619.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19: Nashik district ranked fifth in terms of recovery||NASHIK: The Nashik district is currently ranked fifth in the state in terms of Covid-19 recoveries, district collector Suraj Mandhare said. Briefing the media, the collector pointed out that though the number of cases in Nashik city and the rural areas are on the rise, the number of people being treated and discharged is also increasing. “We rank fifth in the state as far as the recovery of patients is concerned. The recovery rate of Malegaon is one of the best across the country. If people take all precautionary measures, the situation in Nashik city and rural will also improve,” the collector said. The district ranks seventh in terms of the rising number of cases and twelfth in deaths. “Death is a major concern during Covid treatment. The best way to address the problem is by early intervention. What people in Malegaon did after our appeals needs to be replicated elsewhere. Unless people come forward for testing and stick to appropriate Covid-19 lifestyle, things will not change,” Mandhare added. The collector said there were adequate beds and ventilators available at the Covid-19 hospitals for the treatment of serious patients requiring intensive care across the city. He further said that of the 2,143 active patients, only 11 patients were put on ventilators across the district. The doubling rate of patients in Malegaon has now touched 60 days while that of the rural Nashik is 22 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-dist-ranked-fifth-in-terms-of-recovery/articleshow/76820595.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||A glimpse of the city during earlier pandemics||Ahmedabad: Between 1916 and 1918, Ahmedabad was struck by two deadly epidemics — the plague first and then the Spanish Flu. This was the most tumultuous period of the city’s history. The city witnessed a death toll of 3,527 people in six months from the Spanish Flu, which has parallels with Covid-19 today. The Gujarat Sabha and allied organisations and the many literary societies of Gujarat came forward to launch a public campaign with posters and advertisements in journals, appealing to people to contribute or even set up orphanages as many children lost their parents. Recently, a city-based historian, Rizwan Kadri, stumbled upon a cache of advertisements in newspapers and literary journals from those times, announcing preventive ayurvedic cures and appeals for funds to set up orphanages. “Those were testing times for the city. The British were apathetic to our plight and it had to be a time to stand together and be empathetic to each others needs,” Kadri said. British author and academic Catharine Arnold wrote in her book, ‘Pandemic 1918: The Story of the Deadliest Influenza in History’ how the Bombay sanitation commissioner, after the high death tolls in Ahmedabad and Bombay, declared that the influenza epidemic could not be stopped by public health measures. They had recommended sleeping in the open air, away from ill-ventilated homes and using disinfectants. There was also advice to gargle with permanganate of potash and seek hospitalisation for pneumonia. When the hospitals ran out of beds, schools were commandeered. In another book, ‘Epidemics: Hate and Compassion from the Plague of Athens to AIDS’, Samuel Cohn points to how in Ahmedabad Lady Chinubhai, who was considered the ‘pioneer of public health in Ahmedabad’ had lent her vehicles to villages around Ahmedabad and beyond to be used for medical aid. Mill owner Ambalal Sarabhai donated several thousands towards medical care, especially in the poorer localities of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/a-glimpse-of-the-city-during-earlier-pandemics/articleshow/76822668.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chennai||Death toll in the blast at NLC India Limited increases||Cuddalore: The death toll in the blast at NLC India Limited rose to 12 with three more workers dying on Monday. Six contract workers – S Selamarasan, 25, S Arun Kumar, 25, K Padmanabhan, 30, D Ramanathan, 42, P Nagara, 30 and K Venkatesa Perumal, 37 - were killed on the spot and 16 others were hospitalised with severe burn injuries. The injured were admitted to a private hospital in Chennai for treatment. Deputy chief engineer Sivakumar had died on Friday while a contract worker G Selvaraj, 51, and junior engineer C Ravichandran, 50, died on Sunday. Three more workers -- foreman M Vaithianathan, 45, contract worker T Elango, 49, and junior engineer V Jothiramalingam, 48, died on Monday, taking the death toll to 12. Presently, 10 workers are undergoing treatment at the private hospital in Chennai. NLCIL management announced a compensation of Rs 30 lakh each to the families of the workers, who were killed in an accident on July 1. The company also came forward to offer a permanent job to a member of the families of the deceased workers. It has also announced Rs 5 lakh each to the workers injured in the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/death-toll-in-the-blast-at-nlc-india-limited-increases/articleshow/76822664.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Nashik||Missing names on voters’ list sparks panic in Deolali||NASHIK: Residents of Deolali area rushed to the office of the Cantonment Board, Deolali (CBD), on Monday after learning that the new voters’ list published by the CBD did not feature their names. Names of 31,043 voters from CBD area has featured in the new voters’ list. The list published last year had 35,105 voters meaning the names of 4,062 voters are missing from the fresh electoral roll. Corporators and people’s representatives called on senior CBD officials on Monday to enquire about the omission of names. They were told that the changes have been made as per the directives of the court. A senior CBD official said that they would be coming out with a proper clarification on the issue on Tuesday. Office bearers of CBD said that as per the Cantonment Electoral Rules 2007, the survey of the voters is done every year after which the voters’ list is prepared. People are given 20 days-time to clarify their objections, if any, with respect to the voters’ list. Officials said that since the last three years, names of those who had encroached government land and constructed properties or those who had undertaken construction activities without approval from relevant authorities were being omitted from the voters’ list. A corporator who did not wished to be quoted said that there was Cantonment land and government land in the CBD jurisdiction. Those who had constructed properties on government land have been omitted from the voters’ list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/missing-names-on-voters-list-sparks-panic-in-deolali/articleshow/76820616.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 7, 2020||Mumbai||Few takers for premier Rajdhani due to Covid-19, bad business scene||MUMBAI: Premier Rajdhani Express (Mumbai Central-New Delhi) is running at low occupancy due to coronavirus fear and low economic activity in June. Both cities are badly affected by coronavirus. Indian Railways had begun limited operations for long-distance trains. But frequency of trains between Howrah and Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad were reduced from daily to weekly on the request of West Bengal government, a railway official said. Trains are running to various parts of India from Mumbai. The special train between Mumbai Central and New Delhi follows the path of the regular Rajdhani Express, which halts at Surat, Vadodara, Kota, Ratlam and Nagda Junction. This service began on May 12. A Western Railway (WR) official said, “Mumbai-New Delhi service had 23,571 passengers in June, with an occupancy of 73%. It seems people are scared to travel to Delhi and vice versa.” For New Delhi-Mumbai, there were 12,160 passengers, with a dismal occupancy of 37%.” Since Mumbai-New Delhi also halts at Surat and Vadodara in Gujarat, some passengers book for these destinations as there are not many trains or buses to Gujarat due to lockdown. Another WR official said, “New Delhi also provides good connectivity to neighbouring states like Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Many must be travelling to New Delhi as there are no direct trains to their home states. They travel by private transport to their home town.” In May, bookings for the train were full across classes. Most passengers were not Delhi or Mumbai residents. They took the train as these stations were nearest to their final destination, which was accessible by road transport. While Mumbai is the financial capital, New Delhi being the national capital, a lot travel used to be for business. Due to lockdown, economic activity has come to standstill, which prevented people from travelling to these destinations. A railway official said, “Comparatively, trains to other parts of the country are running at full capacity as people are going to their home towns due to economic distress or they are migrants returning due to the gradual reopening of industries and resumption of other economic activities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/few-takers-for-premier-rajdhani-due-to-covid-bad-biz-scene/articleshow/76822792.cms||Manthan K Mehta
July 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Plasma donation same as blood donation: PGIMS Rohtak||ROHTAK: Allaying fears pertaining to plasma donation by treated Covid-19 patients, the PGIMS Rohtak on Monday kick-started an awareness campaign in its premises and said that plasma donation is similar to blood donation without any side effects. Dr Gajender Singh, head of blood bank department in the premier institute, said the donor patient does not witness any weakness after the donation and the best part is that the blood plasma process is done by machine which takes nearly an hour. Exhorting the doctors, interns and nursing students participating in the awareness campaign, Dr V K Katyal, senior professor and head of the department of medicine at PGIMS, said they all should spread the word in the public. Dr Katyal said one of the patients in the institute has been given plasma therapy and there has been significant improvement in his health condition. He said the awareness drive would result in motivating people to come forward voluntarily so that precious lives can be saved. The institute also announced to set up a special helpline number so that donors can contact the institute, but those of the patients who have not completed 28 days post their treatment would not be able to donate as per the guidelines. Notably, doctors at Rohtak PGIMS have started giving convalescence plasma therapy to treat Covid-19 patients admitted at the institute recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/plasma-donation-same-as-blood-donation-pgims/articleshow/76824104.cms||Sat Singh
July 7, 2020||Chennai||50% govt staff to rotate shifts, union wants 33% strength||CHENNAI: State government employees on Monday reverted to a six-day week schedule with 50% working alternatively on two consecutive days. The differently-abled and pregnant staff are exempted from work. While there was no comprehensive order from the government for the staff to revert to the previous strength, department heads issued orders detailing the roster for every two days. The finance department directed its officials, personal staff, shroff, record assistants, dispatch assistants, record clerks and office assistants to be present on all working days. Those skipping duty as per the 50% roster drawn with effect from July 6 even for a single day will have to submit a leave application. There is a sense of fear among the staff following a spike in cases after 50% employees were told to turn up on May 18. Seventy-seven positive cases were recorded until Monday in the Secretariat, with staff being home-quarantined or hospitalised. “It is best to revert to the 33% strength to contain the spread of the virus as there are difficulties in seating arrangements in departments like finance where the staff have to work in cramped spaces. The government should consider granting leave on Saturday to sanitise the offices for two days,” Tamil Nadu Secretariat Association president Peter Anthonysamy said. The association has approached higher-ups for distribution of kabasura kudineer and homeopathic medicine to 6,000 staff members in Fort St George from this week. With the air-conditioning switched off, the corridors and offices are dotted with pedestal fans now and automatic sanitiser dispensers have been made available. The agriculture department has instructed its officers and staff members to remain accessible through electronic modes of communication. Notwithstanding the above alternate working system, the staff off duty should attend to calls at any given point of time. “The safety of staff is very important. Even with 33% strength, people were getting infected. So the foremost need is orientation of the staff on how to keep themselves safe. When no one is around, they keep the masks below their nose,” said a secretary of the department. Though MTC operates 250 buses in the city for the government staff, Jacto-Geo coordinator G Vasudevan said there were plenty of vehicles in each department which could be diverted for staff who are otherwise at the mercy of autorickshaws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/50-govt-staff-to-rotate-shifts-union-wants-33-strength/articleshow/76822670.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court prescribes yoga, turmeric milk for prisoners||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has prescribed yoga, pranayam and ayurvedic medicines as suggested by the AYUSH ministry, as immunity boosters for prisoners in these times of Covid-19. In an order released on Monday, a bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria suggested various measures to protect inmates from the disease. On the court’s queries on efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19 among prisoners, the state government enumerated measures and said that prisoners are given Vitamin C, homeopathic medicine and a herbal concoction, kadha. The judges said, “We suggest the addition of milk with turmeric powder, as prescribed by the AYUSH ministry along with the Ayurvedic medicines prescribed by it, like neem giloy, samsam vati etc… recommendations and measures prescribed by the central government is forming the part of this order, let the same be considered for the purpose of boosting the immunity of jail inmates along with regular yoga, pranayama, nasal application and other physical exercises, as well as applications necessary for their holistic health i.e. physical, mental, emotional and psychological health". The state government told the HC that directions issued by the Supreme Court and recommendations of the high-powered committee are strictly followed to ensure that the disease does not spread inside the prison. The HC sought information from the government after a prisoner, who was out on temporary bail, expressed apprehensions that he would get the disease inside Sabarmati jail. He cited news reports, which the state government rejected, terming them unverified. The high court observed that the media should not print unverified reports about the disease as it creates panic among people. The government claimed that 34 undertrial prisoners and 13 convicts tested positive at Sabarmati central jail so far, but they had all gone out on bail. There was only one inmate, Manu Desai, who tested positive despite remaining inside. It remained mum on the case of Mohammed Habib Falahi, the 2008 serial blasts accused, who is being treated for Covid-19 for last 36 days at Civil Hospital. The HC ordered the jail authorities to remain vigilant. “A word of caution that is required that there could be no inertia or laxity on either side so far as implementation of directives/guidelines issued by the apex court, this court and the central and state governments are concerned,” the HC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-prescribes-yoga-turmeric-milk-for-prisoners/articleshow/76822685.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon: Free homeopathy medicines||NASHIK: The district administration of Jalgaon, in order to boost the immunity of the people, has decided to provide free immunity booster homeopathy medicines that are certified by AYUSH. The district has a population of around 45 lakh with around 11.5 houses and the administration has started the process of delivering the immunity boosters to the citizens through anganwadi workers. “We have roped in donors, students and teachers for contribution to provide the medicines to the people. So far, we have distributed 6.46 lakh medicines and we expect to reach to all the people in the next two weeks,” additional collector Gorakshanath Gadilkar said. Gadilkar, who is the incident commander for the preventive measures, said the rising numbers of patients threw a challenge in front of the people. “Hence, the administration decided to fortify their immunity and included the family members as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-free-homeopathy-medicines/articleshow/76820629.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 7, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur: ‘Kill them all’, yelled gangster Vikas Dubey as his goons ambushed police teams||LUCKNOW: ‘Kill them all’, yelled gangster Vikas Dubey as he, along with about 100 henchmen, ambushed the police teams outside his house in Bikru village of Kanpur on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. This has been stated in the FIR lodged against Dubey and his men who brutally killed eight policemen. The FIR further states that the don and his goons looted the weapons of cops before fleeing the spot. The looted firearms included 9mm pistols of SO Mahesh Yadav, SO Bithoor Kaushlendra Pratap Singh, Anoop Kumar Singh, AK-47 rifle of Jitendra Kumar, and an Insas of constable Sultan, along with 70 cartridges. Twenty-one identified persons, including Vikas Dubey, and 80 unidentified persons have been named in the FIR lodged by station officer Chaubeypur, Vinay Tiwari. Ironically, Tiwari was suspended immediately after lodging the FIR for his alleged complicity with Dubey. Giving a detailed account of the ambush in the FIR, Tiwari states that around 12.27am on Friday, three police teams comprising 32 personnel, reached Bikru village for a raid at Dubey’s house. “As soon as the teams reached near Dubey’s house they were attacked from all sides, while Dubey could be heard yelling ‘kill them all, how dare they tried to conduct a raid upon us, ensure that nobody is alive,” Tiwari states in the FIR. He adds that the gun attack began around 1am and ended by 1.30am. The FIR has also given a detailed account of how circle officer, Bilhaur, Devendra Mishra, was dragged by the attackers into the home of Prem Kumar Pandey, the maternal uncle of Dubey, and killed with an axe. Tiwari in his account, however, says that lives of many police personnel, including SO Kaushalendra Pratap Singh, were saved because his (Tiwari’s) team continued to give them cover fire. Tiwari adds that all goons of Dubey were armed and opened consistent fire. The FIR also states that Dubey was a gangster who had amassed movable and immovable properties through illegal means. Dubey and his henchmen have been booked under the charges of murder, attempt to murder, rioting, rioting with deadly weapons, robbery, and unlawful assembly. Watch Kanpur: Gangster Vikas Dubey yelled ‘Kill them all’ as his goons ambushed police teams||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kill-them-all-yelled-gangster-as-his-goons-ambushed-police-teams/articleshow/76823319.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
July 7, 2020||Amritsar||Testing at Bathinda AIIMS soon||Bathinda: The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda will start Covid-19 testing facility soon, as the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) machine is expected to arrive in the next 10 days, said newly-appointed director Dr D K Singh on Monday. Currently, the nearest testing facility is available some 90km away at Faridkot. “Apart from the RT PCR machine, we will also get a good number of transport ventilators to shift Covid patients to specialised hospitals at Chandigarh or Ludhiana The AIIMS will also set up a high dependency unit with 10-12 beds, which will function as an ad hoc ICU for the intermediary period, before patients are transferred to specialised hospitals,” said Dr Singh. tnn Speaking to media persons only days after joining the office, the AIIMS director said at present, Covid is the biggest challenge facing the country. “We want to provide all facilities to the people impacted by it. We are trying to complete the pending construction work, which had got stalled during the lockdown, as the labourers had left for their home states.” He said the first batch of 50 MBBS students of AIIMS is attending classes at the institute’s temporary campus at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot. “But, we are hopeful that from the next session, a batch of 100 MBBS students will be able to study on the AIIMS campus. We are also hoping to start a 30-bed Ayush hospital and CT scan and MRI facilities soon,” Dr Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/testing-at-bathinda-aiims-soon/articleshow/76824107.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||HC raps officials for ignoring Lonar orders||Nagpur: Upset over repeated non-compliance of its orders on Lonar lake preservation, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday blasted the authorities, including the Buldhana collector, and warned them of contempt if they failed to act. “We found that orders aren’t regularly followed in the case’s history. We think the primary responsibility is of the collector and Public Works Department (PWD). Only department that has taken HC orders seriously is forest,” a division bench led by Justice Sunil Shukre said. While adding Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP) and National Environmental and Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) as respondents in the plea filed by lawyer Kirti Nipankar and others through counsel Anand Parchure, the bench directed Lonar Municipal Council to immediately stop sewage water flow from the town into lake. “If it’s not possible then make arrangements for diverting the flow to other areas, so it couldn’t mix with lake water. This action should be taken within three days and a compliance report submitted. In case of failure, we will not hesitate to initiate contempt action against concerned officials,” the bench said. Earlier, amicus curiae Ashutosh Dharmadhikari submitted a report of lawyers visit to the historic lake on June 17, which was reported in detail by TOI in Sunday’s edition. The team also including senior counsel Chandrashekhar Kaptan, Swapnajit Sanyal and government pleader (GP) Sumant Deopujari, besides Parchure and Dharmadhikari, strongly recommended setting up a ‘Lonar Development Authority’ for saving the crater lake, formed about 50,000 years ago due to meteorite impact. Stating that the HC would pass order on the next date on the lawyers’ recommendations, including on the issue of ‘Ejecta Blanket’, the judges asked respondents to keep its samples ready for inspection and also told Neeri to submit the report by next hearing. The GP was told to submit a report regarding its samples sent to Pune-based Agarkar Research Institute for testing. “The authorities haven’t complied with HC directives for carrying out an impact assessment for shifting of road from Ejecta Blanket.” After lawyers’ pointed out the collector’s absence during their visit, the judges flayed her for “not taking serious efforts”. “The explanation about the emergency Covid-19 situation is given for her absence. We can understand the priority, but she’s not being serious. Even today, she could have participated online to assist the court.” Quoting the Constitution of India, the bench said it was the fundamental duty of all authorities to protect natural and environmental monuments and resources as well as wildlife. “All heads of departments and government bodies, including the collector would participate in the next hearing. Any officer remaining absent would be taken seriously,” the judges warned before deferring the hearing till July 22. #What HC Said: * Contempt against officials, including collector, if they fail to act on orders * Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP) & Neeri added as respondents * Lonar Municipal Council to stop sewage flow into lake within three days * Ejecta Blanket samples to be kept ready for inspection, Neeri to submit report * Collector should assist HC online for case, but she’s not making serious efforts * All concerned officials to remain present in July 22 hearing or face action||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-raps-officials-for-ignoring-lonar-orders/articleshow/76822680.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 7, 2020||Rajkot||IMFL worth Rs 53L seized||Rajkot: A total of 12,926 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 52.59 lakh were seized and five bootleggers arrested in three different raids reported from Rajkot on Sunday night. The first raid was carried out at Pipaliya village on Rajkot-Highway on the outskirts of Rajkot. A total of 7,928 IMFL bottles worth Rs 32.28 lakh were seized from a truck. “We arrested the truck driver identified as Navabkhan Rajad (40). Rajad had hidden the liquor bottles beneath the heaps of saw dust,” said M C Vala, inspector with Kuwadava Road police station, adding that Rajad had brought the liquor cache from Rajasthan. The second raid was conducted on Kuwadava Road, where a total of 4,728 IMFL bottles worth Rs 18.71 lakh were seized from a truck. “The truck driver, identified as Sidar Palsinh Jat (41), was arrested for the crime. Jat had stored the liquor bottles under empty cans of oil. Jat said he had brought the liquor supply from Punjab,” said H M Gadhvi, inspector with Rajkot crime branch. The last raid was reported from Kalawad Road, where a mini-truck was impounded for carrying 270 IMFL bottles worth Rs 1.60 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-worth-rs-53l-seized/articleshow/76820638.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu nixes 3-subject groups order for higher secondary classes||CHENNAI: In view of the apprehensions of parents and teachers that the move may limit students’ career options, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday cancelled its order that introduced three-subject groups for higher secondary classes. Now, all schools will offer only four-subject groups in Class XI from 2020-21. The cancelled government order had said students can choose between three-subject and four-subject groups, besides language and English, in Class XI from 2020-21. Teachers had, however, argued that most students would opt to study a subject less, which would limit their higher education and career options. While students can pursue MBBS or BE/BTech courses with the reinstated physics, chemistry, maths and biology group, the three-subject groups would not have given them the option. TOI had earlier reported that the three-subject group system lacked flexibility in terms of course choices, limited career options and that computer science as a subject was removed for vocational and commerce streams. The move had stirred a debate and parents, academicians and politicians demanded its withdrawal. Several parents and teachers had sent representations to the school education director urging that the government continue with the existing four-subject groups for better career options. “Based on the representations, the director has recommended cancellation of the government order introducing three-subject groups and to continue with existing subject groups,” Monday’s government order said. Parents and teachers are happy after the rollback “From 2020-21, all schools should follow existing four-subject groups in higher secondary,” school education secretary Dheeraj Kumar said in the order.Educationists and teachers welcomed the move saying it is a relief to students and parents. “It is a very good move and will help the children who were confused by the change,” said P B Prince Gajendrababu, general secretary of State Platform for Common School System. He added that the existing groups gave students multiple career choices. Tamil Nadu Teachers Association president P K Ilamaran said the decision would reduce pressure on the students while choosing groups in Class XI. Former minister for school education Thangam Thennarasu also welcomed the move saying DMK president M K Stalin was the first to oppose the three-subject groups move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-nixes-3-subject-groups-order-for-higher-sec-classes/articleshow/76822678.cms||A Ragu Raman
July 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Sishu Bhawan OPD shut after patient tests positive||Cuttack: After Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre and SCB Medical College and Hospital, the out patient department (OPD) of Sishu Bhawan or Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Post Graduate Institute of Paediatrics was shut on Monday till further notice after a patient tested positive. “As one patient was found to be Covid positive, the hospital will be shut considering the safety of the people and the staff till further orders,” said Sishu Bhawan superintendent Dr Saroj Satpathy. He said emergency services will continue in the hospital and critical cases will be admitted. “All patients have been asked to be cautious and only one attendant will be allowed per patient,” he added. The hospital is being sanitised and the sanitisation exercise will continue for at least three days, hospital authorities said. So far, 33 patients have tested positive for the virus at SCB Medical College and Hospital. On Monday, 11 new cases were reported from the hospital that includes four patients from the isolation ward and seven hospital staff. Massive sanitation exercise was carried out in various departments of the SCB on Monday by Cuttack Municipal Corporation workers along with fire-fighting official after detection of several Covid-19 positive cases. After detection of 38 Covid-19 positive cases in AHRCC on Saturday, all the affected persons were shifted to Covid-19 hospitals from AHRCC. Thereafter, no more case have been detected from the centre. Altogether 107 Covid-19 cases have been detected from AHRCC till Saturday. The first case at the cancer hospital was detected on June 24 when a patient from Ganjam admitted to the hospital on June 19, tested positive. After that two nurses, who had come in contact with him, were also found to be positive. On July 2, 55 people, including 18 cancer patients, 36 attendants and a nurse tested positive. After the sanitisation drive, all critical cancer patients found to be negative have been shifted to a special isolation ward. “Doctors and paramedics have been engaged to monitor their health condition,” said CMC commissioner Ananya Das Seventeen more, particularly attendants of cancer patients, who were found to be negative have been shifted to institutional quarantine of Cuttack Municipal Corporation. They will be kept under observation and will stay in quarantine for 14 days, added Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sishu-bhawan-opd-shut-after-patient-tests-positive/articleshow/76821939.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Leaders opt for tests, but some trust their immunity||CHENNAI: The death of DMK legislator J Anbazhagan last month due to Covid-19 and an increasing number of legislators both from ruling AIADMK and opposition DMK testing positive for Covid-19 have made a section of politicians cautious. While several are undertaking Covid-19 tests voluntarily, some are shying away from it for want of symptoms despite being involved in public engagements. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami not only undertook the test for himself, but also for all members of his family. Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam volunteered to test twice – the latest being last Friday. Both the leaders have tested negative. Leader of opposition and DMK president M K Stalin took a Covid-19 test about 20 days ago which turned negative. After DMK lost its MLA to Covid, Stalin directed party leaders to take precautions while engaging with the public. State local administration minister S P Velumani said he gets himself tested every time he visits Chennai as well as after returning to Coimbatore. The last time he tested was a week ago. Minister for power P Thangamani says he got tested five times in the past three months. The last test was a week ago. Thangamani says he exercise enormous caution, uses hand sanitisers regularly and always maintains social distance. Tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan undertook the tests thrice and the results were negative. Not just the ministers. TNCC president K S Alagiri has undertaken Covid test three times so far and is happy that they turned negative each time. “I have been travelling frequently including to Tuticorin and Bengaluru. Hence, opting for tests becomes a necessity,” Alagiri said. But not all are on the same boat. “We are following the health department’s advisory, which is asking people to undertake tests if there are symptoms. Neither me nor my father (senior DMK leader and MLA S Durai Murugan) or any members of our family have symptoms,” said D M Kathir Anand, DMK MP from Vellore. DMK legislator from Saidapet M Subramanian, a marathon runner, said regular exercise has kept him fit. “Every day, I run for more than two hours on an eight-shaped track in the terrace in the morning and walk for one-and-half hours in the evening. My health has improved more during the lockdown,” said Subramanian, who too has not opted for the Covid test. Madurai Central MLA and DMK IT wing secretary P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan has isolated himself at his residence in Chennai and is virtually overseeing relief measures being delivered in his constituency. CPM MP from Madurai Su Venkatesan is keeping a check on the visitors who come to meet him. Since none of them have turned positive so far, he has not taken a test so far. S Vijayadharani, Congress MLA from Vilavancode, has been on protests and said: “I have participated in three protests in the past three months. I have undertaken one test and fortunately it turned negative,” Vijayadharani said. (With inputs from Sambath Kumar K in Trichy, V Mayilvaganan in Coimbatore and M K Ananth in Madurai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/leaders-opt-for-tests-but-some-trust-their-immunity/articleshow/76822692.cms||D Govardan
July 7, 2020||Lucknow||‘Online study only option in Covid times’||Lucknow: Deputy CM and education minister Dinesh Sharma has said online teaching is the only viable solution during Covid-19 pandemic by which education could be imparted without any fear of outbreak even though it lacks the personal touch between teachers and students. Sharma was speaking at a virtual conference on ‘Road Map for Education in UP during Covid-19’ organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) on Monday. Many speakers deliberated upon the key challenges and issues for reopening educational institutes after lockdown. Additional chief secretary, higher education, Monika S Garg said the main challenge in online teaching is to make and deliver online content to students who are in remote areas and have limited or no access to internet. “To overcome this, we can put weekly timetables for students on school websites. Pre-loaded tabs with e-content could be another option, along with enabling digital libraries where tabs can be issued along with a good bandwidth in the campus,” she said. Manoj Gaur, chairperson of PHDCCI, UP Chapter said government could start job portals for people looking for jobs .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/online-study-only-option-in-covid-times/articleshow/76823325.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Nashik||NMC projects 5,000 cases by July 20, to get more beds||NASHIK: Given that nearly 150-200 Covid-19 patients are being reported in the city every day over the past three days, the civic administration has revised its projections and estimates that the tally of Covid-19 cases will swell to 5,000 by July 20. Commissioner of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Radhakrishna Game has directed the health department to make arrangements for additional beds in hospitals. “Considering the spike in the Covid-19 cases in the city, we have decided to create wards with over 1,000 beds in the next three four days,” said NMC officials. Presently, NMC has 3,000 beds, of which 1,400 are currently occupied. The civic body has decided to acquire Bhakta Nivas of Mukti Dham on Nashik Road which has a capacity of 300 beds. Plans are afoot to acquire the office building of the social welfare department of the state government in Adgaon area with 500 beds. The Covid care centre at Thakker’s dome with a capacity of 350 beds is also getting ready. Suspected Covid patient dies of cardiac arrest A 55-year-old man from Wadalagaon, who was in institutional quarantine in a Covid care centre in Dwarka, died of cardiac arrest on Sunday. According to medical health officer Rajendra Trimbake, he came in contact with a positive patient and was put in quarantine on Saturday. His swab was to be sent for testing on Sunday. When NMC put him in an ambulance to shift him from the care centre in Dwarka to Zakir Hussain hospital, he jumped out of the ambulance and fled. He suffered a cardiac arrest when he was trying to start his bike. He was immediately taken to Zakir Hussain hospital where he was declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-projects-5000-cases-by-july-20-to-get-more-beds/articleshow/76820655.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Without fees, how will we pay teachers, others: Private schools||BHUBANESWAR: The issue of school fees is threatening to drive a wedge between parents and private school administrations. Amid demand from parents for fee waiver during the pandemic that has resulted in job losses and pay cuts for many, schools said they have to pay the salary of teachers and non-teaching staff, and any deviation would result in many of them getting affected. “Of the total 6,700 private schools in Odisha, majority the of schools collect very reasonable fees and have been offering quality education for years. If parents are worried about salary cuts and job losses, do they want teachers and non-teaching staff to face similar ordeal?” asked B N Patnaik, president of Confederation of Odisha Private Schools. Patnaik said most of the private schools are run by societies and trusts, which are non-proprietary and non-profit in nature. “Every year 85% of the revenue has to be and is utilised for upgrading, maintaining and running of the institutions within the same financial year. So, there is hardly any fund left for the next academic year,” Patnaik added. Besides, teaching has not stopped and teachers have to put in extra effort to reach out to students during online classes. “Teachers are taking online classes as they used to in classroom. Private schools have already decided to withdraw the 10% fee hike for the current year. But if parents do not even pay the reduced fee, then schools will be forced to shut down,” said K C Satpathy, regional director of DAV Group of Institutes, Odisha. The schools said that neither the state government nor the Centre has stopped or waived taxes and regular payments like building tax, property tax, insurance coverage of school buses, electricity and telephone bills, TDS and ESI due to the pandemic. Despite the Covid-19 outbreak, schools have to pay taxes and bills like before and also have to give salaries to teachers and non-teaching staff. Several teachers said it has not been easy to teach online. “It was a big challenge for schools and teachers to shift to online mode without much preparation due to the sudden lockdown. But teachers tried to do their best, at times putting in 14 to 16 hours a day to prepare themselves for the online challenge,” said Anita Samal, a teacher in a city-based private school. And then teaching students under the constant supervision of parents is not an easy task. “Despite putting in so much effort, if parents don’t pay the fees, the schools will stop giving us our salaries. Do you think that’s fair?” she asked. Meanwhile, some of the parents can’t seem to decide whether to pay the fees or not. “We are really confused and cannot decide what to do. While we are not very satisfied with the quality of online classes, we cannot negate the efforts put in by the teachers. And they also have families,” said Sasmita Palei, who has two school-going children. “But then schools should take only the tuition fee and not ask us to pay for services like transportation and canteen costs since the schools are closed,” she added. Some parents alleged that a few of the schools have stopped sharing online links of classes to students whose parents have not paid school fees. When asked about this, the president of Confederation of Odisha Private Schools, said, “We have requested all private schools not to stop online classes of students during the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/without-fees-how-will-we-pay-teachers-others-pvt-schools/articleshow/76821953.cms||Minati Singha
July 7, 2020||Mumbai||Airlines selling tickets for ghost flights: Passengers||MUMBAI: Sachin Shetty bought three tickets in the second week of June for a Mumbai-Mangalore non-stop flight for July 5. Four days before departure, the low cost carrier told him the flight was cancelled and his money had been moved to a credit shell. He later learnt that Mangalore is not connected to Mumbai by direct flights now, so why did the airline sell him the ticket? Businessman Brijesh Sutaria on May 30 booked a Mumbai-Delhi flight ticket for June 7. The next day, the airline told him his flight was cancelled and his Rs4,200 had gone into a credit shell for later use. Flight cancellations due to new restrictions by a state, like one recently by West Bengal government, are understandable. But in the past few weeks, passengers like Shetty and Sutaria found they were sold tickets for flights not scheduled at all or were likely to be cancelled later due to low demand. “The day after I booked the ticket, I got a message from the airline that the flight had been cancelled due to operational reasons,’’ said Sutaria. “Are airlines offering tickets on non-existent flights? They could be collecting public money, putting it in a credit shell for 730 days with no interest,’’ Sutaria alleged. He believes he was sold the ticket for a Mumbai-Delhi flight that was not scheduled at all. Shetty was sold a ticket on a non-existent Mumbai-Mangalore flight. “The airline message did not mention why the flight was cancelled. It gave an option to reschedule, but I could not find a flight on any other day, so the money went into credit shell.” An aviation source said, “There are no non-stop flights now from Mumbai to cities like Chennai, Trivandrum, Mangalore and Panjim, so it is surprising tickets were sold on non-existent routes.” Though the state government permitted Mumbai airport to handle 100 daily departures and arrivals, it handles 75-80 daily due to poor demand. A travel agent said, “In the past two weeks, airline websites cut down flight options on a given route on a given day. Earlier, if one searched for a ticket, say on a Mumbai-Bengaluru route, the website showed 7-8 flights for a given day, when they were operating only one or two.” A search option on June 23 showed a low-cost airline site with seven non-stop flights on Mumbai-Bengaluru route for travel on July 2, when only few of them operated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/airlines-selling-tickets-for-ghost-flights-passengers/articleshow/76822799.cms||Manju V
July 7, 2020||Rajkot||Low pressure weighs heavily on Gujarat||RAJKOT: Flood-like situation prevailed in coastal districts of Saurashtra as the incessant rainfall that began on Sunday left normal life paralysed. Several areas and villages in Amreli, Junagadh, Gir-Somnath, Jamnagar, Devbhumi Dwarka and Porbandar districts were in waist-high water and a team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was deputed in Porbandar. A causeway over Sabli river connecting villages of Keshod taluka in Junagadh district caved in due to continuous downpour, leaving four villages stranded. This causeway in Bamnasa village was used for internal travel by residents of these villages. Bamnasa sarpanch Hakka Nandaniya said, “I have been representing the district panchayat for the last two years about the poor condition of this causeway, but in vain. The result is here to see today.” Junagadh district development officer Praveen Chaudhary said the bridge was constructed in 1991 and was used only by locals. “The bridge was already old and heavy vehicles were prohibited from plying on it. A warning sign was also placed near it as it was already damaged. Nobody was injured after it caved in,” he said. In Porbandar, rain water gushed inside the houses in low lying areas while a state transport bus was trapped in heavily waterlogged Ranavav road. However, all the passengers were rescued. As Fodala dam in Porbandar started overflowing, the district administration issued a warning to the people in villages of Ranavav taluka not to venture out of the low-lying areas, Eight gates of Khirsara dam in the district were also opened. In Gir-Somnath district’s Una taluka, a causeway on Machundri river between Delvada and Saiyadrajpar was closed for traffic due to flooding. As a result, movement to 20 villages was disrupted for several hours. A state highway running through Gir forest connecting Una and Dhari was closed as Hiran river was in spate due to incessant rainfall. The famous Prachi temple of Madhavrai in was completely inundated due to floods. In Amreli, alert was sounded in 15 villages of Rajula taluka as Dhatarvadi dam started overflowing.Six persons travelling in a car got trapped in the turbulent waters of a causeway in Kalyanpur taluka of Devbhoomi Dwarka district, but all were rescued. Two persons going on a bike drowned in Narmada sub-canal of Botad district. . The deceased were identified as Harshad Chavda(32) and Prakash Parmar (33).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/low-pressure-weighs-heavily-on-gujarat/articleshow/76820701.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chennai||The unfair obsession||Chennai: As the country debates about the responsibility of a cosmetic product in furthering the obsession of fair skin, the role of films in propagating this idea cannot be far behind. The Tamil film industry is equally responsible for attaching importance to this unwanted bias. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/how-cinema-stoked-indias-unfair-obsession/articleshow/76827031.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-unfair-obsession/articleshow/76822694.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Nashik||Nashik jail to make fewer Ganesh idols||NASHIK: The Nashik Road Central Prison authorities, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, have decided to reduce the number of Ganpati idols that are prepared by the convicts for selling during the Ganeshotsav. Every year around 2,000 Ganesh idols are are made by the prison inmates and the same is put on sale for the general public at stalls on the jail premises. “But this year, we have decided to reduce the number of idols by at least 30%,” a senior jail official said. “We have also decided to not prepare big idols that are purchased by Ganesh mandals considering the chances that Covid 19 pandemic may not be over till the Ganesh festival,” he added. The idols prepared by the convicts are made from Shadu clay and the response from people for buying these idols has been growing every year. The convicts are also trained in various skills like tailoring, fabrication, welding, mong others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-jail-to-make-fewer-ganesh-idols/articleshow/76820678.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||NMC clearing OCW pay, works sans third-party check||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is clearing monthly payment of around Rs10 crore to Orange City Water Private Limited (OCW) for operation of drinking water supply and approving works under 24X7 water supply project without any third-party check for the last 16-17 months. Also, the civic body has neither levied any penalty nor taken action against the operator for the last 27 months despite delay in completion of project and problems in drinking water supply. NMC sources told TOI new consultant was not appointed for drinking water supply and 24X7 water project after DRA Consultants declined to accept offer for extension. DRA Consultants’ contract for drinking water supply ended on February 28, 2019 and for 24X7 water project on March 31, 2019. Confirming this, an NMC official told TOI, “Delegates at zone levels check and recommend payments and works. We have instructions from higher authorities not to appoint new consultant,” he said. TOI has earlier reported that NMC has disbursed penalty and escalation cost of Rs73 crore to OCW though the revised agreement is pending with board of directors of special purpose vehicle Nagpur Environmental Services Limited (NESL). Also, renewal and replacement (R&R) works worth only Rs18.88 crore were done in 2019-20 as against dues of Rs143.37 crore. After handing over water supply works to OCW on March 1, 2012, the NMC had shifted all the employees concerned to other departments. Only one delegate for each of 10 zones is working for water supply. Consultant used to check whether OCW is managing water supply as per agreement, cross check volume of water and recommend payment. The consultant also used to inspect project work at ground level, verify it technically and recommend payments. The NMC had levied penalty of Rs41 crore on OCW for violations of agreement between March 1, 2012 and March 31, 2018. The consultant had disapproved OCW’s claims of R&R works of Rs70 crore, rejected bills for various reasons and many such things. Mayor Sandip Joshi, who is chairman of NESL, and NMC superintending engineer (water works) Shweta Banerjee did not respond to TOI calls and messages. Congress corporator Sandip Sahare said it is a violation to clear monthly payments and works of OCW without third-party check. “One delegate for each of 10 zones can’t attend complaints of people and corporators, so they are not in a position to verify OCW works. It also means whatever OCW is claiming is being approved. Actually, NMC has no control over OCW,” he said. NO MONITORING * DRA Consultants monitored OCW works and recommend payments * Consultant recommended penalty of Rs41cr and action against OCW * Consultant declined NMC’s offer for extension in Feb-March 2019 * NMC did not appoint new consultant for last 16-17 months * Instead one delegate for each of 10 zones recommending payments and approving works * No penalty or action against OCW for last 27 months despite problems in water supply and project delay||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-clearing-ocw-pay-works-sans-third-party-check/articleshow/76822698.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 7, 2020||Lucknow||Business off the platter: Eateries may shut again in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: It has been nearly a month when hospitality sector was allowed to resume operations, but at least 40% hotels in Lucknow are either still closed or planning to shut down due to poor footfall. Similarly, barely 30% restaurants in the city are functioning. The government had on June 8 allowed hotels and restaurants to reopen while following precautionary measures as per Covid-19 protocol. Amit Agarwal, owner of Sagar Ratna, said: “What are functioning right now are largely non-vegetarian restaurants and that too for takeaways. This is because meat is still not easily available in the city. Most establishments have still not resumed operations and are waiting to see how the market moves. Many hotels and restaurants which opened in June have shut down as people are not stepping out.” Agarwal said several popular chains of restaurants have already pulled out of the city as they could not afford rentals. “Night curfew, currently from 10pm to 5am, has been highly detrimental to business. People in Lucknow like to eat out during night but we have been asked to shut by 9.30pm. Bars have also not opened yet which could have helped bring in some crowd. Only a few high-end restaurants are open,” he said. The situation is no better for hotel industry. General secretary of UP Hotels and Restaurants Association Garish Oberoi said almost 40% hotels are “semi-shut” which means they are working with skeletal staff. “Travelling is almost non-existent. People who take flights prefer to return home the same day so occupancy is almost negligible. The only enquiries hotels have been getting are for weddings in winter but they too are not able to commit to the number of guests as nobody knows what the situation will be then,” he said. Oberoi said in a place like Lucknow, it is a norm to serve only those guests in restaurants who are staying in hotels. “Their restaurants too, therefore, are not working since there are no guests. Bars are shut so food preparation, like snacks served with drinks, has also stopped,” he said. Another hotel owner said there are enquiries for quarantine facilities but hotels are wary of taking such guests in case any of them tests positive. “Even the staff does not want to serve such guests,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/business-off-the-platter-eateries-may-shut-again/articleshow/76823342.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Sacrifice, self-restraint and discipline can help fight coronavirus: Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik||BHUBANESWAR: Amid alarming rise in Covid-19 cases in the state, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday projected the just-concluded Rath Yatra in Puri as a best practice to fight against the virus. In a four-minute video message, Naveen said the successful conduct of Rath Yatra amid the pandemic has taught three key messages — sacrifice, self-restraint and discipline — which should be adopted by everyone to ensure victory over the novel corona virus. This year’s Rath Yatra created history as all rituals were performed smoothly and in a disciplined manner without the congregation of devotees. “Just a day before Rath Yatra, I had told that the world was watching us as we were scheduled to host Rath Yatra under the Covid glare. By god’s grace, we succeeded in hosting the festival,” Naveen said. He said the Puri Rath Yatra set an example for the whole world in terms of proper compliance with the Covid-19 guidelines and safety precautions. “Puri showed the way. Though the deities were on the chariots for four days on the Grand Road, people of Puri and devotees obeyed the Covid guidelines and stayed in their homes. They did not come out to watch the festival. Their sacrifice, self-restraint and discipline is incomparable and cannot be forgotten,” Naveen said. Naveen said the sibling deities came out of the Jagannath Temple to instil the lessons of sacrifice and discipline among devotees. “To win the Covid battle, we have to strictly adhere to sacrifice, discipline and self-restraint the three main weapons against the virus,” Naveen said. “Cases are also rising in Odisha. I had earlier warned that the cases might increase during the monsoon. Until the Covid vaccine or treatment is available, life will never be the same again. We all have to obey the Covid-19 guidelines and stay indoors,” said Naveen, adding, “People should accept the new normal of wearing mask, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently to keep Covid at bay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sacrifice-self-restraint-discipline-can-help-fight-virus-naveen/articleshow/76821960.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
July 7, 2020||India||Goa, Punjab, Jharkhand... new Covid-19 hotspots emerging||NEW DELHI: Odisha, Punjab, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and a few smaller states like Goa and the Union territory of J&K are emerging as new Covid-19 hotspots with positivity rates, or total cases per 100 tests, more than doubling in the last month even as there is some moderation in incidence of the disease in badly affected states like Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Karnataka, West Bengal and Odisha had a positivity rate of 5% and above, measured between June 19 to July 2. In the period between May 19 and June 1, Karnataka’s positivity rate was 1.3%, West Bengal’s 2.5% and Odisha’s 2%. Goa saw its positivity rate rise from 0.2% during May 19June 1 to 3.6% during June 19July 2. (A 14-day period as per WHO helps judge progress in Covid-19 control and a positivity rate above 5% is enough to be categorised as red zone). These states may not have raised eyebrows so far as they have added a very insignificant number to India’s overall tally of 7 lakh coronavirus cases, but the steady rise in confirmed cases and an upward curve pose a serious concern as emerging hotspots, given the nature of the disease, can rapidly escalate. So far, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat have together added over 4.5 lakh cases, accounting for 65% of the total cases reported in the country as of July 6. West Bengal had slowed down a bit after initially showing a rapid rise in cases but since June 19, it has once again been adding more cases, reaching a positivity rate of 5%. Odisha and Karnataka too had done well so far but that is changing. Both states, like Bengal, have a positivity rate of 5% and above. Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and J&K may not have seen rapid rise in cases but their positivity rates have more than doubled in the last one month and are on an upward curve. Between May 19 and June 1, the positivity rate in AP was less than 1%, but it has now risen to 2.68%. Similarly, in Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, the rate has risen from 1.3% to over 2% during the two 14-day periods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/goa-punjab-jharkhand-new-covid-19-hotspots-emerging/articleshow/76824386.cms||Pradeep Thakur
July 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Kuwait expat bill may hurt Odia workforce hard||Bhubaneswar: Seventy per cent of the passengers who flew into the state on special flights during the lockdown, arrived from the Gulf, including Kuwait. But with that country deeming ‘constitutional’ a bill to reduce its Indian expatriate population to only 15% of the total population, it is likely that many of those who returned won’t be going back. Kuwait, with a population of 4.3 million people, has about 1.45 million Indians. The bill, which now needs to be enacted into law, will see around eight lakh Indians heading home if implemented. A large chunk of them will be Odisha natives, sources said. Of the 2,722 people who returned to Odisha from abroad during the lockdown, the highest of 1,146 came from the UAE. Another large set of people came back from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Oman. As many as 735 people came from non-Gulf countries including 174 people from the US. The special flights arrived in the state between May 12 and June 20. As many as 14 flights brought back stranded persons during this period. On June 20, the Odia community in Bahrain helped fly back 150 stranded workers to Bhubaneswar. They coordinated with the state government and Air India for the special flight. Umi Daniel, a researcher of migration trends, said the large number of workers returning from the Gulf countries showed that the Odia community had a strong presence there, especially in the sectors of construction and ancillary activities like plumbing, electrical works and fittings. “The workers mostly hail from the south-coastal and coastal districts of Ganjam, Kendrapada, Bhadrak, Jajpur, Khurda, Nayagarh, Cuttack and Jagatsinghpur. Some of them work seasonally, while others work in a project-based manner,” he said. In the first week of June, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan had written to his civil aviation counterpart Hardeep Singh Puri to facilitate direct evacuation of Odias stranded in the Gulf. He had said the Centre had taken the initiative of flying back Indian nationals under the Vande Bharat Mission. On May 3, too, Pradhan had interacted with the Odia community members staying in the Gulf and had promised to take up their request for direct repatriation to Bhubaneswar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/kuwait-expat-bill-may-hurt-odia-workforce-hard/articleshow/76821967.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC directs Parel hospital to take back its sole radiologist||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Monday directed Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital (Parel) to immediately take its only radiologist back. “You have no radiologist. And you throw out a radiologist. What is going on in your hospital? Is this the way you operate?” asked Justice Shahrukh Kathawalla, in a division bench with Justice V G Bisht. They stayed a June 30 circular applicable to Dr Nimish Shah, head of department (radiology), who was relieved from service with immediate effect. Shah had joined MGM in 1990. The hospital is managed by a trust in a tripartite agreement under Employees’ State Insurance Scheme. Its board of management includes representatives of state government, ESI Corporation and Mill Owners’ Association. The state government in August 2018 raised the retirement age of grade A medical officers to 60 and in July 2019 to 62. On September 19, 2019, the hospital circular said it had decided to implement the August 2018 GR subject to approval by the board at its ensuing meeting. The June 30 order mentioned that as the meeting was not conducted, the board on February 3 decided to retire medical officers/specialists who were 58 and withdrew the September 19 circular. Shah’s petition, filed through advocate Atharva Dandekar, said June 30 order was contrary to the GR. The judges questioned medical superintendent Dr Shankar Revankar. “If there is no meeting, you have to call for one. What happened on June 30 to take a decision? One fine day you take a decision to retire him. What sort of raj is this?” asked Justice Kathawalla. Revankar said the hospital had 60 operational beds, no radiologist and work was done by “a resident doctor in-charge” who has no radiology degree. The judges said in their order Revankar’s revelations were “shocking” and MGM hospital and its management appeared to have crossed all limits. The judges said prima facie the board’s functioning was “grossly irresponsible”. In view of the pandemic, citizens are going through trying times. But doctors who have served for several decades and are ready to continue services in difficult times are being treated obnoxiously and callously by the hospital management, they said The hospital and its functionaries were not bothered about its patients’ well-being and only because the board had no time to meet in 10 months, patients have been left without a radiologist. They directed Shah to report to Revankar, who will allow him to perform his duties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-tells-hosp-to-take-back-its-sole-radiologist/articleshow/76822808.cms||Rosy Sequeira
July 7, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Hoteliers welcome ‘restart’ decision||NASHIK: The hotel owners’ fraternity in Nashik city has welcomed the state government’s decision to allow hotels, lodges and guest houses etc. to reopen with 33% capacity. The government decision comes a day after a meeting of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray with the office-bearers of the hoteliers’ association on Sunday. As per the new order, the hotels in non-containment zones can start operations from July 8. There are around 70 hotels in the city with over 2,500 rooms. The hotel owners said the reopening of their establishments would help the hospitality sector recover, though it may not be financially gainful initially. “This is really a positive decision. The hospitality sector was the first one to get affected by the pandemic and subsequent lockdown, and it is the last one to restart. The sector provides employment to a large number of people and also helps boost industries and other sectors,” said Tej Takle of Hotel Emerald Park. “Although opening with 33% capacity will not make the business financially viable, but at least the operations will start,” he said. “The hotel industry was worst-hit. The state government has taken a good decision that will help revive the sector. But it will take more time for the industry to get back on track,” said Shailesh Kute of SSK Hotel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hoteliers-welcome-restart-decision/articleshow/76820691.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 7, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s average of Covid test nears 27,000 per day, CM Yogi Adityanath pushes for 30,000||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to meet the target of 30,000 Covid-19 tests per day at the earliest even as the state has registered has registered an average of 26,993 tests every day for last three days. Officials said the target of 30,000 tests per day would be achieved by next week. “UP is now consistently reporting more than 25,000 Covid tests per day with about 24,186 samples taken for testing in last 24 hours,” additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said. “Till now, UP has conducted 8,87,997 tests and we are rapidly increasing numbers. We will reach the target of 30,000 tests per day soon. At least 25,918 samples were tested on Sunday,” he said. Awasthi said maximum 1,35,626 samples have been tested at KGMU followed by RMLIMS (50,161), SGPGI (70,695) and Birbal Sahni Institute (11,865). Lucknow accounts for more than 30% of total tests conducted in the state. Other institutes in various parts of the state carrying out testing include LLRM in Meerut (60,264), IMS-BHU in Varanasi (58,855), GSVM in Kanpur (45,996), MLNMC in Prayagraj (38,829), UPRISM in Saifai (38,357), NIB in Noida (36,993), RMRC in Gorakhpur (34,568), BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur (26,544), MLBMC in Jhansi (32,941), JN Medical College in Aligarh (30,498), SNMC in Agra (29,866), IVRI in Bareilly (17,391) and GIMS in Greater Noida (13,040). Chief secretary RK Tiwari said along with testing in government hospitals, private hospitals had the capacity of about 8,000 tests per day which the government had not used so far. Officials said the weeklong special screening programme in Meerut division was on in full swing with special attention on Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-average-of-covid-test-nears-27k-per-day-yogi-pushes-for-30k/articleshow/76823368.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Zila parishad office to remain shut till July end||NASHIK: The office of the Nashik zilla parishad will continue to remain closed for visitors until the end of this month as part of the precautionary measures being taken to prevent the spread of Covid 19. Deputy CEO of Nashik ZP Anand Pingle said people who have work at the office could contact the respective departments through phone, e-mail or fax. A ZP staffer was found positive on June 23 following which it was decided to keep the premises closed for visitors till June 30. The employees working at the Nashik ZP are allowed inside the campus only after undergoing thermal scanning. If some visitor has very important work in any department, he or she is allowed to enter the office after noting down his details and and checking body temperature. The Nashik ZP has people coming from all across the district for various works on a daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/zp-office-to-remain-shut-till-july-end/articleshow/76820706.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||3 teens sell paintings to raise funds for Covid warriors, orphanages||Nagpur: Ditya Thapar, 13, likes to paint and used the lockdown period to pursue her favourite hobby. Her senior in Centre Point School, Presha Bhattad, 15, and their family friend from Modern School, Soumya Dalmiya, 17, also like painting. Unlike other students who spent their time watching TV, playing video games on social media and mobile phones during the lockdown period, the three teenagers came together to lend a helping hand to not only those fighting Covid-19 but also to Centre and state governments along with the orphanages. The girls raised funds by selling their paintings and have collected Rs83,000 so far. “Our target is Rs1 lakh. After achieving it, we would be donating it completely for charity, including Prime Minister’s and Chief Minister’s relief funds and for purchasing personal protection equipment (PPE), masks and other material required by front-line warriors to treat coronavirus patients,” says Soumya, a Std XII student. The idea struck them while reading news and articles about how health care workers across the world are struggling to contain the contagion. They also witnessed how many NGOs are working overtime to help patients and corona warriors. “I read about many people losing out on their jobs and staring at penury. So, we decided to do something from our side. Fortunately, all of us like painting since childhood and decided to sell them to raise funds,” says Presha, a Std X student. The gritty teenagers are being helped by their family and friends and have sold about 43 paintings so far. “I like painting and decided to utilize the lockdown period for doing something purposeful. We plan to visit orphanages to donate the amount once we achieve the target,” says Ditya, youngest of them and studying in Std VIII. Presha adds that when she visited orphanages, she was moved by the plight of children. So, she decided to donate part to Asha Kiran orphanage for girls and another one for the physically handicapped. Soumya says they are also promoting their paintings through Instagram page and have priced them from Rs800 to Rs3,000 depending on sizes. All three want to continue their initiative in future as well, while balancing their school and studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-teens-sell-paintings-to-raise-funds-for-covid-warriors-orphanages/articleshow/76822713.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 7, 2020||Chennai||Boy bites into bomb, injured||Tiruvannamalai: An eight-year-old schoolboy in Tiruvannamalai district, who bit a country-made bomb mistaking it for an eatable, suffered serious injuries on his right hand and jaw on Sunday when the bomb exploded. The injured boy has been identified as K Deepak, son of Kamalakannan of Kariamangalam village near Chengam. He has completed Class III. On Sunday, Deepak along with his friend Manikandan, 7, went to Kariamangalam forest range to give food to his grandfather who was grazing goats there. The accident took place while the two kids were returning home after playing in the forest for a while. Deepak spotted a mysterious object from which an aromatic smell was emanating. He mistook the object for an eatable and bit it. It exploded in his mouth. The boy sustained severe injuries on his left side jaw and right hand and fell on the ground. On being informed by Manikandan, local villagers came to the spot and took him to Chengam Government Hospital. Later, he was admitted to Government Children Hospital in Chennai Egmore after being referred to Government Tiruvannamalai Medical College Hospital and Government Stanley Hospital in Chennai. Inspector of Chengam police station Solomon Raja said, “Some hunters had strewn ghee-laced country-made bomb inside the reserve forest area to lure animals like wild boar. We have registered a case under Section 308 (Whoever does any act with such intention or knowledge and under such circumstances that, if he by that act caused death, he would be guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC. We are on lookout for the accused who placed the country made bomb there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/boy-bites-into-bomb-injured/articleshow/76822710.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Varanasi||UP CM Yogi Adityanath flags off 100 scooters given to ‘Sherni Dasta’||LUCKNOW/GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday laid stress on the need for having district-level micro plans to keep seasonal infectious diseases under control. Reviewing the state's preparedness in the high burden Gorakhpur and Basti divisions to counter the annual threat of Japanese encephalitis (JE) and acute encephalitis syndrome (AES), the CM reminded that the challenge has doubled on account of the ongoing coronavirus epidemic. “Past experience has proved that inter-departmental coordination played the most important role in controlling the wrath of AES, JE which has killed scores over years,” the CM stated directing officials to ensure that all stake-holder departments worked in sync. Referring to the complexity of challenge posed by infectious diseases in 2020, he said: “The ongoing coronavirus pandemic has added to our challenge to beat the infectious diseases. It is important to formulate district-wise micro plans. In fact, the districts should also form a local Team-11 on the lines of the state-level Team-11.” The CM instructed officials concerned to create awareness against JE/AES and Covid-19 and told them to ensure that the health infrastructure in paediatric intensive care units and hospitals in general should be in place. He told them to mobilize the 'nigrani' samitis and safai workers to keep risk factors under control. The CM dedicated a BSL-2 lab at the regional medical research centre to the people besides inspecting a 100 bedded ward of BRD Medical College. Prior to that, he took a look at the TB Survey Bus being rolled out by the state health department to undertake TB surveys and screen hidden cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-moots-state-type-team-11-to-combat-je-aes-in-districts/articleshow/76828080.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath flags off 100 scooters given to ‘Sherni Dasta’||LUCKNOW/GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday laid stress on the need for having district-level micro plans to keep seasonal infectious diseases under control. Reviewing the state's preparedness in the high burden Gorakhpur and Basti divisions to counter the annual threat of Japanese encephalitis (JE) and acute encephalitis syndrome (AES), the CM reminded that the challenge has doubled on account of the ongoing coronavirus epidemic. “Past experience has proved that inter-departmental coordination played the most important role in controlling the wrath of AES, JE which has killed scores over years,” the CM stated directing officials to ensure that all stake-holder departments worked in sync. Referring to the complexity of challenge posed by infectious diseases in 2020, he said: “The ongoing coronavirus pandemic has added to our challenge to beat the infectious diseases. It is important to formulate district-wise micro plans. In fact, the districts should also form a local Team-11 on the lines of the state-level Team-11.” The CM instructed officials concerned to create awareness against JE/AES and Covid-19 and told them to ensure that the health infrastructure in paediatric intensive care units and hospitals in general should be in place. He told them to mobilize the 'nigrani' samitis and safai workers to keep risk factors under control. The CM dedicated a BSL-2 lab at the regional medical research centre to the people besides inspecting a 100 bedded ward of BRD Medical College. Prior to that, he took a look at the TB Survey Bus being rolled out by the state health department to undertake TB surveys and screen hidden cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-moots-state-type-team-11-to-combat-je-aes-in-districts/articleshow/76822719.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Mumbai||Police warrant for gangster Ravi Pujari rejected||MUMBAI: Mangaluru metropolitan magistrate rejected a production warrant against gangster Ravi Pujari, by a Mumbai court last week. Sources said the court rejected it as Mangalore police, probing the murder of advocate Naushad Kashimji, who represented Dawood aide Rashid Malbari in 2009, were likely to commit the case before a sessions court. Pujari allegedly killed Naushad as he was representing Malbari. The case will be committed on July 13, so Mangaluru court told Mumbai Police to reapply after that. Mangaluru police already submitted additional charge-sheet in the Shabnam Builders’ case against Pujari. Last week, Mumbai Police had procured a production warrant of Pujari from additional chief metropolitan magistrate, Mumbai. “Our team, which went to Mangaluru, were told to come after July 13, so we will have to get another warrant after July 13,’’ said an officer of Special Investigating Team (SIT), Mumbai Police. Pujari, who has more 49 serious offences against him and his gang members, was extradited from Senegal in February. The murder of builder Om Prakash Kukreja in 2013, killing of two employees of builder Sudhakar Shetty, attempt to murder film-maker Mahesh Bhatt, Navi Mumbai builder Suresh Wadhwa, advocate Majeed Memon are some cases in which Mumbai Police invoked MCOCA and had forwarded 10 cases to Senegal authorities for Pujari’s deportation after he was arrested last year. There are more than two dozen cases of threat calls to Bollywood personalities including Salman Khan, Shah Rukh Khan, Akshay Kumar, Karan Johar, Rakesh Roshan, Karim Morani and an industrialist too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/police-warrant-for-gangster-pujari-rejected/articleshow/76822813.cms||Ahmed Ali
July 7, 2020||Chennai||Karaikal’s festival of mangoes that celebrates a saint||By P RajaSince 1929, in the Tamil month of Adi, a four-day temple festival culminates in celebrations when the streets of Karaikal are strewn with mangoes. People from across the district gather to be part of this unique celebration of Saint Karaikal Ammaiyar. This year the 91-year-old tradition has to take a break in view of the threat of coronavirus.The Mangani festival at the oldest Hindu temple in the city of Karaikal, an enclave of Puducherry has an interesting legend associated with it. It is the temple for Lord Somanathar and his consort Somanayaki. Adjoining this temple is the wedding dais and shrine of Punithavathi who became Saint Karaikal Ammaiyar. She is among the few saints of the 5th century with a temple in her name. The great poet Seikhizhar in his monumental work ‘Periyapuranam’, a portrait gallery of 63 canonised Saivite saints tells the story of this saint in 66 quatrains. It begins with the story of Punithavathi, a devout woman, who was married to Paramadattan. One day Paramadattan sent two mangoes to his wife through a worker from his business centre with an instruction to keep them for his lunch. An hour or so later a devotee of Lord Siva came begging for alms. As food wasn’t ready, Punithavathi offered him one of the mangoes. When her husband returned, Punithavathi served him the other ripe mango. It tasted so good that he asked for the other one too. Unable to think of a way out, she began to pray and a ripe mango fell into her palm. Finding the fruit bigger and tastier, he asked her from where she got it. When she related what had happened, Paramadattan was unconvinced and asked her to procure another such fruit. Punithavathi prayed again and received one more fruit but it vanished when her husband tried to touch it. Taken aback, Paramadattan realised that was indeed divine intervention. Scared he left her. Relatives of Punithavathi on hearing of the injustice done by her husband, confronted him. Paramadattan narrated all that had happened and asked the relatives to worship Punithavathi. But the dejected Punithavathi found no peace. She prayed for a fleshless skeletal body and a way to serve the Lord Siva. Her request was heeded to and since then people began offering her obeisance, and she became Karaikal Ammaiyar. No one knows for certain when the Ammaiyar Temple, (a small shrine with a sanctum sanctorum) was built. But it must be before the 12th century, when poet Seikhizar lived. Between 1927 and 1929 the temple was dismantled and rebuilt. The Mangani festival commemorates the salvation attained by Punithavathi through the medium of a ripe mango.It is only on this day the idol of Lord Siva dressed as a mendicant is taken out in a procession. And the devotees scatter ripe mangoes in the crowd to catch. On this day the natives of Karaikal treat their guests to a sumptuous dinner with vadai and payasam. The common people honour the idol with a garland made of vetti veir, two ripe mangoes, betel leaves and nuts, and a silken cloth. Punithavathi’s renunciation of her beauty after her husband worshipped her divinity and her consequent transformation into an emaciated form is commemorated in a striking way. The festival that is marked by processions, music and dance, and public speeches, is brought to a finale with an elaborate display of fireworks.(The writer is a historian of Puducherry)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/karaikals-festival-of-mangoes-that-celebrates-a-saint/articleshow/76822712.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Vadodara||Fresh tenders for CCTV surveillance||Vadodara: Jumping on the anti-China bandwagon, M S University has decided to re-initiate the tendering process for its CCTV surveillance project. Under the integrated CCTV surveillance project, the university plans to install more than 4,000 CCTV cameras across seven scattered campuses. The project cost is estimated to be worth Rs five crore. The process for implementation of CCTV surveillance had started before nation-wide lockdown. The university had floated tenders inviting bids with specifications to install CCTV cameras. “We had received many bids of which nearly seven were acceptable. When we were preparing a comparative statement, we realised that all of them were non-Indian products, a majority of them Chinese,” said K M Chudasama, officiating registrar of MSU. Chudasama clarified that the university had not awarded any contract for installation of the cameras. “The decision to re-initiate the process with revised specifications has been taken by the university’s syndicate body as an effort to promote Indian products especially at a time when we are stressing on self-reliance,” he said. He said that specifications of almost all the components including wiring, hardware among others in the bids that were submitted by the dealers were China-made. “Now, we will re-initiate the process, issue specifications, invite bids, open tender and will arrive at a decision based on expert advice,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fresh-tenders-for-cctv-surveillance/articleshow/76820734.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Monsoon piles on damage to heritage comunidade office||PANAJI: The centuries-old heritage comunidade building in Panaji, housing the office of central zone of Tiswadi and Ponda comunidades, is in a precarious condition with the recent heavy rainfall causing more damage to the dilapidated structure. The 400-odd year old building with its exquisite architecture located near the Panaji church square, blends with the ambience of the area. But has suffered from neglect and poor maintenance since years. “The roof is leaking and parts of the western wall appear in a highly dilapidated condition. If it collapses, it could be a major disaster for the occupants and passers-by,” Jose Carminho Joao, a comunidade leader said. Worried about the state of neglect, up to nine officials of various comunidades have inspected the building and archives, which have a records of the history of the 60 age-old bodies of two talukas. “The top floor of the ground plus one building has wooden flooring. The rainwater has completely soaked the planks and more damage could be dangerous for the staff and tenants,” Joao said. The centuries-old records in cupboards are also showing signs of decay. “A few records have been destroyed. There is no electricity in the archives store room and everything is in a mess,” Venzy Viegas, a component and president of Carambolim comunidade said. The officials have planned to hold another meeting in mid-July to discuss ways to ensure urgent repairs and restoration of the heritage building and preservation of the archives. “We will also form a committee to approach the authorities in a bid to achieve these objectives,” said Joao, who is treasurer of Morombi O Pequeno comunidade, Merces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monsoon-piles-on-damage-to-heritage-comunidade-office/articleshow/76823423.cms||Paul Fernandes
July 7, 2020||Lucknow||SHG clusters to widen jobs ambit for migrants in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Expanding the ambit of employment opportunities for migrants in rural areas of Uttar Pradesh, the state government has initiated an exercise to merge self-help groups (SHGs) to form a bigger organisational structure, Community Level Federation (CLF), under the Centre’s flagship scheme National Rural Economic Transformation Project (NRETP). According to rural development department officials, a single CLF would be a registered body comprising at least 300 SHGs which would be engaged in manufacture of saleable products. Talking to TOI, mission director, state rural livelihood mission (SRLM), Sujit Kumar, said: “It would be like a full-fledged company working in a particular stream. A single CLF will have at least 3,000 women.” He said the department would initially provide support to CLFs so that they start with an initial capital. “Funds will be disbursed to SHGs through CLF which would act as a bank and charge an interest rate of around 6%,” Kumar added. According to a communique by rural development department to rural development commissioner K Ravindra Naik, dated June 2, the fully centrally-funded scheme (NRETP) has already received an initial amount of Rs 9 crore to initiate the project to set up CLP in UP. An amount of Rs 806 crore has been earmarked by the Centre under the scheme for financial year 2020-21. Officials said the project is expected to cover about 31 districts of the state. Sources said that in the initial phase, 15 SHGs would be merged to form a village organisation. “About 15-20 village organisations will then be merged to form a CLP which would be a bigger structure to lend a fillip to the execution of NRETP,” an official said. As per the rules laid down by the state government, funds for NRETP execution would be released in a staggered manner and as per the need. The department may be required to take permission of the designated authority – Central or the state government – before initiating any spending under the scheme. The rural development commissioner or the mission director (SRLM) will have to obtain a utilisation certificate. The department would also have to ensure that funds meant for the scheme have not been allocated under any other head. Allocated funds would not be kept in a public ledger account or any other deposit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shg-clusters-to-widen-jobs-ambit-for-migrants/articleshow/76823382.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: 24 of 31 Covid-19 positive railway staffers recover||NASHIK: As many as 31 employees of the Central Railways, Bhusawal division, have tested positive for Covid-19 ever since the first positive case was reported on May 12. Most of the staffers who tested Covid-19 positive are from Bhusawal and Manmad. Sources in the railways said that of the 31 patients, 24 have succesfully recovered from the infection while two have succumbed to the infection. Five RPF personnel and four personnel from the medical wing of Railways were among the 31 positive cases. During the lockdown, the railways had been operating Shramik trains transporting a large number of migrant workers from Mumbai and Nashik to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Odisha. The first Covid-19 case among the railway employees was reported on May 12. Even before the first phase of unlocking rolled out, 11 employees had contracted the infection. The tally shot up after June 1 when the process of ‘Unlock’ began. “Not all patients have contracted the viral infection from railway traffic given that some of them are in the back-offices. Some of them may have contracted the infection from other sources,” said railway authorities. The authorities added that the field staff, including constables in the Railway Protection Force (RPF), pointsman, railway guards, employees in the carriage and wagon section who have to handle complaints of running trains, were the ones who may have contracted Covid-19 during the course of their duties. Authorities further said that the general manager of the Central Railways had already instructed every person to try and keep a record of the people they meet on a daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/24-of-31-positive-railway-staffers-recover/articleshow/76820738.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||Mundhe gets NCW notice for ‘harassing’ company secy||Nagpur: The National Commission for Women (NCW) issued show cause notice to municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on July 6 for alleged denial of maternity benefits, mental harassment and humiliation of Bhanupriya Thakur, company secretary of Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Ltd (NSSCDCL), early this year.In her complaint to NCW, Thakur had alleged that Mundhe denied her maternity rights and also served show cause notice to terminate her. “The NCW condemns such activities by your department,” said NCW chairman Rekha Sharma. The municipal commissioner has been asked to submit a detailed report in the matter after taking due action, within seven days of this letter, Sharma’s letter states.Apart from complaining to NCW, Thakur had also lodged a written complaint with the chairman of NSSCDCL Pravin Pardeshi, drawing his attention to the alleged harassment by Mundhe.Thakur had to leave her 3-month-old baby at her hometown, 100km away from Nagpur, because of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic in Nagpur. The municipal commissioner also denied her request to work from home, nor he did he guide her on how she could bring her infant baby to Nagpur in such a situation, where the government has advised not to travel or leave the town with kids below 10 years.It is the second incident wherein a female staffer of NSSCDCL has lodged a complaint against Mundhe for his alleged misbehaviour. Recently, former chief knowledge officer of NSSCDCL too had filed a police complaint against Mundhe for harassment and humiliation. The Sadar police had transferred her complaint to the office of divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhe-gets-ncw-notice-for-harassing-company-secy/articleshow/76822725.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||Abandoned bldg site causing health scare||Nagpur: Stagnant water accumulated at an abandoned building construction site on a 10,000 sq ft land between Ramkrishna Colony and Nelco Society in south-west Nagpur is fast turning into breeding ground for mosquitoes. Residents of both the societies now fear threat of vector-borne diseases at a time when the civic body is trying to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. To make matters worse, some residents of the area regularly dump garbage in the ditch filled with rainwater even as foul smell and mosquitoes have made life difficult for those living nearby. Residents said that a disaster is waiting to happen, while claiming that the NMC is yet to take action in case of an abandoned building at Khamla Square even after high court’s stringent remarks. “We have been following up on the issue with NMC’s Laxmi Nagar zone since 2007,” said Satish Ambulkar, a resident of Nelco Society, while referring to the land between Ramkrishna Colony and Nelco Society. The biggest problem is dispute over ownership. According to residents, the 10,000 sq ft land was reserved as a public utility (PU) space. The PU land was sold for Rs70 lakh in the early 1990s in a questionable manner, said Ambulkar. Now, the land belongs to a hotelier from city. Construction work started in 2011, which was later challenged by a few residents citing it to be a PU land. The construction work stopped after plinth level and site now lies abandoned. The case is pending in court. “NMC is unable to issue notice to owner of the land which has practically ceased to exist,” said health officials from Laxmi Nagar zone. Ambulkar said many times the stench becomes so unbearable that people have to keep their windows and doors shut. “In the evening, mosquitoes come in swarms. NMC is sitting pretty despite being aware of the problem. Moreover, some antisocial elements consume liquor at the place in the night and throw bottles there,” he said. “We have complained to former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who is an MLA representing the area, and to mayor Sandip Joshi during his Janta Darbar. We only got assurances and no action was taken,” said another resident Siddesh Najpande. Joshi told TOI that the issue will be resolved. Residents also stated that they have even registered complaint through an app launched by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. They claimed that health department officials from the Laxmi Nagar zone have assured to carry out disinfection of the abandoned premises but can’t resolve the issue citing pending court case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/abandoned-bldg-site-causing-health-scare/articleshow/76822839.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 7, 2020||Chennai||Custodial deaths: Tamil Nadu govt yet to get response from CBI||CHENNAI: It has been a week since the Tamil Nadu government transferred the case of custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and J Beniks to the CBI. But the state is yet to receive a communication from the Central investigating agency, conveying its willingness to accept the case, sources in the government said. After the Madras high court took suo motu cognizance of the custodial deaths that sparked nationwide outrage against the Sathankulam police, DGP J K Tripathy requested the state to transfer the cases in Kovilpatti East police station to CBI “to facilitate a free and fair investigation”. The state accepted the request and transferred the case on June 29. “The state government has sent a letter to the CBI. But there is no response yet. If they don’t take up the inquiry, the CB-CID will complete its probe,” said an officer, seeking anonymity. “The CBI can send an SP-level officer, but with CB-CID everything is much faster as senior officials are involved in the probe. Now that the sections have been converted to murder charges, there is nothing much left except filing of chargesheet,” the official said. In a related development, the Joint Action Against Custodial Torture – Tamil Nadu, a newly floated forum of activists and parties, has demanded that the state government give up its CBI plan, and allow CB-CID to continue its probe. The forum pointed to the tardy progress of the CBI probe into the police firing in Tuticorin that claimed 13 lives; the death of an IIT Madras student Fathima Latheef, and the Pollachi sexual assault case that made national headlines. In 2018, the CBI cited lack of manpower and refused to take up the idol theft cases despite the state passing an order. “The CBI takes a month to take over the case and we cannot question them. Whereas, the CB-CID will be under direct supervision of the government. Things are moving at a pace which is appreciable. So far, there is no interference. Hence, CB-CID should continue,” said Henry Tiphagne of People’s Watch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/custodial-deaths-tamil-nadu-govt-yet-to-get-response-from-cbi/articleshow/76822720.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 7, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: ‘Super 100’ group targets 100% in maths, science||VADODARA: This lot of ‘super 100’ students are eyeing to hit a century in mathematics and science in standard 10 board exams. And they are bracing to the new normal of online studies as well as telephonic counselling that are going to be a key in their preparation. The group is being handpicked by a government school teacher who has been preparing online lessons and has a website of his own since quite some time now. The lockdown has only made him more aggressive in his work and he has already covered most of the syllabus of mathematics for standard 10. And much like the Bollywood flick based on real life, the students come from remote villages and some are from extremely humble backgrounds. They came to know of the teacher through friends and attended his classes online. The teacher too spotted them and is now zeroing down on the best amongst the lot who can take the challenge. The teacher, Baldev Pari, works at the Barwala Secondary School in the Bhesan taluka of Junagadh district, but has a much larger student base online. He decided to select students and give personal attention to them realizing that these students with limited resources and challenging backgrounds were very sharp and only needed grooming. “I had asked the students to take a challenge of bringing over 90% marks in mathematics and science. Forty kids have already accepted the challenge and our target is having 100 students will give cent percent marks a shot,” Pari said. The students will be selected after an online test using a latest software. Pari initially identified 200 students from his online classes by asking them problems that were not out of the textbooks or guide books, but were based on the syllabus. Mayur Boliya said that his friend had asked him to search for Pari on the net and follow him. Boliya’s father drives an autorickshaw for earning a living while his mother works in homes. Boliya obtained 97.25 percentile in ninth standard without any tuition classes. “I will not be going to tuition classes even in standard 10. I will be learning online with Pari sir. I am sure I will get over 90% marks,” said Boliya, a resident of Shiyal in Bavla taluka of Ahmedabad district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/super-100-group-targets-100-in-maths-science/articleshow/76820757.cms||Sachin Sharma
July 7, 2020||Mysuru||Asymptomatic & those with mild symptoms can opt for home quarantine||Mysuru: The surging Covid-19 graph in Karnataka has compounded difficulties for the state government, which is grappling with the problem of inadequate healthcare infrastructure. In a bid to reduce pressure on hospitals, the state government has decided to allow Covid-19 patients who are either asymptomatic or showing only mild symptoms to quarantine themselves at home. However, there is a caveat, patients choosing home quarantine must have necessary medical devices to regularly check their pulse and body temperature. More importantly, they should remain isolated from the rest of the household. The move is also likely to be greeted with some relief by the public. A taluk administration officer who tested positive for the novel coronavirus will be the first patient, excluding healthcare workers who have been infected, who will remain quarantined at home. The authorities in Mysuru are putting in place a system to test the efficacy of the new set-up. Based on their observations, they will decide whether or not home quarantine will be sufficient. The authorities will also offer the choice to patients currently housed in hospitals to stay quarantined at home as long as they meet the aforementioned criteria. However, the option will not be available to those aged above 60 and patients with co-morbidities. Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said that patients who opt for home quarantine would have to invest in devices such as pulse oximeter, infrared thermometer, et al. “Not everyone will be eligible for home isolation. Each case will be reviewed by a team of officials, who will take the call,” Sankar said. The DC told TOI, “We will give asymptomatic patients at the Covid hospital the choice to move home in a day or two once the new system is in place. Furthermore, the new system will relieve the patients of stress, and ease the burden on the administration.” Under the current setup, patients are discharged from the designated hospitals ten days after they are admitted, provided the medical parameters indicate that they have been cured of the infection. They are subsequently monitored for a fortnight more. Hospitals are no longer performing confirmatory tests prior to discharging a patient as was the earlier practice. “There are no records of the infection relapsing after patients are discharged,” Sankar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/asymptomatic-those-with-mild-symptoms-can-opt-for-home-quarantine/articleshow/76822383.cms||Lawrence Milton
July 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||July 1st week accounts for 40% of Ganjam’s case count||Berhampur: Over 40% of the total Covid cases in Ganjam, the worst pandemic-hit district, were reported in the first six days of July while total Covid 19 positive cases increased to 2,348 with detection of 166 new cases on Monday. Similarly the death toll in the district increased to 21 with a 77-year-old man succumbing to the disease during treatment, a health department source said. Total Covid positive cases in the district were 1,370 and the number of deaths was 14 on June 30. In just six days in July, the number of positive cases increased to 2,348 and the death toll mounted to 21, an official said. It included the death of a person and fresh 166 positive cases reported on Monday. Out of the total fresh positive cases, 27 and 139 are Covid warriors and persons coming in contact with the positive persons, respectively. The positive cases were detected from 19 out of 22 blocks and Berhampur Municipal Corporation (BeMC) limits, an official said. Highest number of cases were found from BeMC (30) followed by Sanakhemundi (27), Aska (21), Beguniapada (15), Kukudakhandi (13) and Sorada (10). Though there was no death reported from Berhampur in Covid, but the positive cases are galloping. Over 200 positive cases have been detected so far, a health department source said. Multiple factors contributed for the increase in positive cases in the district as well as Berhampur like return of migrants, allowing inter-state travel, opening of markets and enhanced testing, said Dr Subash Chandra Sahu, a private practitioner. He, however, said community transmission in the district has not started. He also said the reduction of the quarantine period to seven day is another reason for the spurt in positive cases in July. In several cases, the symptoms developed during home quarantine, he said. Satyabrata Mohapatra, a retired doctor, said most of the migrant workers after returning home did not follow the rules of home quarantine. “This might be one of the reasons for the cases increasing in the district,” he said. Earlier, former principal of MKCG Medical College and Hospital here Radha Madhab Tripathy said, “We could not know the exact incubation period of the virus. The incubation period is the time between the exposure to virus and appearance of the symptoms,” he added. Meanwhile, district collector Vijay Amruta Kulange asked the officials concerned to ensure health check-up of every individual in the district to find out the suspected Covid cases. At the same time, he also appealed to the people not to hide any symptoms before the health teams and not administer any drugs which give immediate relief without consulting doctors. He conducted a review meeting on Covid at Chhatrapur with district-level officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/july-1st-week-accounts-for-40-of-ganjams-case-count/articleshow/76822027.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
July 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Runaway infected youth traced, brought back to hosp||Mangaluru: In less than 24-hours after a teenager who tested positive for coronavirus gave authorities at district Wenlock Hospital the slip, Mangaluru City Police traced him and brought him back for treatment. The youth was found wandering near Rao and Rao Circle, a stone’s throw away from the hospital, according to police. City police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash tweeted: “Police constables Shankarappa Lamani and Krishnappa Nandyal do (a) real heroic act of tracing and arresting back the runaway (COVID-19) positive accused from Wenlock Hospital. But for their prompt and dedicated act, accused (patient) could have infected many, without even knowing it (sic).” The teenager had escaped from the hospital at 4pm on Sunday. Police sources told TOI that the 18-year-old man did not resist when constables spotted him, and also heeded to their call for returning to the hospital. Since there would have been a delay in summoning an ambulance and taking him back to the hospital, the teenager walked ahead of police and reached the hospital, where he was re-admitted. “Though the youth seemed disturbed, he agreed for the treatment,” police said. “We will proceed against the teenager legally once he is discharged,” police said. This way, police personnel who will have to complete the court formalities in connection with a case (registered in Mangaluru South police station), and even the district jail where he could be lodged, can be rest assured about their personal safety. This was the first instance in DK where a patient had slipped away from the Covid-19 hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/runaway-infected-youth-traced-brought-back-to-hosp/articleshow/76822532.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||High levels of faecal coliform in STPs: Report||CHANDIGARH: While the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has reduced faecal coliform bacteria parameter in sewage treatment plants (STPs) from 230 Most Probable Number (MPN) to 100 MPN, a recent report of Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) has highlighted alarming levels of faecal coliform bacteria in STPs in the city. The committee has submitted the report before the NGT. A copy of the report accessed by TOI, revealed figures even touching 22 lakhs MPN. In May, the report stated, “No STP is meeting the coliform standards”. The report stated that 3BRD had the lowest STP of 230 MPN, whereas Dhanas STP touched figures of 22 lakhs MPN. A senior official of CPCC said the presence of faecal coliform bacteria in aquatic environments indicates that the water has been contaminated with the faecal material of man or animals. The presence of faecal contamination is an indicator that a potential health risk exists for individuals exposed to this water. They had recently checked all six STPs in city, he said. The functioning of STPs has also worsened. The CPCC had detected shortcomings in the functioning of four of six STPs. The four plants are releasing treated water with much higher bio-chemical oxygen demand (BOD) than the permissible level of the maximum 30 mg/litre. The latest report of January was compiled by the CPCC on the directions of the National Green Tribunal, which has been keeping an eye on water pollution in the city. The STPs situated in Raipur Kalan, 3BRD, Maloya and Diggian are managed by the engineering department of the MC, while the engineering department of the administration maintains the STPs in Raipur Khurd and Dhanas. The administration in its action plan had submitted that they would upgrade all STPs in the city by 2022, but the NGT panel had directed it to complete the job by 2020. In August 2018, taking suo motu cognizance of media reports on pollution in the Ghaggar river, the NGT had directed the chief secretaries of Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh to constitute a special task force (STF) to clean the river. An NGT committee in Chandigarh, along with officials of Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC), had visited various points of Sukhna choe in Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/high-levels-of-faecal-coliform-in-stps-report/articleshow/76822730.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||With old school closed, edu dept seeks opinion of parents for shifting to another||Nagpur: Since the management of Guru Nanak High School has decided to close its aided institution in Bezonbagh, the education department is seeking the opinion of parents whether they wish to shift to another school in Mahal. As per the rules, whenever an aided school shuts down, the education department is responsible to accommodate all affected students in nearby schools. On Monday, the office of the Deputy Director of Education (DDE) issued a statement saying parents may choose to get their child admitted to DD Nagar School in Mahal. Parents have to mention their willingness or refusal by email (dydnagpur@rediffmail.com) or through WhatsApp (8669171335). Parents have to reply with their child’s name, class he/she will enter in the 2020-21 academic session and finally, whether they wish to shift to DD Nagar School. This is applicable for students now entering Std II-X and XII. Though approximately 3,000 students are studying in these classes, only half are expected to shift. TOI has learnt that over a thousand parents have expressed their willingness to continue in the new unaided format of the school which is expected to start soon. It’s expected that the fee for the new format is likely to be around 12,000 per year, which is less than even most budget schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-old-school-closed-edu-dept-seeks-opinion-of-parents-for-shifting-to-another/articleshow/76822732.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Kerala stops daily commuters’ e-pass||Mangaluru: In a bid to prevent transmission of Covid-19 through borders, the Kerala government has decided to stop issuing e-passes for daily commuters from Mangaluru to Kasaragod with immediate effect. Kasaragod and Dakshina Kannada district administrations were issuing e-passes for daily commuters, especially professionals, students and other workers, in order to carry out their day to day occupational activities in both districts for entry through Talapady checkpost. After a meeting at Kararagod on MOnday, Kerala revenue minister E Chandrashekharan decided that the e-pass process should be stopped immediately. “There are many people including doctors who commute between Kasaragod and Mangaluru daily. All such daily commuters should stay in their work places for 28 days. Only those who are ready to stay in Kasaragod for 28 days will be allowed to enter here. Similarly, those who are working in Mangaluru should stay there for 28 days. Daily commuters will not be allowed to travel on a daily basis. This order is applicable to all including doctors,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kerala-stops-daily-commuters-e-pass/articleshow/76822647.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Hotel owners in Andhra Pradesh to meet chief secretary Rajat Bhargava tomorrow||VISAKHAPATNAM: Revenue loss, which runs in crores, following the outbreak of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown, hotel owners in Andhra Pradesh have sent an 11-point suggestion to the state government. If implemented, the hotel owners feel, they will be able to recover the losses to some extent. Members of the Hotels and Restaurants Association of Andhra Pradesh (HRAAP) are scheduled to meet the special chief secretary Rajat Bhargava on July 8 to discuss the suggestions. “We are expecting the situation to start improving from September. Now, to recover the huge loss we have already incurred we don’t want to increase the tariff at this point of time. Rather, we have made a few suggestions to the tourism department that would help us,” Pavan Kartheek, the state vice president of (HRAAP) told TOI. The managements of a few star hotels in the state told TOI that on an average each of the four-star and above category hotel incurred a revenue loss of Rs 1.5 crore per month. Although the state government arranged for paid institutional quarantine facilities at some of the hotels, the managements claimed the earning from it was negligible. “We accepted to provide accommodation at a tariff in consultation with the government and it was low compared to our regular tariff. Even the number of people who opted for paid quarantine was actually far less than what we expected. In all, our total revenue from paid quarantine was actually 0.15% of our normal revenue yield,” said general manager of a star hotel on the Beach Road in Visakhapatnam. In a letter to the state tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao the (HRAAP) had initially made these suggestions requesting him to implement them as relief measures for the hospitality industries. Among the measures recommended by the hotel owners, some of the important ones include, extension for dateline of renewal of bar licences for star category hotels that lapsed on June 30, 2020. “This matter is actually in court right now. So we have not applied for the licences yet. Rest, we will discuss on Wednesday,” added Kartheek.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hotel-owners-to-meet-chief-secy-tomorrow/articleshow/76820777.cms||Arpit Basu
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||Like single women, all applicants must get priority in next haj: JuH||Nagpur: Muslim religious body Jamiat Ulema Hind (Arshad Madani) has demanded that the Haj Committee of India must carry forward all applicants who couldn’t perform the pilgrimage this year due to Covid-19 pandemic. After Saudi Arabia government decided not to allow foreigners during Haj 2020 last month, the committee started refunding process but has reportedly considered single women (gain maharam) for next year. Already opposed to allowing single women on haj, the JuH criticized the move and said the committee must consider all applicants. JuH Nagpur district president Masood Ahmed said many applicants had been trying to land a seat in draw of lots for the last couple of years. “The pandemic dashed their hopes of performing the religious duty. Why should other applicants not get the same chance next year,” he said. Haj committee of India CEO Maqsood Ahmed Khan said so far no decision on Haj 2021 has been taken though the minister of minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi has announced that unaccompanied women will be given priority next time. “Already, single women have a quota and 2,300 such applicants go on haj. Ultimately, all of them will be selected in next schedule, but it will depend on their willingness to go among other issues,” he said. Khan said the Haj Review Meeting (HRM) will decide on the July 2020 applicants. “We have been receiving several representations regarding the carrying forward of current applicants. All these issues would be decided in the HRM,” he said. Generally, the HRM is an introspection of the annual event after pilgrims return. Yet, the committee will hold the high-level meeting at ministry of minority affairs this time too, said Khan. Khan added that a decision has been taken to refund 100% of haj fee to all. Former chairperson of State Haj Committee Jamaal Siddiqui too said everyone needs to be refunded, but the question is why so much time has been taken. “The committee is earning interest on the deposits since February this year. It was quite clear that haj will not be performed yet it asked pilgrims to deposit the money. Now also, it has taken a long time to refund,” he alleged. Khan said 40% applicants have been refunded while cent per cent will get their money by July 31. Siddiqui demanded that the applicants must get a compensation for the delay. Allow reopening of masjids: JuH The JuH Nagpur district president Masood Ahmed said his organization has submitted a request to the district collector Ravindra Thakare seeking permission to reopen masjids. Ahmed said when the administration has allowed opening of other establishments and public places, it must also allow places of worship to reopen. “We have assured that all safety measures would be adopted at the masjids. The administration, following government directives, had ordered us to shut masjids to prevent spread of the coronavirus. While we strictly adhered to the guidelines, the infection still has crossed over 5 lakh cases. Hence, we request not to deprive people of fulfilling their religious duties,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/like-single-women-all-applicants-must-get-priority-in-next-haj-juh/articleshow/76822744.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Parents face a dilemma over paying school fees||PUNE: Parents who have freshly enrolled their children in pre-school to Standard I are in a dilemma over the payment of fees. The schools have been repeatedly calling parents to pay fees. However, parents have been waiting to see the government’s decision to reopen schools. Many parents said they were even willing to take a chance of dropping school this year for their kids. Rashmi Agarwal, parent of a three-year old, said she had taken admission for her daughter in a playgroup so that she could spend three hours of the day and socialize with other children. “The kids have been at home since the lockdown. My child has not attended a single class. I get calls from the school daily to make the payment and join the online class. I don’t like the idea of an online class for my daughter and have been telling the school, but they insist on paying the fees.” Another parent Vishal Pawar, said he had already made part of the fees to the school in January. “My daughter is in Standard I. Given the present situation, she has not attended a single class. I have asked for a refund and cancellation of admission as I do not see the situation improving. I will retry taking admission for her next year, but the school has refused the refund.” There are schools that are threatening to cancel admissions if fees are not paid. A parent Sumeet Sharma, said, , “I had to go all the way to school and request them to not cancel my son’s admission. My son is a fresh enrolment for junior kindergarten. They are insisting that I pay at least 40 % so that the admission is secured.” Another parent Vishwas Rathi said he was not for the idea of his daughter, who is enrolled with a pre-school, sitting for online classes. Dhananjay Pardeshi, the education officer at the PMC school board, said, “The government order does not allow schools to make parents pay the fee during these times. Parents can also file a complaint with the education office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/parents-face-a-dilemma-over-paying-school-fees/articleshow/76822743.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Railway staff face uncertainty, hardship after layoffs||CHANDIGARH: On July 1, Tinku who works in the washing line under a contractor, received a call from an official asking him to go on leave without pay till railway traffic was streamlined as there was no work at Kalka railway station. As many as 16 of his colleagues in the washing line received similar calls. This puts a question mark on their survival as many do not have an alternate source of income. “I am clueless about when the situation will go back to normal. I am the sole bread earner in my family and I have three children,” he said. Recently, four women facing financial hardships at home joined the staff and they were also asked to go on leave without pay. Supervisors in Chandigarh and Nangal dam also told employees that their services have been suspended for the time being. The decision was taken after receiving a communication about the policy drafted by higher authorities. On July 2, all contractors of various branches received a communication from Ambala division, which stated that as few trains are running at present, it is not feasible for the railway to continue the contract as per the existing condition. Northern railway instructed not to deploy full staff against the contract and it has to be according to the workload. Payment will be made on the basis of services provided by the contractor and no minimum wage payment will be made by the railway for staff deployment in this period. Authorities gave a choice for carrying out work as per terms in the interim period or short closure of contract work. Shayam Narayan, an attendant on board, has to go back to his home town in Lucknow as he has not been paid for the last three months and he is now dependant on his parents to survive. The contractor says he will pay after receiving money from the railway. On June 3, he said, he received a message about his pay but no amount has been transferred to his account yet. All of his seven colleagues who accompany him on the Kalka Sai Shirdi train were asked to go on leave without pay, he said. Chandigarh railway station, from where 50% cleaning staff of 36 services were sacked, have no idea when they will be called back on the job. Sanjay, one of the cleaning branch employees of Chandigarh railway station said he got a daily wage job in a local shop and payment is on hourly basis, which is too nominal for his family’s survival. One of the contractors said on the basis of anonymity that higher authorities in the railways are confused whether to release the payment of the last three months or not. The railway minister has also made clear that no catering or linen services will be provided to passengers due to the pandemic, the contractor added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/railway-station-staff-face-uncertainty-hardship-after-lay-offs/articleshow/76822746.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 7, 2020||Dehradun||‘No true Nepali closer to any country than India’||In an exclusive email interview, Baburam Bhattarai, former Nepalese PM and leader of the Janata Samajwadi Party, the third-largest political party in the country, spoke at length to Ishita Mishra on the border dispute between India and Nepal on the Kalapani issue, the close ‘roti-beti’ ties between the two countries, and why he felt PM Oli’s party NCP was heading towards a major split. The inclusion of areas like Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani in Nepal's map is being seen by many in India as an act of undue aggression by Nepal. What according to you was the haste to revise the country's map?Before coming to your point, let me first set the context straight. We are not in normal times now. The Covid-19 pandemic and attendant economic crisis have thoroughly exposed the inadequacies of rulers of many countries including Nepal, India, China, USA and others. These rulers need some convenient ruses to divert the attention of the masses away from their utter failures. Territorial or boundary disputes left behind by colonialism are the best bets for this purpose, as they can easily arouse the nationalistic passions of the people. One has to understand this general context to make a sense of the sudden flare-up of the old boundary disputes in our region and elsewhere. Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani areas have for long been acknowledged as disputed territories both by India and Nepal. A joint mechanism set by the two countries has particularly identified Susta in South West and Kalapani in North-West borders as disputed areas yet to be resolved. The problem suddenly flared up when India last November issued a new map that claimed Kalapani within its territory. The fuel was added to the fire when the Indian defence minister on May 8 inaugurated a newly-constructed road through Kalapani to Lipulekh near the Chinese border. It should be noted that though Indian troops remained in Kalapani since 1962 India-China war, the territory remained within Nepali sovereignty and map. This naturally alarmed Nepal and a new map had to be issued to reassert its sovereignty and territorial integrity. What are the arguments that Nepal has to buttress claims that Kalapani and adjoining areas are part of its territory?The Sugauli Treaty of 1816 and the treaty of 1860, which were ratified by both sides, explicitly spell out demarcation of borders between Nepal and India. The two boundary treaties of 1816 (Article v) and 1860 (Article iii) clearly state that the lands to the east of the Kali River, which include Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani, belong to Nepal. These facts are supported by several historical documents, issued and signed by the then British Raj and Nepalese authorities from time to time. The maps published immediately thereafter till 1856 including internationally accepted hydrological norms to fix source of Kali River (length of the river, catchment area / tributaries and volume of waters) prove that Limpiyadhura is the origin/ source of Kali River. However, the dispute was created when the British Raj and the succeeding Indian governments attempted unilaterally to alter the source of the Kali River, firstly to Lipu Khola emanating from Lipulekh and finally to a spring near Kalapani. An impartial assessment adhering to international hydrological norms would easily fix the real source of the Kali River mentioned in the 1816 treaty and settle the dispute permanently. Another vexed issue has been the stationing of the Indian military camp at Kalapani since 1962 without any formal agreement between the two countries. This is needed to be resolved through a comprehensive dialogue keeping in mind the sensitive geo-strategic position of the area and age-old multi-faceted relations between Nepal & India. Indian politicians have claimed that India tried to speak with Nepal, while the government of Nepal also claimed that they attempted to speak to India but nothing worked. What do you thing is the reason for this miscommunication?The rising trust deficit between KP Oli government and New Delhi establishment has stalled a meaningful dialogue between the two sides. Public muscle flexing and social media duels by persons in authority do not lead to any serious diplomatic engagement. Both sides must cool down; initiate constructive dialogue at the highest political level, receive and own the report of the Eminent Persons Group (EPG) initiated during my tenure as PM, and resolve all outstanding disputes to the mutual benefits of the two close neighbours. It is believed that PM Oli's government is close to China and the present standoff with India is because of China's pressure?I don’t believe that it is true. People can have their individual preferences and leanings. But, no Nepali leader who upholds national sovereignty and general prosperity of the people as the common core values of the country in his/ her heart can be closer to any other country than India. It is our geographical & historical destiny, whether one likes it or not. Of course, China has been our good neighbour since time immemorial and we have reciprocated accordingly. I don't think Dragon and the Elephant will ever cross the high Himalayas erected by nature. I wish our friends in India would understand this ground reality and stop feeling prickly about minor incidents. India and Nepal have had 'roti-beti' ties and have close social, cultural and religious links. Will not souring of political relations impact these ties?Ups and downs in political relations are transitory matters. But, Nepal-India relations are multi-dimensional and long-lasting. When you have closer relations, there are bound to be more problems as well. If we remain sensitive and accommodative to each other's aspirations, we can and must overcome such transitory problems. How do you see KP Oli’s tenure as Prime Minister? K.P Oli's tenure as Prime Minister has been a total disaster for Nepal. The government has failed in all fronts — political, economic and diplomatic, everywhere. The near two-third majority garnered by the Nepal communist Party (NCP) in the last parliamentary election in December 2017 has been practically wasted. The government's response to the Covid-19 pandemic has been pathetic. The cases are rising at a menacing pace. On the economic front, there has been no structural change to transform the traditional subsistence agriculture-based economy into an industrial economy. Millions of youths are still forced to flee the country to sell their labour in Gulf countries, Malaysia, Indian and elsewhere. The government has been sucked in the quagmire of rampant corruption as it has promoted crony capitalism all around. It has failed to address the genuine demands of the Madhesi/ Tharus, Janjatis, Dalits and other marginalised groups and to amend the Constitution for an identity-based federalism. On the diplomatic front, it has lost the confidence of all major international powers including the neighbours. This has led to a major power struggle within the NCP which could spiral into a major split sooner or later. Even if there is a momentary patch-up, it is very unlikely that PM Oli will succeed to pull out the country from a severe economic and political crisis looming in the horizon. Nepal government has recently sought clarification from Radio Nepal authorities for airing your interview in which you have allegedly criticised the government for its authoritarian rule. What do you have to say on this?PM Oli is by nature an autocratic person. He is very intolerant and vindictive towards his critics and political opponents. Radio Nepal episode is just an example of the autocratic bent of the government headed by him. You had once said that Nepal should look after India’s security interest and India should look after Nepal’s economic interests. Can you explain what you meant by it? How important is it in the current scenario?It is my firm conviction that the countries of South Asia will either prosper collectively or perish separately. Of course, we must choose the first option. It depends on the outlook and collective wisdom of the leaders of this region. We must critically acknowledge that despite the tremendous natural and human resources at our command, we are lagging behind the rest of the world. For this, we must discard the past colonial hangover in our minds, respect sovereignty of each country whether big or small, settle all territorial/ boundary disputes through political dialogue, respect each other's sensitivities and co-operate on collective economic prosperity. It is in this context that I had called upon both the leaderships of Nepal and India to put forth the core interests of both sides on the table in a candid manner and make a historic deal. After all, politics and diplomacy is like commerce, where you must have a give and take deal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-true-nepali-closer-to-any-country-than-india/articleshow/76818602.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 7, 2020||Vadodara||Cheating accused arrested after 12 years||Vadodara: Twelve years after he was booked, an auto-rickshaw driver living in Tandalja was arrested on Monday. The accused had cheated two persons in 2008 of Rs 5.9 lakh by promising to send them to USA. Police said that they had received information about the accused Jamil Kaji since he had moved to Tandalja with his wife few months back. “We had got a tip-off that Kaji was involved in some criminal activity long ago and he had been absconding since. We had detained him and after his coronavirus test turned out to be negative, we formally arrested him on Monday,” said a police official. During interrogation, Kaji admitted to police that he had cheated two persons including a woman in 2008. As the two victims wanted to go to USA, Kaji took Rs 5.9 lakh, two cheques of similar amount and their passports. However, instead of managing their travel process, Kaji gave the victims forged flight tickets and disappeared. Later, the two victims lodged complaint of cheating and forgery at City police station. Kaji told police that when he learnt that a complaint has been lodged, he fled to Mumbai and ran a cutlery shop there. Some months ago, he rented a house in Tandalja and started living there with his wife. He used to drive an auto-rickshaw to make his living.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cheating-accused-arrested-after-12-years/articleshow/76820784.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Kishangarh village to get new STP for around Rs 19 crore||CHANDIGARH: The engineering department of the Chandigarh administration has floated the tender for the new sewage treatment plant (STP) in the city. The project will come up in Kishangarh village behind Sukhna Lake. The authority has prepared a financial estimate of around Rs 19 crore and the tender will open in a few days. The STP will have the capacity of 2 MLD (million gallons per day) and will accommodate sewage of Kishangarh village. Sources in the engineering department said the project cost is high due to its specification and latest technology. Moreover, since the NGT (National Green Tribunal) is quite strict, all the latest parametres and other requirements have been mentioned in tender documents. “The STP has been planned with 2 BOD level specifications. It will have latest filters and related machinery to clean sewage at its best level. Moreover, as the cleaned sewage water will flow into Sukhna Lake, it will be crucial for authorities concerned to come up with the best technology to clean sewage and avoid the ire of NGT and related authorities. When there is no requirement in the lake, the water will be used as tertiary treated (TT) water for non-potable purposes,” sources said. In the approximately Rs 19 crore amount, the successful company will not only construct or set up the Sewage Treatment Plant, but will also bear its operational and maintenance (O&M) cost for at least 11 years. “Since it is a big challenge to treat water at 2 BOD level in the face of technical problems, this condition of O&M has been included in the tender document. The idea is that the STP can run without any tangle between the authority and the successful company,” an official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kishangarh-village-to-get-new-stp-for-around-rs-19-crore/articleshow/76822736.cms||Deepak Yadav
July 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Property tax collection less by Rs 90 crore in Q1||PUNE: Property tax, the biggest source of income for the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), is down this year. The revenue has declined by Rs 90.30 crore in the first three months of the 2020-21 fiscal. The PMC had mopped up Rs 763.90 crore from April 1 to June 30 during 2019-20. The income has reduced to Rs 673.60 crore this year. The number of tax payers reduced by 93,000. Property tax of 5.95 lakh properties was collected in the last financial year. But the number has gone down to 5.02 lakh, this year. On the upside, 84,000 more tax payers paid tax online when compared to last year. The online tax payment transactions were 4.3 lakh as compared to 3.19 lakh during last fiscal’s corresponding period from April to June. Property owners who pay the tax before May 31 get a 5% to 10% discount. The civic body offers it to encourage citizens to pay the tax in time. This year, the standing committee of PMC extended deadline to June 30 but it did not yield much. “The civic body had given more time to due to the unprecedented situation after the spread of coronavirus. The lockdown and restrictions on venturing out had led to reduction in offline transactions. So, we gave additional time,” Hemant Rasane, chairman of the standing committee, said. According to civic officials, the property tax is charged on the basis of the annual rateable value of the property. The civic body gives offline as well as online modes of payment. The closure of citizens facilitation centres (CFCs) at the ward offices was among the reasons for a decline in number offline transactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/property-tax-collection-less-by-rs-90cr-in-q1/articleshow/76822737.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
July 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Hotels look at revival, but 33% cap on guests a worry||PUNE: Hoteliers in the city termed the the 33% cap on guests as a “big spoiler”, but said they viewed the latest government notification on restarting the hotels as “a mixed blessing”. The hoteliers said whether the facilities ran at 33% or 50% guest limit, the overhead costs would remain the same. Sources in the Poona Hoteliers’ Association (PHA) said the 33% cap norm was likely to cause almost 50% of the three-, four- and five-star hotels in Pune to not open on July 8. The hoteliers said the fewere the rooms wre occupied, higher would be several costs involved, which is what starts impacting the profitability. Add to this the additional measures that the hotels would have to take, like sanitization and protective glasses at reception tables, would further increase the costs. Neerav Panchamia, past president, PHA and owner of a boutique hotel in Pune, told TOI, “Even the 33% capacity as mandated may not be fully occupied as leisure travel is non-existent. Besides, many business houses are restricting travel for employees. Also, it may be difficult for smaller hotels to implement the array of safe practices of cleaning, sanitization and disinfection. The quarantine hotels may only take in quarantined guests and not others to avoid any risk.” Panchamia said almost half of the 70 three-, four- and five-star hotels might not open on July 8, as the 33% limit on capacity was “a straightway operating loss”. He said, “Until they do not have all of the 33% capacity occupied, many hotels may not open. Many of the hotels have centralised air conditioning systems, which is one of the aspects where the whole operating cost may go up even while more than half of the rooms would remain unoccupied. We have therefore taken a conscious decision to not open till mid or August-end,” he said. The manager in a three-star hotel in Shivajinagar told TOI, “We are unsure that even the 33% capacity will be filled as travel remains restricted. The overall costs will go up due to various safety measures we will have to follow. Hotels are also basically paying the same electricity charges as malls and no concessions have been given. Many hoteliers will thus not want to start their premises anytime soon.” On a positive note, Sharan Shetty, president, PHA, told TOI, “Hotels have been getting quite a few enquiries for room from corporates over the last three weeks, so the new order should at least give us a headstart. A lot of expenses were already ongoing for us even in shut down, like electricity bills, property tax, staff salaries, excise license fee, so the order will at least help some income to start for hotels , though we still await some concessions from the government.” Vikram Shetty, another hotel owner said, “ The new notification restricts usage of meeting halls at 33% capacity subject to a maximum of 15 people. This number would not work out for bigger conference halls where overheads are higher. Nevertheless, it’s certainly a start for us and by month end, we should get a clearer picture about how the new system will work out for us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hotels-look-at-revival-but-33-cap-on-guests-a-worry/articleshow/76822740.cms||Neha Madaan
July 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Where plot was lost: 87% of all cases in Karnataka came in last 36 days||BENGALURU: In the first 84 days after the first Covid-19 case — from March 9 to May 31 — Bengaluru had just 357 positive cases while the Karnataka number was only 3,221. The numbers rose slightly after inter-state travel opened up in early May and exploded in the past 36 days until Monday, setting new records daily. Sample this: A staggering 96% of the 10,561 cases in Bengaluru and 87% of 25,317 cases in Karnataka were reported between June 1 and July 5. Between June 1 and 30, the total number of cases in Bengaluru jumped from 357 to 4,555. The fact that a huge majority these cases were recorded only after June 15 makes the increase even more alarming. The capital city breached the 1,000-mark only on June 20. It then reported a massive jump of 154% to touch 4,555 on June 30. From there, it rose to 10,561 in the next six days. As reported by TOI earlier, the massive spike in the last five days of June was attributed to an accounting error. BBMP commissioner Anil Kumar said the error led to a significantly higher number of cases being reported between June 27 and 30. Regardless of the alleged error, Bengaluru was anyway poised to report a high number of cases. Experts, including those on the state’ task force, had suggested cases in Karnataka would peak in the eight to 10 weeks from end June to August. In keeping with that forecast, the overall number of cases in the state too follows a similar trend. The number of cases crossed the 1,000-mark only on May 15 in Karnataka, but the state ended the month with 3,221 cases, mostly because of the spike in domestic returnees from high-risk states. The increase was mostly in the northern districts of the state. Then, it grew to touch 15,242 by June 30 — a three-fold increase. Now, the state has added another 10,075 cases at a rate of 1,679 cases a day, most of which were reported in Bengaluru. Yet, the state fares much better than other big states like Maharashtra, New Delhi and Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/where-plot-was-lost-87-of-all-cases-in-ktaka-came-in-last-36-days/articleshow/76822044.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man held on colleague’s rape charge||PUNE: The Hinjewadi police on Sunday arrested a 30-year-old employee of a private company on the charge of repeatedly raping his 35-year-old woman colleague over the last one year on the pretext of marrying her and taking care of her son. The woman lodged a first information report with the police when the man went back on his ‘promise’ after she became pregnant, police said. Assistant inspector Anand Pagare of the Hinjewadi police told TOI, “The suspect was on Monday produced before a local court that remanded him in police custody till July 8.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-on-colleagues-rape-charge/articleshow/76822757.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: PCMC introduces new policy for home isolation||PUNE: With an increasing case count and strain on medical infrastructure, the civic body has introduced a home-quarantine policy to allow asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients to stay at home. Under the new policy, patients will be categorized under Group A (no symptoms), B (mild symptoms) and C (symptomatic). Patients coming under Groups A and B will be sent home after checking their complete blood count, renal function, random blood glucose, liver function, ECG, chest xray and SPO2 levels. Group C with any comorbid conditions will not be allowed to go home. “Such patients must constantly monitor and update their temperature and SPO2 levels. They should approach the doctor if they develop any symptoms,” PCMC said in a statement. There are just over 1,700 active cases in the twin township, which has a total bed capacity of close to 6,500. “About 75% of our patients are asymptomatic and 15% are mildly symptomatic,” Santosh Patil, PCMC additional commissioner, told TOI. While PCMC does not know yet how many people can avail themselves of the home isolation facility in the township, it is yet to aggressively push the option. It has just started giving the option to those people who stay in housing societies and have a spare room and a toilet. PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said wearing a mask is akin to having an 80% lockdown effect. “If people do not listen and continue to not wear masks and spit, then we will have to go for a real lockdown again, which nobody wants,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-introduces-new-policy-for-home-isolation/articleshow/76822756.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 7, 2020||Pune||Three booked for cheating, black magic in Pune||PUNE: The Samarth police have booked three transgenders for cheating a 38-year-old woman from Shivajinagar to the tune of Rs 15,000. Police said the suspects convinced the woman they would help solve her problems through rituals and cheated her. The woman is a sweeper with the Pune city police. Her son studies in a school in Camp. Last December, the boy stole some gold ornaments from their house and gave them to his friends to resolve a school dispute. In May, while the woman was on duty, the three suspects approached her for alms and struck up a conversation with her, police said. The trio convinced her that they had the power to solve her problems. The woman then told them about the jewellery. The trio asked her for money. They initially took Rs 3,000 from her. They took more money on various occasions and, when they continued to demand money without performing rituals, the woman got suspicious about them and approached the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-booked-for-cheating-black-magic/articleshow/76822751.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Magazine fiasco: TTD files complaint||Tirupati: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Monday ordered a probe and lodged a police complaint after a resident of Guntur city received a Christian religious magazine along with TTD’s Sapthagiri magazine by post. The devotee of Lord Venkateswara, who had subscribed to the Sapthagiri monthly magazine, was shocked when he received the July issue along with a copy of a Christian religious magazine, Sajeeva Suvartha. The devotee lodged his protest on social media. Many netizens condemned the incident and sought a thorough probe, prompting the TTD to lodge a complaint with the police and order an investigation. The temple body’s vigilance and security department has now asked the devotee to lodge a formal complaint. “The TTD has taken the incident seriously as this is an attempt to tarnish the image of the institution. We have filed a police complaint to dig deep into this conspiracy,” a senior official of the temple administration told TOI. The TTD has a tie-up with the postal department, which takes care of packing as well as delivering its Sapthagiri monthly magazine to the doorsteps of devotees across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/magazine-fiasco-ttd-files-complaint/articleshow/76820807.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 7, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara reels under wet spell||Vadodara: Barely 25 mm of rainfall on Monday left several areas in the old city waterlogged on Monday.The skies were overcast over the last two days but it began raining heavily early on Monday morning. Areas like Raopura Road, Mandvi, Dandia Bazaar and parts of Sayajigunj witnessed water-logging.District administration officials said that more rains are expected in the next 48 hours. The intermittent rains that continued for over five hours, brought much relief to the Barodians who were sweltering under humid conditions. Office-goers had tough time travelling as they had to wade through the waters but the cloudy skies also gave some an opportunity to go on long drive. Those residing on the banks of Vishwamitri River are already on the edge as heavy rains tend to flood their colonies every couple of years. Representations have been made to the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) to clean up the river bank and storm water drains for smooth passage of rain waters.IMD has forecast heavy to very heavy rains at isolated places in Anand, Vadodara, Aravalli, Kheda, Panchmahal, Dahod, Mahisagar, Chhota Udepur and Narmada districts up to July 8||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-reels-under-wet-spell/articleshow/76820828.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Reports of 1,500 swab samples pending||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: With test reports of 1,652 swab samples pending in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits till Sunday, according to officials. When the reports come in, there is a possibility of a sharp rise in positive cases. As on Monday evening, the Covid-19 tally in PCMC limits was 4,629. Health department data show that 20,211 of the 26,125 people admitted and tested since the first case was detected in March tested negative. On Sunday, 984 people who showed symptoms 19 were admitted, while on Saturday 3,751 were admitted. “If citizens cooperate and follow social distancing guidelines and personal hygiene, we can reduce the number of cases,” a PCMC official said. The official added that the drive against citizens not wearing masks will be intensified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/reports-of-1-5k-swab-samples-pending/articleshow/76822766.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||‘Set up CoE to probe cause of major chemical incidents’||Nagpur: Set-up a Centre of Excellence (CoE) in India to investigate the root cause of major chemical incidents to protect people and the environment. said JP Gupta, chairman of EAC-Industry II, MoEFCC Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, in a webinar organized by CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (CSIR-Neeri) on ‘Development in methodology and tools for impact analysis and risk assessment’. The objective of the webinar was to proliferate methodological tools for environmental impact and risk assessment and improve the effectiveness of the use of environmental impact analyses in decision-making. Around 900 representatives from industries, academics, regulatory authorities, research institutes etc participated in the webinar. The other expert panellists were Deepak Apte, chairman of EAC-Infrastructure, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), Prof Sharad Jain, chairman of EAC-River Valley & Hydroelectric, MoEFCC; Vijay Kulkarni, executive vice-president, Shapoorji Pallonji & Company Pvt Ltd, Prof AK Gosain, IIT Delhi, MV Ramana Murthy, EAC member-infrastructure, MoEFCC; JS Sharma, EAC, member-Industry II, MoEFCC; Rakesh Kumar, director of CSIR-Neeri; M Suresh Kumar, chief scientist and head, rnvironmental impact and sustainability division (EISD), CSIR-Neeri and Santosh Ghuge, senior scientist, CSIR-Neeri. Ghuge illustrated that a 3D model has a number of advantages over traditional 2D approaches to risk assessment for industrial safety. Apte expressed concern over environmental impact assessment (EIA) of the proposed Navi Mumbai Airport, as it harbours extensive bird diversity. Prof Gosain pointed out that without accurate, authentic and enough data it is difficult to run mathematical models to meet the standard desired in EIA. Jain exhorted that the studies concerning assessment of river valley projects should rely more on primary data gathered through field surveys, satellites, drones, GIS etc. Sharing his international experience on EIA studies, Kulkarni stated that currently there are no specific guidelines for deciding the study area and sampling locations while conducting EIA studies. Bherwani highlighted the methodologies by which environmental damages can monetarily be estimated. Sharma advised to link the risk assessment study of a particular industry or plant with social impact assessment, climate change and biodiversity index. Murthy focused on the need to develop automated sensors for coastal environmental monitoring. Earlier, in his inaugural address, Rakesh Kumar briefed about the preventive risk assessment and auditing to develop a system that allows processing of information for analysis and industrial risk management. M Karthik proposed a vote of thanks. Santosh Ghuge and M Karthik coordinated the workshop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/set-up-coe-to-probe-cause-of-major-chemical-incidents/articleshow/76817379.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 2 FIRs filed in Taj threat calls case, say cops||MUMBAI: Police registered two offences against a Pakistani who called up Taj Hotels and threatened terror attacks. Preliminary inquiries had suggested they were a hoax but police said investigations will continue as they came from Pakistan. Colaba and Bandra police had on Sunday registered two offences against unknown callers under IPC sections of 506(2) for criminal intimidation and threat to cause death or previous hurt or cause destruction of property and 505(1) (B) for circulating a statement, rumour or report. In the Colaba case, executive security officer Abhishek Salvi had lodged the complaint. Police said the caller identified himself as Sultan from Laskar-E-Toiba (LET). “We are likely to carry out a terror attack similar to earlier one and planning is under way,” he reportedly said. The caller referred to 26/11 attacks in 2008. Police shared the information with central agencies, which are likely to keep a tab on the number. Sources said terror groups never use mobile numbers and prefer VOIP or conference calls routed from some other country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-firs-filed-in-taj-threat-calls-case-say-cops/articleshow/76822787.cms||Ahmed Ali
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown, freebies push tur rates above MSP||Nagpur: For the first time after two years, rates of tur — the commonly grown pulses — have crossed the minimum support price (MSP) level. An MSP of Rs5,800 a quintal was set for the kharif season of 2019 and the rates in open market touched Rs6,000 a week ago. It’s an impact of distribution of free tur dal through ration shops as part of the moves during the lockdown. In May and June, tur dal was distributed free of cost through ration shops to the poor. The stocks of raw tur were taken out of government godowns and handed over to millers for processing it into tur dal — the edible form. This led to a proportionate reduction in the overall availability of the pulses in the market, taking up its prices. Imports getting slowed due to the Covid-induced lockdown has also contributed to the increase in rates, said traders. Over a week ago, the rates of best quality tur crossed the MSP and touched Rs6,000. The rates have now settled in the range of Rs5,900 to Rs6,000 a quintal, say traders. However, this comes at a time when farmers in the region have cleared most of their produce, with only 10% of the last kharif season’s produce estimated to be left with the growers, say trade sources. The MSP procurement by the government also remained slow this year, said farmers. This has made its impact in the retail price of tur dal — also the commonly consumed pulses for the masses. The high grade of tur that was priced at Rs78 a kg has now touched Rs84. The rates are expected to be higher in upmarket stores. Roshan Kothari, a director of the agriculture produce marketing committee (APMC) at Wani in Yavatmal, said, “The season began with a rate of Rs4,900 a quintal for tur. There was gradual increase, but the rates remained below the MSP throughout the year.” Kothari estimates that farmers may be left with around 10% of the stock. Tur is harvested in January-February. At the APMC in Hinganghat, Surendra Kothari said the rates have settled at Rs5,900 a quintal. However, this is for the best quality tur. The lower grades are still fetching a price below the MSP. Distribution of tur through ration shops has reduced the stock to that extent. Now, the scheme will continue till November, and though chana (gram) will be offered through PDS, it will have impact on the rates of tur too, he said. Following calls by government to increase domestic production of tur, farmers had increased the area under this crop bringing down the market rates as supply increased. This kept the prices below the MSP for two years. “To ensure that the domestic rates remain up, the government should ensure that no imports happen below the MSP,” said Vijay Jawandhia, a farm activist from Wardha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-freebies-push-tur-rates-above-msp/articleshow/76822772.cms||Shishir Arya
July 7, 2020||Goa||Bhasha Puraskar awards for Bhembre, Narvekar & Patil||Panaji: The state government on Monday announced the Goa Bhasha Puraskar to noted writers Uday Laxmikant Bhembre, Pundalik Shivram Narvekar and Devdatta Govind Patil for scholastic works in Konkani, Marathi and Sanskrit, respectively for the year 2018-19. In 2014, after the state government adopted a new medium of instructions policy, it formulated a scheme under the title Bhasha Puraskar Yojana. Awards are being given to eminent persons who have made achievements through their scholastic work in Konkani, Marathi and Sanskrit. The Jnanpith awardee Ravindra Kelekar Konkani Bhasha Puraskar will be given to Bhembre, the B D Satoskar Marathi Bhasha Puraskar will be given to Narvekar and the Durgaram Upadhe Sanskrit Puraskar will be given to Patil. The award consists of a citation, mementos and a cash amount of Rs one lakh. The awards will be presented at a special function, dates for which are yet to be announced. Nomination were invited from individuals and institutions and a committee of experts was constituted by the government to select the awardees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bhasha-puraskar-awards-for-bhembre-narvekar-patil/articleshow/76823431.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Pune||Two arrested for abusing traffic cop in Pune||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Sunday arrested two men on the charge of abusing and attacking a traffic police constable when the latter stopped them near Shivaji Maharaj Chowk in Hinjewadi around 6pm for driving double seat on a motorcycle without masks. Police have identified the arrested duo as Sudhir Goswami (34) of Dhanori and Kailas Kalshetty (33) of Wakad. Police constable Amol Bansode lodged an FIR in this regard. Police said Bansode was manning the traffic near Shivaji Maharaj Chowk when he noticed the duo riding a motorcycle without masks. “As the duo did not stop their vehicle following his orders, the constable forced them to halt,” an officer from Hinjewadi police said. The officer said that when Bansode asked the duo about their masks, they began to abuse him. “One of them held Bansode by his uniform collar, while another hit him with the helmet,” the officer said adding, “Bansode suffered injuries on his head.” The duo has been charged under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-arrested-for-abusing-traffic-cop/articleshow/76822790.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Vadodara||Fear of stray dogs adds to Covid-19 scare in Alkapuri||Vadodara: It is not just coronavirus that is keeping residents of Alkapuri area confined to their houses. The menace of stray dogs in this posh locality has reached such a peak that residents fear to venture out even for a stroll.Around a fortnight ago, an entrepreneur living near Alkapuri club, Bharathy Bharadwaj, was brutally attacked outside her building by two canines. Bharadwaj suffered several injuries and had to undergo a minor surgery. “I was out for a walk and from nowhere these two dogs came and pounced on me. Now I am scared to go out,” said Bharadwaj, who is still recuperating from her injuries. A medical student living in the same neighbourhood too was attacked a few months back. “Luckily, my daughter did not suffer any injuries, but I have come across people who have suffered grievous injuries,” said the student’s father, Dr Sandeep Sharma.When the residents contacted the civic body officials, the latter only showed their helplessness. “An official who has helped us with minute problems too told us that the civic body cannot do much in such cases due to animal rights activists,” said Bharadwaj’s neighbour Anuja Tapan. She added that in the past she had a near escape when the dogs had chased her. “Right now, the situation is such that kids are not even able to cycle around in the neighbourhood,” Tapan said.However, some people who do not want to miss their daily walks have found ways. Devila Talati, a 70-year-old woman living near Arunoday Society, goes out for a stroll, but after learning about the attack on Bharadwaj, she keeps a wooden stick to keep the dogs at bay.TOI contacted VMC officials, but there was no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fear-of-stray-dogs-adds-to-covid-19-scare-in-alkapuri/articleshow/76820871.cms||Jay Pachchigar
July 7, 2020||Pune||PCMC denies possibility of water supply contamination||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The water supply department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has dismissed the possibility of contamination of water supply. In a statement issued on Monday, it said that after receiving a few complaints about waterborne diseases from citizens, the water supply department checked the water samples from the respective areas and found the chlorine levels to be adequate. However, citizens need to exercise caution during the monsoon by consuming only boiled water, the statement said. Complaints regarding diarrhoea, vomiting and abdominal pain have been received from different parts of the city. The test reports have been verified by private labs as well. The department has appealed to the citizens to report any issues like turbidity of water or leakage in the pipeline on the helpline number 88880 06666. Ramdas Tambe, executive engineer, water supply department, appealed to the citizens to take extra precaution by consuming boiled water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-denies-possibility-of-water-supply-contamination/articleshow/76822777.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||‘FIRs to be filed over substandard soya seeds’||Yavatmal: State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse has reiterated that nobody would be spared and FIR would be lodged against those found marketing substandard soyabean seeds that failed to germinate. “Over 30,000 complaints have been lodged and farmers have been forced to go for resowing,” said Bhuse while addressing a press conference on Monday. He further that it is difficult to compensate the damages and losses altogether but efforts are afoot to resolve the complaints. The minister visited a number of villages across the district to take stock of the situation. Later, he chaired a review meeting of agriculture officers at district collectorate. The minister said sub-divisional agriculture officers and taluka agriculture officers have been authorized to take action. “They should conduct spot panchnama and take action immediately,” said Bhuse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/firs-to-be-filed-over-substandard-soya-seeds/articleshow/76822803.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Nashik||Groundwater level rises in Newasa, Srirampur talukas||NASHIK: Two talukas, Newasa and Srirampur, in Ahmednagar district have registered highest rise in the groundwater level, said the Groundwater Survey and Development Agency (GSDA) on Monday. The pre-monsoon groundwater level for the month of May this year has gone up by 64% in comparison to the levels recorded last year. In Srirampur, the groundwater level was 15.9m below the ground surface last year which rose to 10.30m this year, while in Newasa the water level rose from 17.30m to 11.30m. “District-wise Dhule registered good rise in mean groundwater levels as the average water level jumped from 13.25m to 6.88m — a rise of 48%. It was followed by Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Nashik and Nandurbar districts,” Jeevan Bedwal, senior geologist of GSDA (Nashik), said. The rainfall deficit in the year 2018 led to the drought in summer of 2019 when the groundwater levels depleted. It was during the same period that Jalyukta Shivar works were carried out across the Nashik division on a very large scale. “Multiple factors led to rise in the groundwater level. Firstly, the monsoon was very good as it continued to rain till December cutting down dependency on ground water. Secondly, the Jalyukta Shivar structures helped retained good amount of water,” Bedwal, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/groundwater-level-rises-in-newasa-srirampur-talukas/articleshow/76820823.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Dam stock static as heavy rainfall eludes catchments||PUNE: Water storage in the four dams supplying water to the city has not recorded any significant increase since the beginning of the monsoon due to the lack of continuous and heavy showers in the catchment areas. In fact, the collective stock of the four reservoirs has reduced by 1 TMC in the last one month. On Monday, the collective storage in Khadakwasla, Panshet, Varasgaon and Temghar dams was recorded at 5.88 TMC as against 6.90 TMC on June 6. “In the same period last year, the four dams had added 1.3 TMC water to rise from from 3.31 TMC on June 6 to 4.63 TMC on July 6,” an irrigation official said. The official said the storage went up in the first week of June due to the heavy spells of rain brought in by the Nisarga cyclone. “A rise of 0.38 TMC was reported only on Monday mainly due to over 30mm rainfall in the catchments of the three dams in the last 24 hours. Similar spells are expected to continue in the catchment areas,” he said. Though dams have not recorded any substantial increase in their collective storage, the city will not face any immediate water crisis as the existing stock of 5.88 TMC is equivalent to Pune’s requirements of more than three months. The city consumes about 1.5 TMC of water every month. Officials from the irrigation department, however, appealed to the people and the civic body to ensure judicious use of water to avoid any problems. “We have stopped releasing water from the Khadakwasla dam into the Mutha canal. This will ensure that the city would get maximum water stock,” another irrigation department official said. “Now, the remaining 5.88 TMC water stock has been kept reserved to meet drinking water requirements of Pune and rural parts,” he added. The release was under way till June 30 and was stopped in the beginning of July. Water release was supposed to be stopped by June 15. However, with adequate stock in the dams, the release was extended for two weeks. The four dams can collectively hold 29.15 TMC water, of which about 15 TMC is used for Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dam-stock-static-as-heavy-rainfall-eludes-catchments/articleshow/76822769.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 7, 2020||Pune||Politicians open up on social media about Covid-19 status, use platform for awareness||PUNE: Mayor Murlidhar Mohol’s public announcement via Twitter about his Covid-19 positive status has encouraged some other elected members in the civic body to come out in the open about being infected with the virus. They too are using various social media platforms to allay fears, anxiety and rumours associated with the Coronavirus, create awareness and share their experiences of their fight against the contagion. Senior politicians, including the deputy mayor, former mayor, MLAs and MPs, are using the social media platforms to interact with citizens and control the spread of rumours. Few elected members are opting for home isolation after testing positive. “The news of me getting infected has gone viral on the social media. I am getting many calls. But there is no truth in the news. I am all right and working. I urge people to take care of themselves,” said deputy mayor Saraswati Shendge. Like the mayor, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former MLA Yogesh Tilekar shared his Covid-19 tests result on Twitter. “I was feeIing feverish, so took the Covid19 test. The result is positive, but my condition is stable. With your blessings, I will recover soon,” read his tweet. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials are also becoming more cautious about being exposed to the virus. Some senior staff members of the PMC have planned to work from home. The PMC has decided to conduct all the committee meeting online to ensure its smooth functioning. “The civic administration is operating with all due precautionary measures in place. We have advised elected members and PMC officials to avoid attending or organizing meetings in person, if it is not must. But all the committee meetings, like that of the standing committee and general body, can be organized virtually. The state government has given guidelines about it” municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said. He said 147 PMC officials have been infected by Covid-19 till date, but 70 of them have already been declared cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/politicians-open-up-on-social-media-about-covid-19-status-use-platform-for-awareness/articleshow/76822783.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
July 7, 2020||Amaravati||AP: Tendering to begin soon for Ramayapatnam Port work||AMARAVATI: The state government has decided to call for tenders for the civil work of Ramayapatnam Port by July 15. The government is keen to finalise the bids in three weeks and launch the works latest by August 15, according to sources. Recently, the state cabinet had cleared the detailed project report for the first phase of work of Ramayapatnam Port, to be taken up with an estimated cost of Rs 3,736 crore. The port is expected to give a big push to development of the backward Prakasam district. The government is mulling completing the first phase work within 36 months. It released Rs 100 crore for acquisition of about 800 acre land for phase-I. The DPR readied by Rites Consultancy Firm noted that at least 2,200 acres of land would be needed for the project and another 3,000 acres would be needed for the development of the industrial corridor. The local MLA of the proposed port area, Manugunta Mahidhar Reddy, has suggested to industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy to acquire the entire land required for the port and industrial zone at one go to avoid complications in future. “The land rates will automatically go up once the phase-I project is completed. It would make land acquisition difficult and hamper development of the region,” said Mahidhar Reddy. He said many people along the coast and in and around the proposed port in Ramayapatnam are ready to offer land at cheaper rates as most of the land is uncultivable. Meanwhile, R Pratap Kumar Reddy, legislator from Kavali, neighbouring constituency to Kandukur, has demanded that the industrial corridor should be stretched into his area so that his constituency too would benefit from the development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/tendering-to-begin-soon-for-ramayapatnam-port-work/articleshow/76820853.cms||Samdani MN
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||KMC shuts private lab over Covid worries||KOLKATA: The KMC has ordered the closure of a reputable pathological lab off S N Banerjee Road in Taltala for two weeks after several employees there reportedly contracted the novel coronavirus. The KMC claimed the ground situation was such that they could not allow the lab to operate for now. One of the pathologists, currently at the Rajarhat quarantine centre, told TOI that most of the cases were reported over the past three to four days. “One of those infected managed the front desk. After that report came in, we decided not to go to work and I contacted KMC officials,” the pathologist said. A civic official claimed given that Taltala had been a Covid-sensitive zone from the very beginning of the outbreak, they did not take any chance and shut the lab for two weeks. “After the period, we will re-examine the situation and then tell the owner to resume services,” he said. “We are also carrying out a drive in the neighbourhood as the lab is situated in a densely populated area. If required, we will conduct random tests among residents.” KMC, however, clarified the lab did not carry out Covid tests. “We don’t carry out Covid test here but even for other tests, we take all precautions to ensure infections don’t spread. We have no idea how so many people began showing symptoms,” said the pathologist. Cops at the Taltala police station, however, claimed there was no Covid angle and that the reason was the death of a family member of the owner suffering from cancer. “There is no Covid angle to the shutdown. The lab has temporarily been closed owing to the death of the owner’s brother, who had been suffering from cancer. The pathological lab will reopen in due time,” claimed a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-shuts-pvt-lab-over-covid-worries/articleshow/76822823.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Consumers to burn power bills on July 13||KOLHAPUR: The state-level electricity consumers forum has decided to burn inflated power bills on July 13 outside the government offices across the state. Activists have demanded to waive power bills of domestic consumers with monthly power usage up to 300 units. Pratap Hogade, president of Maharashtra Rajya Veej Ghrahak Sanghatana, announced the decision on Monday at Kolhapur. Hogade said, “The government provided free ration and even handed over cash to people as most of them were out of jobs during the lockdown. Even after unlocking, not all businesses have started. In such a situation, people do not have money to pay electricity bills. It is our demand that bills of consumers with monthly consumption up to 300 units be waived. There are 1.90 crore consumers with power consumption less than 300 units. The waiver will cost government not more than Rs 2,700 crore.” Hogade said that the consumers from over 20 districts where the lockdown has been eased would protest outside government offices. “In Kolhapur, a petition will be submitted to the district collector. Veteran activist N D Patil will lead the protest here. We are hopeful that the state government will provide relief to consumers,” said Hogade. Hogade also said that some sections were spreading misinformation that the bills were wrongly calculated and clarified that the bills issued by MSEDCL were technically correct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/consumers-to-burn-power-bills-on-july-13/articleshow/76820858.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Pune||DSK’s brother gets bail, no relief for two others||PUNE: Special MPID judge Jayant Raje granted a conditional bail to Makarand Sakhakaram Kulkarni, brother of jailed developer DS Kulkarni alias DSK, in the multi-crore rupees economic fraud by the DSK Group. Makarand (67) has been asked to furnish a personal release bond of Rs 1 lakh and a solvent surety. Besides, he has to surrender his passport. “The formalities are being completed. We expect him to walk out of the Yerawada jail on Tuesday,” his lawyer Rohan Nahar told TOI. Nahar said, “The court acknowledged that the offence was serious, but there are no allegations that Makarand collected deposits from investors and defaulted on repayment. The only allegation against him is of purchase of land in his name, but the court acknowledged that Makarand’s bank account was being operated by DSK’s wife Hemanti and sister-in-law Anuradha Purandare as power of attorney holders.” “The court held that considering the role ascribed to Makarand and his age, keeping him behind the bars for further period will not add anything more to the prosecution’s case,” said Nahar. Special public prosecutor Pravin Chavan told TOI, “The court has, however, rejected the regular bail pleas of Anuradha Purandare and former COO Dhananjay Pachpor. The court also did not entertain another plea by DSK himself and Kedar Vanjape, son-in-law of DSK’s other brother Prakash, seeking an interim bail on the grounds of Covid-19 scare.” Vanjape’s lawyer Prasad Kulkarni told TOI, “The court observed that the SC-mandated high power committee in the state has restrained grant of bail relief to persons being tried under special enactments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dsks-brother-gets-bail-no-relief-for-two-others/articleshow/76822816.cms||Vishwas Kothari
July 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 30 snakes rescued from Aurangabad released into wild||AURANGABAD: Over 30 snakes, both venomous and non-venomous, rescued from Aurangabad and the fringe areas were released into Sarola area by rescuers in the presence of forest department authorities recently. The venomous snakes included India Cobra, Russel’s Viper, Common Krait while the non-venomous species were Common Trinket, Rat Snake and Sand Boa among others. Rescue expert Nitesh Jadhav said that there was no other alternative other than releasing the snakes into the forest area given the misconception about reptiles in the minds of public. “There is a dire need for developing public understanding towards living with snakes as such bulk rescue is not in the interest of reptiles and humans. People should learn the difference between poisonous and non-poisonous snakes and understand that snakes play an important role in the overall eco-system,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-30-snakes-rescued-from-aurangabad-released-into-wild/articleshow/76820887.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC issues guidelines to private schools||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed private schools to not pass any adverse order against school children if parents are not able to pay school fee. The high court has also made it clear that if a student wants to leave a private school and shift to a government school, private schools should not object and issue school leaving certificate immediately. The HC has directed parents to file affidavits stating what financial problems they are facing. The court has also extended the scope of this petition filed by Independent School Association and made Haryana party to it. The matter will come up for hearing on July 15. During resumed case hearing, Chandigarh administration filed its reply and stated that in order to provide relief to financially crippled parents, it has already waived off fee for students studying in government schools and as far as private schools are concerned, these schools are entitled to tuition fee and not beyond that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-issues-guidelines-to-pvt-schools/articleshow/76822796.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Mysuru||Men beat up Asha worker in Karnataka's Mandya||MANDYA: An Asha worker and her husband were allegedly thrashed by a group of miscreants for asking a man, who had returned from Bengaluru, to follow Covid-19 norms. The incident occurred in Mosalekoppalu village, KR Pete taluk late on Sunday. Eyewitnesses said Gayatri and her husband Ravikumar were badly injured. They are being treated in KR Hospital, Mysuru. Police said the incident occurred when Gayatri asked Manjegowda, a resident of Bengaluru, whose wife is from Mosalekoppalu, to maintain social distancing norms and to avoid frequent travel to his in-laws’ house in the village. Manjegowda did not take kindly to the advice and he along with relatives Chandan, Darshan, Devaraju, Raghu, Prasanna and Abhi allegedly attacked Gayatri and Ravikumar, who had rushed to help his wife’s aid. Police said the two were beaten black and blue. Based on Gayatri’s complaint, KR Pete rural police have registered a case. The office bearers of Asha Workers’ Welfare Association condemned the attack and urged the district administration to initiate strict legal action against those involved in the crime. “Three Asha workers were attacked previously and threatened by miscreants in KR Pete taluk,” said Jyoti, president of the association. “If police had taken action against those culprits, this fresh incident would not have occurred.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/men-beat-up-asha-worker-in-karnatakas-mandya/articleshow/76822063.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Gym owners protest againt no permission to operate||PUNE: The Pune Fitness Club Association on Sunday started a protest against the government after the latter continued to keep gyms shut in the state during Unlock 2.0. Gym owners from Pune district and rest of the state had begun preparations to reopen after a minister had announced that gyms would be permitted to open with salons on June 28. “We waiting for a few days after June 28 for guidelines to be released for gyms to follow and for permission to reopen. However, over a week later, there has been no change in orders. We have created posters against the government and to seek justice,” Nilesh Kale, president of the association, said. The association is circulating the posters on social media and to other allied sectors including trainers, those providing supplements, among others. According to members of the association, the posters speak about the permission being granted for transport, wine shops and other establishments that attract crowds, but not for gyms, which are ready to follow all safety protocols. “While gyms are grappling with rent and other expenses, the trainers have been hit the hardest. We could pay salaries for the first two months, but had to stop after that. I provide my employees with some pocket money to get by, but that isn’t the case with all gyms. If there is still no response from the government, we will take to the streets to protest,” Kale said. A gym owner Sangram Chougule said trainers had been reaching out to him saying they were in a bad condition financially. “One trainer messaged my saying his family didn’t have money to feed themselves. He was the sole breadwinner and they were in need of money. I’m helping eight to 10 trainers in my personal capacity, but the situation is going from bad to worse. Trainers have messaged me saying they were depressed because of no income,” he said. Chougule added that a decision on rent also needed to be taken through government intervention. “Gyms have been closed for many months now and we don’t know how to pay the rent. With no business, it is impossible to pay the rent that was previously agreed upon. There is a need to decide on a payable amount that is viable for the landlord and tenant,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gym-owners-protest-against-government-for-not-getting-permission-to-reopen/articleshow/76822806.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fine for not wearing mask in gram panchayats||PUNE: The Pune Zilla Parishad has asked all the 1,407 gram panchayats in the district to slap a fine of Rs 500 on those found not wearing masks or spitting in public places. Till July 5, all the 13 tehsils have recorded 1,235 cases since the outbreak. Of these, 553 have been discharged after recovery, 27 patients have succumbed to the virus, while 655 are active cases. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, ZP, said, "Wearing mask is as good as self containment in the current situation. But we have noticed that many people don’t wear masks and roam around in rural areas. To stop this practice, we have asked gram panchayats to charge them with the help of police." "Under section 128 of the Gram Panchayat Act 1958, we are authorised to penalise people. Based on this, police patil of the village along with gram panchayat staffers will collect the fine," he added. The ZP has so far collected Rs 44,000 as fines from across the district, he said. "We will intensify the drive in the coming days at the village level to contain the spread of the virus. Besides, for public awareness, we have asked gram panchayats to make announcements in their limits," Prasad added. Sachin Baravkar, sub divisional officer, Haveli tehsil, recently issued orders to all 90 gram panchayats, asking them to penalise violators with the help of local police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fine-for-not-wearing-mask-in-gram-panchayats/articleshow/76822805.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Pune||285 from Pune, Mumbai booked for violations in Lonavla||Pune: The Pune rural police came down heavily on weekend monsoon revellers from Pune and Mumbai, who visited Lonavla, Khandala, Kamshet and Vadgaon Maval on Saturday and Sunday in violation of the lockdown norms. The police filed 285 cases against such people for violations, including travelling without a valid e-passes, not wearing masks, and carrying more than three people in a car. The police and the local administration have banned monsoon tourism in the hill station and adjoining areas as part of a move to check the spread of Covid-19. Every year, during weekends, thousands of people from the various parts of the state and country visit Lonavla, Khandala and surrounding picnic spots to enjoy the showers and scenic waterfalls. A team headed by additional superintendent of police Navnit Kawat of Lonavla division took strong action against the revellers on Saturday and Sunday. Police from Lonavla city and Lonavla rural, Kamshet and Vadgaon Maval police stations kept a vigil at different points, waterfalls and roads to catch violators. Also, police have stepped up vigilance on the highways, especially during the night, and are checking passenger vehicles heading to the hill station. Police have also enhanced patrols in these destinations. Police said that they found 90 passenger vehicles travelling in the Lonavla–Khandala areas without e-passes. Police filed as many as 135 cases against those visiting these spots without wearing a mask, and also took action against 60 four-wheelers in which more than three people were found travelling. “Many people, especially from Mumbai and Pune, visited the hill station on Sunday despite the ban on tourism. Majority were found travelling without valid e-passes,” inspector Manojkumar Yadav of Lonavla (city) police said. Yadav said the four–wheelers were found heading towards Bhushi dam and other points on the roads leading to Rajmachi and Aamby valley from Lonavla. There are several points on these roads and people often stop there to enjoy the rain or waterfalls, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/285-from-pune-mumbai-booked-for-violations-in-lonavla/articleshow/76822817.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Amritsar||Pak’s Hindu MNA hopeful of favourable temple verdict||Amritsar: With the Islamabad high court reserving its verdict on the construction of a new Hindu temple in Pakistan’s capital, Islamabad Hindu Panchayat (IHP) functionary and Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI) member of national assembly (MNA) Lal Chand Malhi, spearheading the temple drive, is hopeful that the court will give verdict in their favour, since their constitution allows minority communities to construct places of worship. Talking to TOI over phone from Islamabad on Monday, Malhi said the HC had reserved the judgment on the petition seeking ban on construction of a Hindu temple. “In all probability, the court will give its verdict tomorrow and we are hopeful that it will be in our favour.” he said. Malhi claimed that deputy attorney general Raja Khalid Mehmood had stated in the HC that the constitution permits minorities to build places of worship. Mehmood also told the court that the case was giving a negative message to the world about Pakistan, he added. Asked how hopeful was the Hindu community of Pakistan from its judiciary allowing the construction temple especially in light of Pakistan government referring the matter to the Council of Islamic Ideology (CII), he said, “Since a few fundamentalist organizations have been opposing the construction of a temple and a seminary has also issued a fatwa, it was government’s duty to refer such matters to CII for its comments. But when court gives its verdict in light of Pakistan constitution, then their (CII’s) opinion didn’t matter,” he said. Proposed to be constructed at a cost of 50 crore Pakistani rupees (PKR), the IHP had demanded 10 crore PKR from the Pakistan government. “Prime minister Imran Khan has agreed to give Rs 10 crore for the construction of a Hindu temple, but the amount is yet to be credited since the procedure takes time,” said Malhi. In 2017, the Capital Development Authority had allotted a plot measuring 20,000 square feet to IHP for the construction of a temple and crematorium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/paks-hindu-mna-hopeful-of-favourable-temple-verdict/articleshow/76822836.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||2 beaten up for demanding loan repayment||Panchkula: A financier from Zirakpur and his friend were brutally attacked by a group of persons in Pinjore when he demanded payment of Rs 1 lakh he had given on loan. In his police complaint, Shanty Singh, a resident of Lohgarh village, Zirakpur said he had gone to his friend Ajit Pal’s house, where he met Gurmukh Singh Gumi, to whom he had given Rs 1 lakh on finance. When Shanty asked Gurmukh to return the money, Gurmukh took him and his friend to his house in Surajpur village, Pinjore. On arrival, he argued with Shanty and refused to return the money. Later, he called his brothers Haooy, Gumi, Hannu, Keecha, Pillu, Dharampal, Happu, Channi and Pyara and started beating the duo with iron rod and wooden sticks. When Ajit Pal’s family members came to the rescue, they were also brutally beaten up by the accused and his friends. Ajit Pal received four stitches on his head and injuries on his face. Shanty sustained a fracture in his leg and had to have stitches on his head. A case has been registered under section 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (Punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 427 ( Mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 148 (Rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (Every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code at Pinjore police station. Police said, “We have registered a case based on the complaint. Investigation is in progress.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-beaten-up-for-demanding-loan-repayment/articleshow/76822820.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Lucknow||UP Board Class 12 high scorers shrink from 585 to 2 in five years||LUCKNOW: This year, too, was as bad at the top in the UP board results. The reasons it was less crowded at the top, too, were the same — no spiking of marks and a crackdown on the ‘copying mafia’ by the state government. From 585 in 2016, the number of students scoring 95% and above in class XII UP board exams remained at two, just like last year. Data accessed by TOI also show a sharp fall in the number of students scoring over 90% marks. In 2016 class XII boards, 16,845 students had scored 90% and above. This drastically came down to 1,976 in 2017 and only 49 in 2020. It was 50 last year. Trends show that there has been a steady fall in the number of top performers since 2017. In fact, in the 2018 class XII examinations, not a single student out of 18.8 lakh who qualified could score above 95%. The board topper scored 93.2%. In 2019, the class XII topper scored 97.8%. The top scorer in 2020 got 97% marks. In the past four years, the drop in the number of top performers has been significant — by seven times for students scoring 95% and above 40 times for those scoring 90% and above. The dip, said former CBSE chairperson Ashok Ganguly, was not surprising. According to him, early conduct of exams and measures to curb malpractices are possible reasons for the “reducing the rat race for marks, which is good”. Marks are ‘spiked’ to moderate exam results and ensure that students do not suffer. Extra marks are awarded for a “tough paper” or for one which had “poorly framed or ambiguous” questions. UP Secondary Education Board (UPSEB), which conducts the state board exams, introduced Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) of class X students in 2011, a year after CBSE took the same step. As a result, the students scored low when they appeared for their class XII boards in 2013. A former UP board official explained that this is exactly what happened with CBSE students in 2012. So from 2013, CBSE took to spiking of marks to improve results. On the lines of CBSE, UPSEB along with other state boards who didn’t want their students to be left behind, too, began inflating marks. He said in 2013, when UPSEB tabulated the marks, the overall pass percentage was very low. So, moderation was applied which spiked the pass percentage to 92.68% — the highest ever in a decade. Since then, every year until 2017, marks have been inflated. Following a controversy, CBSE in 2017 did away with moderation. This had put a pressure on other boards to follow. The results were clear. In 2018, no student in class XII scored above 95%. Since then, the number of top scorers — above 95% — remained in single digits, less than five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-board-class-12-high-scorers-shrink-from-585-to-2-in-5-years/articleshow/76823440.cms||Isha Jain
July 7, 2020||Goa||Demand for fruit crops picks up at nurseries||Panaji: Ever since people have embraced kitchen gardening during the lockdown, plant nurseries have seen a spike in the demand for fruit crops. “Fruit plant nurseries are receiving good response throughout the state. Right now, there is demand for cashews, mangoes, and coconut saplings because this is the season for their growth. There is also demand for chikoo and guava saplings,” director of agriculture, Nevil Alphonso said. At these nurseries, mango saplings are priced anywhere between Rs 155 to a few thousands depending on the variety. The Goan mancurad variety is going at Rs 550 per sapling while the Thailand variety red mango is going at Rs 6000. Cashew crops are going at Rs 70 to 170 while coconut crops are going at Rs 200 to 1000, depending on the variety. Gajanan Plant Nursery at Mulgao had prepared 1500 saplings to be sold over a course of three months however, all of them were sold in a month’s time. “The overall food production in Goa has been going down over the years but the stark reality of it was witnessed only during the lockdown. Now, people are taking matters into their own hands and planting saplings to grow their own fruits and vegetables,” proprietor of the nursery, Sanjay Manerkar said. Mohammed Shahid, who manages East West Nursery in Nuvem has attributed this sudden interest in fruit plantingto the lockdown. “People have had a lot of free time for themselves during the lockdown. Besides keeping them busy, the entire exercise of putting their hands in the soil will also reap fruits,” he said. Darryl Dsouza, founder of Earth Keepers has been green crusader for years and this had led many interested growers to his doorstep requesting for fruit and vegetable saplings. “People have very little hope that the supply of their greens will normalise. They want to do whatever they can, on their own, during the pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/demand-for-fruit-crops-picks-up-at-nurseries/articleshow/76823456.cms||Nida Sayed
July 7, 2020||Vadodara||North zone remains worst hit with 18 new cases||Vadodara: Highest testing in a day led to highest number of Covid-19 cases being detected in Vadodara city and district. Out of the 412 tests conducted since Sunday evening, 66 were found positive.The north zone, which was the first to witness an outbreak in Nagarwada area, remained the worst affected with 18 new cases.In the areas outside Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits, 16 cases were reported from Bamangam, Dabhoi, Parsoli, Ranu, Padra, Koyli, Sokhda, Bhayli and Fertilizernagar areas. Officials said that along with private laboratories and hospitals for admitting patients, the testing had also gone up due to tests performed on contacts of persons found positive.Of the 703 patients under treatment, the condition of 31 was serious and they were on ventilators or BIPAP machines. As many as 42 patients were discharged on Monday from various hospitals and home isolation.The health surveys by the civic body identified seven cases of severe acute respiratory illness or influenza-like illnesses from the red zones.Dahod DDO tests positiveVadodara: Dahod district development officer (DDO) Rachit Raj tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. He is among the five new cases identified in the district on the day. Raj had travelled to Gandhinagar last week and had also attended a meeting. However, it is not certain if the got the viral infection in Gandhinagar or in Dahod itself. Contact tracing and other measures like sanitization have been started by Dahod district administration and health officials after the development.Dahod has been witnessing a steady rise in the number of cases. On Sunday too eight new cases ere detected in the district. Dahod district has registered 73 Covid-19 cases so far out of which 23 are still active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/north-zone-remains-worst-hit-with-18-new-cases/articleshow/76820941.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Beating the virus, running into apathy||NEW DELHI: It is a sorry situation for Javed, a contractual doctor with Delhi government. Having been infected by the novel coronavirus while on duty in south Delhi Covid care centres, he is now in the intensive care unit at Lok Nayak Hospital in a critical condition. The problem for Dr Javed, and the 40 other contract medical workers like him who have tested positive for Covid-19, is that they are not eligible for government health benefits. In fact, they have been informed that their absence from duty while in isolation and treatment will adjusted against their leaves or their salaries deducted. Several such workers dejectedly told TOI that despite the risks they faced in their work, they were treated in such a cavalier manner by the authorities. One of them who works in a government dispensary in north Delhi said, “We see almost 150 patients every day, and wouldn’t know who among them are Covid-infected. If we catch the virus, we find on reporting for work after recovery that the days of home isolation will be considered as availing leave or will be deducted from our salary.” The government does not bear the medical expense of these contract health employees either. Dr Heena, Javed’s wife and employee of a private hospital in Haryana, is paying the bills for her husband’s treatment on her own. “He was on duty in Covid centres in south Delhi. He was asymptomatic, but later had fever and breathing difficulties. We gave him an anti-viral injection that cost Rs 25,000,” she said. Her husband, she claimed, has worked with Delhi government for a decade now and toiled non-stop in the Covid wards, but is still ineligible for health benefits. A contract staffer at a dispensary in northwest Delhi tested positive last month. “We work even on Sundays, but are then told that our leaves would be deducted for the days we were in home isolation after becoming infected,” he rued. “I was in home isolation for 17 days, and my wife and five-year-old son also tested positive for Covid-19.” Many of the 40 infected contract health workers did not want to reveal their identity for fear of losing their jobs. An officer working at the district office tested positive and was told he would be given quarantine leave. “Two days before my quarantine ended, I was told that 10 days of medical leave and seven of casual leave would be deducted from my quota,” he said. “If they adjust our leaves in this manner, we won’t have any left for later, which means we have be forced to take offs without pay.” Dr Alka Choudhary, Delhi state president of the National Health Mission (NHM) Doctors’ Welfare Association, confirmed this and said, “The salary and leaves of NHM doctors and paramedic staff who contract Covid-19 while on duty and are forced to stay away from work are being deducted. This treatment is only being meted out to NHM staffers and is a great source of demotivation for healthcare employees, many of whom are in the frontline against the novel coronavirus. We are not even provided medical cover through insurance, though we have been making this demand now for a long time.” Refuting the complaints of contract health workers, a Delhi government spokesperson told TOI, “The state government respects all corona warriors who have been fighting the pandemic on the frontlines. We will take all necessary steps to provide all facilities to doctors, medical staff and healthcare workers.” The spokesperson added, “In case, anyone among the contract staff is facing a problem because of someone’s negligence in the system, we will fix it. Our policy of providing compensation of Rs 1 crore to the next of kin of a corona warrior who lays down his life fighting the pandemic also has in its purview all employees, including government, private and contractual.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/beating-the-virus-running-into-apathy/articleshow/76843796.cms||Sakshi Chand
July 7, 2020||Mysuru||KR Nagar tahsildar tests positive, office sealed||Mysuru: KR Nagar tahsildar office was sealed down after the tahsildar tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Fifty of the primary and secondary contacts have been asked to be home-quarantined. DC Abhiram G Sankar has confirmed the development. Meanwhile, KR Nagar MLA and former minister S R Mahesh said that he has been advised 14-day home isolation after the tahsildar tested positive. “I don’t have any symptoms. As I don’t want to cause any problem for others, I will follow the 14-day home quarantine norm,” he said. The MLA also said that his swab sample has not been collected yet for testing. According to the district health authorities, the swab samples of over 40 persons have been collected in KR Nagar. “All the contacts of the tahsildar have been asked to be home-quarantined,” the authorities said. He is the first tahsildar level officer who tested positive in the Mysuru district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kr-nagar-tahsildar-tests-positive-office-sealed/articleshow/76822600.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Pune||State govt should renew focus on children, boost vaccination programmes: Top advisor||Pune: The advisor to the state government on health, Subhash Salunkhe, has urged officials to focus on Covid-19 infection risk among children as relaxations ease across Maharashtra. Coronavirus cases among children have been relatively low. Of Maharashtra’s nearly 15,000 patients who are under 20, 5,000 are under 10 years of age — 9,000 cases are among those between 11 and 20. But Salunkhe said, despite the low numbers, the risk of infection among the young cannot be completely ignored. The advisor said the government should focus on setting up “pediatric Covid units”. “We have been focussing on comborbities among adults and the elderly. Cases among children may not be high, but we as the state government cannot set this age group aside completely. We have to set up pediatriac Covid units and ensure immunisation drives are ramped up,” he said. The top expert said he is now set to forward a proposal to health authorities that seeks ramping up of immunisation drives and a renewed focus on a condition in children that seems to mimic symptoms of the rare Kawasaki disease. The World Health Organisation has called it a “multi-system inflammatory disorder” — symptoms include rashes and general inflammation, very similar to red eyes and skin blotches observed during Kawasaki disease. Doctors worldwide have reported the problem and India too has reported a few cases in the past few weeks. Mridula Phadke, the former vice-chancellor of Maharashtra University of Health Sciences and a senior consultant with UNICEF from the state, also backed the idea of focusing more on children's health during the Covid-19 pandemic. She said, “Children develop milder symptoms due to the thymus gland, which is very active in them. But recent reports from US, the UK and Italy of this 'multi-system inflammatory disorder', in which children experience swelling in feet and body rashes — typical Kawasaki symptoms — is of concern. So routine immunisations and boosting of nutrition should be priority." There has been a worrying drop in immunisation drives across the world. India, for example, has seen immunisation drives drop by nearly 80% in some centres during the lockdown; demand for vaccine has come down to 30%. Experts attributed the problem to cancelled doctor's visits by parents worried about coronavirus exposures. Various agencies, including the American Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, have warned that declines in routine vaccination can increase risk threat from vaccine-preventable diseases. “Due to the lockdown, people were hesitating to go to immunisation centres. But things are improving. Citizens should take immunisation seriously,” Phadke added. She said that forward and reverse migration had also seriously disturbed vaccination schedules among thousands of migrant families. “These families should be told to turn focus back on vaccination plans for their children,” Phatke added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-govt-should-renew-focus-on-children-boost-vaccination-programmes-top-advisor/articleshow/76822832.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Room for innovation? These super mushrooms will fetch farmers 8L per kg||Ludhiana: For progressive farmers looking to innovate further, “super mushroom” could be the way forward. Also called Cordyceps militaris, cultivation of this rare mushroom can open up new avenues, said Sandeep Das, dean of Bodoland University in Assam and faculty of science and technology, who has developed ways to cultivate the mushroom. According to Das, the mushroom’s immunity boosting properties have made it sought-after product in the Covid-19 era. Thus its cultivation could only benefit farmers, he added. Das told TOI, “Farmers of Punjab have advance technology when it comes to farming and they can develop good labs easily. One kilo of dry Cordycep mushroom will fetch farmers in lakhs. According to information available with us, a 27,000 sq feet laboratory can give an annual turnover of eight tonne of Cordycep mushroom.” The cultivation of Cordyceps is done in a temperature and humidity regulated laboratory and takes around 60 days for the full cropping. After harvesting, the fruiting body of Cordyceps are freeze dried (@-86°C) which restores it’s original texture and medicinal efficacy. The freeze-dried super mushroom are grinded to fine powder and are encapsulated with veg capsules. According to Das, department of biotechnology, government of India, sponsored technology incubation centre for mushroom culture and farming and Assam’s Bodoland University is taking the initiative to make this technology available to farmers across the Country. Das heads the incubation centre. We have more than 400 species of Cordyceps, a fungus parasitic on insects as well as other fungi, said Das, adding that the super mushroom is known for its anti-ageing, anti-viral, anti-diabetic, energy boosting and immunity-boosting properties. “Natural Cordyceps is hard to get and if dried, costs at least ₹8 lakh per kg,” said Das. Apart from super mushrooms, Das also said if the condition is optimum, basic and advance mushrooms can be cultivated easily. “Due to Covid-19, the local communities have been facing various issues in earning their livelihood. They may be able to earn better living by cultivating these mushrooms, as they can be grown with some specific efforts, with a minimum land requirement.” Kinds of mushrooms There are three types of mushrooms — basic mushrooms, advanced mushrooms and super mushrooms. Basic mushrooms are taken on daily basis and treated as food. Advanced mushrooms are medicinal. Super mushrooms contain protein, vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants. These can have various health benefits and high nutritional value. Cordyceps particularly is a parasitic fungus that includes over 400 different species, which are found all over the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/room-for-innovation-these-super-mushrooms-will-fetch-farmers-8l-per-kg/articleshow/76822046.cms||Mehak Jain
July 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Mom positive, breastfeeds toddler in another ward||KOLAR: Steps were taken to separate a two-month-old baby boy from his lactating mother after she tested positive and was rushed to Covid hospital in Malur taluk of Kolar district. The baby is now in an isolation ward at SNR Hospital in Kolar and a couple of relatives and nursing staff are taking care of him. Dr SG Narayanaswamy, district surgeon, said the woman, from Ettukodi in Malur taluk, gave birth to a baby boy at a hospital in Bagalur, near Hosur in Tamil Nadu, on May 5. She returned to Ettukodi on June 6 and complained of fever on July 3. On Sunday evening, her swab samples tested positive. Dr Chandan, nodal officer of Malur taluk, said the mother can breast feed her baby after taking all precautions. To enable this, the baby has been kept at the same hospital as the mother, but in a separate ward, he said. The Kolar city municipal council office was sealed on Monday after a staffer and a relative of his tested positive. The entire office premises and for all vehicles attached to CMC was sanitised. The staffer who tested positive had reportedly gone to Andhra Pradesh a few days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mom-infected-breastfeeds-toddler-in-another-ward-in-hosp/articleshow/76822113.cms||Ranganath Krishnaswamy
July 7, 2020||Pune||ASI monuments in Maharashtra won’t open till July-end||PUNE: The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) authorities in Maharashtra said that despite an ASI headquarter order on reopening monuments in India from Monday, those in Maharashtra will remain closed as per the earlier orders from the state. Monuments in the Mumbai circle, Aurangabad circle and Nagpur circle, will not reopen, at least till the month-end or till further orders from the state government. An ASI HQ notification recently stated, “All the ASI monuments and site museums shall be opened for public from July 6, 2020, subject to respective state government / district administration guidelines. Visitors are kindly requested to check these guidelines before booking online tickets.” A senior ASI official in the state told TOI, “We are following a general order by the state chief secretary on June 29, which did not allow such public spaces to open up. Hence, monuments in state will remain closed till further notice.” Another ASI official said ASI HQ orders state that ASI regional offices have to coordinate with the local government before reopening such public places. But the June 29 Maharashtra government order had already disallowed opening of such public places till further notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/asi-monuments-in-state-wont-open-till-july-end/articleshow/76822844.cms||Neha Madaan
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Peddler held in Rajasthan had policies worth Rs 30 lakh||KAPURTHALA: Police here on Monday seized 250 grams of gold worth Rs 12.4 lakh and two insurance policies worth Rs 30 lakh from the bank locker of a drug peddler, Sarbjit Singh Loga, who was arrested in Jaipur on July 3. Police have already recovered proceeds from the drugs — gold worth Rs 9.1 lakh and Rs 7.2 lakh in cash. They have also arrested a Kapurthala resident who had assured to help Loga using his contacts in the police and have recovered Rs 5 lakh from him which were given to him by the drug peddler. Loga and his associate Varun Kumar were absconding in a case registered under NDPS Act by Kapurthala police on May 16. After he was brought to Kapurthala, 1 kg heroin was seized from a car on the basis of information provided by him. Police had earlier also recovered gold worth Rs 9.1 lakh, bought from drug money, from one Sanjna Sharma. “During his questioning, Loga revealed that Kapurthala resident Bharat Bhushan Sonu had assured to help him as he had good contacts in police and had demanded Rs 20 lakh from him. He told us he had given Rs 5 lakh to Bhushan while the rest was to be given later. Our sleuths arrested Bhushan on Sunday and seized Rs 5 lakh from him,” said Kapurthala SSP Satinder Singh. He said after getting orders from a local court, a police team along with an executive magistrate opened the drug peddler’s bank locker and recovered 250 grams of gold worth Rs 12.4 lakh and two insurance policieswhich were in Loga and wife Nigha Marwaha’s names.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/peddler-held-in-raj-had-policies-worth-rs-30-lakh/articleshow/76822857.cms||IP Singh
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||Covid numbers stay high with 861 fresh cases, 22 deaths in a day||KOLKATA: The number of Covid-infected in the state reached 22,987 with 861 fresh cases — slightly less than 895 a day ago — reported on Monday. While 22 deaths were reported across Bengal, one more than Sunday, Kolkata recorded 10 deaths and 127 new cases, taking the total number of infected in the city to 7,389, including 2,415 active cases. Experts felt the dip in fresh cases was not an indication that transmission rate has decreased since the number has not been consistent. “We have seen occasional dips in new cases but it has picked up again to surpass previous records. So, till the number falls consistently over a period, we can’t assume that the situation has improved. The numbers suggest that transmission will spiral now,” said RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) consultant Arindam Biswas. Meanwhile, the state health department issued a fresh advisory for hospitals asking them to refrain from using antibiotics indiscriminately and recommending ‘prone awake’ ventilation (a position in which the patient is made to lie on the stomach) before doing it the conventional way. The eight-point advisory was prepared by the Protocol Management Team of the health department that noticed ‘certain deficiencies’ during its visits to some private Covid hospitals. The health department advisory has mentioned that use of antibiotic, particularly of higher generation, should be stopped. “Since this is a viral infection, justification for prescribing antibiotics must be documented if it is considered essential. We need to avoid indiscriminate and prolonged uses since experience shows that it may cause resistance and harm in many cases,” said the advisory. Experts, however, were divided on the recommendation on antibiotics. While they agreed that use should be restricted and documented to prevent antibiotic resistance, the recommendation should not deter medics from using them, they felt. “Co-morbid patients often report with an underlying bacterial infection that remains undetected due to the Covid treatment, which takes precedence. Now, that often proves fatal. So, a broad-spectrum antibiotic can be used immediately on admission since the blood culture report to detect bacteria takes time. It can be tapered off once the patient starts recovering,” said Biswas. An infectious diseases expert, however, felt that antibiotics should not be used if the symptoms don’t indicate a bacterial infection. “Role of antibiotics in Covid is being explored around the world. Indiscriminate use is likely to have an adverse effect rather than save lives,” he said. The advisory has also recommended superspeciality teams across Covid hospitals with experts from nephrology and pulmonology for appropriate advice. If in-house experts are not available, a panel may be prepared with the local CMOH/MSVP for such service on call, it has said. The advisory further says that triage should be done properly during admission at the emergency department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-numbers-stay-high-with-861-fresh-cases-22-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/76822082.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||New MSME classification expected to give big boost to credit takers||The existing criterion of classification of micro, small & medium enterprises (MSME) is based on MSMED Act 2006. Since then lot of changes have taken place and under Aatmanirbhar Bharat package, the Union government has notified revised definition and classification of MSME units, which have come into effect from July 1. The new definition of MSME is expected to give boost to production, employment and strengthen this vital sector. Banks in Punjab have further simplified its credit delivery mechanism. The MSME classification has three components of micro, small and medium and these have been retained in new classification also. In the revised definition, there are mainly two differences from earlier one, firstly, previously there was unified (single) criterion of investment in plant and machinery or equipments, now in new definition composite criterion of investment in plant and machinery or equipments and annual turnover of unit have been put in place. Secondly, keeping in view the urgent need of upscaling the production capacity of MSME enterprises the monetary limits on investment in plant and machinery has been substantially revised upward. When we talk of micro units, in earlier classification manufacturing units having investment in plant and machinery up to Rs 25 lakh was falling in this category, likewise a service enterprise having investment up to Rs 10 lakh in equipment, excluding land and building, fixtures and furniture were classified as micro enterprises. Now, in the new classification, an enterprise both under manufacturing and service sector having investment in plant and machinery/equipment not more than Rs 1 crore and annual turnover not more than Rs 5 crore would be classified as micro units/enterprises. In earlier classification, small unit/enterprise in manufacturing sector having investment in plant and machinery of Rs 5 crore and in service sector having investment up to Rs 2 crore in equipment, excluding land and building, fixtures and furniture were classified as small enterprises. In the new classification, units with investment in plant and machinery/equipment not more than Rs 10 crore and annual turnover not more than Rs 50 crore would fall under this category. The classification for medium units in earlier classification was investment not more than Rs 10 crore in plant and machinery in manufacturing sector and investment not more than Rs 5 crore in equipment, excluding land and building, fixtures and furniture in service sector. In new set of classification, now units with investment in plant and machinery/equipment not more than Rs 50 crore and annual turnover not more than Rs 250 crore would be treated as medium units/enterprises. The bank credit plays a pivotal role in smooth running of any economic activity, including MSMEs. According to figures available with the State Level Bankers’ Committee Punjab, in Punjab, as of March, 7,263 branches of banking system taken together have provided loans to the extent of Rs 54,453 crore to 8,27,469 MSME borrowers. Credit per MSME unit works out to Rs 6.58 lakh and per bank branch comes to Rs 7.50 crore. Out of this total credit to MSME sector, share of credit to micro enterprises is as high as 45% and in absolute terms it stood at Rs 24,571 crore to 7,17,766 units. Per unit credit under overall micro sector is Rs 3.42 lakh. The share of small units in total MSME credit in Punjab is 44% (Rs 22,888 crore) to 1,02,723 units. The unit wise credit under small category comes to Rs 22.28 lakh. Banks have also provided loans to 6,980 medium units amounting to Rs 5,993 crore, per unit credit comes to Rs 85.86 lakh. (Writer is a former banker)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/new-msme-classification-expected-to-give-big-boost-to-credit-takers/articleshow/76822055.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Amaravati||Farmers begin sowing as rains lash Andhra Pradesh||AMARAVATI: Almost all the districts have received widespread rainfall so far in the monsoon, bringing cheers to the farmers. In fact, 11 of the 13 districts have received excess rainfall, while the remaining two have received normal rainfall. This is the second consecutive year that the state has received good rainfall in the first two months of monsoon. Meanwhile the return of labourers to villages from cities and towns following the outbreak of Covid-19 is expected to help agriculture operations. And the release of water from Krishna delta through Pattiseema lift irrigation has prompted the farmers of the delta region to begin raising of nurseries. A majority of the farmers completed tilling their fields last month and have begun sowing operations. Farmers have been frequenting seed and fertilizers shops in nearby towns on autos and personal two-wheelers as APSRTC is yet to resume their services in many areas. Moreover, although, the state government launched Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) to provide seeds, fertilizer and other assistance, a large number of farmers are still dependent on shops. Sources said a few merchants are luring the farmers by offering them seed and fertilizer on credit, as the farmers have to pay and get the stocks from RBKs. “Farmers should stop depending on traders. They will offer the farmers inferior quality seeds and fertilizer. They should utilise the amount granted by the government under the YSR Rythu Bharosa scheme to purchase the inputs,” suggested joint director of agriculture, Habib Basha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/farmers-begin-sowing-as-rains-lash-state/articleshow/76820926.cms||Samdani MN
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Gadvasu facilitates innovative fish farmers’ meet online||Ludhiana: To study the impact of lockdowns on fish farming, College of Fisheries, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Gadvasu), Ludhiana, organised an online meeting of Innovative Fish Farmers Association (IFFA), Punjab. Strategic resilience action plan to mitigate the anticipated production losses during the current year was also discussed. Prabjeet Singh and Sachin O Khairnar, assistant professors, coordinated the meeting and delivered lectures on “judicious use of probiotics and its benefit in aquaculture” and “care of fish during monsoon”, respectively. Amit Mandal, assistant professor, aquaculture department, apprised the farmers to re-cycle farm waste into aquaculture through vermicomposting for added economic benefits. Queries of farmers were addressed through an interactive session between farmers and the faculty of the college. Meera D Ansal, head, aquaculture department, assured continued technical support to farmers via different electronic tools. She also said every sector has to change and adapt to post Covid-19 social setup, so as to sustain production targets through novel scientific interventions. Further, she added that patience and a positive attitude are also required to bounce back to normal in the future. Expressing sincere concerns for the farming community, Kulbir Singh Sandhu, dean, College of Fisheries, said the university has left no stone unturned in continuing its academic and extension activities during lockdown period and is still exploring every possible solution to serve the farmers of the state with the required technical assistance and guidance. Harish Kumar Verma, director, extension education, Gadvasu said university is providing consistent support to the farmers through online consultancy, webinars, trainings and timely publication of university monthly extension magazine “Vigyanik Pashu Palan”, that gives specific advisories for livestock, poultry and fish farmers of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gadvasu-facilitates-innovative-fish-farmers-meet-online/articleshow/76822062.cms||---
July 7, 2020||India||Pandemic raises use of salt by 40%||RAJKOT: When the first lockdown came into force in March, edible salt manufacturers in Kutch were staring at a massive pile up of stock. But the rapid spread of coronavirus and government aid to the poor during lockdown has resulted in salt consumption increasing by around 40% in May and June. While the governments have distributed crores of ration kits that included 1 kg salt, there has been a manifold increase in the number of households regularly using salt for gargling and sanitising vegetables as prescribed by experts and doctors. Kutch manufactures nearly 3 crore tonnes of salt annually, accounting for 80% of the country’s consumption. READ THE STORY ON TOI+ How Covid spiced up the salt business||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pandemic-raises-use-of-salt-by-40/articleshow/76824416.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||Vande flight brings 145 more students from Moscow||Nagpur: One more Vande Bharat flight landed at Nagpur bringing back 145 students from Moscow, the capital city of Russia. Among the 145 onboard, 129 were students from different parts of Maharashtra, 15 from Chhattisgarh, and one from Madhya Pradesh. The flight landed at 4:15am. Sources said this is the fifth flight under the Vande Bharat series that landed in Nagpur. So far, three flights carrying medical students from Moscow have landed in Nagpur. Parents of the students from Nagpur studying in Moscow had contacted Prakash Gajbhiye, member of legislative council (MLC) from Nationalist Congress Party, seeking help. Gajbhiye in turn took up the matter with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and finally the central government accommodated these students in the Vande Bharat flights. Apart from it, two flights from Bishkek in Kyrgyzstan also reached Nagpur with students from Chhattisgarh along with those from Maharashtra. Over 100 stranded Indians in Doha, the capital of Qatar, had chartered a private airlines’ flight and reached Nagpur last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vande-flight-brings-145-more-students-from-moscow/articleshow/76822887.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed collector exempts five teachers from curfew duty on health grounds||AURANGABAD: Beed district collector Rahul Rekhawar has exempted five teachers, who are disabled or have serious health conditions, from his list of 656 teachers assigned to deliver groceries to the residents during the 8-day curfew from July 2. Rekhawar had assigned 656 zilla parishad school teachers from across the district to deliver groceries till July 9. However, many of the teachers struggled to reach their place of posting and grocery stores. Some of them were suffering from health conditions. In a report carried by TOI, it was mentioned that the ailing teachers, including those who had undergone angioplasty and gall bladder surgeries, were asked to report to duty. On July 4, Rekhawar issued an order exempting five teachers. His order stated that some teachers requested to be replaced for the assignment as they have serious health conditions or are disabled. Accordingly, Rekhawar has released a list of five teachers who made the requests. Of the five teachers, two are diabetic and three are disabled. Rekhawar had issued a list of teachers from different talukas to deliver groceries between 9 am and 12 noon. The retailers have been permitted to operate between 8.30 am and 12.30 pm while the wholesalers would run their business between 9am and 4pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-collector-exempts-five-teachers-from-curfew-duty-on-health-grounds/articleshow/76820986.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Bhopal||My father & I never resorted to deceit: Scindia||Bhopal: Newly elected Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia on Monday responded to Congress attacks by saying that neither he, nor his father late Madhavrao Scindia, ever resorted to deception in politics. He said he is now fully committed to BJP. “Neither my revered father nor I ever resorted to deceit in politics. This is why people make absurd accusations at us. I have confidently submitted myself to the BJP. Now, this is my family,” Scindia told BJP workers of Mungaoli assembly seat during a virtual rally. Scindia’s remarks came in the wake of allegations by Congress that he had betrayed the party. “I always fight for the truth. I have never betrayed (anybody) in politics. We have to imbibe former Prime Minister Late Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji's resolve to get ready for the cross-fight. We all are members of a family. Nobody is a leader or a worker. We have to fight together and defeat Congress in the coming elections,” said Scindia. Taking a dig at Congress stalwarts, Scindia said: “I appeal to workers to ask people if they want the jodi of Scindia and Shivraj ji, or Digvijaya-Kamal Nath’s bantadhar pair? This election is a matter of public prestige, development and progress because Shivraj ji and I have always been devoted to the people of Mungaoli,” said the BJP leader. Scindia attacked the previous Congress government for “failing to keep its promises”. “Kamal Nath did not even give unemployment allowance to the youth. He only gave false assurances to the public. It was our responsibility to bring such a government down to the street. It is our responsibility to teach the ‘Kauravas’, who have looted the money of the people, a lesson in this election,” he said. He thanked former CM Uma Bharti for saying that Scindia has “fulfilled the desire of his grandmother (Vijayaraje Scindia) who wanted his father Madhavrao Scindia to remain in BJP”. “With your love, affection and blessings, I will work with full dedication to strengthen the organization,” he said. On Scindia's remarks, Congress sais, "How Scindia deceited the public and Congress party by changing loyalty is a well-known fact. His allegations on the failures of Congress government doesn't stand true because the government had not completed five years. There was financial crisis still Congress did its best," said Congress state spokesperson, JP Dhanopia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/my-father-i-never-resorted-to-deceit-scindia/articleshow/76822102.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man, 68, dies at Sassoon after kin fail to find ICU beds in private hospitals||PUNE: A 68-year-old diabetic, who had complained of symptoms like breathlessness and fever associated with Covid-19, failed to get admission to the isolated intensive care unit (ICU) of two private hospitals and died hours later at the Sassoon general hospital on July 5. The man’s death underscores the need for a dependable system to guide patients and their relatives about timely and hassle-free hospitalization when most designated hospital beds are full in the wake of a spike in Covid-19 cases, health experts said. They also expressed concern over the difficulties in tracking bed availability on a dashboard launched by the administration. After the two failed attempts to find a hospital bed, the man’s family members tried to locate an ICU facility for nearly two-and-a-half hours by making calls to three other private hospitals. But their efforts were unsuccessful. The man’s younger brother, Anant Dudhane, said the two hospitals cited lack of vacant ICU beds for not admitting him. However, the first private hospital did provide him with basic medical care. My brother complained of shortness of breath around 2.30am on July 5. We took him to the private hospital by 3am where he was examined in the emergency department and administered basic medical care. He was suspected to have Covid-19 symptoms, but was not tested for the infection. The hospital staffers did not admit him saying he needed an isolated ICU bed as he was a suspected Covid-19 patient requiring oxygen support,” said Dudhane, who works in a logistics firm. Dudhane then took his brother to the other private hospital in Koregaon Park, where the security guards told them that all the isolated ICU beds were full. The man was finally admitted to Sassoon hospital where he suffered a heart attack soon after being admitted at around 6am on July 5. “We are in the process of registering a formal complaint against the private hospitals,” Dudhane said. An official of the first hospital said, “As all the isolated ICU beds were occupied, we advised the patient’s relative to shift him to another hospital in an ambulance with oxygen support. They, however, took him in their private vehicle.” The official further said, “Nowadays, any person can check the availability of beds — both in the general and ICU wards — by visiting the divisional commissioner’s dashboard. It’s an online facility with a daily update of bed availability by all designated hospitals. We have over 130 Covid-19 positive patients in our hospital at any point in time. Hence, we could not grant an admission to the man.” The administration of the other private hospital cited the same reason. Civic health chief Ramchandra Hankare said, “Private hospitals cannot deny admission to ailing patients. Relatives can furnish a complaint if there is any violation of essential services.” Health activists, however, claimed that the online bed availability dashboard software was not being updated on a real-time basis. “The PMC should initiate action against hospitals for not updating their bed availability data,” activist Sanjay Dabhade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-68-dies-at-sassoon-after-kin-fail-to-find-icu-beds-in-pvt-hosps/articleshow/76822863.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi in ‘surplus-monsoon’ zone||NEW DELHI: After an early arrival, the monsoon activity in Delhi is slowly picking up pace. A spell of showers on Sunday morning pushed the overall rainfall so far to a “surplus”, IMD data stated. With the Met department forecasting rain to continue until the weekend, an official said, Delhi might continue to see a “surplus” this week. So far, Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, has received 116.5mm rainfall, a surplus of 29%, while the normal till July 6 was 90.4mm. Kuldeep Srivastava, IMD scientist and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said the intensity was set to increase from Tuesday night with moderate to heavy rainfall expected on Wednesday. Parts of the capital received a drizzle on Monday too. “A cyclonic circulation and a shift in the monsoon trough will bring moderate showers over Delhi from Tuesday night and continue on Wednesday. Parts of Delhi-NCR may also record heavy rain. From Thursday, the intensity will decrease, but light showers will continue this week,” said Srivastava. The normal date for onset of monsoon in Delhi is usually June 29, but this year it arrived on June 25. IMD had also revised the monsoon dates across the country, declaring June 27 as the new “normal” for onset of monsoon. Srivastava said, traditionally, the intensity of rainfall increases by the end of July. While the normal rainfall for July is 210.6mm, this month Delhi has seen a surplus, which is thrice more than what has been experienced in the past five years. Delhi’s maximum temperature on Monday was 36.2 degrees Celsius, while the minimum was 26.2 degrees — two notches below normal for this time of the season. The relative humidity oscillated between 69% and 89% in the past 24 hours. The Safdarjung station recorded 0.6mm rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm, while Lodhi Road recorded 1.5mm rainfall. The forecast for Tuesday shows light to moderate showers with gusty winds ranging from 30-40 kmph. The maximum temperature is expected to be 33 degrees Celsius. Watch Delhi in 'surplus-monsoon' zone, says IMD||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-in-surplus-monsoon-zone/articleshow/76822877.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Journos, lawyers getting pre-recorded calls from abroad pushing banned outfit’s secessionist agenda||New Delhi: Even as the government of India continues its sustained crackdown on US-based pro-Khalistan outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), the organisation continues to reach out to Indians -- particularly opinion-makers like journalists and lawyers -- with pre-recorded, international calls to push its secessionist agenda and propagate its notorious Sikh Referendum 2020 campaign. Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) has been bannied as an unlawful association under UAPA and its leader Gurpatwant Singh Pannun has been designated an "individual terrorist". 40 of SFJ’s websites have been blocked with the help of ministry of electronics and IT. Many journalists in Delhi have lately been receiving pesky calls originating mostly from numbers in the US, seeking their support for SFJ's Khalistan cause and Referendum 2020, under which popular vote is being solicited in support of Punjab’s secession from India. The messages that are played out everytime you accept the international call -- that may show Michigan or Georgia or any other location in the US as the point of origin of the call -- contain anti-India statements and invoke radical Sikh feelings to push their 'Khalistan' agenda. An intelligence source said the calls on behalf of SFJ were being made as part of global propaganda run by its leader Pannun. "The idea is to contact lawyers and journalists to ensure publicity for their agenda. It is possible that they have accessed their numbers from the public domain; such as PIB website or e-directory of lawyers. The numbers are mostly internet-generated and since the calls are made from different numbers, it becomes difficult to track or block them. If at all, the US authorities can be persuaded to help track down these numbers and take requisite action," an officer said but added that the recorded messages were not really seen as a grave security threat. "This entire campaign is being run by Pannun from the US. He is using internet-generated numbers to call journalists and ensure publicity for his separatist agenda," said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/journos-lawyers-getting-pre-recorded-calls-from-abroad-pushing-banned-outfits-secessionist-agenda/articleshow/76822868.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal’s first Covid hospital to churn out more ID experts||KOLKATA: The state is set to get better equipped when it comes to combating infectious diseases. CM Mamata Banerjee’s announcement for a centre of excellence for infectious diseases and to start post-doctoral courses in infectious diseases, health experts believe, will boost Bengal’s immunity in fighting contagious diseases. Beliaghata ID Hospital has been chosen as the site for the centre of excellence where School of Tropical Medicine (STM), Kolkata, will start training doctors in infectious diseases. “As a centre of excellence, we will need to conduct research on various infectious diseases, share information and coordinate with other healthcare institutes and hospitals. We are happy that we have been entrusted with this venture. We will be requiring additional manpower and resources for this,” said Anima Haldar, ID Hospital principal. The state’s only referral hospital for infectious diseases is the nodal facility for Covid as well, which has been treating corona patients right from the first day. In addition to collecting disease-related information, conducting research and coordinating with other hospitals, ID Hospital is also expected to provide experienced and valued inputs from its doctors to other hospitals as and when required. “We had applied to the government as well as to ICMR a few months back to start an infectious diseases department that will lead to starting of DM course in this speciality. We can now start it as soon as we are given the faculty for the department,” said Pratip Kundu, director of STM, Kolkata. The institute in Central Avenue will have six seats for DM in infectious diseases, a three-year post-doctoral course. Sources in the health department said the government had rejected STM’s proposal in January this year. But the current Covid-19 pandemic probably led to the government’s approval. “There is a scarcity of infectious diseases specialists across the country with only two institutes — AIIMS-New Delhi and CMC-Vellore — offering the courses. If we start the course in Bengal, it will enrich the pool of ID specialists,” said Yogiraj Ray, assistant professor in ID at STM. Bengal currently has only two specialists — Ray and Ayan Basu — both DM in ID from AIIMS and attached with STM. Another doctor from the state, Soumendranath Haldar, is undergoing the course at AIIMS. There are at least six more ID specialists from Bengal who are working in other states. Most are willing to come back to the state to be a part of the yet-to-be infectious diseases set-up as faculty members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/states-first-covid-hosp-to-churn-out-more-id-experts/articleshow/76822105.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 7, 2020||Meerut||Absconding for 2 months, Amorha school owner arrested for rape of student||BIJNOR: After keeping police on toes for two months, the owner of a private school, who is accused of raping a class XI student, was finally arrested and sent to jail in Amroha on Monday. According to police, the manager-cum-owner of the school, Durvesh Singh, had allegedly raped the 16-year-old girl on the pretext of completing formalities for a scholarship on May 6. After the girl narrated her ordeal to her parents, the family members approached the cops to take action against Singh. Subsequently, an FIR was filed against the accused under IPC sec 376 (rape) and the POCSO Act. But the police couldn’t arrest him then, as he had escaped. Amroha superintendent of police Vipin Tada said, “The accused was arrested on Sunday night. He was at large for the last two months.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/absconding-for-2-months-amorha-school-owner-arrested-for-rape-of-student/articleshow/76820982.cms||Harveer Dabas
July 7, 2020||Meerut||Week after wedding, woman’s body with slit throat found in Muzaffarnagar||Muzaffarnagar: Just a week after her wedding, a woman's body with a slit throat was found from a forest area of a Muzaffarnagar village where she had gone to relieve herself. The incident occurred in Khedi village of Muzaffarnagar's Khatauli block. According to police sources, the woman, in her early 20s, had been married only a week ago to a man in Meerut's Mawana area and had come to her maternal home just two days ago. She went to relieve herself on Sunday night, but did not return. Later, her family also tried to locate her whereabouts, but failed. On Monday morning the woman was found murdered. A family member of the deceased said, "She left home late in the evening but did not return. We launched a search but to no avail. Her blood-soaked body was found in a farming field early in the morning." After receiving information, a police team from Khatauli area and the DSP rushed to the spot and launched an investigation after sending the body for post-mortem. Khatauli DSP Ashish Partap Singh said, "We have formed a police team to crack the case. Her phone details are also being checked." A case under section 302 (murder) of IPC has been registered at Khatauli police station after a family member of the deceased filed a complaint, according to a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/week-after-wedding-womans-body-with-slit-throat-found-in-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/76820967.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||New self-scan app: West Bengal ans to China||KOLKATA: The state now has an answer to at least one of the 59 Chinese apps now banned in India. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced that the state IT department has devised an indigenous self-scan app that can match the services provided by CamScanner, a Chinese app. “One can now take a photo of a document and use the app to scan it. It serves two purposes. The document remains in the phone and its confidentiality is maintained. There is no scope of confidential data being passed on to any other server. It is completely protected, personal and free of cost. It is consumer-savvy. It stands for swadeshiana,” the CM said. Even as the CM didn’t name the app earlier in use, Banerjee said the government had found its own way towards self-reliance without talking much about Atmanirbhar Abhiyan. The announcement came hours after BJP president JP Nadda harped on the PM’s Atmanirbhar Abhiyan in his virtual rally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-ans-to-china-new-self-scan-app/articleshow/76822117.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Delhi||More Delhi-run hospitals to offer plasma therapy||NEW DELHI: With plasma therapy helping Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms recover faster, Delhi government has decided to extend the facility at more hospitals over the next few days. Sources said the state-run GTB Hospital in east Delhi and Janakpuri Super Specialty Hospital in west Delhi would also start offering plasma therapy soon. Currently, Lok Nayak in central Delhi and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty in east Delhi have been permitted by the Centre to run plasma therapy trials. While Lok Nayak was the first healthcare facility to start the therapy on 29 patients in April, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital has been doing it for a month now. “Plasma therapy is proving a success in stabilising the condition of moderate patients and helping them recover faster. While two Delhi government hospitals are already providing this facility, we are soon going to extend it to more healthcare facilities,” said a senior Delhi government official. A few private hospitals have also got permission from the Centre to infuse convalescent plasma of recovered patients into those infected with the novel coronavirus. Doctors say the therapy brings respiratory rate in control and increases oxygen saturation rate. It also stabilises various other factors, thus, reducing the stay in the ICU. Officials, however, said that the availability of plasma was still a huge challenge. Though the number of donations had increased in the past few days with the opening of a plasma bank at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), there was a big difference in demand and supply. While ILBS gets 25-30 requests from various hospitals daily, the number of people coming forward to donate plasma is less than half. On Monday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had urged recovered patients to donate plasma if they fulfilled the age and medical criteria. He also asked the hospitals treating them to counsel the patients before they were discharged to donate blood later. Rajendra Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha, who was given the responsibility by the government to make plasma donation at ILBS successful, said a team of 150 doctors and medical students had been making calls to all recovered patients and requesting them to donate the blood component. “The recovered patients have a lot of concerns. They do not want to go to a hospital again, think that blood donation may make them weak and that they might catch an infection if they visit the plasma bank. Our team of experts has been mitigating their concerns,” said Chadha, adding that the plasma bank was right at the entrance of ILBS, which is a non-Covid health facility, so donors won’t have to go inside. Delhi’s health and family welfare department on Tuesday asked all hospitals to install huge flex boards at their entrance informing people about the plasma bank and the benefits of donation. The hospitals have also been asked to get the feedback of patients and their willingness to donate plasma at the time of discharge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/more-state-run-hosps-to-offer-plasma-therapy/articleshow/76843328.cms||Atul Mathur
July 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Provide all amenities at Covid Care Centres: Andhra Pradesh CM||VISAKHAPATNAM: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy asked officials to provide all amenities at the Covid Care Centres, which are treating mild and asymptomatic Covid-19 cases. The chief minister held a review meeting with the officials on the Covid-19 situation in Andhra Pradesh on Monday. The officials explained the containment and management measures being undertaken. Every district has a Covid Care Centres, with three to four thousand-bed capacity, to treat the mild cases, they told the chief minister. Jaganmohan Reddy asked them to maintain hygiene and all amenities at the CCCs. “Apart from providing nutritious and quality food, the patients at CCCs should be offered the best medical services and medications as per the World Health Organisation guidelines,” he said. He asked them to take advantage of the volunteer system and other field-level staff to conduct door-to-door survey in the areas from where Covid cases are reported. “The volunteers and ANMs should regularly monitor the health status of the patients, who have availed the home isolation facility. Measures should also be taken to remove stigma among the public over Covid-19 and create awareness on social distancing, mask wearing and other Covid precautions,” said the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/provide-all-amenities-at-cccs-jagan/articleshow/76820977.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Aurangabad||HC hints at surprise visits to hotspots in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court (HC) has expressed that surprise visits would be paid to hospitals, quarantine institutions, isolation wards and even containment zones to see that there is discipline among the staff and that they are discharging their duties without any lapses. While hearing a criminal suo-motu PIL aimed at effective management of Covid-19 on July 3, Justices T V Nalawade and Shrikant Kulkarni said that the people who were expected to discharge their duties were remaning absent and that was leading to the spread of the virus. The possibility of surprise visits of the judiciary has forced competent officials to issue directions to the employees in the lower ranks to report to their respective duties without failure. A senior division-level official from the revenue department said, “The official guardians of containment zones and nodal officers appointed at private hospitals have been asked to follow the rules and protocols in letter and spirit. Any lapse could cause inconvenience to public and invite the judiciary’s wrath.” Recently, an incident was brought to the fore of the judiciary where in a data operator, reporting to the block development officer (BDO) in Beed, did not report to work. The BDO kept stones at the workplace of the data operator. Taking note of the incident, the court said, “Such persons need to be suspended immediately and if they are appointed on a contract basis, (their) contract need to be terminated and criminal action needs to be taken against them... things can be corrected only by taking such action.” The court said that it “will not spare anyone” even if such lapses are found to have been committed even by persons of high rank. While the next hearing of the suo motu PIL has been scheduled for Tuesday , the court has issued notices to different respondents, including the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation and the Aurangabad district administration, seeking their reply on the steps taken for effective management of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-hints-at-surprise-visits-to-hotspots-in-aurangabad/articleshow/76815096.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Sukhdev Sindh Dhindsa to announce outfit on Tuesday; Balwant Singh Ramoowalia, Manjit Singh GK likely to join him||CHANDIGARH: Former SAD leader and Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Sindh Dhindsa is going to announce his political outfit on Tuesday. Former Union minister Balwant Singh Ramoowalia and former president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Committee (DSGMC) Manjit Singh GK are also likely to join the party. Dhindsa will make the announcement during the meeting of party leaders and workers scheduled on Tuesday at 11am in Ludhiana. “Though almost everything has been finalised by the party workers, the final announcement about the party’s name and strategy will be made in Tuesday’s meeting,” Dhinda told TOI. He added that apart from Ramoowalia and GK, some like-minded leaders from Haryana are also expected to join his party. The MP said that though they had not given formal written invitation to anyone due to the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions, many other leaders are expected to attend the first party workers’ meeting. Asked whether he had also talked to other leaders like the former AAP MLA H S Phoolka, Dhindsa said this would be done once the party is formally announced. SAD 1920 headed by Ravi Inder Singh and Dhindsa’s party have already decided to contest the next Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) elections together. Dhindsa said that his party was already in talks with various people and parties like the SAD (Taksali) headed by former SAD leader and MP Ranjit Singh Brahmpura. SAD had expelled Dhindsa and his MLA son Parminder Singh from party’s membership in February this year after they had raised questions on the “undemocratic system”. They announced that they aimrf to revive the Akali Dal back on the same platform with the basic panthic ideology for which it was constituted. Ramoowalia had left the SAD in October 2015 to take oath as cabinet minister in the Samajwadi Party government in Uttar Pradesh. He was later nominated to the Uttar Pradesh legislative council in April 2016 on the recommendations of then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav. Ramoowalia’s six-year term comes to an end in April 2022. He had earlier floated his own political party named the Lok Bhalai Party in 1997 but had later merged it with the SAD in November 2011. Whereas, GK was expelled by the SAD in May last year after he had raised questions on the party’s poor show in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Punjab. He had said that the SAD was facing crises of credibility. SAD had said that it had expelled the GK after a Delhi court had ordered to probe corruption charges against him. GK had in September 2019 announced his new political outfit – Jag Asra Guru Oat (Jago). Jago party had extended its support to BJP in the Delhi assembly elections in February this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dhindsa-to-announce-outfit-today-ramoowalia-gk-likely-to-join-him/articleshow/76822880.cms||Sanjeev Verma
July 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Railway Board nod for Joka depot work||KOLKATA: Decks have finally been cleared to build the Metro depot at Joka that holds the key to running Joka-BBD Bag line’s truncated services to Taratala by the end of 2021. The Railway Board has given the go-ahead for the Rs 373-crore project though the entire 24.5 hectares of land for the depot is yet to be acquired. RVNL, executing agency of the Metro corridor, which has got possession of over 85% of the land, has been preparing the site for the depot construction by developing the ground and building walls. Work on acquiring the rest of the depot land will run parallel to the constructions, including multiple sheds and structures, such as lifting bays, workshops and coach washing plants, setting up of electrical connections, installation of tracks and commissioning of machinery and plant for the Metro car depot. Once the depot’s infrastructure is ready, the machinery for the maintenance of the rolling stock or rakes can be installed. Rolling stock could not be brought in till the facility was ready, said a RVNL official, adding it took nearly three years to build a depot and a yard. Earlier, the Joka-BBD Bag Metro was supposed to run services from Joka to Majerhat in the first phase. But with the construction of the Majerhat station being pushed back following the Majerhat bridge collapose, Metro Railway decided to run the first phase from Joka to Taratala by end of 2021 and to extend services, depending on the work. The Railway Board recently gave the nod to build a viaduct till Mominpore, from where the tracks will go underground. In this context, RVNL on Monday clarified Rs 450.2 crore had been budgeted for in the pink book of 2020-21. It clarified the ministry of railways never said anything about scrapping the project for the delay. The ministry last year sanctioned the proposal for material modification for taking the Metro underground. RVNL clarified Metro projects in Kolkata was funded by the Centre, unlike that in other cities, where the cost was shared by the state and Centre. “We are looking forward to fast track the completion of the projects...” said the RVNL statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rly-board-nod-for-joka-depot-work/articleshow/76822893.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Contactless ticketing worries bus conductors||Visakhapatnam: The recent movement towards contactless and cashless ticketing in buses run by the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has the nearly 20,000 bus conductors in the state worried. In January, the APSRTC came up with proposals to introduce cashless and contactless ticketing system in a phased manner. While the Covid-19 outbreak and the ensuing lockdown halted the corporation’s efforts for a while, the RTC has resumed some of its services from March 21 and those services have a 100% contactless ticketing system. “In the near future, may be even from the second week of this month, we will mostly go for a contactless and cashless ticketing system,” said a senior RTC official based in Visakhapatnam. Bus conductors are worried that this move towards a ticketless and cashless ticketing system may render their jobs redundant. Conductors say that the government has not taken any decision with regard to their services yet, which has them worrying. “Right now, we are being paid salaries without any work. But we can’t sit idle. We are ready to go for any assigned duty during the pandemic,” a conductor said. Y Srinivasa Rao, general secretary of National Mazdoor Union however sought to allay fears. He said that the APSRTC has stated that conductors need not worry about their future. “Recently, the RTC issued a circular suggesting that staff aged above 55 years and those suffering from medical conditions can apply for work in other government departments. This is also one of the alternative options for conductors,” Srinivasa Rao told TOI. Sources said that some conductors with the RTC have already been engaged in Covid-19 duties with the police and health departments. They will continue serving in those departments if necessary. Meanwhile, speaking to TOI, a senior RTC official said, “We want to use conductors for logistics such as parcel services. The higher authorities are working on various models to work out alternative jobs for conductors in different state departments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/contactless-ticketing-worries-bus-conductors/articleshow/76820998.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 7, 2020||Madurai||Southern districts report 885 Covid-19 +ve cases, 10 deaths||Madurai, Trichy: As many as 885 Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths were reported in the southern districts of the state on Monday, taking the overall regional tally to 12,675 cases and 138 deaths. Out of the 10 deaths recorded on Monday, seven were from Madurai district. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded 121 new cases and three casualties including a siddha practitioner in Perambalur and a gynaecologist in Kumbakonam on Monday. The number of positive cases in the eight districts has climbed to 3,556 on Monday. The most number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the southern region were once again reported in Madurai -- 245 cases and seven deaths. The district now has a total of 4,338 Covid-19 cases, including 3,199 active cases and 69 deaths. The seven deaths on Monday included two patients with co-morbidities who died on July 6 and a 58-year-old man, also with co-morbid conditions who died on July 5 at various private hospitals in the district. At Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), a 14-year-old girl with anaemia and Plummer-Vinson Syndrome died of Covid-19 on July 4. Plummer–Vinson syndrome is a rare disease characterized by difficulty in swallowing due to inflammation of mouth, tongue and growth of thin membranes in oesophagus. A 37-year-old man with alcoholic liver disease and a 72-year-old man with diabetes also died of Covid-19 on July 3 at GRH. The 245 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Monday included 116 influenza-like illness (ILI) cases, 66 contacts of Covid-19 patients, 36 frontline workers, eight pregnant women, eight others set to undergo surgeries or self-testing and two with travel history to other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-districts-report-885-covid-19-ve-cases-10-deaths/articleshow/76822883.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Meerut||7 held for double murder over property dispute||Meerut: Police have arrested seven persons on Monday for allegedly murdering two businessmen over a property dispute in Shantinagar area of Muzaffarnagar. As only one body was recovered initially, police had suspected that the victim’s business partner was behind the crime. However, they discovered the other body too on Monday which finally gave a breakthrough about the killers. According to police sources, the victims Amit Kumar and Anuj Chaudhary were both friends and business partners. On June 29, both of them went missing and their phones were found switched off. However, Amit’s body was recovered from Anuj’s house the next day after which the former’s father filed a police complaint against the latter. After a week of investigation, police on Monday exhumed the body of Anuj from a farm in nearby Badedhi village. Muzaffarnagar SSP Abhishek Yadav said, “Inquiry revealed that personal enmity and money dispute were behind the double murder. Anuj was adopted by the family of one Narender Chaudhary when he was a child. Over the years, Narender started disliking Anuj’s growing influence in the family. A property dispute eventually became the trigger for the crime. On June 29, Narender and his friends reached Anuj Chaudhary’s house where Amit was also present. They then killed both the business partners the same day. While Amit’s body was left behind in the house, Anuj's body was taken away in a car and buried in the farm of Narender’s friend Sagar in nearby Badedhi village. On Monday, we exhumed the second body too and arrested all the seven accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/7-held-for-double-murder-over-property-dispute/articleshow/76820990.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 7, 2020||India||Book plane seat for distancing, get a discount||NEW DELHI: Vistara will soon offer a discount on the price of the adjacent seat a passenger wants to keep empty while flying in these pandemic times. “As of now it is being charged like another seat. But we are going to incentivise it by offering a discount for the second seat someone is buying to keep it vacant. That is in the works,” said Vistara chief commercial officer Vinod Kannan. The airline, as of now, allows a passenger to book two adjacent seats — one for being kept vacant — through travel agents only, but at the normal price for two each. Vistara used to operate 200 flights daily before lockdown.and is now operating 30 to 50 flights daily on an average. “We are utilising one-third of our fleet. The aircraft are 50-60% full with about 90 passengers per flight on an average. Almost 60-70% passengers now book five to seven days before date of travel (due to the uncertainty around travel with different states coming up with new norms),” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/book-plane-seat-for-distancing-get-a-discount/articleshow/76824418.cms||Rohan Dua
July 7, 2020||Nagpur||CRly sets up panels to boost freight revenue||Nagpur: Reduced passenger traffic and revenue during Covid-19 times have led Nagpur division of Central Railway to try and boost freight by reaching out to customers. “Though Nagpur Central Railway has been going out of the way to increase revenue over the last four months, its loading during April to June 2020-21 has slid to 6.46mt from 8.96mt in 2019 during the same period. Similarly, its revenue has also gone down by 47%,” said senior officials. Hence, for the first time, a tripartite committee has been set up on the directions of the Railway Board to boost business. One committee will be led by branch heads, including senior divisional operating manager (SrDOM) Ashutosh Shrivastava, senior divisional commercial manager (SrDCM) Krishnath Patil, senior divisional mechanical engineer Akhilesh Choube and senior divisional finance manager (SrDFM) Vijay Kadam. Another committee will be led by divisional officers. Patil said, “We plan to target automobile sector first. We will interact with companies like Mahindra, which manufactures tractors. One rake can transport 150 tractors at one time. Such transport is not only cheaper than road but environment-friendly as it reduces carbon footprint.” “We will also talk to raw material and spare parts manufacturers, who are currently transporting material by road. Our tie up with Indian Post to deliver parcels is working well. We will also talk to chambers of commerce to divert business to railways,” said Patil. SrDOM Shrivastava said, “We will talk to various parties related to all essential and non-essential goods, agriculture and steel sector, and will seek their views and opinions and accordingly make recommendations to the Railway Board. A social media group of railway officials has also been formed to report and work out all modalities related to increasing business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crly-sets-up-panels-to-boost-freight-revenue/articleshow/76822898.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Bhopal||56.81 lakh houses surveyed under ‘Kill Corona’ Campaign||Bhopal: A total of 56.81 lakh houses have already been surveyed under the campaign ‘Kill Corona’ launched in the state from July 1. According to an official statement a population of 2.90 crore have been covered under the survey. During the survey, 31,584 suspected patients of corona infection were found. Apart from this, 12,063 people suffering from other diseases were also found while 983 suspected patients of malaria and 16 patients of dengue were also found in the survey. Proper treatment is being given to all these patients.Suspected patients are being identified in the door to door survey under the campaign, so that treatment could be given to them. State has a positivity rate of 3.66% and recovery rate of 75.5 percent.In view of increasing corona cases in Morena and Shivpuri district, special monitoring of these districts is being done at government level. The positivity rate of Morena is 9.59% and the mortality rate is 0.73%. Under the Kill Corona campaign, 73,739 houses, covering 5.61 lakh have been surveyed in Morena.In adjoining Shivpuri district, the positivity rate is 2.05% and no death has been recorded in the district. The recovery rate of Shivpuri is 45.2%, which is less than the state average. All possible efforts are being made to increase the recovery rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/56-81-lakh-houses-surveyed-under-kill-corona-campaign/articleshow/76822118.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Amritsar||Taksalis offer their party to him as internal differences deepen||AMRITSAR: Not only the prospects of the 1.5-year-old political outfit SAD (Taksali) launched with much enthusiasm by former SAD veterans appear to be dwindling but the party is also on the brink of breaking much ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. The chasm between the top Taksali leaders continues to deepen. “Political parties survives with the leaders unity and the support base but when the very founders of any political outfit starts deserting or talking about dissolving the party then it becomes difficult and embarrassing,” said senior vice-president of SAD (Taksali) Rattan Singh Ajnala, while talking to TOI on Monday. Ajnala’s son Amarpal Singh Bony has already joined back Sukhbir Badal-led SAD. Former senior SAD leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s decision to launch a new political party has further brought the future of SAD (Taksali), which was launched on December 16, 2018, at Akal Takht by Ranjit Singh Brahapura, Ajnala and Sewa Singh Sekhwan, under question. Ajnala said he wasn’t in touch with Dhindsa for a long time and was leading a retired life, yet he opined that only rivals benefit with the launching of more political parties with similar ideologies. While declining to divulge any differences within veterans, he said party president Ranjit Singh Brahampura had even offered to step down from his position and offer the same to Dhindsa. “He (Dhindsa) should have accepted the offer,” he added. When asked about the reports of some of the Taksali workers deserting the outfit, Brahampura’s son ex-MLA Ravinder Singh said, “Neither anyone has deserted the party nor its name is going to be changed. We have told Dhindsa that for the prosperity of Punjab, people want a united opposition to take on Badals and the Congress. We but first we should ourselves set an example of unity before people.” About new political party by Dhindsa, he said “He should take the reins of SAD (Taksali) in his hands instead of launching a new party. Present party president has even offered him the same.” He added that they were yet to hear from Dhindsa. While expressing hope that everything would be fine after differences were resolved, he said all they wanted was that the party name SAD (T) to remain the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/taksalis-offer-their-party-to-him-as-internal-differences-deepen/articleshow/76822891.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 7, 2020||Amritsar||2 state-run thermal plants to challenge fine imposed by CPCB||Bathinda: The two public sector thermal power plants of Punjab have not deposited the penalty (known as environmental compensation) imposed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on them for failing to take timely steps to reduce air pollution. Having eight units in total, the Guru Hargobind Thermal Power Plant at Lehra in Bathinda and Guru Gobind Singh Super Thermal Plant in Ropar have not paid the compensation for the last six months and have now decided to challenge the CPCB order in the Punjab and Haryana high court. On the other hand, the two private sector thermal plants in the state, Talwandi Sabo Power Limited and Nabha Power Limited, having five units, have deposited the fine for five months till May end, but under protest. These plants also have to deposit the fine for June, which was to be deposited by July 5, according to the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB). Not satisfied with the replies filed by the four thermal power plants in Punjab pertaining to timely compliance about putting in place the measures to reduce air pollutants, the CPCB had imposed penalty of Rs 18 lakh per month per unit. The four plants, having 13 units in total, were informed of the CPCB decision by its chairman Ravi S Prasad on May 8. The compensation from January 1 to May 30, accumulated to Rs 11.7 crore. Now compensation of Rs 2.34 crore has accumulated for the month of June. The compliance status will be reviewed periodically and further directions shall be issued, which may include directions for closure of the plant, reads the letter. On December 11, 2017, the power plants were were directed to install electrostatic precipitators (ESP) to control particulate matter (PM) emission, flue gas sesulphurization (FGD) to comply with sulphur dioxide (SO2) emission limit and low NOx burners. Most of these measures were to be complied with by December 2019. The CPCB on December 30, 2019, found insufficient headway and show cause notices were issued in January-February 2020. Punjab discom PSPCL’s chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad confirmed, “We are going to challenge the slapping of fine in the high court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/2-state-run-thermal-plants-to-challenge-fine-imposed-by-cpcb/articleshow/76822905.cms||Neel Kamal
July 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Eateries remain empty as people say prevention better than cure||Ludhiana: The unlock stage has already begun, but restaurants, cafes and dhabas of Ludhiana are still receiving a lukewarm response from the locals, who continue to remain cautious as the number of Covid-19 positive cases surge. The restaurant and cafe owners in the city, however, claim that the prime reason for a cold response is the restrictions in the timings, which does not suit customers. Sanchit Bhasin, owner of Dessert Cafe, Model Town, said, “We sell sweet items that are consumed after dinner and I don't think majority of the people would like to have their dinner by 8pm. But by the time prospective customers finish their dinner, there is no time for them to have desserts. He claims his business has dropped to one fourth in the recent times. Several other eatery joint owners claimed that since customer safety was their priority, they have still not taken the decision to open their outlet. "We are not even doing home delivery as we still don’t feel safe about it. We are facing losses but unfortunately, we have to bear it as it’s for the safety of everyone. From paying the salaries to the workers and chefs to paying electricity bills, we are doing everything. Let’s hope everything gets fine soon,” said Vaibhav Malhotra, a restaurant owner, Dugri Phase II. Mandeep, owner of Parantha Joint, Model Town, said, “I and my mother make paranthas at home only and we only do delivery. But even in home delivery, the earning is not that high. Now, the customers are not ordering in that much quantity and most of the them are making everything now on their own as the lockdown has made everyone a chef. To attract customers we are providing discounts too on food apps, hoping it will help adding our customers for future. Hope everything gets fine quickly.” Local residents though agreed that they have been missing the fun of eating out, but it was for the safety of everyone. They also suggest that the restaurants and eating joints should open with safety and social distancing being their top priority. Photo Quotes “There are some ways by which restaurants and other food places can be safe as home. There should be the minimum prescribed distance between tables, which can be further separated by having a plastic cover between tables. Besides, food should be served hot” Deepak Jain, student, Noorwala road “This is the time when reality is hitting hard. Restaurants have been hit hard but these should reopen with proper safety and with proper sanitisation of everyone. This will help so many people in getting their jobs back” Nalini Nayyar, student, Dugri “Safety is important, even if people are unable to live without eating at their favourite joints. More attention should be paid to the safety of customers to win their trust. Only the sale of restaurants has come down, but the process of home delivery is going on” Himanshu Khurana, businessman, Kidwai Nagar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/eateries-remain-empty-as-people-say-prevention-better-than-cure/articleshow/76822143.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19: Aurangabad city accounts for bulk of districts’s rising tally||AURANGABAD: The number of Covid-19 cases and related fatalities in the Aurangabad district continued to rise with the overall tally reaching 6,880 and death toll touching 310 so far. A majority of the cases are from the city areas. However, with 3,374 discharged patients, the number of recoveries too is considerable. There are currently 3196 active patients across the district. Out of the 934 throat swab sample reports received on Monday morning, 150 were positive, an official said. As many as 101 of the cases were from city areas while the remaining 49 cases were reported rural Aurangabad. The GMCH-Aurangabad also recorded six deaths — three of them women. The deceased patients include a 37-year-old man from Mahada Colony in Jalna and a 70-year-old woman from Ajanta in Sillod taluka. Others deceased from the city include a 55-year-old man from Padegaon, a 53-year-old man from N-11 Hudco, a 71-year-old woman from S T Colony and a 53-year-old woman from Jadhavwadi. In a communication, the GMCH stated that currently, its dedicated Covid treatment centre was treating 226 active patients. Of them, 111 are in serious condition while the condition of 115 was stated to be “general”. The district administration is keeping an eye on the growing number of cases and the newer areas that are declared containment zones. Latur sees highest single-day rise in cases Latur, on Monday, reported 19 Covid-19 cases, the highest in a single day since the outbreak began in the district, an official said. The number of cases in the district now stands at 471, including 24 deaths, he added. A 75-year-old man also succumbed to the infection on Monday in Udgir, the official added. (Inputs from PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-city-accounts-for-bulk-of-dists-rising-tally/articleshow/76821020.cms||---
July 7, 2020||Mumbai||J&J reduces price of ‘life-saving’ TB drug||MUMBAI: The US-based company, Johnson & Johnson (J&J), has reduced the price of its life-saving oral drug, Bedaquiline, used to treat drug-resistant tuberculosis (DR-TB), to $340 for a six-month regimen for 135 eligible countries, including India, to make it more accessible. Till now, the drug available was available at a ‘discounted’ price of $400 in several high-burden countries, even as India had procured over 20,000 doses through a global four-year donation program by J&J, and US Agency for International Development (USAID) till 2019. Patients suffering from TB are among the most vulnerable to Covid-19 mitigation measures, and lockdowns have resulted in disruption of their treatment. In light of this, World Health Organisation recently advised countries to treat people with DR-TB by using all-oral regimens including bedaquiline, instead of injections that require people to go to clinics. The initiative of J&J, Stop TB Partnership and Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria, is to help low- and middle-income countries to rapidly scale-up use of bedaquiline in support of the new WHO treatment guidelines. Bedaquiline, considered a wonder drug for DR-TB patients, is the first new TB medicine to be introduced in India in nearly 50 years, and was supplied free to patients under the government-run TB control programme. India has the highest burden of TB in the world, accounting for more than a quarter of all cases worldwide, with nearly 1.5 lakh new cases of DR-TB a year. Earlier, WHO had recommended bedaquiline as the backbone of DR-TB treatment, to replace older, more toxic drugs that have to be injected daily, and can cause intolerable side effects. Commenting on the price, international humanitarian agency Médecins Sans Frontières said it should come down further, and be extended to more countries. The price has remained a critical barrier to countries scaling up this lifesaving treatment, especially considering it is just one of multiple drugs required in a DR-TB treatment regimen. Dr Madhukar Pai director, McGill International TB Centre who follows public health in India, told TOI: “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, many patients with DR-TB are struggling to get treatment, especially treatments that require injectable drugs. So, WHO is now strongly promoting the use of all-oral drug combinations that are much easier to administer and to remotely monitor. Bedaquiline is a critical drug in all oral regimens, and I am happy to see the price reduction that has been announced. It is still higher than what advocates have been asking for ($1 per day), but a step in the right direction. I hope J&J will work harder to make this important drug more accessible, and make sure production of this drug does not get interrupted because of lockdowns in India (where the drug is made). We simply cannot afford a bedaquiline stockout in the coming months.” Further, to accelerate scale-up of all-oral treatment regimens, J&J will also provide an escalating percentage of free goods when certain volume thresholds are reached on an annual basis—10% above 55,000, 20% above 125,000 and 30% above 200,000 treatment courses. Dr Lucica Ditiu, executive director of Stop TB Partnership said: “Even though these days we fight against the new Covid-19 pandemic, we cannot let this new virus stop our progress against TB, and it’s critical that diagnosis and treatment for all forms of TB continue to be prioritized.” A recent study by Stop TB Partnership in collaboration with Imperial College, Avenir Health and Johns Hopkins University shows a range of adverse impacts on TB diagnosis, treatment and mortality rates due to national lockdowns and gradual restoration measures required to contain the pandemic. The study reported the potential for an additional 6.3 million TB cases between 2020 and 2025, and an additional 1.4 million TB deaths in this same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jj-reduces-price-of-life-saving-tb-drug/articleshow/76822919.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
July 7, 2020||Rajkot||Covid spices up salt business in Gujarat; consumption up 40% in 2 months||RAJKOT: When the first lockdown came into force in March, edible salt manufacturers in Kutch were staring at a massive pile up of stock. But the rapid spread of coronavirus and government aid to the poor during lockdown has resulted in salt consumption increasing by around 40% in May and June. While the governments have distributed crores of ration kits that included one kg salt, there has been a manifold increase in the number of households regularly using salt for gargling and sanitizing vegetables as prescribed by experts and doctors. Kutch manufactures nearly three crore tonnes of salt annually, accounting for 80% of the country’s consumption. According to rough estimates, Kutch was transporting six lakh tonnes of edible salt every month before lockdown, which increased to 10 lakh ton per month during May and June. Shamji Kangad, vice-president, Indian Salt Manufacturers Association (ISMA), said, “Covid is one of the major reasons for increased uptake of salt. Patients who test positive and healthy people too suffering from sore throat and cough are now diligently following Ayurveda to gargle. Entire families are following this practice now.” “In big cities, people have been advised to soak vegetables in salt water for a few hours as a precautionary measure before using them,” Kangad added. There are nearly 15 refineries in Gandhidham which refine, package and transport salt and almost all the big brands have a presence here. Bacchu Aahir, president of Gujarat Salt Refineries Welfare Association added, “Governments, NGOs and corporates distributed crores of ration kits to the migrants and poor during the lockdown. These kits included a packet of one kg salt.” Refiners say they also witnessed panic buying during the lockdown with people stocking up on unusually high quantities of salt. Salt manufacturers said there was no shortage and enough stock is available to meet the demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-spices-up-salt-biz-in-gujarat-consumption-up-40-in-2-months/articleshow/76821039.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Proving ministers wrong, returnees made up only 4% of cases in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Contrary to the general perception that the surge in cases in Bengaluru was triggered by travellers who returned from elsewhere to the city, data from Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP)-Bengaluru Covid-19 War Room suggests otherwise. Data shows transmission from these travellers accounted for just 4% of cases reported between June 1 and 30 – the period when travel restrictions were lifted and a majority of Bengaluru-based people stranded in other states and abroad are said to have returned to the tech capital. Of the 4,904 positive cases reported in the city in June, 7% were primary and secondary contacts, 15% had history of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). As for the remaining 74% of cases, the Palike has no clue on the source of infection. “The data, which appears to be jumbled, suggests only one of two things,” said a senior IAS officer. “One, there local transmission is well and truly on and authorities have not only turned a blind eye to it, but have also tried to divert public attention by solely pinning the blame on returnees. Two, BMMP may have made errors while compiling and tabulating the data.” The data shows there were only 176 positive patients in June with international and domestic travel history. As on May 31, when the city had recorded 386 positive cases, the number of patients with travel history was 101. Although the numbers attributed to patients with travel history are low, senior ministers in the government and a section of bureaucrats had been blaming returnees for the rise in cases. One minister had even stated returnees from Maharashtra were responsible for Bengaluru’s surge, when in reality the government did not ramp up testing or identify segments vulnerable to contracting the virus. “In fact, the number of cases with history of ILI and SARI are far higher in June,” BBMP sources said, while indicating that the civic agency had wasted the lockdown when it should have used the two-month period to ramp up testing and facilities and, generally, prepare to contain the spread of the virus. Over the weekend, Bengaluru has reported more than a thousand positive cases each day and on Monday the figure was just two short of the 1,000-mark, but health authorities, while still lacking clarity on the source of infection, continue to deny community transmission. And while transmission through travel has been low in Bengaluru, the picture in the rest of the state is a sharp contrast. Data from the Karnataka State Covid-19 War Room shows that of the 23,474 cases reported till June 5, domestic travel history (6,903 cases) topped the list as source of transmission, followed by contacts (4,293 cases), influenza like illness (1,900 cases), international travel history (577) and SARI (449 cases). In 9,352 cases, the source of transmission was under investigation and a majority of these cases pertain to Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ministers-wrong-returnees-account-for-only-4-of-cases-in-bluru/articleshow/76822164.cms||Nithya Mandyam
July 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s interim bail extended till Wednesday||MOHALI: A local court on Monday extended the interim bail of former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, granted under anticipation of adding murder charges in the previous FIR against him, in the 1991 disappearance case of Balwant Singh Mulatani. The hearing was held in the duty magistrate court of additional district and sessions judge Sanjay Agnihotri as additional district and sessions judge Rajnish Garg was on leave. As the court was not functioning, the case was heard in the court of duty magistrate. By the consent of counsels of defence and prosecution, the case hearing was ordered to be put before the transferee court and interim bail granted till Wednesday. The decision on quashing the anticipatory bail will come up for hearing in the court of ADJ Garg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ex-dgp-sainis-interim-bail-extended-till-tomorrow/articleshow/76822916.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
