July 8, 2020||Bengaluru||When Bengaluru saw a daring Pelican rescue||On Saturday morning, Prem Koshy – a member of PfA Wildlife Rescue and Conservation Centre – received a call from a resident on Cunningham Road. “A lady called me at 6 am after she found a grey pelican perched on her window,” he says. After reaching the location, the rescue team figured that it was a rather tricky situation because by then, the bird had flown to the backyard of the house. “We had to secure the pelican’s wings first so that it’s movement could somehow be controlled, after which we tried to close its beak. We, then, wrapped the bird in a bedsheet,” explained Prem, adding, “Even though the team was rescuing a pelican for the first time, the task actually didn’t take us very long. The 5kg bird was under our control within just about 20 minutes. It was later examined and released at Ulsoor Lake.” Further explaining the unique experience, Chief Veterinarian at PfA Wildlife Rescue and Conservation Centre, Col Dr Navaz Shariff, says, “Rescuing any species of wildlife is never an easy task. We need to be extra careful during the process, because it might push the animal into a state of shock, recovery from which is even more tough. In terms of pelicans, we ensure that their eyes are covered and the beak is closed to reduce their stress levels. Big feathers are a common feature of these birds, and they usually get agitated and try to attack if not handled well. Thus, one needs to be extremely cautious while tackling them. Even a little pressure on the bird can cause their hearts to stop.” The reason they chose Ulsoor Lake to release the pelican is because it is a protected waterbody with plenty of resources for birds to thrive. “Upon reaching the lake, we looked for a good spot and then gently put the bird down. It took her a few moments to settle down in the new place, after which, the bird was seen flying around,” Dr Navaz sums up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/when-bengaluru-saw-a-daring-pelican-rescue/articleshow/76840541.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Webinar on trading and entrepreneurship skills||The Post Graduate (PG) wing of the department of commerce and business administration of GGDSD College (Kheri Gurna campus) recently organised a webinar on the topic of 'Trading and Entrepreneurship Skills'. The session was done to highlight the aspect of comprehensive and adaptable approach towards the concept of trading and development of skills. Dr Tulika Mehta focused on the area of skill development besides highlighting how trading can become a different way to learn and earn during these tough times. Later, another speaker Anuj Ojha delivered a lecture on the impact of COVID-19 on the global economy. He explained about the procedure of trading and development of skills for the trading and entrepreneurship. More than 90 participants attended the webinar where speakers also answered a number of questions regarding the procedure of forex trading, regulations for the trading, risks associated, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/webinar-on-trading-and-entrepreneurship-skills/articleshow/76842730.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Mumbai||Only one new coronavirus case found in Mumbai's Dharavi area||MUMBAI: Dharavi, known as Asia's largest slum, reported only one new coronavirus patient on Tuesday which took the case tally in the densely populated area in the heart of Mumbai to 2,335, an official stated. The last time Dharavi had recorded a single new coronavirus case was on April 5, three months ago. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), however, did not share any latest information about Covid-19 deaths in the area. The BMC official said that Dharavi has only 352 active Covid-19 cases as 1,735 patients have been discharged from hospitals upon recovery. The first coronavirus case was found in Dharavi on April 1, 20 days after the first case was found in Mumbai. Some 6.5 lakh people are estimated to live in Dharavi which is spread over 2.5 square kilometres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/only-one-new-coronavirus-case-found-in-mumbais-dharavi-area/articleshow/76842833.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Delhi||NCR violates the mask rule in unlock, over 44,000 fined||It's been about a month since unlock, and while people have been out and about, many have been doing so without wearing a mask, which is mandatory. Between June 15 and July 7, Police departments across NCR fined over 44,000 people for not wearing masks, and on an average, 1,000 people are fined everyday in the city. In Noida, police officials collected over Rs 6 lakh as fine in the month of June from those who weren't wearing masks, while in Gurgaon, over 6,000 people have been fined between June 1 and July 6. Be it monuments, banks, ATMs or markets, people can be seen flouting the mask rule everywhere, and when questioned, they come up with innovative excuses for not wearing one. People hang the mask around their chin In major street markets in the city, people can be spotted either not wearing a mask or hanging it around their chin or dangling it from an ear. Manohar Kesri, a shopkeeper at Janpath, says, "I have lost many customers because they left when I asked them to wear a mask. Logon ko mask pehen lene ke liye bolo toh unko bura lag jaata hai." Gulshan Monga, who works at a Gurgaon store and recently visited Nehru Place, says, "Seven-10 people were crammed in small stores, and while the staff wore masks, customers didn't. I left without buying anything." Even auto and cab drivers complain that people remove their masks while talking, and some have stopped giving directions to people because of the same. Bablu, an auto driver, says, " Jab bhi mujhse koi raasta poochta hai toh main darr jaata hoon ab ye mask  neeche karega." People have innovative excuses to not wear a maskPolice officials across NCR say the most common excuse they hear from those not wearing a mask is that the weather's too hot, and they feel suffocated. Other excuses include forgetting the mask at home, leaving it in the auto/cab or at a restaurant, the mask being dirty and hence in the laundry, the mask being inside the bag and even that it'll ruin the wearer's makeup. A Delhi Police official says, "Recently, there was a group of friends in Mayur Vihar not wearing masks, and their excuse was that they wanted to see each others' faces. I told them they should get used to see each other in masks or pay the fine. They immediately covered their faces after that." People remove mask after entering monuments, mallsSince masks are mandatory to enter places like malls, monuments etc, many people wear the mask while entering, but remove it once they're inside. Abhishek Kumar, an IT student, says, "It's not just people, but even the staff doesn’t wear masks at government offices and monuments. I went to Qutub Minar, and a cleaning staff member was not wearing a mask inside the monument. When I pointed it out, he responded, "Mask lagaane secoronaka darr aur badhta hai." Poonam, a decorator who recently visited a bank on Mehrauli Road, says, "I was shocked to see that nobody was maintaining social distancing, and not just visitors, even the staff wasn't wearing masks. The guards offering you sanitisers refuse to wear masks. These masks are mandatory for entry, but once people enter the establishment, they remove it." Watch NCR violates the mask rule in unlock, over 44,000 fined||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ncr-violates-the-mask-rule-in-unlock-over-44000-fined/articleshow/76839286.cms||Niharika Lal
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||UT forest dept to help boost immunity, for free||Besides a complete makeover in eating-out experiences and sartorial habits, the coronavirus era has brought significant changes in the shopping domain too. And to match and adjust with the new normal, people have taken to gifting masks, herbal teas, houseplants, etc to keep the centuries-old gifting tradition alive. Also, there's a rise in people rushing to stock immunity-boosting plants/seeds in their homes. And as the new trend flourishes, the department of forest and wildlife of UT has twisted the flavour of the upcoming Van Mahotsav (festival of forests) a bit. The annual event this time will see experts visiting various locations across Chandigarh to distribute saplings with high medicinal value free of cost. The idea behind this is to promote healthy and green living. The team members will also highlight the utility factor of the herbal saplings to people while carrying out the distribution drive. The department is aiming to distribute more than 70,000 medicinal plants. The unusual and testing times led to change. Van Mahotsav was once a location-specific affair stressing on plantation drives and visits to the nearby forest covers. But this time it has come with the punchline 'Van vibhaag apke dwaar' (forest department at your doorstep). According to the officials, immunity boosting is the main focus of the initiative. " The drive which will continue till July 31 will cover the entire Chandigarh. And the free distribution of plants/saplings will be done to the general public without any formal application. Three vehicles are designed for the task and it's going to be a door-to-door affair. The drive will start from July 10. According to the department there's a cap of five plants per person. They will be given a choice in terms of picking up plants from the cart carrying diverse species. A senior officer who is overseeing arrangements for the event said the initiative has been designed to encourage people to resort to healthy living. And the idea has added to the excitement of people. "We are looking to collect saplings and plant them in a small garden. Since nurseries were closed, this will help us pick up plants instrumental in upping the immunity levels," said Savita Rani, a resident of Sector 49. With people working to boost immunity naturally, medicinal plants will help them keep the disease-causing virus and bacteria at bay. Since people with lower immunity are at greater risk, these herbs, plants are in high demand. "I have Giloy plant and Aloe Vera. Now, I am looking to have more such plants with medicinal properties," said homemaker Anita Thakur, who resides in Sector 18. VARIETY OF PLANTS TO BE DISTRIBUTEDThe doorstep delivery will include plants like Aloe Vera, curry patta, Tulsi, Giloy, Ashwagandha, etc. The change in theme happened due to coronavirus. Till last year flowers and fruit plants were in demand. "Immunity plays a vital role in fighting with viruses. So, the focus is on plants with medicinal values," said Deepak Kumar, an ayurvedic practitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-forest-dept-to-help-boost-immunity-for-free/articleshow/76843475.cms||Ankur Batra
July 8, 2020||India||India-China LAC row: Buffer zones to be set up at two friction points||NEW DELHI: The creation of ‘buffer zones’ at the two frictions points in the larger Gogra-Hot Springs area is likely to be completed in the next couple of days as part of the ongoing Phase-I of the stepwise de-escalation plan finalised by the Indian and Chinese corps commanders on June 30. The so-called buffer zone with no military presence at ‘Patrolling Point-14’ (PP-14) in the Galwan Valley region, the site of the bloody clashes on June 15, had already been set up, with the rival troops pulling back 1.5 km each, as was reported by TOI on Tuesday. One of the major aims behind the intrusion of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) into the PP-14 area was to threaten the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie road, which India completed last year. The buffer zones are to avoid confrontations during the disengagement process and once this is over, Indian troops will resume their regular patrols. “PLA troops have now gone back to their side of the LAC after vacating the area near PP-14. The pullback includes dismantling of structures erected in recent weeks,” a source said. Similarly, the buffer zone at PP-15 should be in place by Wednesday, while the one at PP-17A (Gogra) will take a day or two more. “The PLA has also taken down some tents and slightly reduced its troops in the Finger-4 area of Pangong Tso,” he added. Officials also took pains on Tuesday to stress that the buffer zones were a “mutual temporary arrangement” to ensure there were “no inadvertent clashes” between the rival troops during the disengagement process. “Local Indian and Chinese commanders are in constant touch. There will be no patrols during the month-long stabilisation period after the buffer zones are created at the friction points. But once the disengagement is complete, we will resume our patrols to our perceived LAC, including PP-14. We have not relinquished our right to patrol till there,” an official said. The next round of disengagement will begin after both sides verify Phase-I of the plan, through physical monitoring on the ground as well as through drones and satellites, and sort out any lingering issues to resolve the trust deficit between them. The fourth round of talks is likely to be held after a couple of weeks. Watch LAC row: India, China to set up buffer zones at two friction points||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-china-lac-row-buffer-zones-to-be-set-up-at-two-friction-points/articleshow/76843602.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Nurseries flooded with queries regarding immunity-boosting plants||If bonsai and other decorative plants were in demand in the pre-Covid-19 era, now it's the medicinal herbs, ayurvedic plants and Indian spices generating maximum queries in Chandigarh. While nurseries are doing good business, they are also adding more plants with medicinal values to meet with its growing demand. MN Sharma of Durga Nursery in Sector 26, said, "Tulsi, Lemongrass, Goliy, Haar-Shingaar, All spice, Tej patta, green chilli, Elaichi, Mushkanda, Puthkanda are in demand. While some come to us to buy saplings, others want fresh plucked leaves. Some are just curious to see them too." After restrictions were lifted, people working to improve their immunity are visiting nurseries. "We observed that people are following the principles of naturopathy and ayurveda to remain healthy," said Ram, who works in Hari nursery in Kishangarh. A caretaker at another nursery told us that people look for unusual plants after reading about it on the internet. "We can't have whole variety as many of them do not survive or grow here." He added that desi turmeric and ginger are high selling items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nurseries-flooded-with-queries-regarding-immunity-boosting-plants/articleshow/76843741.cms||Ankur Batra
July 8, 2020||India||Covid-19: Trace, isolate 80% contacts in 72 hours, Centre tells states||NEW DELHI: In a move to escalate contact tracing in response to the rising number of Covid cases in various states in the “unlock” phase, the Centre has asked states to ensure contacts of at least 80% of new cases are traced and quarantined within 72 hours of confirmation of the positive case. The directive, which entails a major step-up in what states are supposed to do, comes in the wake of the infection spreading and even making a return in states like Kerala, despite a “steep upturn” in recoveries per million population as compared to active cases. The directive comes as daily testing capacity has gone up. The rise in cases in states like Rajasthan, Karnataka, Goa, Punjab and Jharkhand is still not as high as as badly hit states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi, but the virus’s capacity to spread fast is a cause of concern. In just one month, Bengaluru has gone from a city where the virus was seen to be under control to registering a sharp spike. As many as 22,252 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported on a single day on Monday, according to the health ministry, taking the total count to more than 7 lakh. There are 2,59,557 active cases, whereas 4,39,947 have recovered. Experts said speedy contact tracing and quarantine of positive or active cases will help break the chain of transmission. The ministry said the “test, track and treat” strategy adopted by the Centre and state governments had showed a “steep upturn” in recoveries as compared to active cases. India has 315.8 recovered cases per million while active cases per million are at 186.3. “In India, states with a high caseload are turning their focus on early identification and effective clinical management of positive cases to ensure that recovery/million is more than active cases/million. This shows that while the total number of positive cases might be high, the recoveries are fast catching up, thereby keeping the active cases low. This has also ensured that Covid healthcare facilities are not under pressure and are not stretched,” the health ministry said. Along with testing, contact tracing and house-to-house surveys have been intensified, especially in containment zones. States have developed many mobile apps to keep track of high-risk population, including the elderly, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children. Watch Trace, isolate 80% Covid-19 contacts in 72 hours: Centre tells states||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-trace-isolate-80-contacts-in-72-hours-centre-tells-states/articleshow/76844066.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 8, 2020||India||Covid-19: Nearly 1.6L cases, 3,200 deaths in 1st week of July||India recorded more than 1.57 lakh Covid-19 cases and 3,236 deaths from the virus in the first week of July alone, in the worst seven days of the pandemic in the country in terms of infections. Fresh cases rose to over 23,000 on Tuesday after dipping to around 22,000 the previous day, while the day’s death toll was 473. With this, the country’s total Covid-19 caseload stood at 7.43 lakh, a day after crossing the 7-lakh mark, as per data collated from state governments. The death toll stood at 20,628 while the number of recoveries was over 4.56 lakh and the active cases more than 2.65 lakh. While the worst-hit states of Maharashtra (5,134 new cases), Tamil Nadu (3,616) and Delhi (2,008) reported a drop in numbers, infections touched a new single-day high in Uttar Pradesh, which reported 1,346 cases, Gujarat (778), Rajasthan (716) and Odisha (571). Maharashtra, however, added over 200 deaths (224) for the second day in a row, with the toll rising in Mumbai to 64. The total deaths from the pandemic in Mumbai crossed 5,000 on Tuesday. The city has a higher toll than China, where the virus had originated. While the toll in China stood at 4,634 on Tuesday, Mumbai reached 5,002 deaths. The city accounts for a quarter of the country’s 20,160 Covid-19 deaths. Bengaluru reported 800 infections on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nearly-1-6l-cases-3200-deaths-in-1st-week-of-july/articleshow/76844236.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: BJP will ‘butcher’ your party, Shaktisnh Gohil warns Chirag Paswan||PATNA: Congress national general secretary and party’s Bihar in-charge Shaktisnh Gohil cautioned LJP chief Chirag Paswan that his political career will be at risk if continues to remain with the BJP-led NDA. Talking to reporters after reaching Patna for a three-day visit, Gohil said BJP will “butcher” LJP the day it feels that the latter is no longer useful. “BJP is the biggest party in NDA and it has been its tendency to butcher smaller allies when it feels they are no longer useful. There are numerous examples to prove it. Whether it was Mehbooba Mufti or Shiv Sena... The same can happen to Chirag. He is a wise man, I believe he knows this,” Gohil said. Gohil added, “Chirag’s politics is based on reservation for backwards, EBC (extremely backward castes) and SCs among others. NDA government remained quiet when it was said that reservation is not the fundamental right of OBCs, SCs and STs. Modi Ji remained silent and if Chirag will also remain silent for long on his core political issues, then it will be a threat to his political career.” He, however, ruled out that any LJP functionary is in contact with Congress. Gohil’s statement came in the wake of rumours that LJP may come out of NDA and join hands with Congress and Chirag may be projected as their CM candidate. LJP has been apparently doing its preparations on all 243 assembly seats in Bihar. Training guns on NDA, Gohil said, “Lakhs of migrants returned to Bihar after facing much hardship, they would have been better off if the lockdown was implemented after proper planning. In Bihar, BJP and JD (U) are together only to remain in power, not because of ideologies.” Gohil is slated to attend meetings of election committee of Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee and its campaign committee on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-will-butcher-your-party-gohil-warns-chirag/articleshow/76841984.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 8, 2020||Patna||Covid, not elections, should be Bihar CM’s priority: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) functionary and leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday slammed CM Nitish Kumar for “putting the common people’s health at risk” and favouring conduct of the state assembly election amid Covid-19 pandemic. Tejashwi turned to his twitter handle to question the relevance of conducting the assembly polls at a time when the number of Covid-19 positive patients was increasing rapidly in the state. “Nitish ji janta ki laas pad chunav karana chahte hain (Nitishji wants to hold elections on the bodies of common people),” he alleged. Tejashwi alleged that while the common people were being ignored after getting infected with the deadly virus, the entire government machinery was busy in preparations for the assembly election. “The CM is not bothered about treatment of the infected people,” Tejashwi said. The former deputy chief minister said the number of infected people would be at their peak in August-September if adequate measures to check the novel coronavirus were not taken. “Going by the existing trend, the situation will turn from bad to worse in the state in August-September,” he said. Hitting out at Nitish, Tejashwi said, “While CM’s test report for Covid-19 is received within two hours, in the case of common people, it takes five to seven days. What a great difference between the two.”Reacting to Tejashwi’s allegation, JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said it’s the Election Commission of India which will conduct the elections and not Nitish. BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said, “The statement of Tejashwi indicates the disappointment and depression among rank and file of the RJD. It seems that Tejashwi is scare of his defeat in the election.” Earlier, RJD’s Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha wrote to the chief election commissioner on Tuesday, expressing the party’s reservations about some new rules added to the Conduct of Election Rules, 1951. Jha said, “The rules were added without consultations with political parties.” The RJD MP also requested from the CEC to immediately withdraw the changes and call for an all-party meeting to arrive at a consensus on holding the assembly elections in Bihar in the changed scenario.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-not-elections-shouldbe-cms-priority-tejashwi/articleshow/76841953.cms||Ramashankar
July 8, 2020||Patna||North Bihar districts put on high alert||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday cautioned the residents of 14 districts against imminent floods, as the meteorologists have predicted heavy rainfall in the basins of Bagmati and other rivers. The districts concerned are East Champaran, Sheohar, Sitamarhi, Muzaffarpur, Samastipur, Madhubani, Darbhanga, Begusarai, Khagaria, Supaul, Saharsa, Madhepura, Bhagalpur and Banka. The CM also directed the disaster management department (DMD) to alert the DMs concerned in advance and stressed on the need to warn people living near the embankments, so that they could be evacuated quickly when needed. Similarly, the CM has asked the water resources department (WRD) to ensure that the engineers remained alert at vulnerable points on the embankments. NDRF and SDRF teams deployed in the districts have also been asked to remain alert Accordingly, the WRD and DMD asked the north Bihar DMs to remain on high alert with regard to tackling likely floods, as the catchment areas of the rivers will receive moderate to heavy rainfall both in the foothills of Nepal and also across the state over the next four days. DMD principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit and WRD secretary Sanjeev Hans held a videoconference with the DMs concerned to take stock of their preparedness to tackle floods in view of the looming threat. Madhubani DM Dr Nilesh Deore requested for two more teams of state disaster response force (SDRF) and additional boats to be used in Jhanjharpur and Jainagar subdivisions. The DM has instructed the BDOs and COs concerned to remain watchful. The DMD had deployed 13 teams of NDRF and SDRF, one each in Katihar, Araria, Supaul, Kishanganj, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, East Champaran (Motihari), West Champaran (Bettiah), Nalanda, Saran (Chhapra), Patna and Buxar districts on June 24. In fact, rainfall in the range of 40mm to 79.8mm has been received at 12 places in the catchment areas of Gandak river in Nepal in the last 24 hours. Accordingly, the discharge of water through Valmiki Nagar barrage increased from 71,300 cusecs at 6am to 99,800 cusecs at 2pm. The trend shows rising water level. Similarly, the water discharge through Barahkshetra barrage collected from the tributaries of river Kosi in Nepal — 72km north of Birpur barrage in Supaul district — also increased by around 14,000 cusecs to 98,150 cusecs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/north-bihar-districts-put-on-high-alert/articleshow/76841900.cms||Abhay Singh
July 8, 2020||Patna||Three-day lockdown in Bihar's Bettiah Christian quarters locality||BETTIAH: With reports indicating the spread of covid cases despite low testing, the West Champaran district administration declared a three-day lockdown in Bettiah’s Christian quarters locality. District magistrate Kundan Kumar has directed the SDPO to enforce the lockdown strictly. Covid active cases had crossed the 300 mark by Monday. Of these, 172 are reportedly cured. The DM’s order seeking police action to ensure lockdown in Christian quarters came on Tuesday after residents ignored the lockdown missive given the night before. Parish priest Fr Sushil Shah, meanwhile, had already closed the gates of St Mary’s Cathedral on Sunday as a precautionary measure. The Christian quarters are not the only locality where people have thrown caution to the winds. Gatherings are seen outside the district court premises on Tuesday even though litigants are barred from entering, the court premises thereby threatening to blow up into another hotspot. “The courts are physically functioning though only emergent matters such as bail and injunction are being heard,” District Bar Association president Agendra K Mishra told this newspaper, adding that he has convened the General Body on Wednesday to take stock of the Covid situation and seek opinion of the house for a lockdown. Meanwhile, public spaces like the Medical College and Hospital and banks too have reported Covid positive cases among personnel on duty, thereby signalling concern. The ICU and the superintendent’s office at the MJK Hospital were closed on Sunday after a nurse and several others were found infected. Meanwhile, amid continuous mela-like scenes dotting the town’s landscape, DM Kundan Kumar and SP Nitasha Gudiya led an awareness cum fine-imposing campaign on the streets of Bettiah on Tuesday. The two officers checked restaurants and shopping complexes too. “We need a people’s campaign to bring about adherence to safety norms,” the DM said adding that people moving out without face masks or shields are being individually fined Rs 50 and shopping establishments, if found allowing customers without masks, will be sealed.“We have installed free santizer dispenser outside my office for both police employees and visitors,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-day-lockdown-in-bettiah-christian-quarters-locality/articleshow/76841540.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
July 8, 2020||Patna||Untreated Covid waste poses health risk in Patna||PATNA: Discarded biomedical waste such as PPE suits, face masks, gloves and syringes generated by hospitals, homes and quarantine centres in the state capital are posing a serious threat of further spread of Covid-19 virus. Medical wastes can often be seen lying around on streets, dump yards, containment zones, railway stations and airport as well, which pose greater threat to the community. Slum dwellers and rag pickers can be seen sifting through untreated medical waste at dump yards. A video of rag-pickers on the banks of Ganga in Digha picking up medical waste went viral on social media on Monday. In the video, some youngsters are seen dragging huge yellow plastic bags of medicals waste containing gloves, masks and PPE kits, without any protective gears. According to Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) experts, discarded masks, gloves and tissues could be potential sources for the spread of this highly contagious virus. Birendra Kumar, a BSPCB official said they have alerted the biomedical waste in- charge of Patna about the viral video. “Action will be taken against the medical officers who failed to properly dispose of the medical waste. The Board has already issued instructions about the incineration of medical waste at common biomedical waste treatment facilities. It is their responsibility to collect medical waste from the hospitals,” he said. He added: “The airport authority, railway authorities and civic body should take care of biomedical waste at their premises for the containment of virus, as so many people travel to and from there.” Patna airport recently placed separate bins for bio-medical waste, however, flyers are still seen discarding gloves, masks and PPE suit outside the terminal building or on the road. According to the Patna Municipal Corporation, around 800 to 1,000 metric tonne garbage generate from all the six circles in the city out of which 10- 12% are medical waste. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said the civic body is working with 60% workforce as several people are infected with the disease. “We are managing trash collection as well as the waterlogging problem due to early rains. We have given plastic bags to all auto-tippers and e- kart and sanitation workers to collect biomedical waste separately in yellow plastic bags,” Sharma added. The PMC commissioner said awareness campaigns are also being organised with the help of UNFPA Bihar. “Civic body alone can’t do everything, people should also understand their responsibility to keep medical waste in separate bin or plastic bag for the safety of others,” Sharma added. Medical waste is also seen lying near major hospitals, including PMCH and NMCH, where most patients go for treatment. PMCH superintendent Dr Bimal Karak said they outsourced a private agency for the incineration of biomedical waste and also asked the civic body to collect waste from some wards. “We would review and take action against such medical officers or the private agency, if they are responsible for the untreated discarded biomedical waste,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/untreated-covid-waste-poses-health-hazard-in-patna/articleshow/76841470.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 8, 2020||Pune||Ambulance bills patient Rs 8,000 for 7km ride||Pune: A 56-year-old Covid-19 patient was recently charged Rs 8,000 by a city-based ambulance service for a distance of just 7km — nine times the actual rate. District officials said they would now launch an investigation into the incident, which took place in the last week of June. The patient — a banker — said after testing at a hospital in Bibwewadi, he was to be moved to a Covid-care centre at Karvenagar. The ambulance service he opted for charged Rs 8,000, instead of the government-set rate of 900. But after reaching the Covid-care centre, the ambulance crew demanded an additional Rs 1,500 as overheads to cover cost of PPE kits worn by the driver, the doctor and a medical assistant who had accompanied the patient. The family refused to pay the extra charge. “That ambulance bill of Rs 8,000 itself was a shock to us,” the patient, who has now recovered, told TOI. “My son had to argue with the ambulance crew. We refused to pay that extra charge of Rs 1,500. How can an ambulance service charge so much? I have approached the administration to seek strict action against the ambulance firm” he said. As per the capped government rate, ambulance charges should be Rs 900 within the city. This is also according to the type of vehicle used to ferry the patient (see box). Administration officials, when informed about the banker's case, said they would conduct an inquiry into the incident. When TOI contacted the manager of the ambulance service used by the banker — Hadapsar-based Sanjivani Ambulance Services — he confirmed the firm was charging patients rates between Rs 4,500 and Rs 8,000 for emergency transport. The manager claimed the charges cover cost of the private doctor and the medical assistant who charge at least Rs 1,200 and an additional Rs 1,500 for their PPE kits.  “This is being done by all private ambulance services,” the manager said. When asked about the capping of ambulance charges by the government, he said fares can come down if they don’t have to pay for the accompanying doctors and medical assistants. The cap on ambulance fares was enforced in the first week of July, but the banker said he has approached the district authorities on the basis of the “huge” bill itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ambulance-bills-patient-rs-8000-for-7km-ride/articleshow/76843397.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 8, 2020||Patna||Lockdown threat looms large over Gaya||Gaya: With the main business centre at GB Road having been notified as containment zone and Covid positive cases reported from other areas like Dak Bungalow Road, Saket Puri and Police Lines, lockdown threats looms large over the entire Gaya town. Asked about speculations about a fresh lockdown, Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh said the situation is being closely monitored. “As of now, total lockdown of the whole town is not required but the possibility cannot be ruled out either. It all depends on the infection trajectory. The situation is far from satisfactory and people are not behaving responsibly,” the DM said. He added, “Many people have taken unlocking as end of Covid-19 threat. Largescale complaints of violation of mandatory mask wearing orders and physical distancing norms are being received. Administrative machinery has its own limitations and nothing much can be done without public cooperation.” Expressing concern over the spread of infection in congested areas that register heavy footfall, a businessman Kaushalendra Pratap Singh said that in case of another lockdown, the business community would extend all out support to the government machinery. Singh, who headed the Central Bihar Chamber of Commerce for nine years said, “The spread of infection cannot be taken lightly. The health infrastructure is grossly inadequate and as such preventive measures are needed even more,” he said. Meanwhile, increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases too has caused concern in the medical fraternity. In Gaya district, as per official figures released on Monday evening, out of 10,959 test reports available so far, 418 have tested positive. Meanwhile, 11,658 samples have so far been collected . The district has a population of about 50 lakh including the 80,000 migrant workers and others who have come to the district after travel restrictions were eased. It means that only about 2.5 persons per 1,000 population have been tested. MU offices closed till July 31: All offices of Magadh University (MU), including the headquarters as well as those of the constituent and affiliated colleges, have been closed till July 31. A notification to this effect was issued late on Monday evening. There are about 1200 non-teaching employees at the university headquarters, postgraduate departments, 19 constituent and one government-funded minority college. University’s nodal officer-cum-public relations officer Sanajay Kumar said that all employees have been ‘exempted from physical presence’ at their respective place of work. The notification issued by MU stated that most of the employees would work from home. They have been directed not to leave their headquarters, as they may be required at any time for important and urgent work. The decision has been taken on the basis of direction received from the Raj Bhavan. “The teachers will continue to engage online classes from home,” MU’s nodal officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-threat-looms-large-over-gaya/articleshow/76841561.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Business||L&T Infra gets $100m AIIB loan||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The Beijing-headquartered Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) has released the first tranche of $50 million of a $100-million external commercial borrowing (ECB) sanctioned to L&T Infrastructure Finance (LTIF), the wholly-owned subsidiary of L&T Finance Holdings. This is the first loan by the multilateral development bank, which invests in sustainable infrastructure, to a non-banking financial company in India. The loan proceeds will be used to finance large- and mid-scale wind and solar power infrastructure projects in India. AIIB will help L&T Infrastructure bolster its environmental and social capabilities, which will enable it to tap the international market for green finance. “Investments from an organisation like AIIB — which follows a stringent due diligence process of the company’s capacity, viability, past performance and regulatory compliances, before any investments — reiterates our commitment to green project financing,” said L&T Finance Holdings MD & CEO Dinanath Dubhashi. L&T Infrastructure will put in place an environment & social monitoring system that will be expanded to include screening, categorising, appraisal, contracting and monitoring of sub-projects supported by AIIB in accordance with the AIIB Environmental and Social Standards (ESS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lt-infra-gets-100m-aiib-loan/articleshow/76842658.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 8, 2020||Chennai||10 recover after Siddha treatment, discharged||Chennai: The first batch of 10 Covid-19 patients who were treated only using Siddha medicine at government centres were discharged on Tuesday. As many as 1,100 Covid-19 patients have recovered after a combination of Siddha and allopathy treatment. Tamil Nadu government had allotted 224 beds at Vyasarpadi Covid centre to National Institute of Siddha (NIS) in Tambaram and Central Council for Siddha Research (CCRS) to treat asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients. These patients were diagnosed positive at Stanley Medical College Hospital and volunteered to undergo Siddha treatment. An allopathy doctor was also available, to assist in case of an emergency. K Kanakavalli, director general of CCRS, said they got an approval to conduct a study on impact of Siddha drugs in these 10 patients and how the viral load, inflammatory factors changed after treatment. The study will help CCRS in proving the drugs’ abilities scientifically and that is the only way it will get acceptance. Earlier, a private Siddha practitioner in Saligramam too presented similar claims but this is the first such discharge from a government centre. Besides standalone Siddha treatment, these two establishments along with Directorate of Indian Medicine (DIM) has helped in successful recovery of 1,100 Covid patients in the past three months. The 1,100 patients were provided Siddha medicines along allopathy drugs. “But observations made in the first 300 cases suggested that there was a clear improvement only after Siddha medicines were started. For instance, a patient from Tambaram tested negative on Day 7 of Siddha treatment. This indicated that our medicines are not just immunity boosters but may have anti-viral properties. A study is underway to prove this,” said a senior doctor at NIS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/10-recover-after-siddha-treatment-discharged/articleshow/76862648.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 8, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Revenue down Rs 1,000 crore, liquor trade limps back to basics||BHOPAL: Liquor trade is operational once again in the state although government has incurred 12 per cent revenue loss after re-tendering of liquor shops in the state. Liquor contracts worth Rs 10,600 crore were given for the year 2020-21, which was almost 25 per cent more than the figure in 2019-20. The new contracts are less than Rs 9,000 crore, leading to a revenue loss of over 1,000 crore. Liquor contractors claim that government would have got more revenue had it renegotiated the terms with them. Talking to TOI, excise commissioner Rajeev Chandra Dube, however, said, “People were apprehending that we would get less revenue but we have generated 13 per cent more revenue compared to 2019-20.” When reminded that the figure is still 12 per cent less compared to 2020-2021 contracts before retendering, he said, “ Twenty five per cent surplus revenue was a theoretical figure and it never materialised. It was a pre-corona scene . You cannot compare (situation then with the current one).” The trouble started soon after the cash-starved government issued orders amidst pandemic to open liquor shops to generate revenue. When some shops were opened on May 4, the contractors realised that the sales were “ down drastically”. As the sale had gone down by almost 60 per cent, the contractors demanded renegotiation of the contracts. They said they would not be able to deposit the excise duty stipulated in the contracts. When the government ordered the opening of more shops, the contractors defied the order saying they would incur huge losses. The matter went to the court and it set a deadline for the contractors to open the shops. But the liquor traders decided to surrender the licences.For almost a month , the excise department operated many shops while some of them were also run by private operators on a short-term licence basis. “ The shops run by the excise department offered liquor at a lower rate”, said customers adding, ``after the contracts were renewed, the rates went up.” The government-run shops were selling liquor at MSP (minimum selling price) as it could not earn profit. But now that the shops are handed over to the traders after retendering, the liquor is again being sold at MRP (maximum retail price), excise department sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/revenue-down-rs-1k-cr-liquor-trade-limps-back-to-basics/articleshow/76843405.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Business||ICICI, Future Generali join HDFC Bank in hiking pay||MUMBAI: ICICI Bank and Future Generali have finalised increments for most of their employees despite the economic slowdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. HDFC Bank was the earliest to go ahead with its increments and bonuses based on previous year’s performance. Axis Bank too has announced a bonus for 80% of its sub-management-level employees and completed its promotions for the year, but is yet to announce increments. Sources said that a raise is likely as the lender has completed the appraisal process. Future Generali — the joint venture between Future Group and European insurer Generali — said it has also made a relief fund of Rs 50,000 for its business-active agents and their families if they test positive for Covid-19. The company said it will not lay off employees “during these unprecedented and volatile times”. The insurer has onboarded over 70 employees across various levels during the lockdown. According to a report by PTI, ICICI Bank has finalised a pay hike of 8% for its 80,000 frontline employees, which form 80% of the lender’s workforce. In the wake of the pandemic, the RBI has asked banks to go into a capital-conservation mode and asked them to avoid paying dividends. Private lenders Kotak Mahindra Bank, Yes Bank and IDFC First Bank have even announced pay cuts for the top management. According to a senior executive at a private lender, the frontline staff of the bank have been at the forefront during the Covid-19 lockdown, as banks were classified as essential services. Also, going forward into the lockdown, the workload was expected to increase because of restructuring of loans and pushing loans to small businesses. It was, therefore, necessary to maintain morale and increments was one way to do that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icici-future-generali-join-hdfc-bank-in-hiking-pay/articleshow/76842692.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Business||Yes Bank board clears Rs 15k-cr FPO||MUMBAI: The board of directors of Yes Bank on Tuesday approved a further public offer (FPO) of Yes Bank shares. The bank is likely to raise around Rs 15,000 crore to increase its capital adequacy to over 10%. It will now file its offer documents with the Registrar of Companies and Sebi. Following this, the shares will be offered through a public issue. The bank currently has an m-cap of Rs 32,317 crore. The move is aimed at restoring the capital adequacy ratio of the bank in light of heavy provisioning made of legacy loans after it was taken over by an SBI-led consortium. The bank has also sold some loans to reduce capital requirements and has been looking at hiving off its bad loans, which have been largely provided for. Last month, in an interview to TOI, Yes Bank’s MD & CEO Prashant Kumar had said that the bank was looking at raising around Rs 15,000 crore. “The tier-1 capital is 6.3% and we will now raise more capital. We have taken approval for Rs 15,000 crore. To achieve 8% capital adequacy, we need Rs 4,000 crore. But we don’t want just 8% capital adequacy, we want to have a buffer for any more accounts in future, capital for the 10% growth planned for this year and we do not want to raise capital for next three years. This is why we decided on Rs 15,000 crore. We are looking at new investors, and existing shareholders who came in the first round will see their share come below 50% unless they feel there is value in investing,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yes-bank-board-clears-rs-15k-cr-fpo/articleshow/76842721.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar cops on lookout for UP gangster Vikas Dubey||PATNA: Police in districts sharing border with Uttar Pradesh and Nepal have been asked to remain alert and look out for gangster Vikash Dubey, who is evading arrest after brutally killing eight police personnel, including a DSP rank officer, in Kanpur on July 3. A massive manhunt has been launched in Uttar Pradesh for Dubey and his associates. Police apprehend that Dubey might flee to Nepal for evading arrest. DGP Gupteshwar Pandey told TOI over phone on Tuesday that state police personnel are in continuous touch with their counterparts in Uttar Pradesh. “He won’t be allowed to enter Bihar. The moment he tries to enter, we will catch him,” Pandey said. “Police in all seven Bihar districts sharing border with Nepal, including Sitamarhi and Madhubani, have been alerted. SPs of these districts have been asked to remain vigilant. Special alertness is being maintained in West Champaran as the district shares border with Uttar Pradesh as well as Nepal,” the DGP said. Pandey said even Special Task Force (STF) of the state police is on alert. Meanwhile, sources said police in districts sharing border with Uttar Pradesh are especially keeping watch on criminals or gangs operating on both sides of the border so that any suspect trying to enter the state could be arrested.A senior police officer said hardened criminals often take help from smaller criminal gangs while crossing borders to evade arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-cops-on-lookout-for-up-gangster-dubey/articleshow/76842024.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar people scared of waterlogging as Met predicts more showers||PATNA: About 58% surplus rainfall in the state so far have brought smiles on the faces of farmers, but the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast for widespread and heavy rainfall in Bihar in the days to come has created fear of severe waterlogging in the state capital and other urban areas of the state. The ghost of previous year’s prolonged waterlogging still haunts the residents of many areas in Patna. Fresh showers on Tuesday kept many areas waterlogged, including Kankarbagh, Karbighaiya, Ram Krishna Nagar, Gola Road and Khagaul, among others. Weathermen said the intensity of showers in most parts of Bihar was set to increase over the next four to five days. A Patna Meteorological Centre bulletin stated that rainfall with thunderstorm was very likely in all the 38 districts in the state till July 11. The IMD on Tuesday stated that monsoon trough line would very likely shift along the foothills of the Himalayas on Wednesday. The trough line along with high convergence of southerly and southwesterly winds from the Bay of Bengal is very likely to cause widespread heavy to very heavy rainfall in Bihar and other states in east and northeast India from Wednesday. That may be a matter of concern for the urban population as the vigorous rainfall this year has already caused waterlogging problem in many areas of Patna and other cities in the state. Patna municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma told TOI on Tuesday that waterlogging complaints had been received from few areas, including Kankarbagh, Karbighaiya and Ram Krishna Nagar. “The major problem in these areas is lack of sewerage lines. All the household waste water flows on the roads. This issue will be resolved only when the sewage treatment plant starts functioning,” he said. Regarding Rajvanshi Nagar, he said the residents connected the sewerage lines with the sump houses. “That’s why we drained out water with the help of portable motor pumps from most of the areas,” Sharma said. Ratna Singh of Rupaspur (ward number 3), however, complained that her locality has been under two feet water for the last three days. “The water is draining out very slowly, but more rain will make the situation worse,” she said. “We at Indrapuri are stuck at our homes due to waterlogging on the road. The garbage collector dies not come to our locality because of waterlogging. Now, people throw garbage on the road, which has made things worse,” said Shalini Kumar. Meanwhile, Patna Meteorological Centre on Tuesday stated that heavy rainfall occurred at one or two places in southwest Bihar during the past 24 hours. Besides, light to moderate rainfall occurred at many places in the state. The ongoing spell of rain has been attributed to favourable position of monsoon trough line along with a low-pressure area in western Jharkhand and neighbourhood. The monsoon trough line was passing through Saurashtra, Indore, Pendra Road, Daltonganj and Bankura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-scared-of-waterlogging-as-met-predicts-more-showers/articleshow/76841675.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 8, 2020||Business||Hiring industry optimistic on jobs picking up this year||Mumbai: Current times may appear to be grim on the recruitment front. However, the hiring industry is optimistic about a brighter future. In a survey conducted by Antal International among 550 participants, of which 220 were business owners, managers and team leaders from across industries, 50% of recruitment firms said they have reduced headcount because of Covid-19. An equal number of hiring leaders, however, said they are optimistic about recruitment picking up this year. The findings were shared exclusively with TOI. When asked about current hiring trends, 35% recruiters said their clients have a freeze on hiring, while 30% recruiters said clients have put hiring on hold for the first quarter. Only 16% said companies are actively hiring. On what they thought of the overall recruitment business, 48% said it was business as usual. On the challenges team leaders and managers faced with the work-from-home (WFH) model, 41% recruitment leaders said maintaining morale of their employees was difficult. On the other hand, 39% said it’s difficult to track employee productivity. Another 18% faced communication issues. A significant number (39%) of recruitment firms shifted to online interviews for internal hires, while a similar number introduced new software for data management and kept a track on daily activities. With employees at home, 32% firms are now training their staff online. 22% firms said they have virtually on boarded new internal hires. Antal International India MD Joseph Devasia said: “The recruitment industry transitioned into the new normal of ‘working from home’ pretty smoothly. Initial hiccups like delayed interviews, candidates not willing to move jobs, other technical issues sorted themselves out, with the help of digital platforms. Technology will be the biggest enabler as we ease out of the lockdown. Recruiters need to now focus and give importance to prioritising a positive remote candidate experience and help candidates and companies adapt to recruitment technology and establish the new normal in recruitment.” Over 200 recruiters said that more than 60% of their clients are interviewing using video tools. The positives of WFH were several. 67% said they were enjoying the break from peak hour travel, while 43% said they were spending more time with family. A significant number (36%) saw an increase in productivity, while 29% got to learn a new skill or hobby. Looking at the perks of working from home, 73% recruiters said they would opt for flexible working. “As the country unlocks, there is confidence that hiring momentum will pick up again. Companies will now start focusing on hiring professionals who can help ease risks and cover losses as well as help build agile business models for the future. Even a CEO will not need to be based in the HQ office,” said Devasia. However, WFH comes with its own set of challenges. 31% said they faced technical issues like bad internet connectivity and power cuts. While 23% said there were no issues, 16% said there were too many distractions. A small number of participants said they faced space constraints. Some said the family was unable to respect the concept of WFH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hiring-industry-optimistic-on-jobs-picking-up-this-year/articleshow/76842863.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Business||Leaders need to connect with ‘Gen-C’||By Sukhjit S PasrichaOne of my former colleagues invited me to address a virtual human resource team meet at his FMCG company recently. All the nearly two dozen executives on the call had to eat a common menu. So, everyone prepared a bowl of hot noodles before joining in. I also happily prepared my bowl and spoke about the relevant practices, while eating the evergreen comfort food. It was a unique concept, but I thoroughly enjoyed delivering the “working lunch” session virtually. Around the same time, I also gave in to a team member’s request to join in for a late evening team quiz contest on a video-conferencing app. It just so happened that I was late by 20 minutes for the 8:30pm session. When I joined in, everyone was giggling, laughing, jumping (raising hands virtually) to be the first one to answer quiz questions from their respective homes. Singing followed. By 10pm, it was time to call it a day for over a dozen members representing three different generations. It made me think: As we remain in partial or full lockdown mode, away from each other, what is it that is binding us together still? I realised that physical bonding may be gone, but the goal of connecting with each other prevails, as always. The goals of listening and engaging remain. Only the methods of achieving these goals have changed. In fact, this lockdown has increased the need for connectivity as people want to share and talk more — so what if it’s through waves and wires? It’s almost like a new generation has risen to the challenge and embraced the new reality: Let’s call it Gen-C (Generation Corona). Indeed, this unprecedented pandemic has made us much more flexible and pushed us to make decisions at a faster pace, daily, instead of waiting for the next monthly meeting as we are discovering new challenges every day. Another human resource friend in a similar industry like ours, for example, said senior leaders from his firm are now connecting with five company branches daily to listen, engage and move forward. This direct connect with the frontline helps them understand the ground realities daily. They are able to move faster on decisions to be taken on product, and process changes to things as small as ceiling repairs of their branches. They don’t have to wait for the information and decision flow to go through the hierarchy. Current times need managers/leaders who can understand what their subordinates are going through daily. Recently, an Indian conglomerate — much like the tech giants of America — connected close to one lakh employees virtually with their senior leadership team, including the CEO, for a two-way communication. That makes me wonder: Why should engagement events wait, especially for the frontline staff, that is, can the town halls wait, or should we get going with virtual town halls? In these testing times, our staff members definitely want us to be part of their lives, and not far removed from managers/leaders who only toss emails back and forth. They are looking forward to their managers/leaders hearing about their small joys of ‘working at home’ as well as ‘working from home’. They are also looking for ways to share their plights, including: * How their paying guest owners are creating problems when they return from offices every day as they may carry the virus and infect others, and how can we assuage this concern? * Parents are insisting not leaving home town for the big metro city, for now. Is there a way that they can contribute from their respective hometowns? * The infamous summer and how power cuts mean they haven’t been able to close their assigned tasks on time. Can we give them some breather if their Wi-Fi doesn’t connect in such cases? * And of enthusiasm: How they can work from home with ease? And they are looking for more work. Understanding these peculiar situations that people go through helps us as managers to take a decision with an N=1 approach. This means that every team member has a peculiar situation and we can’t apply the same brush while taking a call on their availability for work-from-home or coming to office daily. The bigger question: Is it time to for us to flout the rules of social distancing or wait for these rules to be called off? The Gen-C seems to have already answered that question with its noodle bowls and evening songs. Perhaps karaoke and pizzas are next on the menu. The writer is president & group CHRO, Kotak Mahindra Bank||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/leaders-need-to-connect-with-gen-c/articleshow/76842837.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Nagpur||To widen road by 2 metres, 3.5k trees to be chopped||Yavatmal: To broaden 61km road between Yavatmal-Darwha-Kukta by two metres (6 feet), the public works department (PWD) will cut at least 3,500 shadowy trees aged between 50-100 years.Over 100 big trees have already been felled near Jamwadi and Tiwasa villages in the last few days in non-forest area. The base of these felled trees was 5 to 6 feet.The existing road is 10.5-metre wide (34 feet) with shoulders and PWD plans to make it 12-metre (40 feet). PWD superintending engineer Dhananjay Chamalwar said, “Yavatmal-Kukta road is being widened under hybrid annuity model (HAM). It was sanctioned four years ago at an estimated cost of Rs280 crore. The decision was taken by my predecessors. I’m just implementing it.”A site visit on Sunday found that the two-lane (state highway 282) is already wide and has huge indigenous tree species on both sides, mostly planted during British era. A 10-km forest patch makes the road more picturesque and PWD itself has installed sign boards cautioning people to go slow as there is presence of tigers in the forest area.“Though Tipeshwar wildlife sanctuary is around 60km as crow flies from the said forest, dispersing tigers from the sanctuary have made these small fragmented patches their home and road widening will affect them badly. There is no need to widen the road as traffic volume is not so high. Besides, 75km road from Digras-Darwha-Karanja is already being widened,” says Yavatmal district honorary warden Ramzan Virani.A Mahagaon youth Rasul Sheikh said, “The patch with huge tall trees acts as powerhouse of oxygen. At no cost, this road should be widened. Only tarring can solve the problem. Earlier, while four-laning NH-361 Wardha-Yavatmal-Nanded road, forest connectivity near Kalamb has already been lost. Tree felling should be done near curvatures only to improve visibility. Last year, I had seen a tiger crossing the road near Umarda forest nursery.” Yavatmal deputy conservator (DyCF) Bhanudas Pingle says, “The PWD has not yet submitted any proposal for forest land diversion for road in forest area. The agency will need permission under Forest (Conservation) Act (FCA), 1980. Tree felling is done in non-forest area.”The ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) regional environment committee member Suresh Chopne says, “By taking up the work in non-forest area, PWD is creating a fait accompli situation. It did the same thing while constructing roads surrounding Tadoba. The PWD will complete work in non-forest area and tomorrow will blame forest department for delayed permission in completion of the project.”“The large-scale tree felling is being done despite Supreme Court saying that contribution of full-grown trees as powerhouses of oxygen should be taken into account. What is the value of oxygen that a tree gives in a lifetime? That is a cost that is ignored. It must be factored in,” says Virani.However, Chamalwar says, “We will try to save around 1,500 trees by changing road alignment and not felling trees on one side from where a water pipeline passes to MIDC. Secondly, as suggested by Yavatmal guardian and forest minister Sanjay Rathod, tree transplantation will also be thought of.”The superintending engineer said the trees will have to be felled as they fall in that two-metre roadside strip which is part of widening. Locals are for widening the road. Earlier, the proposal was for 30 metres but was reduced.Virani says the road cost doesn’t include transplantation or mitigation measures. The expanded road will create a narrow bottleneck in forest patch causing more accidents.(Pics by Vijay Pinjarkar)Ugly Face Of DevelopmentGovernment of India is upgrading existing state highway corridors having single lane/intermediate/two lane carriageway to two-lane with paved shoulders/four lane configurationsExisting road is already a two-lane and is being increased by 6.5 feet for which 3,500 trees will be felledIn 2015, highways ministry sanctioned over Rs2,800 crore for 800km roads in Yavatmal district, but wildlife mitigation plans in forest areas find no placeYavatmal-Darwha road work is part of it. Idea is to boost artery for movement of goods from Chandrapur & Yavatmal districts to MumbaiGoods transported are mostly cement from factories in Chandrapur to Akola, Amravati, Mumbai & seasonal crops and agricultural products||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/to-widen-road-by-2-metres-3-5k-trees-to-be-chopped/articleshow/76843399.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 8, 2020||Nagpur||NMC to restrict height of Ganesh idols to less than 4ft||Nagpur: The coronavirus pandemic has cast its shadow on the 10-day Ganesh festival this year with Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) deciding to restrict the height of Ganesh idols to less than four feet. The civic body has also decided not to allow mandals to take out any procession.Decisions to this effect were taken by mayor Sandip Joshi in a review meeting of health department (sanitation) at NMC headquarters on Tuesday on preparedness for the Ganesh festival, which begins on August 22. “In view of the spike in Covid cases, Ganesh mandals should ensure not more than 50 devotees gather at pandals at a given time. They should also ensure that all safety norms like Covid distancing, wearing mask and use of sanitisers is followed,” said Joshi.State government will issue guidelines on celebrating the 10-day Ganeshotsav by July 20, said Joshi. He, however, urged mandals not to organize community Ganesh festival in view of the current pandemic scenario. Instead, he appealed to organize Arogya Utsav (health camp festival).The meeting was attended by standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke, health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja and deputy municipal commissioner Pradip Dasarwar among others.Founder of Green Vigil Foundation, a city-based NGO, Kaustav Chatterjee welcomed the decision not only from Covid-19 point of view but from environment perspective also.“We have been insisting on putting limit on the height of idols. It has been observed on all visarjan (immersion) days in last 10 years that our efforts go in vain when huge Ganpati idols are immersed in Futala Lake polluting the water body,” he said.Three feet idols can be immersed in artificial tanks and thus we can save the lake as well as the ecosystem, he said. The NMC also needs to install more artificial tanks than earlier, said Chatterjee, adding these tanks need to be widely distributed across the city so that citizens need not come to lakes for immersion. More number of tanks will ensure lesser rush at lakes and more Covid distancing. “Timely cleaning of artificial tanks is a real challenge as immersion of idol starts from the second day of festival,” said Chatterjee.Founder of Centre for Sustainable Development Leena Budhe said, “I hope and pray that someday we will have a complete ban on idol immersions in lakes as it is highly polluting.”According to her, incumbent mayor was the first elected representative who supported installation of a permanent copper idol at Laxmi Nagar mandal where they install a small ‘Shalu Nari Ganeshji’ for immersion. The same copper idol is used every year, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-restrict-height-of-ganesh-idols-to-less-than-4ft/articleshow/76843407.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 8, 2020||Business||Specsmakers gets $7 mn more from Eight Roads Ventures||Chennai: Optical retailer Specsmakers on Tuesday said it has raised $7 million from Eight Roads Ventures to fund its omni channel foray besides expanding its digital capabilities. Pratik Shah, CEO & founder of Specsmakers said,“Like most other companies, these last few months has forced us to rethink the way we do things and quickly adapt to the new normal. Launching our online store and thinking of ways to make our customers lives easier and more convenient.”“We have grown at a CAGR of 50%+ over the past few years, with growth in FY20 being nearly 55%. Operating metrics such as store-level profitability and revenue per store continue to remain robust despite store footprint growing from current.100 stores to 260+ stores across 30+ cities.” he added. “We received the money in two tranches, the second of which was Rs 23 crore last month.” The first was received in January. Eight Roads invested in 2017 into the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/specsmakers-gets-7-mn-more-from-eight-roads-ventures/articleshow/76842778.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Patna||NHAI starts bidding process for key 4-lane projects||PATNA: National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has initiated bidding process for four ambitious four-lane projects, including Patna-Gaya-Dobhi road and Ara-Mohania road. State road construction minister Nand Kishor Yadav said contractors have also been selected for Patna-Gaya-Dobhi project, which is pending from several years now. “The total length of the national highways to be widened into four lanes under the four projects is around 392km. The four projects entail an expenditure of Rs 7,640.35 crore,” the minister said. Elaborating on the 119.83km-long Ara-Mohania project, Yadav told TOI, “It is a strategic project with regard to road connectivity for people going from Patna to Varanasi and other places in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. The four-lane connectivity will reduce travel time and distance between Ara town and Mohania, where the road connects the golden quadrilateral highway.” As per a statement issued by the RCD minister, NHAI has divided Ara-Mohania project in two packages – package 1 (59.03km) and package 2(60.80km). Overall, Rs 1231.11 crore would be spent to execute the project. The 127.22km-long Patna-Gaya-Dobhi project has been stuck in limbo after the contractor – IL&FS Engineering and Construction Limited – left the project midway more than a year ago. Sources said work has not been completed in more than 20% of the entire stretch of the road even after seven years of launch of the project. The matter has also gone to Patna high court and state government and NHAI were taken to task after the chief justice of HC, Sanjay Karol, returned to Patna by train from Gaya after leaving his car owing to poor condition of the road in December last year. However, officials said new contractors have been selected for ensuring completion of the project in not more than two-and-a-half years. “Land acquisition has almost been completed for the entire stretch of Patna-Gaya-Dobhi road and fresh concessionaires have been selected by NHAI through re-tendering,” the minister said. Like Ara-Mohania road, Patna-Gaya road is also being executed in three packages – package 1 (39km), package 2 (44km) and package 3 (44.22km) – with an estimated expenditure of Rs 1,751.22 crore. On Rajauli-Bakhtiyarpur project, the RCD minister said the 98.12km-long road is the key for people going from Patna to Ranchi via Nawada. “It will also improve the road- connectivity from Patna to northeastern states via Mokama and Purnia. NHAI has initiated bidding process for this project,” Yadav added. Another project mentioned by the RCD minister was 47.4km-long Narainpur- Purnia four-lane to be developed by NHAI. “It will provide connectivity to an upcoming bridge over the Ganga connecting Sahebganj in Jharkhand and Manihari in Bihar,” Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nhai-starts-bidding-process-for-key-4-lane-projects/articleshow/76841746.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 8, 2020||Business||Unacademy buys med entrance test coaching co in $50m deal||TNN Bengaluru: Education technology startup Unacademy has acquired Chandigarh-based PrepLadder for $50 million in cash and stock as it looks to build up its presence in the postgraduate medical entrance exam preparation space. PrepLadder, which has about 150 employees, helps with entrance exams like NEET PG and FMGE, and has over 85,000 active subscribers. Unacademy links educators giving lessons to students through online videos for competitive exams like UPSC (civil services), IIT-JEE, and bank probationary officers. The deal will be the fourth acquisition of Unacademy after government entrance exams platform Wifistudy, competitive programming website CodeChef, and GATE coaching site Kreatryx. The development comes as the five-year-old startup is in talks to raise a new round at a valuation of over $1.2 billion, as TOI reported last month. Unacademy said that it has doubled its paying customers to 200,000 over the last three months. It is conducting 3,000 live classes daily, with users spending 1.9 billion minutes a month across its platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/unacademy-buys-med-entrance-test-coaching-co-in-50m-deal/articleshow/76842690.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Lucknow||Woman dies of Covid-19 as kin fail to spot symptoms||Lucknow: In another example of lack of awareness among people about Covid-19 symptoms, the test report of a 56-year-old woman, which came a day after her death, on Tuesday revealed that she was suffering from the novel coronavirus infection. A resident of Daliganj, the woman was suffering from fever and breathlessness for the past several days, but family members rushed her to the SPM Civil Hospital hospital emergency when she collapsed at home on Monday night. “She was declared brought dead. Her family members told us that she had a fever and breathing problem for the past five days, but they took it as seasonal fever and gave her paracetamol. Since the symptoms family told us were of Covid-19, we took samples from the body and got them tested. The report came positive. It appears that respiratory failure due to hypoxaemia — extremely low blood oxygen levels — was the cause of death,” said hospital director Dr DS Negi. With her death, the Covid toll in the city reached 27. In 90% of the cases, patients were brought to the hospital at the last stage as their family members could not identify Covid-19 symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-dies-of-covid-19-as-kin-fail-to-spot-symptoms/articleshow/76843861.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Business||Smaller packs fly off shelves as on the go consumption rises||Chennai: As people begin moving out for work,smaller packs of biscuits and snacks are witnessing growth. Biscuit makers including Unibic are saying that their Rs 10 pack is witnessing a spike in demand. The lower SKUs (stock keeping units) have seen their share go up by 10% by volume and the sale in June is higher for the lower price points. “The small packs are good both for on the go consumption and also for pocket friendly needs. People are on the move again slowly, especially those in the blue collar workforce. They are purchasing smaller ticket sizes to consume on the move since it’s not still safe to eat outside,” said Srini Vudayagiri, chief executive officer, Unibic. Parle, saw its highest ever sales during lockdown, added that in the tier-2 cities, smaller packs were doing well from a budget perspective too. “Not just the flagship Parle G brand, but also the other brands in our portfolio are seeing a jump in the Rs 5 and Rs 10 categories. In the metros, however, larger packs continue to do well since work from home happens on a larger scale,” said Mayank Shah, category head, Parle With offices and factories open with a skeletal workforce, consumers are wary of eating outside. “I get my lunch from home but for snacking, I pick up a packet of biscuit or chips since they are packed. Given the current conditions it is difficult to trust a tea shop or an eatery for we don’t know the hygiene levels. My consumption of packaged snacks has gone up from thrice a month to minimum twice a week,” said Varun Muniaraj, a designer in an ad agency. Dairy giant Amul too is seeing consumption rise for its smaller packs across categories including flavoured milk, ice creams and chocolates too. R S Sodhi, MD, GCMMF (Amul) said that there is a 20%-30% growth in the smaller SKUs after the nation-wide lockdown eased. “All in the Rs 10 to Rs 25 segments are moving fast. We also observe the immunity segment, with the ginger and tulsi concoctions seeing movement among the smaller packs. Among households, we also see Rs 10 milk powder sachets and Rs 50 tetra packs doing well,” he added. Snapbizz, which provides data and tech support to Kirana stores, also observed a jump in demand for smaller SKUs for biscuits. “Snacks, especially biscuits, are a constant entry in every basket. People are spending the same amount overall but the quantity has gone up by 50% since the first week of May, looking at our buying patterns. This is an indication that smaller SKUs are being purchased,” said Prem Kumar, founder, Snapbizz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/smaller-packs-fly-off-shelves-as-on-the-go-consumption-rises/articleshow/76842752.cms||Aparna Desikan
July 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: DMs to take a call on home isolation of Covid patients||PATNA: The crisis management group of the state government headed by chief secretary Deepak Kumar took a decision on Tuesday that district magistrates can impose additional curbs to prevent the spread of Covid-19. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of crisis management group and instructions were also issued for creation of a buffer zone around the periphery of containment zones to restrict the movement of public vehicles and people in those areas. The state health department also issued a letter on Tuesday to allow home isolation or quarantine for common people, like for doctors and other health workers. Health department’s principal secretary Uday Singh Kumawat issued a letter to all the district magistrates on Tuesday stating that only those people would avail the facility who fulfilled the requisite facilities at home. “They will have to undergo a health check-up on a regular basis while being in home quarantine. If any symptoms are visible, they will immediately report to the nearby primary health centre or the government hospital for proper treatment,” the letter said. Kumawat said a Covid patient would be asked for the home isolation only when there would be enough space and facilities at their homes. “If the person is suffering from any symptoms of Covid -19, he or she has to contact the nearby health centres for the treatment. The home isolation for Covid infected people would be for 14 days after the sample collection of swabs, provided s/he turns asymptomatic,” he said. “The DMs and civil surgeons have to take undertakings from the person concerned regarding self-isolation,” he added. Home isolation apart, sources said the decision with regard to authorizing DMs to enhance curbs has been taken in the light of rising number of Covid cases in the state. A statement issued by the state government in this regard stated that the order issued by Union ministry of home affairs for Unlock 2.0 stated that state governments can impose the required additional and strict measures based on the prevailing scenario. Accordingly, it was decided in the meeting that required curbs will be implemented by the DMs on the assessment of local scenario. The state government has also authorized the DMs to order closure for two days of shops even adjacent to those where people are seen without face masks or social- distancing is not seen followed. Such orders can be implemented for market places as well where preventive norms are not being followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dms-to-take-a-call-on-home-isolation-of-covid-patients/articleshow/76841520.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Enforcement Directorate likely to launch probe into gold smuggling case||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is likely to launch a probe into the seizure of 30kg gold at Trivandrum international airport which has snowballed into a political controversy in the state. The agency, which is empowered to probe the case under Sections of Foreign Exchange Management Act, is likely to register a case after the customs files its chargesheet. Since several jewellers in the state are suspected consumers of smuggled gold, the ED feels that there could be some connection with the gold that has been smuggled in the diplomatic baggage with settling funds using the gold. Recently, ED had slapped a notice on a major jeweller in the state over a Dubai-based hawala transaction using gold. Sources said in the case of the ongoing probe into the gold smuggling case, the ED may also look into the money laundering angle. “Once the customs files a chargesheet under section 135 of the customs act, the ED can treat the case as the one for money laundering,” sources said. The perpetrators of the gold smuggling case are suspected to have committed the crime several times earlier using the same method. Hence, the probe by ED could reach more customers who have benefitted from the smuggled gold.“Mostly, gold is used to settle payments in illegal trade. Many a time, in jewellery shops, legal gold remains unsold. This phenomenon surfaced mainly after demonetisation. At least 30-50% of gold that comes to the state are smuggled and are illegal,” sources said. Since the international commercial air operations have been suspended due to Covid-19 outbreak, the smugglers are depending on other methods.  “Normally, those who are engaged in such activities will explore other options for continuing their trade. The present case could be one such option. But this could also be a routine mode of operation as it is a safer option due to diplomatic immunity,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ed-likely-to-launch-probe-into-gold-smuggling-case/articleshow/76862605.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Patna||Flight operations from Darbhanga likely to start by December: Bihar minister||PATNA: Darbhanga airbase will be ready for commercial flight operations by December this year, state water resources minister Sanjay Jha said. “CM Nitish Kumar inspected the ongoing works in June and various issues were sorted out accordingly to expedite the works. I met civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri at New Delhi on Monday. As of now, efforts are being made to make all required infrastructure partially ready by September and completely ready by December,” Jha told TOI over phone from Delhi on Tuesday. The foundation stone for development of civil enclave and other utilities required for flight operations at Darbhanga airbase was laid by CM Nitish Kumar on December 24, 2018. Nitish on June 24 requested the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to complete the works at the earliest. The upcoming terminal building is getting constructed over an area of 15,000sq feet, having capacity to accommodate 200 passengers at peak hour. SpiceJet has been selected to operate flights from Darbhanga in the bidding process conducted earlier under Udan (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik) scheme. KS Vijayan, general manager (engineering), projects, AAI-Patna told this newspaper on Tuesday that they are expecting all civil enclave and re-carpeting of airstrip Darbhanga airport works to be done by September-end. “Around 95% work of the terminal building has been completed. As far as runway is concerned, around 50% recarpeting work has been done. It will be enough for the take-off and the landing of the aircraft. The total length of runway is 2,590 metres. Only the road issues (entrance and exit route) are to be resolved,” Vijayan said. The SpiceJet, under Udan scheme, is to operate flights from Darbhanga to Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru. “We will start flight operations as soon as we are informed that the airstrip is ready for commercial flights,” one of the SpiceJet executives said. The district administration is in the process of acquiring additional 31 acre land in Ranipur-Bihatwara area for construction of a permanent civil enclave at Darbhanga airbase. The AAI officials said the state government had already sanctioned funds for land acquisition. “Some swapping has to take place between India Air Force and AAI for the permanent terminal building,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flight-operations-from-darbhanga-likely-to-start-by-dec-minister/articleshow/76841801.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 deaths reach 100 in Bihar||PATNA: With three more Covid-19 deaths, the number of fatalities rose to 100 in Bihar while 385 new positive cases were registered in the state on Tuesday, taking the corresponding tally to 12,525. Patna reported the highest number of cases with 56 new ones. According to sources at the Patna Municipal Corporation, Mayor Sita Sahu’s son also tested positive on Tuesday along with three officials, including a sanitary in-charge officer and ward councillors. As many as 9,338 patients have recovered so far in Bihar, while 3,087 active cases remain in the state. Altogether 324 people have been discharged from hospitals and isolation centres in the past 24 hours and Bihar’s recovery rate is now at 74.55%. The three deaths were reported from Kaimur, Samastipur and Muzaffarpur respectively. Two of the deceased were undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna. AIIMS-Patna nodal officer for Covid, Dr Sanjeev Kumar told this newspaper that a 65-year-old man from Muzaffarpur was admitted on July 4 and tested positive the next day. “He was suffering from coronary artery disease, hypertension and diabetes. He complained of respiratory problems when he was admitted here. The man died Tuesday afternoon,” he said. A 29- year- old man from Baraurid village under Ujiarpur police station in Samastipur also passed away at AIIMS-Patna. He had no travel history. Dr Sanjeev said the patient was admitted at AIIMS-Patna on June 30 after he complained of breathlessness. “He was not suffering from any other ailments. The man tested positive with coronavirus on July 1 and passed away on Tuesday,” he said. As per information shared by the state health department, positive cases were reported from all 38 districts. The district which reported the highest number of cases are — Munger (30), Gaya (29), Bhagalpur (26), Madhubani (25), Katihar (24), Supaul (21), Siwan (19), Muzaffarpur (15), Saran (14), Sitamarhi (13), 11 each in Banka and East Champaran, Sheikhpura (10), eight each in Jehanabad and Samastipur, seven each in Bhojpur, Kishanganj and Nawada, and Lakhisarai (5). According to health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh, altogether 2,69,277 testing of samples have been done in the state so far and 5,168 samples were tested in the past 24 hours in which 385 samples tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-deaths-reach-100-in-bihar/articleshow/76841387.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 8, 2020||Goa||Assonora refuses cremation, says deceased not a resident||PANAJI: After the Assonora village panchayat refused to allow a resident to conduct his father’s last rites on the grounds that he was not from the village, the Bardez block development officer (BDO) has written to the panchayat stating that it has a duty to provide crematorium facilities within its jurisdiction. The letter from BDO-1, Bardez, Anil Dhumaskar, states that in 2017, village panchayat secretaries were instructed to take appropriate steps to provide burial grounds and crematoria within their jurisdiction. The resident, Anil Patil, told TOI that he’s been living in Assonora for the past ten years, and has a house in the village. However, when his father died last month, he couldn’t conduct his last rites there. He said that the panchayat, as well as its crematorium committee, refused to allow the last rites as his father didn’t have documents to show he was a resident. Patil’s father, who was unwell, had moved to Assonora to stay with his son during his last days. He later died, and was refused permission to be cremated. “At the eleventh hour, I had to arrange to take my father’s body to the Mapusa crematorium,” Patil said, adding that a panch member, Pravin Bugde, helped him do so. “It was quite shocking that I couldn’t conduct my father’s last rites in the village I’ve spent the last decade in”. Patil, shocked by the panchayat’s stance, wrote to the deputy collector seeking action. “There can’t be such a law,” he said. “That’s why I approached the authorities seeking justice.” Bugde, the panch member, said that the village panchayat faced problems in the past, and as a result, its crematorium committee, members and locals decided that a person would be allowed to be cremated at the Assonora crematorium only if they are a resident of Assonora. “We have a called a meeting with regards to the communication received from the BDO’s office,” he said. The BDO, which directed the panchayat secretary to call a meeting and verify the rules framed under the Goa Panchayati Raj Act, 1994, also asked the panchayat to take necessary action and submit a compliance report within 30 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/assonora-refuses-cremation-says-deceased-not-a-resident/articleshow/76843406.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Business||Retailers use prepaid gift cards to get assured biz||MUMBAI: Retailers, particularly those in the lifestyle segment, are looking at gift cards to drive sales. While some chains are offering discounted vouchers directly to customers, others are offering in bulk to employers to use them as rewards or incentivise employees. The gift cards are available through various channels, including online, e-commerce platforms and in-store. For retailers, the gift cards offer a dual advantage. First, they ensure that the customers make a purchase within a year and, second, it gives them liquidity upfront. While the discounts are modest on the retail sales of vouchers on retail and e-commerce platforms, retailers are willing to offer larger discounts to corporates as they save a lot on distribution costs. Shoppers Stop, for instance, is selling e-gift vouchers on Amazon with 7% discount on checkout. Apparel retailer Max offers 4% discount on its cards. Speaking to TOI, Qwikcilver Solutions co-founder & CEO Kumar Sudarsan said that retailers have started realising the potential of prepaid gift cards. These can be used not just as gifting options but also as a powerful tool to get customers to spend in their outlet by offering cards for self-use and selling them to corporates. Qwikcilver Solutions is a tech company that acts as a service provider in the gift cards space. Its technology platform allows retailers to issue cards in any format — SMS, email, physical printouts or plastic cards — almost instantaneously. The company handles gift cards for thousands of retailers, including Amazon, Flipkart, Snapdeal, Shoppers Stop, Ikea, M&S, Pepperfry, Big Basket, Pantaloons and almost every major brand in the retail space. According to Sudarsan, the gift card acts as a powerful tool because, through it, the customer gets a deal and the company gets upfront liquidity along with the assurance that there are assured customers during the year. Recently the company got on board Tanishq, Taj Hotels, Big Basket and PVR Cinemas. PVR is offering its gift cards at a flat discount of 30% as part of a limited period offer. Hidesign is offering up to 15% discount on purchases made on its gift cards, while Croma is offering 5% discount on purchases made on its gift card after September. “Last year, we did around Rs 14,000 crore of gift cards. The lockdown did impact sales in the first quarter. But now we are back to 70% of pre-Covid-19 levels,” said Sudarsan. Unlike general-purpose prepaid cards issued by payment networks, the gift cards offered by retailers are a closed-loop instrument, meaning they cannot be used outside the retail chain and cannot be converted into cash — both which work out to the advantage of the retailers. Qwikcilver, which was founded in 2006, was acquired by Pine Labs last year in a $110-million deal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/retailers-use-prepaid-gift-cards-to-get-assured-biz/articleshow/76842732.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 8, 2020||Patna||AIIMS-Patna to start clinical trials of vaccine||PATNA: The clinical trials of Covid-19 vaccine — Covaxin — will begin at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)- Patna on July 10. A team of doctors has been formed for human trials of the vaccine jointly developed by the National Institute of Virology-Pune and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The ICMR has selected AIIMS-Patna among 12 institutes in the country for the clinical trials of the indigenous BBV152 Covid vaccine. The ICMR has selected only those institutes, which have clinical pharmacology wings and experienced medicos for handling similar human trials. AIIMS-P superintendent Dr CM Singh told this newspaper on Tuesday that the clinical trials of Covid vaccine would begin in the next two days, following completion of certain formalities related to logistics and other procedures. “Its pre-clinical trials on animals have been successful. The results were also encouraging. It was seen in the trials that animals developed immunity effectively. We would follow the protocol for clinical trials as suggested by the ICMR,” Dr Singh said. He added: “Initially, the clinical vaccine trials will be done on 100 people registered for the same. In the second phase, we will increase the number, depending on its outcome. The clinical trials duration is 6-8 months.” The vaccine trials would be done on only healthy people in the age group of 22-50 years, irrespective of gender. The ICMR would approve the vaccine for general use depending on the trials outcome, he said. The ICMR, in a statement on July 4, stated that based on in-depth scrutiny of the available data from pre-clinical studies, the Drugs Controller General of India has accorded permission to conduct phase-1 and 2 clinical trials of the vaccine developed by the BBIL in collaboration with ICMR-NIV, Pune. “Now that the preclinical studies have been completed successfully, the phase-1 and 2 human trials are to be initiated. A letter by DG, ICMR, to the investigators of the clinical trial sites, was meant to cut unnecessary red tape, without bypassing any necessary process, and to speed up recruitment of participants,” the ICMR has stated. It added: “Faced with the unprecedented nature of Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent dislocation of normal life, all other vaccine candidates across the globe have been similarly fast-tracked. ICMR’s process is exactly in accordance with the globally accepted norms to fast-track the vaccine development for diseases of pandemic potential wherein human and animal trials can continue in parallel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-patna-to-start-clinical-trials-of-covid-19-vaccine-on-july-10/articleshow/76841436.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 8, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19 patient with renal failure treated successfully||Trichy: Refused treatment by private hospital after testing positive for Covid-19, an 18-year-old male from Pudukottai with renal failure was treated successfully and discharged on Tuesday. Michael Williams from Kattubawa Pallivasal in Pudukkottai district, was undergoing hemodialysis at a private nursing Home in Madurai for the last one year. He has undergone hemodialysis 62-times and spent nearly Rs 5 lakh, he was refused treatment by a private nursing home in Madurai after he tested positive. He was admitted at the Government Ranees Isolation Hospital in Pudukkottai on June 27. Hospital dean Dr A L Meenakshi Sundaram said there are two dedicated dialysis machines available at Ranees Hospital and he is the first one to be treated. Michael Williams said that when he entered the hospital he was nervous but he learned that the facilities are better than the private hospital and the treatment too. “The doctors and staff nurses here are well behaved. I want to specifically mention that the toilets are maintained in a hygienic manner,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-19-patient-with-renal-failure-treated-successfully/articleshow/76843401.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Noida||Greater Noida authority revokes Rs 9.8 crore bill to allottees for farmer compensation||GREATER NOIDA: A bill of nearly Rs 10 crore raised on 1,950 house and plot owners in Greater Noida as additional compensation charges to be paid to farmers has been revoked after years of protests by residents. The decision by the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) has raised hopes of a resolution to a long-running dispute — on the calculation of farmers’ dues — that has affected nearly 5,500 land allottees, who invested in homes or land in GNIDA schemes. The complaints have primarily been on two counts – that the allottees were overcharged, or charged unjustly, like in Sector 36 and Omicron III where the 1,950 allottees whose compensation bill stands rescinded have their properties. Kailash Bhati, president of the Sector 36 RWA who has been leading the fight against the compensation charges, explained, “Land to develop Sector 36 and a portion of Omicron III was not bought directly from farmers. Instead, GNIDA had entered into an agreement with 16 cooperative societies that owned land in and around Accher village in 1994-95. The transaction between societies happened under the land exchange policy (LEP).” The LEP was formulated because GNIDA, which was formed for industrial development, needed large tracts of land that was in possession of societies registered the UP Cooperative Societies Act, 1956. The GNIDA, therefore, came up with the LEP in the early 90s, asking societies to exchange their land for developed residential plots. What GNIDA did was develop the entre land and hand over 40% of it back to the societies on payment of development charges. It kept the remaining 60% in its possession for urban and industrial development. But from May 1, 2013, GNIDA started issuing notices to all allottees to pay the additional compensation bill in the wake of the Greater Noida land agitation that ended with the Allahabad high court ordering an extra 64.7% payout to farmers. Residents objected, saying the demand was an illegitimate one in their case. Besides, the allotments in these two areas had been made through draws of lot 15 years ago. Many didn’t pay, waiting for a resolution, but many others did, yielding to notices and the threat of legal action. Collectively, the amount these 1,950 allottees were asked to pay was Rs 9.82 crore. Those who have already made payments will now be given an option to adjust this against dues on other heads they have or charges they have to pay in future. The amount will vary for each allottee depending on the size of the land or house. While Sector 36 has 1,750 plot allottees, 200 flat buyers staying in Omicron III who invested in GNIDA’s group housing project will also benefit from this decision. “The decision to adjust Rs 9.82 crore was taken in line with the directive of the GNIDA board. Those settled in sectors taken over under the land exchange policy will get the benefits. We will cover the shortfall through upcoming schemes and not demand any money to pay farmers from such allottees from now on,” GNIDA additional CEO KK Gupta said. It wasn’t immediately known if homebuyers in more areas would get relief on account of the LEP. But the 3,500 allottees who have objected to the calculation methodology for farmers’ compensation will now seek resolution of their bills too. President of the federation of RWAs in Greater Noida, Devendra Tiger, said, “We are happy with the decision to forego Rs 9.82 crore. The present dispensation is trying the address the issue that had been lingering for seven years. It has been found that instead of Rs 1,287 per sqm, allottees were asked to pay Rs 1,465 per sqm towards farmers’ compensation. Thousands of allottees have settled dues worried about criminal proceedings. They are eligible for refunds but we have not heard from the authority yet.” Gupta said the issue of higher compensation being charged was also being looked into. “We are aware about this and have worked out the difference in amount. Due to the lockdown, board meetings could not take place and the matter will be taken up in the next meeting,” said Gupta. Officials said refunds are thus far only being considered for those allocated property directly by the GNIDA and not those who have bought flats in group housing societies where additional compensation has been collected by builders. Watch Greater Noida authority revokes Rs 9.8 crore bill to allottees for farmer compensation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/gnida-revokes-rs-9-8-crore-bill-to-allottees-for-farmer-compensation/articleshow/76843424.cms||Shalabh
July 8, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana health minister Anil Vij orders police complaint against Gurugram lab after report||AMBALA: Haryana health minister Anil Vij has directed the health department to lodge a police complaint against Gurugram-based SRL Lab, which had in April reported negative samples of Covid-19 as positive in Ambala and some other districts of the state. Vij had marked an inquiry, following the suspicious reports by SRL Lab, to be conducted by the civil surgeons of Ambala and Gurugram districts. The inquiry was completed by the officials and the file sent to the health minister for further action. Haryana director-general health services (DGHS) Suraj Bhan said, “The report file regarding this lab was sent to the Haryana home minister on Monday and we are still waiting for directions from his side. I will have to study the instructions made by the minister and action would be initiated according to the facts of the report.” On Monday, Vij had told media, “A departmental inquiry was conducted after we received a complaint against the SRL Lab. The samples which the lab claimed to be (Covid-19) positive were found to be negative when examined by other labs. Therefore, instructions have been issued to lodge an FIR against this lab.” Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The health department had sought a report into the functioning of SRL Lab. We completed the inquiry and submitted the report, while highlighting flaws in the functioning of lab.” Sources in the health department said such false reports of Covid-19 tests had been reported from Ambala, Gurugram, Panipat, Nuh and Faridabad districts and the civil surgeons concerned filed their reports in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/vij-orders-police-complaint-against-ggn-lab-after-report/articleshow/76843425.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 8, 2020||Goa||GTDC allowed to repair Dona Paula approach bridge without new piling||PANAJI: The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has granted permission to the Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) to repair the approach bridge connecting the Dona Paula tourist spot to mainland. The GCZMA has however asked GTDC to carry out the repairs by strengthening the existing bridge itself and without carrying out new piling. GTDC had told GCZMA that the approach bridge had ‘developed some technical issues and declared unsafe for tourists’ movement and hence needs urgent repair’. Accordingly, in February, a joint inspection of the site was carried out. “Considering the current status of the approach bridge, pathway and floorings, it is recommended that NoC may be granted to the works proposed by the GTDC with the condition that the work does not involve dredging and shifting of pillars or addition of new pillars,” the GCZMA expert member said in his report. He said that in case the work involves constructing new pillars by replacing the old ones, this should be permitted by laying down certain conditions. Subsequently, the GCZMA held a meeting last month, and the report was discussed. “The Authority after perusing the plans of the project proponent decided to convey approval to the same to the fact that there won’t be any piling done to reinforce the pillars but the existing ones itself would have to be strengthened as per the proposal. The beautification of the area shall be done strictly in accordance with the plans and any deviation there from would require fresh approval of the Authority,” the GCZMA said in its decision. The authority also approved another proposal by GTDC at the same meeting, where it allowed setting up of a pre-fabricated 90sqm tourist information centre at Santa Monica Jetty in Panaji, under the central government’s Swadesh Darshan scheme. “The pre-fabricated tourist information centre will be placed on the platform already developed for the purpose of parking. No cement or excavation of the area is required,” an expert member of GCZMA noted after inspection of the site in May. “The Authority after having seen the proposal and the observation given by the expert member decided to give approval to the said proposal as it is only placement of a pre-fabricated unit without any intervention in the ecology,” the GCZMA said at its meeting last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gtdc-allowed-to-repair-dona-paula-approach-bridge-without-new-piling/articleshow/76843431.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Bhopal||Jamtara-like loan racket: 4 more cases against accused||Bhopal: A day after cybercrime branch busted a Jamtara-style loan fraud racket being operated in Sheopur district of Madhya Pradesh, four more cases were registered against the nabbed accused at Balaghat, Chhindwara, Seoni and State Cybercrime headquarters on Tuesday. Police have taken the accused on remand and will take them to Kota to investigate the racket being operated by the alleged kingpin in Rajasthan. The cops claimed that major revelations are expected during investigations. Police have already received details of around 15to 20 such module active in bordering areas of MP and Rajasthan. ASP (cybercrime branch) Sandesh Jain said that four more cases were registered against the accused on basis of complaint pending against them at Seoni, Balaghat, Chhindwara and state cybercrime headquarters. State cybercrime headquarters booked the accused for duping a man to the tune of Rs3.7 lakh, Seoni police booked them in a fraud of Rs2.7 lakh while Balaghat and Chhindwara booked the fraudsters for duping victims of Rs70,000 and Rs50,000 respectively. ASP Jain said that the magnitude of fraud incidents committed by the accused may run into crores of rupees. Police have already seized the details of 661 victims duped by the accused on pretext of facilitating cheaper loans. Notably, the city cybercrime branch on Monday busted the loan fraud racket and nabbed six fraudsters. including the kingpin, who have duped thousands of people to the tune of crores on pretext of offering loans on low interest rates and small EMIs. They siphoned money from victim’s accounts in the name of processing fees, insurance and other heads. The gang was busted on basis of complaint filed by a Platoon Commander, posted in 7 th Battalion of special armed forces (SAF), who was duped to the tune of Rs1.81 lakh on pretext of a loan of Rs 15 lakh. The accused, who are all either farmers or labourers, used to give advertisements in newspapers and sent bulk SMSes to lure well-educated victims in their net. Since lockdown, they were sending messages and offering fake loans in name of Prime Minister loan scheme and Covid-19 treatment loan. The accused used the victim’s ID to open bank account and purchase SIM cards. The kingpin allegedly learned the fraud trick in Haryana and then started his gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/jamtara-like-loan-racket-4-more-cases-against-accused/articleshow/76843420.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Nagpur||With rapid antigen tests, record surge of Covid-19 cases in Vid||Nagpur: Many districts in Vidarbha, including Nagpur, started using the rapid antigen tests from July 7 which ensured a simple process and quick results. Thanks to the rapid tests, all 11 districts in Vidarbha region reported Covid-19 cases for the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic. On Tuesday, 222 cases were reported which broke all the records of a single-day spike. Out of these cases, at least 100 were reported through rapid antigen testing. Vidarbha now has 5792 cases. On the other hand, the number of recovered patients was also record breaking on July 7. In all, 122 patients recovered, taking the total number of recovered patients to 4137 which means more than 70% recovery rate. However, the increasing number of deaths, that too of patients from a younger age group is still a major concern for the region. On July 7, five deaths were reported in Vidarbha – one each in Nagpur, Yavatmal, Akola, Amravati and Wardha. Out of these, Nagpur’s deceased was a 45-year-old man. The deceased from Amravati was also a man (60 years old). In Yavatmal and Akola, two women, both aged 52 years, died while undergoing treatment. In Wardha, a 75-year-old man, who died in hospital, tested positive for Covid-19. The number of covid deaths in Vidarbha is now 181. Akola alone accounts for 90 of these deaths. Akola: Worst-hit by Covid-19 in Vidarbha, Akola recorded one more death – 90th of the district on July 7. A 52-year-old woman from the Covid-19 hotspot ‘Khair Mohammad plot’ died while undergoing treatment. She was admitted since June 27. Apart from this death, 37 new positive cases were detected. These include 16 from Akola city and 21 from Patur where rapid antigen tests were conducted on July 5 and 6. The number of cases in Akola surged to 1779. With 47 patients discharged from the GMCH and CCC, the number of discharged patients here are now 1333. The recovery rate of Akola is nearly 75% which is satisfactory, but the mortality rate is 5% which is a matter of concern for the authorities. Buldhana: Rapid antigen testing began in full swing in Buldhana district. On July 7, 91 reports were received through rapid kit testing. Out of these, 15 tested positive. Apart from this, 133 samples tested in the conventional RT-PCR machine in Akola GMCH. Out of these, 28 tested positive. In short, after registering no Covid-19 case on July 6, Buldhana registered its highest single day surge of 43 cases on July 7. Total cases in district are now 343. On the other hand, 11 patients recovered and were discharged from the hospital. This took the total recovery to 201 which hints at 58% recovery rate. Buldhana has 129 active cases at present. Amravati: Death of a 60-year-old man from Tarkheda locality here and a spike of 25 new cases have forced the administration to announce a complete two-day lockdown in the entire district from Friday evening. “In view of the growing number of covid positive cases, I have issued orders for complete lockdown in the district from 7pm of Friday to 7am of Monday every week,” said district collector Shailesh Naval.Official sources said that the 60-year-old man from Tarkheda died at home on July 2 and tested positive the next day. AMC reported this death to the health administration. This is the second death from Tarkheda and 28th overall from the district. The district also witnessed a spike of 25 new cases to take its count to 725. As many as 40 patients were discharged on Tuesday to take the count of recovered patients to 510.Yavatmal: A 52-year-old woman of Tayade Nagar died due to coronavirus on Tuesday after four days of struggle at the government medical college’s (GMC) isolation ward. This was the third day in a row on which Yavatmal recorded a Covid-19 death. The death toll of Yavatmal is 15 so far. On Tuesday, 16 new patients tested positive, making the total number of positive cases 86. Out of the 16 positive cases, 12 are from Yavatmal city while two each are from Pusad and Ner tehsils. Of the 12 positives from the city, seven are men and five women.In Pusad, two men got infected, one is a transporter who went to Mumbai for medical treatment where he tested positive and as soon as he returned, the authorities sent him to GMC Yavatmal. His two sons have been quarantined. One of the clerks in the GMC boys’ section tested positive and accordingly, the entire office was sanitized and all those who came in contact with the positive clerk were quarantined. The GMC’s isolation ward has 110 persons. On Tuesday, 47 swab samples were sent to the lab. Reports of 406 tests are awaited.Wardha: A 75-year-old man from Arvi, who tested positive on Tuesday afternoon for coronavirus, died during treatment hours after his report came positive. The deceased was admitted to Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital on Monday evening as he had sustained head injuries after he accidentally fell at his home in Ramdev Baba ward in Arvi. The administration had sent his swab sample for testing as a precautionary measure. The health department has quarantined one of the relatives of the deceased while contact tracing is also being done. Preventive measures were also taken in Ramdev Baba ward. Cause of death of the elderly man is yet to be ascertained.Chandrapur: Five corona positive persons were detected in Chandrapur late on Monday night. They include three jawans of the SRPF battalion posted here and two others.As the three jawans are not natives of Chandrapur, they have not been officially accounted to Chandrapur’s tally. Hence, the number of total Covid cases in the district is considered as 125.Officials claimed that though the three jawans have been found positive, they have no symptoms. They are being treated and their condition is stable. All three are native of Pune and came to Chandrapur on July 1. All three were under institutional quarantine and their reports came positive late on Monday.Two others, including a 27-year-old Kamptee-returnee from Urjanagar and a Padoli resident, a 36-year-old MIDC worker, were detected positive.Meanwhile, the district administration has announced full lockdown in Chimur, Bhadrawati and Bramhapuri towns. Barring shops of essential commodities, no other establishment will be allowed to remain open and all kinds of public and private programmes have been cancelled. All those coming from outside the district will be compulsorily sent to institutional quarantine.So far, 71 persons have been treated and cured while there are 57 active patients here.Gondia: Two more tested positive in Gondia district on July 7. Both are men – one is a Kuwait returnee and another came back from Chennai. Three patients recovered and were discharged on Tuesday. Reports of as many as 614 samples are awaited. Washim: Out of the 11 that tested positive on July 7, nine are from Washim city and 2 from Mangrulpir. All are close contacts of the earlier positive patients. Five patients recovered from Washim which means that out of 141 cases, 97 have recovered and 41 are under treatment. Washim has reported 3 deaths. Bhandara: Four tested positive in Bhandara on July 7. All four are from different Tehsils – Bhandara, Paoni, Lakhni and Tumsar. Total cases in Bhandara are 98 with 79 of them having recovered. Total 19 patients are under treatment at present and more than 80 reports are yet to arrive. Gadchiroli: Eight CRPF Jawans who are already in quarantine in Gadchiroli tested positive. One person each from Dhanora and Sironcha tehsils tested positive, taking the number of cases here to 129, including 9 from different districts. With 64 of them recovering from Covid-19 and 1 death (in Telangana), the number of active cases in Gadchiroli have reached 64.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-rapid-antigen-tests-record-surge-of-covid-19-cases-in-vid/articleshow/76843413.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 8, 2020||Pune||Central control room to keep eye on hosp beds from today||Pune: Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar on Tuesday said a central control room to check bed availability in all hospitals would become operational from Wednesday. “Besides the existing online dashboard, the central control room with newly appointed officers will coordinate with the patients on bed availability in all the hospitals,” he said.Mhaisekar’s announcement comes in the wake of the death of a 68-year-old diabetic, who had complained of symptoms like breathlessness associated with Covid-19, at Sassoon general hospital after failing to get admission to the isolated intensive care unit (ICU) of two private hospitals on July 5. “Four nodal officers have been appointed and they will coordinate on hospital issues, testing and contact tracing. The central command room will monitor the entire data,” he told TOI.The divisional commissioner added that he was also considering to start rapid antigen tests for patients visiting hospitals in coordination with the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations. The aim is to immediately test a patient at the hospital and shift him or her to the Covid or non-Covid ward, depending upon the symptoms. “Sometimes people unnecessarily demand hospital beds. This also should not be done. Hospitalization of a person should depend only on the patient’s symptoms,” Mhaisekar said.Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said the doctors and staffers ate the control room would work in three shifts and guide the patients on further treatment for Covid-19. “The patients can be home quarantined or admitted to the Covid care centres on the basis of their symptoms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/central-control-room-to-keep-eye-on-hosp-beds-from-today/articleshow/76843409.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Tricity: Covid kills 2 elderly men, death toll increases to 14||CHANDIGARH: Covid-19, the illness caused from the new coronavirus, claimed two lives in the city and Mohali on Tuesday, pushing the death toll to 14 in the Tricity. An 80-year-old man succumbed to the virus at PGI, the seventh victim in the city. The patient was on a ventilator since June 11. He had reported to the hospital with breathlessness and tested positive. His wife and son too were detected with the virus last month. According to doctors, the patient was hypertensive and had history of fever. He was the only patient to stay on a ventilator for more than three weeks. “My father had no complications until he developed Covid,” said Ramesh, the son of the victim who runs a chemist shop in sector 16. In Mohali, the victim was a 70-year-old resident of Kharar. He was suffering from neck and spine injury following a road accident. He underwent a surgery at a private hospital here and tested positive for the virus. He was then shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital, Patiala. “He was on a ventilator and supposed to undergo another surgery before he died,” said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. It was the sixth fatality in the district that recorded five new cases, taking the count to 323, with 80 active cases. The patients were a 28-year-old woman from Mundi Kharar, a 40-year-old man from Zirakpur, a 48-year-old shopkeeper from Jawaharpur, a 38-year-old man from Nayagaon and a 50-year-old man from Baltana. All of them had reported at flu clinics with symptoms. In a respite, eight patients were discharged, taking the recovery count to 322. They were from Kharar, Derabassi, Baltana and Zirakpur. In Chandigarh, six new cases were detected. Two were family members — 49-year-old wife and 14-year-old daughter — of a senior cardiologist at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, who had tested on Monday. Another was a 35-year-old woman from Sector 40 — a family contact of a patient from Sector 50. The fourth case was a 24-year-old man from Sector 42. He has three family members and a maid. The next patient was a 55-year-old from Sector 51. The sixth cases was a 52-year-old resident of Sector 19 working as a manager in a bank. He tested positive in a private hospital in Mohali, the UT health department confirmed. His condition is serious as his liver is affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-kills-80-year-old-70-yr-old-men-in-city-mohali/articleshow/76842700.cms||Shimona Kanwar
July 8, 2020||Pune||Absurd to let families hunt for right type of care: Docs||Pune: The death of the elderly Covid-19 patient this week highlights certain lapses that continue to trouble the city’s patient management system, experts said. “Citizens will be unable to decide if a relative with breathlessness needs a bed with oxygen support or an ICU bed with a ventilator. So asking families to first check the dashboard and then reach out to hospitals is absurd. The onus of finding the right type of bed is on the first hospital approached by the family.” said Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director of Bharati hospital. Other experts suggested officials should now rope in smaller hospitals, with just 50 to 80 beds, for Covid-19 treatment. They also said there should be at least one bed with oxygen support in each of the 500 hospitals in Pune. Currently, only large hospitals, with a capacity of over 80 beds, have been designated as Covid units. Sudhir Patsute, head of Naidu hospital, said: “Beds with oxygen support are not widely available. The government should then allow small and medium-sized hospitals to have some isolation beds with oxygen support. Patients’ condition will not deteriorate if they are given oxygen support on the first or second day of hospital admission.” Sanjay Patil, vice-president of the IMA’s state chapter, backed the idea of more smaller hospitals. “There are many nursing homes with just 50 to 80 beds that can be scaled up. The IMA can survey these units to determine if they can be readied to treat Covid-19,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/absurd-to-let-families-hunt-for-right-type-of-care-docs/articleshow/76843417.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Any steps taken for students keen to leave schools over fee: HC||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday directed the principal secretary, department of education, UT administration, to inform about alternative arrangements made for students keen to leave private schools on account of inability of their parents to pay the fee owing to the coronavirus pandemic. The principal secretary was told to ensure to the court that the administration will get such students admitted in government schools. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan passed the orders while hearing an application filed by parents seeking directions to implead them as party in cases related to school fee. In their application, the parents said they are important stakeholders in the education of their children and aggrieved by schools charging the fee. “The applicants and their spouses, who want to be impleaded as party, shall also file affidavits explaining as to how they have suffered loss of income due to Covid-19 and explain the income as per their income tax returns for previous years along with complete details of their bank accounts, fixed deposits and income from rent,” the court ordered. The next hearing is on July 15. The main case is already pending before the court in a petition filed by Independent Schools Association for quashing the administration order of May 18 and 19 directing that only the tuition fee on monthly basis from the students be collected till further orders. WHAT THE COURT ORDERED Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan of the Punjab and Haryana high court ordered, “Principal secretary, department of education, UT administration, shall file an affidavit regarding alternative arrangements, if any, made by the administration for students/children, who want to leave private schools on account of their parents being unable to pay school fee owing to the Covid-19 situation and to ensure that the administration will get such students admitted in government schools.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/any-steps-taken-for-students-keen-to-leave-schools-over-fee-hc/articleshow/76842706.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Goa||Subhash Velingkar, man who split RSS to form own party, quits politics||PANAJI: Former Goa RSS chief and Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) president Subhash Velingkar on Tuesday announced his retirement from politics. Less than two years after he threw his hat into the electoral ring, he ruled out any possibility of contesting polls in the future, saying that he would now dedicate his time to getting all Hindu organisations in Goa under one umbrella. Velingkar had contested the Panaji bypolls in May last year, after the seat fell vacant due to the untimely death of his former protégé and later adversary, Manohar Parrikar. Velingkar polled fewer than 300 votes at the election. On Tuesday, Velingkar said that the parent organization of GSM, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, had decided his withdrawal from active politics. Both Bharat Mata Ki Jai and later, its political offshoot, GSM, were formed after Velingkar and his loyalists broke away from the Sangh in 2016 after disagreements over the Parrikar-led Goa government’s medium of instruction (MoI) policy. “Earlier, we were RSS workers, but we have not yet given up on the principles of the Sangh,” said Velingkar. “Since the RSS took a contrary stand on the MoI issue in Goa, we formed Bharat Mata Ki Jai and we consider it our parent organization. And so, as workers of Bharat Mata Ki Jai, we will accept whatever work is allotted to us by this parent organization. When they told me to come into the political field, I came in. When they told me to withdraw, I have withdrawn.” Velingkar rebelled against the RSS after accusing the Sangh of toeing the line of the Parrikar-led BJP government on the MoI policy. Velingkar had opposed the continuation of grants to around 130 schools run by a Church wing, after these schools shifted their medium of instruction from Konkani to English. “As I have withdrawn from active politics, Bharat Mata Ki Jai has handed me the responsibility of consolidating all Hindu organisations, of all sizes, under a common umbrella,” he said. “I will not come into the political field again. We have decided that I will not contest elections in the future either. The reason is that the next line of defence, the youth, are now ready to take on the role in Goa Suraksha Manch,” Velingkar said. GFX Velingkar began his career as a primary school teacher, serving for many years in Pernem region He is Goa’s longest serving RSS chief While in RSS, he is credited with recruiting former defence minister Manohar Parrikar from the Sangh into BJP After Parrikar became CM in 2012, Velingkar soon had a fall out with him, accusing the former of cheating lovers of the mother tongue The bone of contention was Parrikar’s decision to continue state grants to English medium primary schools In August 2016, he was sacked from the RSS for his rebellious activities In November 2018, Velingkar entered active politics In May 2019, he contested the Panaji bypolls and lost of then Congress candidate Atanassio Monserrate||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/velingkar-man-whosplit-rss-to-form-ownparty-quits-politics/articleshow/76843415.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Home owner unwelcome to ‘unfriendly’ association||KOCHI: Before heading from Kuwait to Kochi, Meena Devi contacted the apartment owners’ association of her flat in Thiruvananthapuram and told them that she, along with a close friend, would be coming to her flat. The association turned hostile and asked her to look for another accommodation as she was bringing a friend and not a family member with her. “I was not denied entry to my apartment but they refused to allow my friend in,” said Meena, adding that hence, she was forced to look for other options. Explaining her harrowing experience in a Facebook post, she says that the 3BHK flat was sufficient for two people to go under home quarantine. “The apartment owners’ association and other residents in the complex was clear on not allowing my friend inside. It is a time of crisis and we need to support each other. How does one differentiate family and friends during such difficult times,” she said. She concludes the post demanding urgent government intervention. Meena Devi is not the only one to undergo a similar experience. Kochi mayor Soumini Jain confirms that such an attitude on the part of owners’ associations was a matter of concern. Jain said: “Often, it’s a commotion, which demands police intervention.” The All Kerala Apartment Owner’s Association Apex Association (APOAK) even once demanded the government to provide quarantine facilities for the returnees outside the apartment complexes. APOAK president VK Shankarankutty said such facilities would help prevent the spread of the disease in housing communities as all residents share common spaces and facilities. Buthe added: “The association cannot ask flat owners to stay away from homes. They have spent money and bought these houses. It is their home and how can others ask them not to enter it?” APOAK has also demanded the government’s intervention in the matter. A cause for concern for association members is that those who are under home quarantine often violate Covid protocols. Their family members move around the buildings. “Not every returnee has another home or can afford paid quarantine. Some might choose to stay in their apartments as their aged parents might be living in their native towns. There are also people who have to be in the city as part of their work. The flat owners should understand that such an attitude will reflect negatively, and prospective buyers will not be keen about buying such assets,” said Biju Mathew, a property dealer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/home-owner-unwelcome-to-unfriendly-association/articleshow/76842716.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
July 8, 2020||Goa||After schools, tuition classes make the online shift||PANAJI: It is not just schools that have begun online classes, tuitions too have moved to the digital platform. Tuition teachers said that going online is not only helping them fill in the gaps for students where schools have not yet begun conducting live teaching sessions, but has also enabled them to overcome geographical limitations and reach out to students beyond their neighbourhood. Some are offering concessions in fees. Class duration has also been capped because of the virtual-medium of instruction. “The major advantage has been that I am not just limited to Ponda now. I have students enrolled from Margao, Vasco and other internal areas where there are no online tuition classes on offer. I have reduced the tuition fees as classes are online. But it has worked well with more students registering,” said Ponda-based Shreeya Ghanekar, who runs Study Mate Academy. Ghanekar said parents are enrolling children for tuition classes given the uncertainty about schools reopening. They do not want their children’s learning to stop or for them to sit idle at home, she said. Most tuition sessions are offered for a duration of one hour, teachers said. They are relying on apps like Zoom and Google Meet to conduct their sessions. “Most schools are sending students pre-recorded videos and then homework is exchanged over WhatsApp. Not all students are able to clear their difficulties by this method and so they prefer live teaching, which we are providing,” said Shankari Pai Fondekar of Aarvi Tutorials, Borda, Margao. Expert Coaching Classes in Bicholim is promising individual attention, regular tests and special coaching for slow learners. Yet another coaching centre, Goa Online Academy, is offering tuitions at a starting fee of Rs 199 for Class X subjects. “I have a tablet, where I solve the problems and it works like a white board. Students are able to see me as well as the board. It gives them the feel of being in a classroom. At times, in person, students hesitate to ask teachers questions. But I have seen that they are able to ask questions more freely over the Google Meet chat box,” said a teacher at Expert Coaching Classes. However, Fondekar said that as she offers tuitions in mathematics for Class IX and X it is a challenge to monitor students online while they are solving a problem. “We hope the situation will go back to normal after which we will hold classes in person,” Fondekar said. Another teacher said that currently some parents are also hesitant to enrol students for online classes due to rumours doing the rounds that 2020-21 may be declared a ‘zero year’. “The disadvantage of online classes is that assessment is not easy. It is difficult to correct test papers on Google Classroom or WhatsApp. Also, sitting in front of the screen can cause eye fatigue for teachers as well as students,” Ghanekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-schools-tuition-classes-make-the-online-shift/articleshow/76843432.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Tricity lowers guard, drops weapon against coronavirus||CHANDIGARH: Heavy fines, FIRs and regular awareness drives have failed to instill a sense of safety among people roaming around markets, parks and public places without masks at a time when the deadly virus continues to rage across the Tricity. Chandigarh police have registered 270 FIRs and arrested 310 people for the offence, including roaming on the roads after the permissible time, as of Tuesday. Police have issued 1,164 challans, collecting Rs 5.99 lakh fine from violators. DSP Charanjit Singh said, “After conducting awareness drives, police began challaning and arresting people.” But there is hardly any change on the ground. Many wear masks in an improper manner — noses not covered or dangling from their necks — and the few who do so only when they spot a figure of authority. “Many youngsters cover their faces with masks only when they see cops. I see such violators daily at Sukhna Lake. People are not serious about coronavirus. They behave as if the virus cannot harm them,” said 50-year-old Rajinder Pandey, a regular at Sukhna. At city’s green belts and playgrounds too, the scene is no different. “Not only youngsters but many senior citizens too do not wear masks during morning and evening walks, putting their as well as our lives at risk,” said Rekha, a resident of Sector 44. In Panchkula, police have issued 2,050 challans. Panchkula DCP Mohit Handa said, “We are running a special drive. People must follow the rules on their own.” Mohali police have penalised 2,876 people for not wearing masks at public places from May 20 till date, collecting a fine of Rs 10.21 lakh. “Strict action will be taken against people not wearing wear masks,” said Mohali SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal. But residents point out the futility of the exercise, suggesting novel measures. “Every shopkeeper is taking precaution in Mohali. They make sure a customer enters the shop with a mask. Instead of issuing challans, cops should provide the violators masks on the spot,” said Vaneet Verma, president, Beopar Mandal, Mohali. S K Nayar, president, Citizens Welfare Association, Panchkula, said, “It is a matter of public concern. Everybody must wear a mask, maintain social distancing and not spit at public places. We should support the administration.” But, sadly, that is not happening in the Tricity. (Inputs from Rajinder Nagarkoti, Pawan Tiwari, Arvind Bishnoi and Piyush Sarna)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tricity-lowers-guard-drops-weapon-against-virus/articleshow/76842719.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Bhopal||Gunga infant death: Three neighbours booked on murder charges in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A day after the death of seven-month old baby girl, who was allegedly injured in a clash between neighbours, Gunga police on Tuesday arrested three neighbours and booked them on charges of murder. The action was taken on receiving the autopsy report of the baby in which it was stated that the girl had died of severe head injury caused by a blunt object. SHO Gunga DSP Sonam Jharwade said that deceased seven-month-old baby girl Mishti Jaat, daughter of Manish Jaat, was a resident of Ratua village in Gunga. Manish is a history sheeter of Gunga police station and has many cases registered against him. Manish told police that on Monday morning, he was in the house playing with Mishti while his wife Santoshi was outside in the courtyard. He heard noise and went out to check and found that a dispute took place between his wife Santoshi and neighbours Mukesh Yadav and Samandar Yadav. The accused had broken the boundary wall of his house and were quarrelling with his wife. When Manish raised an objection, the accused started hurling abuses at him and one more neighbour Shivnarayan Kushwah joined them. The trio attacked Manish with wooden planks and he ducked to save himself from the blow. But the plank hit on Mishti’s head, who was in Manish’s arms. She sustained critical injuries and was rushed to hospital where she died while undergoing treatment around 5 pm. SHO Sonam said that police reached the spot and registered a case. The accused tried to mislead the cops and alleged that Manish himself threw his baby on the ground and killed her. But the post-mortem report and police investigations revealed that the girl died due to injury caused by wooden plank. Subsequently police booked Mukesh, Samandar and Shivnarayan on charges of murder and arrested them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gunga-infant-death-3-neighbours-booked-on-murder-charges/articleshow/76843437.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Week-long closure of shops, business units in Khadki Cantonment limits begins tomorrow||PUNE: A five-fold increase in the number of nCoV infections — from 42 on June 4 to 225 on July 4 — has prompted the Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) to order a complete shutdown of shops and business establishments in the areas under its jurisdiction from July 9 to 15. The order by KCB chief executive officer Pramod Kumar Singh on July 6 won’t apply to general movement of traffic and public, besides operation of central and state offices. Milk stores shall operate from 7am to 10am, petrol pumps from 7am to 5pm and ration and medical stores as per the government norms. Banks will operate as per their timings and ATMs will remain open round-the-clock, the order stated. Of the 225 cases, 135 patients have been cured, 11 have succumbed to the contagion, while 79 are under treatment. The shutdown decision has been taken in view of the total disregard to social distancing norms in the bazaar areas. Khadki bazaar, Range Hills, East Khadki and Sangamwadi areas will remain shut, the order stated. Singh said, "Only ration shops are allowed, while grocery and vegetable shops won’t be allowed to operate. Wine and liquor shops will also remain shut." Pune Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad and district health officer Bhagwan Pawar held a meeting with the cantonment authorities on Tuesday. "The meeting was organised to formulate a strategy to tackle the situation. The cantonment authorities have agreed to provide assistance to improve health services of our hospital," Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/week-long-closure-of-shops-business-units-in-khadki-cantonment-limits-begins-tomorrow/articleshow/76843427.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||28 of 29 sewage points into choes sealed: Report||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration and the municipal corporation have closed 28 sewage outlet points into Sukhna choe and N-choe, heeding the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), As many as 28 o 29 such points were closed, according to a report of the UT administration and the MC submitted before a committee of the NGT that was accessed by TOI. All 10 points in Sukhna choe were closed, the report said. Eighteen of the 19 points in N-choe were plugged. Sewage is coming from only one point in Mohali in Garden of Springs, Sector 53. Recently, municipal commissioner K K Yadav had issued directions to officials to submit weekly report on progress work to stop flow of untreated water into Sukhna choe and N-choe. The NGT committee had issued directions to the administration to stop pollution in the choes and 100% treat sewerage water, otherwise pay environmental compensation. In August 2018, taking suo motu cognisance of media reports on pollution in the Ghaggar river, the NGT had directed chief secretaries of Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh to constitute a special task force to clean the river. The NGT committee in Chandigarh, along with Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee, visited various points of Sukhna choe and observed the level of water pollution there. The NGT in its previous order had said, “The Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986, provide for standards for the emission of pollutants. For different industries, the standards are laid down in Schedule I. The findings of the joint inspection report are that values of various parameters such as biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), total suspended solids (TSS), faecal coliform, lead and iron were beyond permissible limits at most of the locations in Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Chandigarh… It is, thus, fully established that there is a failure on the part of the statutory authorities, especially the pollution control boards, in performing their duties.” Flaws in STPs’ working Recently, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) had found shortcomings in the functioning of four sewage treatment plants (STPs) of the city. The CPCC team had visited six STPs in the city and found that out of these, four were releasing treated water with much higher bio-chemical oxygen demand (BOD) than the permissible level of maximum 30 mg/litre. BOD is the amount of dissolved oxygen needed or demanded by aerobic biological organisms to break down organic material in water at specific temperature over a given period of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/28-of-29-sewage-outlets-into-sukhna-choe-n-choe-shut-report/articleshow/76842714.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 8, 2020||Pune||Asymptomatic? BJP to host hotel stay for free||Pune: In a first, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has announced that it will bear the expense of accommodating needy, asymptomatic coronavirus patients in city hotels. BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil on Tuesday announced at a news conference that the party has joined hands with select city hotels and booked 100 beds that will be used to shift asymptomatic patients in need, as recommended by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The patients cannot be isolated at home since they are too small. The move aims at freeing up hospital beds for people in need of critical care. The BJP, which has an absolute majority in the PMC, has decided that the party will pay for the hotel accommodation and the PMC will continue to provide health care and food to the patients, Patil said. “The beds in private hospitals should be used for serious patients on priority. Home isolation facility is available for asymptomatic patients but only a few people opted for it. This is leading to high bed occupancy in hospitals so we have decided to come up with the initiative. The project will be carried out in association with the PMC. This will reduce overcrowding in hospitals across city,” said Patil. The senior party leader said that the civic administration will provide facilities like doctors and other daily needs like food, water and medicines at the hotels. The party will bear the cost of accommodation. People, especially the patient’s relatives, are afraid of contracting the virus if the s/he is kept in home quarantine. So, many asymptomatic patients avoid staying at home, Patil stated. “The PMC has allowed a social organization to operate an isolation facility and the civic body provides medicines and sends doctors to conduct health check-ups. On the same lines, the BJP should be granted permission to keep patients at private hotels,” Patil said. “Around 3,000 beds in private establishments (other than hospitals) should be made available in the city for asymptomatic patients in the days to come. BJP’s tie-up with hotels will help fulfil this need to some extent. The party has already tied up with one hotel that has a capacity of 100 beds. Other social organizations and groups should come forward to provide their properties for the initiative,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/asymptomatic-bjp-to-host-hotel-stay-for-free/articleshow/76843436.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Pune||Still to reach saturation point, says state unit chief||Pune: BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil on Tuesday said the civic body has started conducting more tests and therefore the number of positive patients in the city is huge. “We have to carry out more and more tests in the city until we reach a saturation point. After that, a downward trend could be seen in positive cases,” he said. He added that introducing lockdown again will not be the right solution especially from the financial and social point of view. Paid internship for people in need The BJP has also started an initiative to provide paid internship for daily wage workers. “Various organizations can employ these people as interns. They will work in the organizations for a month and the BJP will provide them a specific amount as salary,” said Patil. He stated that 181 people have approached the BJP for the scheme. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/still-to-reach-saturation-point-says-state-unit-chief/articleshow/76843439.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Bhopal||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan terms Congress's farm loan waiver promise a fraud||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday termed the promise of farm loan waiver by the Congress a fraud and asserted that the BJP government will probe into the irregularities. The BJP and Congress has upped the ante against each other, as they gear up to contest the crucial by-elections 24 assembly seats in the state. Speaking to reporters at the BJP state headquarters here, Chouhan also took a dig at the launch of Congress' poll campaign from Mahakal temple in Ujjain, saying, “to win an election, apart from God's grace, public blessings are also necessary.” He said, “Former Congress president Rahul Baba had promised to waive off farm debts in 10 days. After a year and a half in power, the Congress leaders were asking us whether you will waive debt or not? If we had to do this too, why did you come to power?" asked Chouhan. "Nath government gave loan waiver certificates to the farmers, but did not give money to the banks. What else is it, if not 420 (section under IPC)? I want to make it clear that we will unearth each layer of this scam," he said. On former chief minister Kamal Nath's statement in response to 'Tiger Zinda Hai' jibe that, 'Who is the tiger, who is the cat and who is the mouse? The public knows everything. I am not a Maharaja, nor a tiger or Mama. I am `Jan Sevak' Kamal Nath,” Chouhan retorted, "This is what the BJP is saying that Kamal Nath ruined the entire state and public is still suffering the consequences. We will tell the public the truth." Chouhan also addressed a virtual rally in Karera (Shivpuri) assembly constituency and reiterated his commitment to help the farmers who were declared defaulters during the previous Congress regime. The chief minister also hinted at providing relief to the defaulters whose farm loans were not waived off by Congress government. "Farmers who have been declared defaulters in this round of debt waiver, need not to worry. Shivraj Singh Chouhan will solve their problems created by Kamal Nath government," said Chouhan, apparently hinting at his government's plan to waive off remaining farm loans in the state. The chief minister though, did not declare any big sops. Ahead of bypolls on 24 seats in the state, the BJP has mounted a fresh attack on the Congress and accused the party of not fulfilling a single promise made to the public. BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia said that Congress was misleading the public but failed to deliver. He said the upcoming bypoll would be unique, which is being fought on the digital platform. "This is an altogether different election. It will be contested through social media. We have to get prepared to give a befitting reply to the Congress. BJP workers should reach out to the chaupals in villages and take up issues to the public," he said. Scindia also hit out at the Nath-led Congress government for its failures during Covid-19 outbreak in the state. He said, “After taking over Shivraj relentlessly worked to bring the situation under control.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chouhan-terms-congs-farm-loan-waiver-promise-a-fraud/articleshow/76843448.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Lucknow||After Covid battle, prof shares harsh experience||Lucknow: After battling Covid-19 for 31 days at a government tertiary care hospital, faculty member at LU’s zoology department Prof Suchit Swaroop came across two harsh realities – hospitals don’t provide items of daily use to patients separately and many people admitted there have little sense of hygiene. Back home after recovery, Prof Swaroop took to social media to share his experience of Covid ward along with words of advice and caution for his friends and family. Besides mentioning pitiable condition of toilets and bathrooms and lack of facilities, he also enumerated items one must carry to a government medical facility if tested positive for infection dividing them in 11 categories. The items include sanitizers (both liquid and gel), electric kettle, disposable utensils, snacks, shower gel, face wash, blankets and mosquito coils, among others. Prof Swaroop had tested positive for coronavirus infection on June 5, hours after the death of his father and former director of Balrampur Hospital Dr Shyam Swaroop. He was discharged from the hospital on Monday night only after his sixth Covid test came negative. “The ward had one sanitizer which was to be used by 6-8 patients with varying degrees of symptoms. Similarly, the bathroom had one soap and so did the washbasin. It is important to carry a gel-based sanitizer for regular use and a liquid spray which you can use on your clothes after using a toilet,” Prof Swaroop told TOI over the phone. “Many patients still don’t follow proper hygiene. Some were gargling in the washbasin while others were washing their clothes in it. As there is one soap in the bathroom, one should carry personal shower gel or soap,” he added. “An ambulance blazes to your home and the affected area is barricaded when a person tests positive but upon discharge the government does not advertise that a person is free of infection. The social stigma remains. Something should be done to get rid of this,” he said. “There were only two toilets for 18 patients, and one of it remained choked. One disposable glass was given in the morning and evening and for the rest of the day one had to drink directly from water bottle. Patients should carry disposable utensils and electric kettle to boil water, have tea or coffee in between lunch and dinner,” he said. Prof Swaroop said the hospital used plastic sheets which would stick to the body due to humidity and sweat. “One must take along two bedsheets and a blanket as only one blanket is provided which sometimes may not be enough in an air-conditioned ward,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-covid-battle-prof-shares-harsh-experience/articleshow/76843874.cms||Yusra Husain
July 8, 2020||Goa||Over 1k stray dogs get Mission Rabies jabs during orange alert last month||PANAJI: While Goa grappled with heavy rain and strong winds on two occasions in June, volunteers of Mission Rabies — the state-appointed animal vaccination agency — braved the inclement weather, hazardous driving conditions and sporadic connectivity to a dedicated mobile app, to vaccinate over 1,000 stray dogs. “As we entered the details of every dog vaccinated into the WVS app, it became very difficult to keep mobile phones and other vaccination equipment dry,” said Julie Corfmat, project manager, Mission Rabies. However, volunteers who had been actively penetrating critical areas said they found that dogs were sometimes easier to catch in heavy rain due to a number of reasons. “For one, they hesitate to run out of the places where they take shelter,” a volunteer said. Teams that caught dogs by offering them food instead of snaring them in nets said they found that the method worked during the monsoon because dogs struggle to obtain food during adverse weather conditions and are easily lured. During this period, the volunteers also encountered one dog in North Goa that was suffering from distemper – a highly contagious canine disease. Volunteers said he showed advanced neurological symptoms and was taken to the veterinary hospital in Tonca after residents in the vicinity brought its condition to the attention of the volunteers. The two-year-old rescued stray dog was thin and weak, said Mission Rabies education director, Dr Murugan Appupillai. “This dangerous disease is airborne and if the infected dog survives, it may shed the virus for several months. With second stage symptoms, the prognosis is mostly death, so it was decided by the veterinarian to euthanise the dog,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-1k-stray-dogs-get-mission-rabies-jabs-during-orange-alert-last-month/articleshow/76843458.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Goa||Cong: Penalise Aldona MLA for violation||SALIGAO: The North Goa block of the Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC), along with the Aldona party block demanded that chief minister Pramod Sawant should immediately get BJP’s North Goa vice-president Franky Carvalho and Aldona MLA Glenn Ticlo arrested for alleged violation of lockdown norms for attending a party in Calangute. It may be recalled that a video went viral on social media allegedly showing Carvalho and Ticlo at a party held at a house in Calangute.  GPCC general secretary Amarnath Panjikar alleged that Ticlo’s supporters were seen violating social distancing norms in the video and not wearing face masks while “making merry with alcohol and catered food”. “The chief minister and BJP’s state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade should strip the MLA and the councillor from their posts for violating the Covid-19 lockdown rules by attending a party,” Panjikar said. “Instead of behaving responsibly by following the law, these elected representatives have sent out a wrong message to the people,” he added. President of Congress’ North Goa district block Vijai Bhike and Aldona block president Ashwin D’Souza also spoke at the press briefing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-penalise-aldona-mla-for-violation/articleshow/76843462.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Bareilly||Rohtak woman held with stolen jewellery worth Rs 1.5 crore in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: A 21-year-old woman was on Tuesday arrested by Shahjahanpur police with jewellery, including diamond and gold, worth Rs 1.5 crore stolen from a renowned showroom in Haryana’s Rohtak. Police said the woman, who was travelling in a mini-van, was trying to sell the stolen ornaments to jewellers in Shahjahanpur when a joint police team of Sadar Bazar and Tilhar police stations nabbed her in the afternoon. The woman, identified as Sonia Sharma, a resident of Rohtak, used to work at the showroom, said police. The woman and her boyfriend had stolen jewellery after the showroom was closed on Saturday night, said police, adding that the accused booked the mini-van in Haryana, while her boyfriend de-boarded the vehicle in Noida, the woman came to Shahjahanpur via Delhi. The van driver was unaware about the theft, said police. The theft was, however, recorded in CCTV cameras and based on the footage, an FIR was registered against the woman and her boyfriend Himsnashu Choudhary. Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand said, “Upon receiving a tip-off about the woman, who was trying to sell the stolen jewellery in Shahjahanpur, the van was intercepted between Tilhar and Shahjahanpur by the joint police team led by inspectors Kiranpal Singh and Jasveer Singh and the woman was caught with the stolen jewellery worth Rs 1.5 crore.” “We have informed the showroom owner about the recovery of the jewellery. Meanwhile, the manager of their franchise approached us to verify the recovered jewellery,” added the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rohtak-woman-held-with-stolen-jewellery-worth-rs-1-5-crore-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/76841556.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 8, 2020||Bhopal||Ready to face any corruption probe: Nath||Indore: Former chief minister and MPCC chief Kamal Nath on Tuesday said that he is ready for any probe into corruption allegations against his 15-month government by BJP. Nath on today started campaigning for upcoming by-polls in 24 seats by first offering prayers at Ujjain’s Mahakaleshwar Jyotirlinga and then at Badnawar’s Baba Baijnath Mandir before addressing a ‘Loktantra Bachao’ (save the democracy) rally there. While talking to media in Ujjain, Nath targeted BJP-led state government and said, “It’s a government of bargaining. They bought the MLAs and are appointing the ministers by bargaining.” Taking a dig at senior BJP leaders including Jyotiraditya Scindia and Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Nath said, “People of the state are innocent yet wise. They know who is tiger, cat and rat.” In reply to a question of BJP government levelling allegations of corruption against Nath during his 15 months of governance, he said that he is ready for any probe. While addressing a rally in Badnawar, where the by-poll is necessitated after the then Congress MLA Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon resigned from the party with 21 other legislators to support Scindia and jointed BJP, Nath said, “Was it my fault that I rescued the state from the clutches of the mafia? I tried to establish Madhya Pradesh at the national level by bringing more investments and trying to generate more employment.” He once again targeted Scindia and Chouhan by saying, “I am not a Maharaja, nor a tiger or Mama. I am a Jan Sevak Kamal Nath.” Nath claimed that then Congress government had waived farm loans of many relatives of BJP and they had also presented its proof on different occasions. “BJP is now spreading lies about the farm loan waiver scheme. We had decided to start the third phase of the scheme in June but a Maharaj-turned-politician did a deal of the public’s mandate with BJP and toppled our government,” Nath said. During the visit, Nath met booth in charges of the party and encouraged them to stay motivated and asked them to inform people what bargaining the state had undergone in making of the BJP government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ready-to-face-any-corruption-probe-nath/articleshow/76843455.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Allahabad||Remark against jamaatis: HC seeks report on action taken against doc||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has asked the Uttar Pradesh government to apprise the court about the disciplinary action taken or sought to be taken against Dr. Arati Lalchandani, former principal of GSVM Medical College in Kanpur, for her alleged derogatory remarks against jamaatis and Muslims in a viral video. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the Indian Muslim for Progress and Reforms (IMPAR), a New Delhi-based research, dialogue and policy forum, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh fixed July 20 as the next date of hearing. In the petition, it was alleged that a video went viral on social media in which Dr. Lalchandani was speaking against Muslims, which according to the petition amounts to misconduct on the part of a government servant and a doctor. Appearing on behalf of the petitioner, its counsel Kashif Abbas Rizvi argued that Dr. Lalchandani is principal of a medical college and a senior government servant and her views may affect doctors and medical professionals working under her. Making such communal remarks is a clear misconduct on her part but state government is avoiding taking action against her, he further contended. Earlier, the petitioner society had requested the state government to take disciplinary action against Dr. Lalchandani in accordance with law. However, during the course of hearing, the state government counsel requested the court to grant some time so that he may acquaint the court about the disciplinary action taken against or is sought to be taken against her. According to the PIL, in a video which went viral in June this year, Dr Lalchandani, the then principal of Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial Medical College in Kanpur, had allegedly made controversial comments about the Muslims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/remark-against-jamaatis-hc-seeks-report-on-action-taken-against-doc/articleshow/76839352.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
July 8, 2020||Goa||Santa Cruz locals take up community farming||PANAJI: The struggle to source fresh greens during the lockdown in Goa has motivated 42 farmers from St Cruz to take up community farming in the village. “During the lockdown, there was a serious shortage of vegetables in the state. Unless we become self-sufficient in Goa, we will keep facing problems in the future. This community farming project is being done to show people that everything can grow in Goa and can be marketed,” said former deputy director of agriculture, Olavio Fernandes, who is one of the community farmers. The village is known for its picturesque green khazan lands running by the bandh up to Taleigao. However, the fertile lands have been left uncultivated for years until the residents decided to turn things around and embrace community farming to revive agricultural activities. The farmers will be growing paddy this season and after harvesting it, pulses like alsalno and vegetables will be sown in the same property in November-December. “The primary reason for doing so was to be self-sustainable by producing our own food. However, we also intend to save the khazan lands from being converted into developmental lands if they’re left unused for too long,” farmers said. They are also encouraging the youth of the village to take up farming. “It takes time to show results, but it is definitely fruitful,” farmers said. By availing of the directorate of agriculture’s community farming scheme, the project is being implemented on 28,800sqm of land. Ploughing began earlier this week. Transplanting of paddy seedlings was completed on Wednesday. Under the banner of Acdozar Shetkari Sangh, mechanised farming was adopted in the fields. The ploughing was carried out using tractors of the agriculture department, while transplanting and rotovating of the soil was done by renting apparatus from private service providers. For weeding, harvesting and drying crop, implements will be rented, farmers said. They intend to market their rice produce through local channels. Based on productivity, farmers intend to add an additional 14,000sqm of land to this project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/santa-cruz-locals-take-up-community-farming/articleshow/76843453.cms||Nida Sayed
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government to let varsities decide on exams||AHMEDABAD: After the University Grants Commission (UGC) issued its revised guidelines, universities in Gujarat are likely to issue examination schedules soon. The state government is planning to issue fresh directives letting universities take the final call on holding examination for final-semester undergraduate students as well as second and fourth semester postgraduate students. “We will study the UGC guidelines and ask the varsities to take a decision on how they want to conduct the terminal and final semester exams,” said Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, state education minister. The new guidelines released by the UGC on Monday said that terminal semester and final-year examinations are to be conducted by universities and institutions by the end of September in pen and paper, online or blended (online + pen and paper) modes. In May, the state government had announced that terminal examinations for all varsities and institutions in Gujarat would be held from June 25. The government had to reverse this after many varsities called off the examinations due to protests from students. Earlier this month, the state government said it had decided to postpone all the exams till further directions from the Centre. “We are ready to conduct the exams and are waiting for further directions from the state education department,” said Navin Sheth, vice-chancellor at Gujarat Technological University. The varsity, which had begun preparations to hold its theory exams from July 2, had to call them off at the eleventh hour. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March when the central government announced a countrywide classroom shutdown to contain the novel coronavirus. According to the commission’ guidelines, intermediate semester students will be evaluated on internal assessments. If a final-year student is unable to take an examination, the candidate may be given opportunity to appear in special examinations, which may be conducted by the university as and when feasible, the guidelines state. The guidelines says that the students of terminal semesters or final year students having backlogs should compulsorily be evaluated by conducting examinations. “Academic evaluation of students is a very important milestone in any education system. The performance in examinations gives confidence and satisfaction to the students and is a reflection of competence, performance and credibility that is necessary for global acceptability,” the UGC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-to-let-varsities-decide-on-exams/articleshow/76842742.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Bareilly||Two bogies of goods train derailed at Chandausi railway station||BAREILLY: The coupling mechanism of two bogies of Rajpura-bound goods train carrying manure broke, resulting in derailment of the coaches at Chandausi railway station later on Monday night. The incident occurred when the train was shunting at the Chandausi railway station and was moving towards number four railway line. Soon after the incident occurred, regional railway officials rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation. Officials said that the derailment occurred after the coupling to which one of the bogie was attached to broke while the train was shunting at the railway line after reaching Chandausi station at around 8:30 pm. The train was coming from Babrala fertilizers, Badaun and was destined to Rajpura. The two bogies got separated from the train at Chandausi railway station and got derailed almost 10 metres away. Station incharge Ashish Misra said, “The coupling mechanism consists of various equipment, including coupler, a knuckle, a yoke among other things, that bind together the coaches to form a train. Prima facie, there appears to be some fault in the coupling mechanism of the bogies that got derailed. The speed of the train was slow at the time when the incident happened, and thus, there was no casualty. The derailed coached were put back on track with the help of machinery and railway traffic movement was resumed soon after.” Officials said that a probe has been ordered into the incident by Moradabad railway division and a team comprising senior railway officials will be thoroughly examining the case following which, necessary action will be initiated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-bogies-of-goods-train-derailed-at-chandausi-railway-station/articleshow/76841566.cms||Maria Khan
July 8, 2020||Goa||Not invited to discuss Covid issue: Khaunte||PANAJI: Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte has charged that the BJP was trying to politicise issues even when it comes to jointly working to fight Covid in the state. He said neither was he invited nor was he aware of a meeting convened by ports minister Michael Lobo of MLAs from the taluka on Monday to take stock of the situation arising out of increased cases of Covid-19 and how to tackle the situation. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had asked ministers to hold taluka-level meetings on Covid-19. “Why are they politicising this too,” he asked. He said the government should have given charge to the respective MLA as they know the situation better in their own constituencies. He said there was no role for ministers, and not especially those who tried to facilitate the entry of the virus into the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/not-invited-to-discuss-covid-issue-khaunte/articleshow/76843480.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||24x7 control room at collectorate||Ahmedabad: With moderate to heavy rainfall reported in most parts of Ahmedabad district, the collectorate has started a round-the-clock control room to monitor rain related complaints in the district. District collector, K K Nirala, said that the control room will coordinate with various government agencies to resolve monsoon-related complaints from the district. He added that officials will be posted round-the-clock to ensure all complaints are resolved quickly. Almost all talukas of the district have received moderate to heavy rainfall over the past 36 hours. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/24x7-control-room-at-collectorate/articleshow/76842743.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Lucknow||LMC plans to hike advertising rates, curb vehicle use||Lucknow: After suffering a Rs 50 crore revenue loss during lockdown, Lucknow Municipal Corporation is now planning to increase rates of hoardings for advertising. The civic body has raised its target of revenue generation through advertisement boards from Rs 10 crore to Rs 15 crore for the financial year 2020-21. LMC has around 1,200 hoardings in the city. Besides, LMC is adopting several measures to curb expenses. For instance, instead of purchasing heavy machinery like mechanical sweeping trucks, water sprinkling trucks, drilling machines for laying sewer and water pipelines, among others, LMC will now rent them and other equipment, saving an estimated Rs 90 lakh. LMC has also decided to reduce number of vehicles given to zonal officials from three to one. As a result, maintenance and fuel expenses of as many as 16 four wheelers will be saved. The civic body will save around Rs 10 lakh per month by doing so. Municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi said, “The number of vehicles given to zonal officials has been cut down. Apart from increasing ad rates and renting machines and equipment, the target of house tax collection has been allotted to zonal in-charges for the month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-plans-to-hike-advertising-rates-curb-vehicle-use/articleshow/76843880.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Bareilly||Many govt offices, including collectorate,submerged after heavy rainfall in Bareilly||BAREILLY: Several government offices were submerged after heavy rain lashed Bareilly on Tuesday, bringing the city to a screeching halt. Government offices such as collectorate, Bareilly Municipal Corporation (BMC), the SSP office premises, among others, were heavily waterlogged and officials and citizens had to wade through it. According to Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the city recorded 56.8 mm of rainfall on Tuesday, which brought the maximum temperature eight degrees below normal at 26.8 degrees Celsius, while the minimum was recorded at 26.6 degrees. The maximum and minimum humidity were recorded at 100% and 95%, respectively. Apart from government offices, residences of government officials, including that of the municipal commissioner, was also submerged while several roads, bylanes and low-lying areas accumulated water. Atul Saxena, who was on his way to collectorate in Civil Lines, said, “If the condition in upscale localities such as Civil Lines, Circuit House and Rampur Garden is so appalling, I wonder what would be the situation in the low-lying areas.” A similar situation existed at the BMC office where people had to wade through waterlogged premises. “The BMC premises submerged within 30 minutes. It’s a routine whenever the city witnesses a heavy rainfall, especially during monsoon. People and officials have to wade through the water as there is no other option,” said Vinod, a tea-stall owner near the BMC office in Civil Lines. According to BMC officials, the desilting of all major and minor drains, pits and manholes have already been done, while the unclogging exercise is carried out frequently to ensure rainwater doesn’t accumulate. However, waterlogging is a common feature in cities, especially during monsoon, and it can’t be fully prevented despite all precautions, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/many-govt-offices-including-collectoratesubmerged-after-heavy-rainfall-in-bareilly/articleshow/76841585.cms||Maria Khan
July 8, 2020||Goa||Act against those loitering at night, DyCM tells cops||MARGAO: Deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar on Tuesday directed police to take stern action against those partying or found roaming aimlessly at night, and not to entertain any political interference. The direction comes a day after locals busted a party in Morjim, in which a Russian and hotel owner were arrested. “Many young people are seen roaming around at night, and some party and create a nuisance,” Kavalekar told the in-charges of police stations in Salcete. “Don’t let any calls from MLAs or ministers interfere with your task to take action against law breakers” He was addressing a coordination committee meeting with state authorities including police, health and fire officials, and the district administration. South Goa collector Ajit Roy, district SP Pankaj Kumar Singh, deputy director of health services Dr Ira Almeida, deputy director, fire services Nitin Raikar, were among those present. Kavalekar’s directions assume significance as they also come in the backdrop of another “lockdown party” in Calangute, which was attended by BJP MLA from Aldona, Glen Ticlo. Asked to comment on this, Kavalekar merely said that it was “inappropriate.” Later, addressing reporters in the presence of fisheries minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues and Nuvem MLA Wilfred D’Sa, Kavalekar said that he took stock of the situation in Salcete with regards to preparedness of authorities considering the possibility of a wider outbreak of the Covid pandemic in the state. Kavalekar is the minister in-charge to review the situation in Salcete and Canacona. Kavalekar said that difficulties faced by the administration in managing containment zones were discussed at the meeting, and that he tried to address some of the issues. Considering the probability of more containment zones being declared, he said that he assessed the current strength of the police in the talukas. Problems faced by the fire services were also addressed, he said. “Arrangements have been made and premises identified in each constituency to set up more Covid care centres in case of a spike in positive cases,” Kavalekar said. He, however, said that the recovery rate of Covid-positive persons in containment zones was good, as many people from Curtorim and Moti Dongor have recovered quickly. Konkan Railway authorities were instructed to ensure that all SOPs with regard to passenger arrivals were strictly followed. Kavalekar said that a meeting of elected representatives from eight Salcete constituencies will be held on Friday. Meanwhile, Rodrigues said that the situation in Ambelim was good as only two of the 13 positive cases detected in the village were currently active. He said that if needed, the NUSI hospital in Chinchinim would be taken over to treat Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/act-against-those-loitering-at-night-dycm-tells-cops/articleshow/76843473.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Follow safety norms: Health department||JAIPUR: Concerned over the sudden spike in Covid cases, the health department has appealed to people to adhere to social distancing norms, wear masks and frequently wash hands. Up to Lockdown 4.0, the health department had more options to check the spread of the virus, but as more relaxations were put into place, the options available to the health department became limited. As more relaxations have been made to boost economic activities, cases have increased significantly in the state. “People should take proper safety measures while going out of their houses. There are some people who are violating the social distancing norms. They put others in risk,” said health minister Dr Raghu Sharma. With restrictions being lifted on movement of the people. Even those who are travelling from other states such as Maharashtra, they have not been asked to remain in their homes for quarantine for 14 days. “Earlier, home quarantine of 14 days was mandatory of those people coming from Maharashtra, Gujarat, West Bengal and other states. But, now as more relaxations in movement have been announced, home quarantine is not mandatory for people coming from other states travelling by their cars or trains or any other mode of transportation,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur -I). Even the containment zones, which were created in 1km, 3km and 5km radius have vanished with the change in strategy of the state government to allow more relaxations in movement to people. Now, following the new norms, the health department is creating containment zone of just few metres around the house of the new infected person, which hardly cover a street as it is confined to few houses only. In a situation when state is witnessing a spike in cases, the health department is encouraging people to wear masks, following social distancing norms and other such safety measures. “We appeal to the people to take safety measures. If there are relaxations in movement, it does not mean that the disease has gone,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/follow-safety-norms-health-dept/articleshow/76843486.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Lucknow||Crime rate in UP less than many states: NCRB data||LUCKNOW: The state government released crime figures on the basis of National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) data on Tuesday night to counter the Opposition’s allegations of rise in crime rate and poor law and order in UP. The NCRB data of 2018 clearly shows that despite UP having 17% population of the country, its crime rate was just 10%. The government also compared the figures of murders, crime against women and children, and crime against schedule caste and schedule tribes of UP with India. The rate of murders in UP is 1.8 per lakh population, far below the national average of 2.2 per lakh population in 2018. UP also has lower murder rate than Bihar, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Similarly, crime against women in UP is 55.7 per lakh population, less than the national average of 58.8 in 2018 and fares better than Maharashtra, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Assam. In crime against children, UP’s rate of 22.5 per lakh population is less than national average of 31.8 and also lower than Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. The crime rate as per NCRB shows police improved law and order in Uttar Pradesh in comparison to other states having higher population density. Senior officials at DGP Headquarters said the government has been supportive and initiated a host of reforms to help curb crime. STF was given an additional amount of Rs 6 crore to purchase equipment and vehicles. A senior officer said that swift response of UP112 has also curbed crime to a great extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/crime-rate-in-up-less-than-many-states/articleshow/76843893.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Medicos demand PG eligibility relaxation||Ahmedabad: Candidates seeking admission to postgraduate (PG) medical programmes are demanding relaxations in the eligibility criteria, on the lines of the recent changes made for postgraduate dental students. The Dental Council of India recently lowered the eligibility criteria for master’s in dental surgery (MDS) programmes. According to the revised criteria, candidates in the open category who have scored in the 31th percentile in the PG NEET entrance exam will be eligible for admissions, against the 50th percentile required earlier. The Medical Students Association recently wrote to the Medical Council of India to relax eligibility criteria for MD and MS programmes. The association members felt that as many PG medical seats are vacant in several states, revising admission criteria would help fill them up. The students are demanding a lowering by about 18 percentile in every category. The admissions process for PG medical and dental courses are under way. Vacant seats have been returned to states after admissions for all-India quota seats. The second round of admissions for PG medical and dental programmes in the state was completed recently, with 20 seats remaining vacant in MD and MS courses and 21 in MDS. The admissions round, completed on June 6, saw the allocation of 1,550 seats in MD and MS courses and 250 seats for postgraduate dental studies. After the recent decision by the ministry of home affairs to allow colleges to hold final-year exams, students are also demanding that universities first conduct exams for PG medical and dental students. The Medical Council of India (MCI) has directed all varsities to complete PG medical and dental exams by July end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/medicos-demand-pg-eligibility-relaxation/articleshow/76842773.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Husband, in-laws arrested for dowry death after cops fish out bodies of wife, son from canal||PILIBHIT: Police, assisted by divers and local villagers, on Monday evening fished out the dead bodies of a 26-year-old woman and her 5-year-old elder son from the Nigohi branch canal in Madhotanda police station circle, but the body of her 3-year-old younger son, who was allegedly drowned at the same time, could not be traced. Locals described the woman, Saranjeet Kaur, as a victim of domestic violence and atrocities. Her father has alleged she and her two sons were murdered by drowning them in the canal by her husband and in-laws for dowry. Based on his complaint, police lodged an FIR in the case and took the husband and three of his family into custody. Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav has marked a separate inquiry in the case to Puranpur CO Yogendra Kumar. According to the woman’s father Jagraj Singh, of village Barahi under Barahi police station, his daughter had been married to Daljeet Singh of village Bijulha Raipur six years ago. Soon after the wedding, Saranjeet was subjected to brutal beating against a dowry demand for Rs 1 lakh in cash and a Maruti WagonR car. In fact, over the years, the village panchayat had heard complaints of her beating and torture several times, but Daljeet and his family never paid heed to the panchayat’s rulings, said Jagraj. He added that at 3.30pm on Monday, Saranjeet had called up her mother on phone to alert them that her in-laws were thrashing her savagely demanding dowry, and threatening to murder her along with her sons. He rushed to her daughter’s home to take stock of the situation, but on the way, got informed by someone on the phone that Saranjeet and her two sons, Jeeval Jot (5) and Amrat Pal (3) had drowned in the canal. Madhotanda SHO Shahroz Anwar said Amrat Pal’s body could not be traced, although police searching in the canal all the way up to the border with Shahjahanpur district. He said Daljeet Singh, his father Baldev Singh, mother Baljinder Kaur and elder brother Baljeet Singh were booked under IPC sections 304B (death of a woman under abnormal circumstances within seven years of marriage), 498A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband or his relatives) and sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act. The accused were taken into police custody, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/husband-in-laws-arrested-for-dowry-death-after-cops-fish-out-bodies-of-wife-son-from-canal/articleshow/76841603.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan defers payment of fees till re-opening of schools||JAIPUR: In a major respite to parents, the state education department deferred the payment of school fees from June 30 till the re-opening of the schools on Tuesday. The schools in the state are closed till July 30. The move came after a statewide protest by the parents accusing the schools of forcing them to pay fees. Also, cases of students not allowed to attend the online classes due to non-payment surfaced in Jaipur and elsewhere. “The order clears that no private school will force parents to pay fees till we decide to re-opening the schools after considering the Covid-19 situation in the state,” said Govind Singh Dotasra, education minister. In the last two weeks, parents from across the state have been demanding either complete waiver of fees until the situation becomes normal or slash in the annual fees. Responding to a question on whether parents have to pay the fees of the first quarter which didn’t see any classes due to the lockdown, Dotasra said,  “We will come up with an elaborate guideline on fees, course structure and school timing after discussing it with the experts. Our priority is children’s health.” It appears that the state has taken a middle path to pacify the protesting parents. Even a group of ministers including transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas had called upon CM Ashok Gehlot to give reprive to citizens in terms of school fees, power and water bills. The order also directed the school to not slash or revise the salary of teachers in private schools. Reacting on the move, Kishan Mittal, secretary of Swayam Sevi Shikshan Santha Singh, a body of RBSE schools says that 90% of their schools run of monthly fees. “State is encouraging parents not to pay the fees and on the other hand asking us not to reduce the salaries of teachers. It will leave us with an only option to close the shutters,” said Mittal. As per school education report 2018-19 by the state government, the state has 35745 private schools. It has a total teaching staff of 332663 with 7869589 enrolments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-defers-payment-of-fees-till-re-opening-of-schools/articleshow/76843479.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Goa||Navy’s ‘White Tigers’ squadron completes 60 yrs||PANAJI: Indian Navy’s premier fighter squadron based at INS Hansa, Goa completed 60 years in service to the nation on Tuesday. The INAS 300, the longest serving combat unit of the navy, gave birth to the Indian Navy’s carrier borne aviation on July 7, 1959 and fighter jets from the squadron participated in Operation Vijay in 1961, Indo-China war in 1962 and the Indo-Pak wars in 1965 and 1971. The ‘White Tigers’, as the squadron is popularly known, has the rare distinction of operating all three fighter aircraft of the Indian Navy - Sea Hawk, Sea Harrier and MiG 29K - from all three aircraft carriers - INS Vikrant, INS Viraat and INS Vikramaditya. “In its current avatar as the MiG-29K training squadron, INAS 300 has the responsibility to produce top-notch, war-ready, deck-borne fighter pilots who can be relied upon to defend the fleet or carry out a precision strike on enemy warships when needed,” said a senior naval officer. In 2016, the navy inducted the MiG-29K with a squadron based at INS Hansa and another squadron of MiG-29K fighters deployed aboard the INS Vikramaditya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/navys-white-tigers-squadron-completes-60-yrs/articleshow/76843494.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Allahabad||Online classes at AU from Aug 17||Prayagraj: Allahabad University will start its online classes from August 17. A meeting was held regarding the same on campus following which the head of the departments have been asked to submit a detailed time table of online classes. These classes will be taken by teaching faculty, research scholars and post-doc students. The departments will also have to give contact details such as email id and mobile number of each student attending online classes. According to the letter signed by the AU registrar Prof N K Shukla on Tuesday, the heads of the departments have to prepare the time table and announce the same latest by July 15 with the help of all the JRFs/SRFs/post docs/research scholars for the allocation of classes. The contact details of all students (email ids and phone numbers) are available as all the departments conducted online teaching in previous semester and submitted a report to that effect. The departments will compile that data and submit it to the office of the vice chancellor by July 15. Moreover, teachers have been asked to submit their first few lectures latest by July 31 so that the same can be uploaded on the existing “Learning Management” portal of the university. Classes of first year students can start only after the ongoing admission procedure is over, but all other students will be asked to access the portal and teachers will be asked to connect with their students from August 17 onwards. AU will also take help of retired teachers as it is facing severe dearth of faculty in most of the departments. The department heads have been requested to approach retired teachers and request them to assist, said the registrar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/online-classes-at-au-from-aug-17/articleshow/76839407.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: ACB officers under risk after accused tests Covid-19 positive||JAIPUR: Work at the ACB office has come to a standstill since Monday after Pramod Sharma, the middleman in the high profile Bharatpur bribery case, tested positive of Covid-19. At least 60 ACB employees, including the personal staff of the DG to ADG-rank officers, have been included in the list of those who have undergone Covid test. The investigating officer of the case, Prithvi Raj Meena, is apprehensive and scared as he is 59 and is on the verge of retirement. A team of medical and health department continued to take samples of various ACB employees for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. “On Monday, at least 45 of our employees had given their samples. I believe samples of at least 60 to 70 of our employees who were directly or indirectly came in contact with the accused Sharma have been taken in the last two days,” said Saurabh Srivastav, additional director general, ACB, before going to take charge as ADG, law and order. Employees of ACB whose samples were taken were jittery and apprehensive. “Meena interrogated him for the past nine days. He is on the verge of retirement. Lets hope every report comes negative,” said a senior officer of ACB. The staff of DG Alok Tripathi and two ADGs Saurabh Srivastav and Dinesh MN have also been tested. On Monday, the ACB had questioned SHOs of 10 police stations spread over Bharatpur, Sawai Madhopur and Dholpur in connection with the corruption case involving the ex-DIG of Bharatpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-officers-under-risk-after-accused-tests-ve/articleshow/76843484.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly-based organisation starts free online Islamic classes||BAREILLY: In order to keep people from varied backgrounds engaged in a wholesome manner, Bareilly-based organisation, Tehseen Foundation, will start online Islamic classes for free. Secretary of Tehseen Foundation Maulana Hafiz Tauheed Ahmed Khan said, “People from across the country can get themselves registered for the Islamic classes and there is no age limit to pursue this course. The 21-day course aims to make the people understand basic topics of religious education. In days like these when people are at home and have a lot of time, they can utilize it to learn about Islam.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-based-organisation-starts-free-online-islamic-classes/articleshow/76841639.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 8, 2020||Bareilly||Excise officers on alert over reports of smuggled liquor entering UP from Nepal, bordering states||PILIBHIT: Taking cognisance of reports on smuggling of liquor into UP from bordering states, additional chief secretary (excise) Sanjay R Bhoosreddy has put excise officers of affected regions on alert. He informed that orders have also been issued to conduct regular checks in Pilibhit, Kheri and other districts bordering Nepal, to curb the smuggling of liquor from the neighbouring country. Talking to TOI, he said departmental officers have been directed to speed up enforcement of anti-illegal liquor drives in Meerut, Saharanpur, Agra and Aligarh divisions, with special emphasis on smuggled liquor. Bhoosreddy said in view of complaints received regarding smuggling of whisky from Mumbai, he had ordered excise officers in Jhansi division to keep vigilance on related activities at the Madhya Pradesh border. Excise officials in districts along the Nepal border were also put on alert to keep smuggling of liquor from Nepal on radar, and to ensure stringent prohibitory action. He further said as a result of constant raids conducted across the state in the past four days to unearth illegal distillation units, 12,317 litres of liquor and 48,875 kg stock of lahan (the raw material used to make illicit liquor) have been seized and destroyed on spot, along with the registering of 431 cases against the suspects. Enforcement officials have also arrested 21 people and sent them to jail, in addition to impounding five vehicles used in the smuggling of illicit liquor, he said. “We’re committed to uprooting distillation and smuggling of illicit liquor from the state, for the sake of improving the health of people and to enhance government revenue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/excise-officers-on-alert-over-reports-of-smuggled-liquor-entering-up-from-nepal-bordering-states/articleshow/76841633.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Father-in-law dangles newborn girl upside down to scare woman||AHMEDABAD: A 26-year-old woman from the Paldi area of city on Monday filed a complaint with Anandnagar police, accusing her husband and in-laws, residents of a housing society near Shyamal Crossroads, of cruelty to her for around two years starting soon after her wedding. She has alleged that her father-in-law used to scare her by dangling her newborn daughter upside down by her legs. In her FIR, the woman states that she got married in July 2018 according to the wishes of her family but soon after her wedding, her in-laws allegedly began harassing her over trivial issues. She alleged that her in-laws would harass her saying that she did not bring any dowry from her father’s home. “Whenever I resisted their illegitimate demands, my father-in-law would make me stand outside the house and only allow me to enter when I apologized,” the complainant stated. She said her husband scolded her whenever she mentioned his parents’ misbehaviour. She learned that she was pregnant in July 2019 but her in-laws allegedly continued to misbehave with her and harass her, she alleged. On February 11, 2020, she delivered a baby girl through caesarean delivery. As she contracted some infection, she went to live at her parents’ home in Paldi. After 20 days, her husband and in-laws brought her to their place and made her to do all the household chores, which was against medical advice, she alleged. She alleged that her father in-law many times dangled her daughter upside down to scare her. On April 20, she saw her mother-in-law feeding her newborn daughter some liquid. Fearing something amiss, she called her father and went to live at her parents’ home. She later filed a complaint for domestic violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/father-in-law-dangles-newborn-girl-upside-down-to-scare-woman/articleshow/76842768.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Allahabad||AU to hold exams after Aug 17, student leaders protest decision||Prayagraj: Authorities of Allahabad University have decided to conduct the final year exams after August 17 this year. The decision follows the nod from the home ministry to the University Grants Commission (UGC) to allow all universities hold their final year exams in September. This was decided by university authorities in a meeting of the examination committee held on June 15. AU will now be able to finish final year exams within September, preparation of question papers and moderation process for which continue. Controller of examination, AU, Prof RK Singh said, “For the final year exams, we have completed around 30% of the process and have begun preparing for the rest 70% since June 15.” As there are around 20,000 final year students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses, both at AU and other constituent colleges, the exams will be held for 20 days and end within September. We have already decided to conduct exams all the seven days of the week, and the time duration of each will be two hour,” said prof Singh. The controller further added that the question papers for the PG courses are ready, and those for UG courses will be ready within a week. The moderation process would also be completed within this month, he said. Meanwhile, the student leaders have opposed the decision of UGC saying that this puts the student fraternity in great danger in view of Covid-19 pandemic. They have warned that if AU administration follows the guidelines of UGC, the students would boycott the exams. A meeting of the Samajwadi Chatra Sabha was held on Tuesday under the leadership of Ajay Yadav ‘Samrat’. District president of SCS, Akhilesh Gupta said that the universities must protect the lives of students and avert the danger of contracting the virus. Former vice president of AUSU, Adil Hamza, said as there is no cure for Covid-19, the university authorities should refrain from taking such decisions. Likewise, NSUI (National Student Union of India) also registered their reservations against UGC guidelines. Akhilesh Yadav, former vice president of AUSU, said, “Who will be held responsible if any student gets infected with coronavirus. When all schools and colleges across the country are shut, the hurry to issue such guidelines is ridiculous.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-to-hold-exams-after-aug-17-student-leaders-protest-decision/articleshow/76839421.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan & Haryana team up to share info on coronavirus spread||JAIPUR: Rajasthan and Haryana health officials have been exchanging information on Covid cases for contact tracing and preventive measures. The close coordination between the two states in bordering areas is proving beneficial. So far, Alwar’s health officials provided details of 15 patients to Rewari’s health officials. In exchange, Rewari’s health officials provided information on 14 patients of Alwar, who received treatment in Rewari after being found infected. Both the states came to an agreement on July 4 and within three days, they have exchanged details of 29 patients. Both the states are sharing information about residents who get detected with Covid after crossing the border so that preventive measures can be taken in areas to which the patients belong. “What was happening was that patients from Rewari, since it is close to Alwar’s Bhiwadi town, reach here for treatment. When we tested them for Covid, some of them were found infected. In that case, if a patient belongs to Alwar, we could have done preventive activities and take precautionary measures in the area to which he belongs. But, the patient is from Haryana and we cannot cross the border for conducting preventive activities. So we decided to talk to our counterparts in Haryana to deal with problems jointly,” said Dr Chhabil Kumar, deputy chief medical health officer (Alwar). “Information provided by Rewari’s health officials benefits us. If they do not send us information, then we would not be able to know about Alwar’s contacts of the patient undergoing treatment in Rewari,” said Dr Kumar. Bhiwadi’s community health centre, which has now been turned into a dedicated Covid Care Centre (DCCC) is beneficial for patients of both states. In Haryana’s Dharuheda, there is a primary health centre, but Bhiwadi’s DCCC has upgraded facilities for Covid and suspected Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-haryana-team-up-to-share-info-on-virus-spread/articleshow/76843503.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Goa||Daughter performs Amonkar’s last rites||BICHOLIM: The final rites of former health minister and Sakhali MLA Dr Suresh Kuso Amonkar were performed in his native village of Amona in Bicholim taluka. His body was consigned to flames by his daughter Yuti. Afflicted by a kidney ailment, Amonkar was on dialysis treatment for quite some time before he was detected positive for Covid-19 last month. He passed away on Monday at the ESI hospital, Margao. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, Ayush minister Shripad Naik, sarpanchs and panch members of various village panchayats in Bicholim taluka, councillors of the Sakhali Municipal Council, and friends, relatives and locals were present at the funeral. Naik said Dr Amonkar was an ideal leader with a humble disposition and strong social relations, while the chief minister said that Dr Amonkar had greatly contributed to Goa implementing many schemes as a minister. “He was known as an ideal politician, social worker and doctor,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/daughter-performs-amonkars-last-rites/articleshow/76843499.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Accused tests Covid-19 positive, customs staff on self quarantine||JAIPUR: At least 32 officers of the customs department including their commissioner have gone on self-quarantine after one of the 14 caught with 32 kg gold at Jaipur airport, tested positive . In the largest seizure of gold in Rajasthan in the past 20 years, customs sleuths on Friday had seized 31.998kg of gold worth Rs 15.67 crore from 14 passengers. “Out of these 14, the Covid-19 report of one of the passengers came positive late on Monday. Since then, 17 officers including commissioner of our customs headquarters and 15 custom officers who were on duty at the airport, have kept themselves into self-quarantine,” said an officer on Tuesday. Also, the entire staff at the Jaipur airport has been changed while the staff which was on duty on Friday is under self-quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/accused-tests-ve-customs-staff-on-self-quarantine/articleshow/76843496.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Highest single-day spike in corona cases in Bidhannagar civic area; dengue a concern||Kolkata: The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area registered the highest single-day spike in Covid cases on Tuesday with 42 patients. This took the total number of cases till Tuesday to 687. Even as Covid cases are rising, the civic body is preparing for another battle that is known to trouble the city. With the onset of the monsoon, the municipal corporation has started a dengue awareness campaign alongside its drive against Covid-19. The last seven days saw a massive rise in Covid figures across Salt Lake and Rajarhat. With 207 cases being added over the last one week, the figure has risen to 687 from 480 on June 30. Even till last week, the daily average figure was around 20, which has now doubled. The total active cases stood at 404 on Tuesday. As many as 31 people have died of the disease so far. Civic officials said that a large area under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s jurisdiction will come under the lockdown from 5pm on July 9 as per the government order that issued on Tuesday. There are several localities in Salt Lake from where Covid cases are being reported, with multiple cases from single blocks and multiple members of the same family getting infected. Officials said that a strategy to demarcate areas under the Bidhannagar civic body for the lockdown restrictions will be chalked out on Wednesday. Some Bidhannagar councillors will conduct awareness campaigns on Wednesday in their own wards. “All market complexes my ward will be closed. Standalone shops and those selling essential items like fish, meat, vegetables and groceries will remain open,” said a senior councillor. Police have started announcements over loudspeakers in market complexes in Salt Lake, urging people to wear mask. The civic authorities are conducting Covid camps in several localities. A Covid camp was held by Ward 41 committee and health department authorities of the Bidhannagar civic body at the ward office on Tuesday. Swab samples were collected from some shopkeepers of BD market and few ward office staffers and sent for tests. “We have been conducting sanitization drives in EC market once a week on Monday as the market remains closed on that day. Only one gate of the market has been kept open for the last few months and regular thermal screening of shopkeepers and customers is done,” said a civic official. Another priority for the civic body is dengue prevention. With the dengue season fast approaching, the civic authorities are putting up billboards and posters in several areas across the township to spread awareness on how to protect oneself. Drones are being used for rooftop surveillance to check for water accumulation. In the last three years, dengue has claimed at least 20 lives in the municipal corporation area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/highest-single-day-spike-in-corona-cases-in-bidhannagar-civic-area-dengue-a-concern/articleshow/76842770.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Record 716 Covid-19 cases in a day as infection count crosses 21,000||JAIPUR: The state reported its record biggest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday adding 716 infections and taking the tally to 21,404. In the past four days, the state has set the record of biggest single-day spike thrice. During the day, the virus also claimed the lives of 11 people taking the toll to 472. While three persons died in Pali taking the district’s toll to 12, two each died in Jaipur and Jodhpur districts taking the fatalities to 166 and 61, respectively. Bharatpur reported its 40th Covid death, while Dholpur reported its 11th fatality. Jalore reported its third death and Nagaur reported its 14th casualty. The curve is rising in almost all the districts. Among those districts, Jodhpur remained at the top of the list reporting 183 new infections, followed by Bikaner, where 112 persons were found infected with the virus. Jaipur too, witnessed a sudden spike in cases, reporting 71 new infections. Other districts which reported new cases are Barmer (47), Nagaur (45), Alwar (39), Jalore (37), Sirohi (30), Sikar (25), Hanumangarh (23), Bharatpur (18), Ajmer (15), Dholpur (12), Pali (9), Dungarpur (9), Kota (8), Jhunjhunu (5), Sriganganagar (4), Sawai Madhopur (3), Udaipur (3), Rajsamand (2), Bhilwara (2), Churu (2), Dausa (2), Bundi (1), Banswara (1), Jaisalmer (1), Tonk (1) and six from other states. In the past four days, the state has reported 2,352 new infections with an average of 588 per day. The spike in new infections pushed up the active cases to a new high. The active cases were 4,357 on Tuesday, 3,949 on Monday and 3,780 on Sunday. In the past five days, the active cases touched new high each day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/record-716-cases-in-a-day-as-infection-count-crosses-21k/articleshow/76843511.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Goa||Colva constable resumes duty to hero’s welcome||COLVA: After more than a month of treatment, constable Suresh Rathod attached to the Colva police, who was declared recovered, resumed duty on Tuesday. Rathod was accorded a hero’s welcome by the police station staff. On June 1, the constable, who hails from Mangor Hill, Vasco, was one of the first to test positive for novel coronavirus, following which the area was declared a containment zone. After Rathod tested positive, 108 Colva police personnel were tested, but all results were negative. The police station was also sanitised. Rathod was admitted to the ESI hospital for more than 14 days and then shifted to the MPT hospital in Vasco to recuperate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/colva-constable-resumes-duty-to-heros-welcome/articleshow/76843529.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Meerut||In a first, 64-km stretch of Kali river in M'ngr to be cleaned||Muzaffarnagar: As part of an initiative to clean river Ganga and its tributaries, Muzaffarnagar authorities have initiated steps to clean up the 65-km-long stretch of river Kali that flows through the district.A decision has been taken to set up trace skimmer machines and dams on the points where the Kali enters and exits the district to keep a check on pollutants and pesticides which flow into it from agriculture fields on its banks. Official sources said there are 52 villages and lsrge agricultural tracts along Kali river. Amit Kumar Singh, additional district magistrate, said, "The initiative is being taken after a meeting between officials of the central government and local administration. A massive work to clean up Kali river is being undertaken for the first time. A trash skimmer is being used to separate and remove solid waste like grass and plastic from the river." Sources said to stop discharge of effluents into Kali river, contaminated water is being treated at sewage treatment plants ( STP). A meeting was held with owners of industrial units and they were instructed to treat waste water before releasing it from their factories. An official said at present, three STPs are being operated to treat dirty water in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/in-a-first-64-km-stretch-of-kali-river-in-mngr-to-be-cleaned/articleshow/76840398.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||Indonesian vessel’s crew member tests positive||KOLKATA: A container vessel flying the Indonesian flag has landed officials of the Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port Trust (SPMPT) in Kolkata in a quandary. A crew member of MV Sinar Pomalaa that berthed along the Netaji Subhas Docks (NSD) on July 2 tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to a private hospital here. Samples collected from the remaining crew members have been sent for tests and till the results arrive, a decision on what to do with the ship can’t be taken. “All precautions were taken while allowing the ship to enter the port and moor at berth 12 of NSD. It is a feeder vessel that arrived from Singapore with containers. While scanning the crew, two persons of Indonesian origin were diagnosed with fever. Both were shifted to the private hospital where one tested positive for Covid-19,” a senior port official said. “Samples were also collected from the remaining 15 crew members, including officers and sent for tests. The principal health officer will take a decision after their test results arrive,” he added. The ship has been quarantined and is berthed at a certain distance from other vessels. While crew members have been ordered not to get off the vessel, officials of the shipping company have been asked to exercise extreme caution while supplying essentials on board. Loading and unloading operations have also been put on hold. The area around the ship is being sanitized.  Health officials check all crew members at the Sandheads before allowing them to approach the ports of Kolkata and Haldia. Port officials said that adequate steps are being taken to ensure the safety of port employees and contractual staffers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/indonesian-vessels-crew-member-tests-positive/articleshow/76842781.cms||Jayanta Gupta
July 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Buses picking up passengers along Mangaluru-Bengaluru route raise fears||MANGALURU: Due to the rise in Covid-19 cases, passengers travelling on the Mangaluru to Bengaluru route by bus have raised concerns over picking up passengers along the route. Thermal scanning is mandatory before passengers board the bus. The KSRTC Mangaluru division has gone one step further, and even records the passenger’s details. The passenger screening process happens only at the bus stand and if a passenger boards the bus from pick-up points other than the bus stand, he travels without being screened. This has left a few regular travellers worried, and they have demanded the government equip conductors with thermal scanners, so that a temperature check is conducted for anyone and everyone boarding the bus. A passenger said, “While at Mangaluru the KSRTC records the name and destination of travel at the entrance, at the Bengaluru bus stand, only temperature checks are conducted. Picking up passengers along the route is scary, as conductors do not have thermal scanners.” Meanwhile, those who have already travelled by bus, have advised passengers to carry a disinfectant spray. However, the need of the hour is to ensure that the washrooms at bus stands are well maintained, as there is a gradual increase in the number of services. A traveller must carry a personal hand sanitiser. Taking note of the concern raised by passengers, KSRTC Mangaluru divisional controller S N Aruna said that thermal screening is being undertaken at all bus stands. However, providing thermal scanners to all conductors may not be possible. “We will consider screening passengers who board the bus at points, other than the bus stand, at the immediate next bus stand,” he said. Currently, about 40 buses are plying to Bengaluru as against 160-180 KSRTC buses that used to ply before the pandemic. Mangaluru division introduced one AC bus to Bengaluru on Thursday, on which eight passengers travelled. Based on demand, KSRTC plans to introduce more services in the coming week. The division currently operates about 150 buses to different destinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/buses-picking-up-passengers-along-mluru-bluru-route-raise-fears/articleshow/76842766.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 8, 2020||Meerut||Armyman drops pistol accidentally, son shot in head||The 11-year-old son of an armyman was killed when the latter accidentally dropped his licensed pistol and the trigger went off fatally injuring the boy here on Monday.The boy Priyanshu, a resident of Budhana, was rushed to a nearby hospital but died during treatment at a higher medical facility in Meerut.According to sources, Priyanshu and his father Shrikant Kumar, an armyman, had gone to visit the latter’s parents in Muzaffarnagar’s Civil Lines area when the incident happened.Police said that Kumar was changing clothes when he accidentally dropped his pistol. Priyanshu who was nearby sustained head injuries due to the gunshot. He was immediately rushed to the district hospital from where he was referred to a higher centre in Meerut where he died during treatment.Civil Lines station house officer DK Tyagi said, “We have started an inquiry after sent the body for postmortem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/armyman-drops-pistol-accidentally-son-shot-in-head/articleshow/76840409.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Coordinate benches take differing views on bail pleas||Ahmedabad: Two different views by coordinate benches of the Gujarat high court have been witnessed in last month in a single case, with one set of accused persons getting bail from one bench, while another set had to withdraw their bail pleas before another bench.The issue pertains to the alleged stone pelting on police personnel in Shahpur on May 8, during the lockdown. In all, 28 persons were arrested. They were denied bail on June 2 by a lower court due to the gravity of charges which include attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy.However, when the accused persons approached the high court for bail, they came across different views from different benches. On Tuesday, Justice A J Shastri was reluctant to grant bail to four accused persons, and the court’s view led Uvesh Ajmeri, Adam Ajmeri, Sufel Ajmeri and Shabbir Ajmeri to withdraw their bail applications. Granting bail is entirely at the discretion of the court concerned. On the other hand, the bail pleas filed by other accused in this case — Zuber Mirza, Ulmuddin Kagdi, Rizwan Kagdi and Rauf Shaikh — were listed before Justice A G Uraizee. Opposing their bail, the state government cited an earlier withdrawal of bail plea by another accused, but the judge granted conditional bail and said, “It prima facie appears that there was heavy stone pelting on police personnel and the applicants were found at the spot. Moreover, the record does not reveal that any of the police personnel suffered injury warranting in-patient treatment. I am, therefore, of the view that without discussing prosecution evidence on merits, it is a fit case to exercise discretion of releasing the applicants on bail.”Earlier, the bail pleas of at least half a dozen accused persons were withdrawn on June 11 and 23, after the HC was not inclined to grant them bail. But on June 25, Justice Gita Gopi granted bail to four accused in this case, and on July 3, Justice R P Dholaria also granted bail to an accused in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/coordinate-benches-take-differing-views-on-bail-pleas/articleshow/76842788.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Lucknow||Corona shadow over jobs makes graduates jittery||Lucknow: Nancy Shangle, a final-year postgraduate student of commerce at Delhi School of Economics, had secured a job with one of the country’s largest business groups. She was to join in July but with Covid-19 hitting the country, the company has decided to rescind her post and all other job offers. “All the dates were finalised by the company. The company said that due to the pandemic and some changes in company's policies, the offer is not available anymore. I have been trying to send job applications to different companies now, but I cannot find even a single suitable place and even the prospects of getting one during these times are low,” said Nancy. Not only Nancy, in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak in the world, students who bagged campus placements are left in the lurch as some companies have begun delaying offers, while some have withdrawn their offers. Abhinav Raj, an MBA graduate at Symbiosis Institute of Business Management (Pune), had secured a job at a renowned professional services company in Pune itself and had received his job confirmation letter. The 25-year-old was set to join the company by June-end, but now due to the current health crisis, Abhinav is finding himself in an uncertain situation. “The company’s response is that it will contact me soon. There is no clarity about whether the offer is withdrawn or postponed for a certain time. All of this adds to more confusion and lack of clarity,” he added. The company that Indiranagar resident Saurabh Jain was supposed to join in August has pushed his joining date to December this year. The ISB graduate has decided to use the time on his hands with his family and upskill himself before he leaves the city for Bengaluru. Similarly, Isha Bajaj, a final-year student of Masters in Journalism and Mass Communication in Delhi had bagged a college placement at a leading educational technology company and started working in January. However, she says she is facing difficulty while working from home since she is still learning about corporate life. With inputs from Vidushi Agarwal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-shadow-over-jobs-makes-graduates-jittery/articleshow/76843925.cms||Aditi Singh
July 8, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Record 716 Covid-19 cases in a day as infection count crosses 21,000||JAIPUR: The state reported its record biggest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday adding 716 infections and taking the tally to 21,404. In the past four days, the state has set the record of biggest single-day spike thrice. During the day, the virus also claimed the lives of 11 people taking the toll to 472. While three persons died in Pali taking the district’s toll to 12, two each died in Jaipur and Jodhpur districts taking the fatalities to 166 and 61, respectively. Bharatpur reported its 40th Covid death, while Dholpur reported its 11th fatality. Jalore reported its third death and Nagaur reported its 14th casualty. The curve is rising in almost all the districts. Among those districts, Jodhpur remained at the top of the list reporting 183 new infections, followed by Bikaner, where 112 persons were found infected with the virus. Jaipur too, witnessed a sudden spike in cases, reporting 71 new infections. Other districts which reported new cases are Barmer (47), Nagaur (45), Alwar (39), Jalore (37), Sirohi (30), Sikar (25), Hanumangarh (23), Bharatpur (18), Ajmer (15), Dholpur (12), Pali (9), Dungarpur (9), Kota (8), Jhunjhunu (5), Sriganganagar (4), Sawai Madhopur (3), Udaipur (3), Rajsamand (2), Bhilwara (2), Churu (2), Dausa (2), Bundi (1), Banswara (1), Jaisalmer (1), Tonk (1) and six from other states. In the past four days, the state has reported 2,352 new infections with an average of 588 per day. The spike in new infections pushed up the active cases to a new high. The active cases were 4,357 on Tuesday, 3,949 on Monday and 3,780 on Sunday. In the past five days, the active cases touched new high each day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/record-716-cases-in-a-day-as-infection-count-crosses-21k/articleshow/76847650.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Record 716 Covid-19 cases in a day as infection count crosses 21,000||JAIPUR: The state reported its record biggest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday adding 716 infections and taking the tally to 21,404. In the past four days, the state has set the record of biggest single-day spike thrice. During the day, the virus also claimed the lives of 11 people taking the toll to 472. While three persons died in Pali taking the district’s toll to 12, two each died in Jaipur and Jodhpur districts taking the fatalities to 166 and 61, respectively. Bharatpur reported its 40th Covid death, while Dholpur reported its 11th fatality. Jalore reported its third death and Nagaur reported its 14th casualty. The curve is rising in almost all the districts. Among those districts, Jodhpur remained at the top of the list reporting 183 new infections, followed by Bikaner, where 112 persons were found infected with the virus. Jaipur too, witnessed a sudden spike in cases, reporting 71 new infections. Other districts which reported new cases are Barmer (47), Nagaur (45), Alwar (39), Jalore (37), Sirohi (30), Sikar (25), Hanumangarh (23), Bharatpur (18), Ajmer (15), Dholpur (12), Pali (9), Dungarpur (9), Kota (8), Jhunjhunu (5), Sriganganagar (4), Sawai Madhopur (3), Udaipur (3), Rajsamand (2), Bhilwara (2), Churu (2), Dausa (2), Bundi (1), Banswara (1), Jaisalmer (1), Tonk (1) and six from other states. In the past four days, the state has reported 2,352 new infections with an average of 588 per day. The spike in new infections pushed up the active cases to a new high. The active cases were 4,357 on Tuesday, 3,949 on Monday and 3,780 on Sunday. In the past five days, the active cases touched new high each day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/record-716-cases-in-a-day-as-infection-count-crosses-21k/articleshow/76847647.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Bhopal||Inhuman, says MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan on dumping of Covid victim’s body on pavement||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has condemned the dumping of a Covid patient’s body on a pavement in Bhopal on Monday evening, and ordered an inquiry. “It is inhuman. Whoever left a patient in a critical condition – whether it was a hospital, ambulance operator or any other person – it’s a very serious incident. Strict action should be taken against those guilty,” the CM said at review meeting on the Coronavirus pandemic on Tuesday evening. TOI had reported how a Covid patient, who was put in an ambulance to Chirayu Hospital on Monday evening, was later found abandoned on a pavement in front of People’s Hospital, where he was earlier admitted. It’s not known whether he died in the ambulance or after he was abandoned. To further complicate matters, he was buried on Tuesday without autopsy. The incident raises serious questions about the handling of Covid patients, and coordination between hospitals and the administration. It turns out that the ambulance driver taking him to Chirayu, a Covid-designated hospital, took a U-turn on realizing he was dying and brought him back to People’s Hospital from where he had already been ‘discharged’. The body lay in the open for around an hour, with the family clueless about it. Who authorized the driver to turn back when he was halfway to Chirayu and could have just as easily taken him there? This is among the terms of the probe. “We have asked the collector to order magisterial probe into the incident. Once we receive the report, we’ll be able to comment or contemplate further action,” principal secretary, health, Faiz Ahmed Kidwai, told TOI. Bhopal collector Avinash Lavaniya has put ADM Satish S in charge of the probe. Asked about the time-frame of the inquiry, Satish S said: “It is a judicial process. I can’t give you a deadline but I will try to complete it as early as possible.” The victim was buried in Jehangirabad graveyard in the afternoon, family members said. There was no post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/inhuman-says-cm-on-dumping-of-covid-victims-body-on-pavement/articleshow/76843510.cms||Jamal Ayub
July 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Buses picking up passengers along Mangaluru-Bengaluru route raise fears||MANGALURU: Due to the rise in Covid-19 cases, passengers travelling on the Mangaluru to Bengaluru route by bus have raised concerns over picking up passengers along the route. Thermal scanning is mandatory before passengers board the bus. The KSRTC Mangaluru division has gone one step further, and even records the passenger’s details. The passenger screening process happens only at the bus stand and if a passenger boards the bus from pick-up points other than the bus stand, he travels without being screened. This has left a few regular travellers worried, and they have demanded the government equip conductors with thermal scanners, so that a temperature check is conducted for anyone and everyone boarding the bus. A passenger said, “While at Mangaluru the KSRTC records the name and destination of travel at the entrance, at the Bengaluru bus stand, only temperature checks are conducted. Picking up passengers along the route is scary, as conductors do not have thermal scanners.” Meanwhile, those who have already travelled by bus, have advised passengers to carry a disinfectant spray. However, the need of the hour is to ensure that the washrooms at bus stands are well maintained, as there is a gradual increase in the number of services. A traveller must carry a personal hand sanitiser. Taking note of the concern raised by passengers, KSRTC Mangaluru divisional controller S N Aruna said that thermal screening is being undertaken at all bus stands. However, providing thermal scanners to all conductors may not be possible. “We will consider screening passengers who board the bus at points, other than the bus stand, at the immediate next bus stand,” he said. Currently, about 40 buses are plying to Bengaluru as against 160-180 KSRTC buses that used to ply before the pandemic. Mangaluru division introduced one AC bus to Bengaluru on Thursday, on which eight passengers travelled. Based on demand, KSRTC plans to introduce more services in the coming week. The division currently operates about 150 buses to different destinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/buses-picking-up-passengers-along-mluru-bluru-route-raise-fears/articleshow/76845551.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 8, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Record 716 Covid-19 cases in a day as infection count crosses 21,000||JAIPUR: The state reported its record biggest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday adding 716 infections and taking the tally to 21,404. In the past four days, the state has set the record of biggest single-day spike thrice. During the day, the virus also claimed the lives of 11 people taking the toll to 472. While three persons died in Pali taking the district’s toll to 12, two each died in Jaipur and Jodhpur districts taking the fatalities to 166 and 61, respectively. Bharatpur reported its 40th Covid death, while Dholpur reported its 11th fatality. Jalore reported its third death and Nagaur reported its 14th casualty. The curve is rising in almost all the districts. Among those districts, Jodhpur remained at the top of the list reporting 183 new infections, followed by Bikaner, where 112 persons were found infected with the virus. Jaipur too, witnessed a sudden spike in cases, reporting 71 new infections. Other districts which reported new cases are Barmer (47), Nagaur (45), Alwar (39), Jalore (37), Sirohi (30), Sikar (25), Hanumangarh (23), Bharatpur (18), Ajmer (15), Dholpur (12), Pali (9), Dungarpur (9), Kota (8), Jhunjhunu (5), Sriganganagar (4), Sawai Madhopur (3), Udaipur (3), Rajsamand (2), Bhilwara (2), Churu (2), Dausa (2), Bundi (1), Banswara (1), Jaisalmer (1), Tonk (1) and six from other states. In the past four days, the state has reported 2,352 new infections with an average of 588 per day. The spike in new infections pushed up the active cases to a new high. The active cases were 4,357 on Tuesday, 3,949 on Monday and 3,780 on Sunday. In the past five days, the active cases touched new high each day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/record-716-cases-in-a-day-as-infection-count-crosses-21k/articleshow/76847648.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Goa||During lockdown, state saw 53% drop in road accidents||PANAJI: The lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus has saved many lives from road accidents. As per the statistics released by the traffic cell of Goa police, there has been a 66% drop in fatal accidents during April and May this year, as compared the corresponding period last year. The total number of accidents in the state has also reduced to 53%. The state saw one fatal accident every 30 hours and most casualties of road accidents were in the age group of 25 to 35 years of age. The traffic cell figures reveal that during April to June this year, Goa has recorded 397 accidents as compared to 863 accidents during the corresponding period last year. From April to June last year, 80 fatal accidents were recorded. However, this year the number has reduced to just 27. There is also a 68% reduction in minor accidents in the state as compared to last year. In April to June last year, 271 minor accidents were reported but this year, the same period has registered only 85 accidents. Superintendent of police (traffic cell), Dinraj Govekar, told TOI that they have identified black spots and are strictly monitored. “We have also suggested improvement of roads to the PWD, national highways and civic authorities. Apart from this, we are taking up a drive to reduce road accidents,” he said. A senior police officer said that the main reason for reduction in accidents is very low traffic movement due to the lockdown. “As there was no traffic on roads and the youth being at home, there was not much rash and negligence driving,” he said. The officer further said that most of the accidents are reported between 3pm and 6pm, which are the peak hours as people rush home from work. The traffic cell statistics also reveal that most fatal accidents occur during this time of day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/during-lockdown-state-saw-53-drop-in-road-accidents/articleshow/76843525.cms||Murari Shetye
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Moderate to heavy rain continues, waterlogging in Jaipur hits traffic||JAIPUR: Moderate to heavy showers continued across the state for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. Many places including Jaipur received a good rainfall that also exposed lofty claims of the civic authorities on their monsoon preparedness. In Jaipur, it started raining at 5 pm while people were returning from offices. There were traffic snarls across the city because of snarls especially at Statue Circle, Tonk Road, Sikar Road, Kalwar Road and Bais Godam. “Civic authorities are supposed to clean the drains on time. Though southwest monsoon got delayed, waterlogging on roads indicates that no work was done,” said Dharmendra Singh who got on Kalwar Road near Jhotwara due to waterlogging. Continued rainfall in Pink City for second consecutive day guided the mercury to take a dip as a maximum temperature of 36.9°C was recorded. The weather mainly remained pleasant across the city. Similarly good rainfall was witnessed in Bharatpur and Udaipur divisions of the state. A rainfall of 100 mm was received in Bayana (Bharatpur). Some of the roads connecting Bharatpur to Alwar witnessed rampant waterlogging. Similar scenes were witnessed at Rajsamand, Jalore, Jodhpur, Sirohi, Alwar and other parts of the state. Met office said mild to moderate rain will take place in western Rajasthan while moderate to heavy rain in rest of the state in next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/moderate-to-heavy-rain-continues-waterlogging-in-jaipur-hits-traffic/articleshow/76843533.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jodhpur||Moderate to heavy rain continues, waterlogging in Jaipur hits traffic||JAIPUR: Moderate to heavy showers continued across the state for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. Many places including Jaipur received a good rainfall that also exposed lofty claims of the civic authorities on their monsoon preparedness. In Jaipur, it started raining at 5 pm while people were returning from offices. There were traffic snarls across the city because of snarls especially at Statue Circle, Tonk Road, Sikar Road, Kalwar Road and Bais Godam. “Civic authorities are supposed to clean the drains on time. Though southwest monsoon got delayed, waterlogging on roads indicates that no work was done,” said Dharmendra Singh who got on Kalwar Road near Jhotwara due to waterlogging. Continued rainfall in Pink City for second consecutive day guided the mercury to take a dip as a maximum temperature of 36.9°C was recorded. The weather mainly remained pleasant across the city. Similarly good rainfall was witnessed in Bharatpur and Udaipur divisions of the state. A rainfall of 100 mm was received in Bayana (Bharatpur). Some of the roads connecting Bharatpur to Alwar witnessed rampant waterlogging. Similar scenes were witnessed at Rajsamand, Jalore, Jodhpur, Sirohi, Alwar and other parts of the state. Met office said mild to moderate rain will take place in western Rajasthan while moderate to heavy rain in rest of the state in next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/moderate-to-heavy-rain-continues-waterlogging-in-jaipur-hits-traffic/articleshow/76845345.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC grants bail to migrants in Rajkot stone-pelting case||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Monday granted bail to 15 migrant workers, who were among those arrested for violence that broke out on May 17 in Rajkot when they got desperate to return home. Justice Gita Gopi ordered to release these workers on personal bond of Rs 1,000 and observed that the incident of violence could have been averted by proper coordination between police and the nodal officer appointed to send the migrant workers to their native states. The workers are facing charges of attempt to murder, loot, rioting and unlawful assembly and damaging public property besides the violation of Disaster Management Act. On behalf of the workers, advocate Anand Yagnik argued that the charges levelled against them were very harsh and the incident was not so grave as the police have projected. There was no effort of loot and no attempt to murder any cop. He submitted that the mob got furious because the workers could not reach the railway station to board a Shramik Express. After hearing the case, the HC said that the police failed to manage the situation, “..This court is of the view that the entire incident could have been averted if there would have been proper coordination between the police and the Nodal Officers appointed by the State Government”. The court also cited the Supreme Court’s judgment asking the governments to consider withdrawal of complaints filed under the Disaster Management Act and other offences lodged against migrant workers, who are alleged to have violated measures of lockdown by moving on roads. The HC observed that the police was required to handle the crowd “tactfully”. The court finally said, “Taking into consideration the fact that there would not have been any intention on the part of the migrant labourers to even attempt to murder, the police personnel and considering the injuries sustained by the police personnel which were not life threatening, the discretion is exercised to enlarge them on bail.” Last month, Justice Paresh Upadhyay ordered release of 33 migrant workers who were arrested for stone pelting outside the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad during lockdown. The HC said that they were the victims, and not criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-grants-bail-to-migrants-in-rajkot-stone-pelting-case/articleshow/76842795.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Goa||Heavy showers to persist today, says IMD, yellow alert continues||PANAJI: Goa witnessed heavy rain showers on Tuesday with very heavy showers at isolated places. This situation is likely to prevail for another day, experts from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) have said. The IMD said there are two features that are enhancing rainfall activity over the state – a well-marked low-pressure area over the Saurashtra region and an offshore trough prevailing from the coast of Gujarat to the Kerala coast. The trough has been prevalent from the past few days owing to which IMD had issued a ‘yellow’ alert over the state from July 5 onwards. This alert will continue for the coming days. The system prevailing at Saurashtra, meanwhile, will move westwards in 48 hours after which rainfall activity will start reducing. “Even though the system is intensifying, it is also slightly moving away from the Goa coast. Due to this, heavy rainfall will prevail on Wednesday as well, but we can expect a reduction from Thursday onwards,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. Owing to these two systems, wind speed too was at 40-50 kms per hour. This led the meteorological department to issue a weather warning for fishermen, discouraging them from venturing into the sea for at least 24 hours. “Strong winds with wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph are likely to prevail over the North Maharashtra-Goa coast on July 8. Fishermen are advised not to venture along and off the coast during this period,” the IMD warning read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heavy-showers-to-persist-today-says-imd-yellow-alert-continues/articleshow/76843539.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Udaipur||Moderate to heavy rain continues, waterlogging in Jaipur hits traffic||JAIPUR: Moderate to heavy showers continued across the state for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. Many places including Jaipur received a good rainfall that also exposed lofty claims of the civic authorities on their monsoon preparedness. In Jaipur, it started raining at 5 pm while people were returning from offices. There were traffic snarls across the city because of snarls especially at Statue Circle, Tonk Road, Sikar Road, Kalwar Road and Bais Godam. “Civic authorities are supposed to clean the drains on time. Though southwest monsoon got delayed, waterlogging on roads indicates that no work was done,” said Dharmendra Singh who got on Kalwar Road near Jhotwara due to waterlogging. Continued rainfall in Pink City for second consecutive day guided the mercury to take a dip as a maximum temperature of 36.9°C was recorded. The weather mainly remained pleasant across the city. Similarly good rainfall was witnessed in Bharatpur and Udaipur divisions of the state. A rainfall of 100 mm was received in Bayana (Bharatpur). Some of the roads connecting Bharatpur to Alwar witnessed rampant waterlogging. Similar scenes were witnessed at Rajsamand, Jalore, Jodhpur, Sirohi, Alwar and other parts of the state. Met office said mild to moderate rain will take place in western Rajasthan while moderate to heavy rain in rest of the state in next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/moderate-to-heavy-rain-continues-waterlogging-in-jaipur-hits-traffic/articleshow/76845344.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Meerut||Meerut Cantt Board increases rent of 400 shops by nearly four times||Meerut: The Meerut Cantt Board increased the rent of shops by at least four times and instructions were given to increase the rates at nine tolls to further increase the income of the Cantt authorities.The meeting attended by the Cantt board authorities decided to increase the rent of 300 shops by at least four times. Meanwhile, instructions were given to ensure that mobile towers will not be allowed on private lands without prior permission.“The vehicle entry charges at various tolls have been increased such that the daily income will rise from the current Rs 90,000 to Rs2.5 lakh,” said Prasad Chavan, CEO, Meerut Cantt Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-cantt-board-increases-rent-of-400-shops-by-nearly-four-times/articleshow/76840426.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 8, 2020||Lucknow||DIG STF Anant Deo shunted out after Kanpur row, Kashi SSP too transferred||Lucknow: The ripples of the Kanpur encounter debacle and skeletons of police-mafia nexus tumbling out of the closet were visible as DIG STF Anant Deo Tiwari was transferred on late Tuesday night. A day after a letter of slain DySP Devendra Mishra accusing SO Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari of shielding gangster Vikas Dubey went viral, DIG STF Anant Deo Tiwari was shunted out of STF and appointed as DIG PAC of Moradabad sector. Anant Deo was SSP Kanpur to whom Mishra had written the letter. Among other transfers, Sudhir Kumar Singh, who was removed as SSP Ghaziabad in January after allegations of graft levelled by then SSP GB Nagar Vaibhav Krishna, was posted as SSP STF. Singh was serving in PAC Agra even as a probe was ordered into the allegations and an SIT was constituted. SSP Varanasi Prabhakar Chaudhary was also transferred to Moradabad as SSP. Chaudhary has been shifted three days after BJP’s zila panchayat member and his brother were put behind bars following an altercation with cops. Four policemen, including inspector Lanka, were suspended while CO Bhelupur was attached to police office on Sunday for exaggerating the incident. SSP Mordabad Amit Pathak has been sent to Varanasi as SSP in his place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dig-stf-anant-deo-shunted-out-after-kanpur-row-kashi-ssp-too-transferred/articleshow/76843957.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Meerut||Don’t begin new projects, but expedite old ones, including Delhi-Meerut & Ganga e-ways: Div Commissioner||Meerut: Meerut divisional commissioner Anita C Meshram, in a meeting on Tuesday, issued instructions that no new infrastructure projects should be started, but ones which are already in progress should be expedited and completed as per schedule.“Projects should be inspected from time to time, so that they can be completed within the rescheduled timeframes. The concerned department should submit relevant statistics with the authorities before sending them the inspection report. Work on the Ganga Expressway should be inspected and surveyed in time,” said the divisional commissioner.She further said there will be no shortage of money for construction and development work.Additional commissioner Udayi Ram said, “Work is currently in progress on 89 roads, of which construction work of 35 roads has been completed. The completed projects include 11 of the 22 roads which are being widened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/dont-begin-new-projects-but-expedite-old-ones-including-delhi-meerut-ganga-e-ways-div-commissioner/articleshow/76840415.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 8, 2020||Madurai||Modern medicine gets 90% funds, promote indigenous med too: HC||Madurai: Expressing the need to increase patronage of research and development in siddha medicine, the Madras high court on Tuesday observed that the development of indigenous medicine will benefit the entire mankind. A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi observed that Tamil Nadu had effectively handled dengue fever by promoting siddha medicine - nilavembu kudineer, and now kabasura kudineer is promoted as an effective immune booster and provided to all as a preventive medicine for Covid-19. The judges said that the importance to such indigenous medicine is given only during the pandemic situation, since it is cost-effective compared to modern medicine. Though the central and state governments spend huge amounts for healthcare, it is unfortunate that 90% of the amount is spent only for modern medicine and there is no patronization for the Indian system of medicine. Despite eight siddha research institutes in India - three in Tamil Nadu and one each in New Delhi, Puducherry, Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh - there is no sufficient allocation of funds for research and development of siddha medicine. Citing how Kerala is patronising ayurveda system medicine, the judges suggested that the committee may be allowed to continue to scientifically analyse the ancient scripts, by adopting all methods, in which modern medicine is now patented. The judges said the government must have the patent and also ensure the availability of these approved medicines commonly in all medical shops. The judges also mooted for a proper mechanism to curb fake medicines as some miscreants are exploiting the situation with fake products which would ultimately affect the credentials of the system of medicine. The court was hearing a PIL filed by a siddha practitioner, S Subramanian, who had sought the ministry of Ayush to conduct virology study and publish the results after testing the herbal medicine ‘IMPRO’ formulated by him as a solution for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/modern-medicine-gets-90-funds-promote-indigenous-med-too-hc/articleshow/76863518.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 8, 2020||Allahabad||CBSE decides to revise syllabi for class IX to XII||Prayagraj: As the mode of education has shifted from classroom teaching to online teaching in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has decided to revise the syllabi for classes IX-XII for the academic session 2020-21. The letter issued by the academics director (CBSE), Joseph Emmanuel, mentions, “The prevailing health emergency in the country and in the world has resulted in loss of classroom teaching due to closure of schools. Therefore, the board has decided to revise the syllabi for classes IX-XII for the academic session 2020-21. The changes made in the syllabi have been finalised by the respective course committees with the approval of the curriculum committee and governing body of the board.” It further mentions, “Considering the importance of achieving the level of learning, the syllabus has been rationalised to the extent possible by retaining the core concepts.” CBSE has asked heads of schools and teachers to ensure that the topics that have been reduced are also explained to the students to the required extent. However, the reduced syllabi will not be part of internal assessment and year-end board examination. Alternative academic calendar and inputs from the NCERT on transacting the curriculum using different strategies may also be part of the teaching. For elementary classes (I-VIII), schools may follow the alternative academic calendar and learning outcomes specified by NCERT. “The revision in the syllabi has been made in the larger interest of the students and they can check the revised syllabi at the link: http://cbseacademic.nic.in/Revisedcurriculum_2021.html,” said regional officer of CBSE, Prayagraj, Sweta Arora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cbse-decides-to-revise-syllabi-for-class-ix-to-xii/articleshow/76839440.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Covid-19 norms go for a toss at district & sessions court||JAIPUR: Be it the litigants or the lawyers, none was seen following the social distancing norm, which is a must to check the spread of Covid, at the district and sessions court here on Tuesday. Many did not carry sanitisers and there was no provision of thermal screening of litigants and lawyers entering the court premises. The situation at the high court premises was slightly better. At the district and sessions court, the chairs and tables of the notary public, typists, lawyers and others were together clearly flouting social distancing norms. Likewise, many lawyers were seen entertaining four to five persons at a time. Likewise, at the galleries too, no social distancing was seen. “There has not been any compliance of the SOPs here as no thermal screening been done. This is how we are risking our lives. I have written to Indrajit Mahanty, the chief justice of Rajasthan High court, for suitable directions and his intervention into the matter,” said Satish Sharma, general secretary, Bar Association, Jaipur. At Rajasthan High Court, there was provision of thermal screening at two spots. “We have ensured that no lawyer or litigants should sit idle at tea stalls and other places,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-norms-go-for-a-toss-at-district-sessions-court/articleshow/76843524.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ajmer||Moderate to heavy rain continues, waterlogging in Jaipur hits traffic||JAIPUR: Moderate to heavy showers continued across the state for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. Many places including Jaipur received a good rainfall that also exposed lofty claims of the civic authorities on their monsoon preparedness. In Jaipur, it started raining at 5 pm while people were returning from offices. There were traffic snarls across the city because of snarls especially at Statue Circle, Tonk Road, Sikar Road, Kalwar Road and Bais Godam. “Civic authorities are supposed to clean the drains on time. Though southwest monsoon got delayed, waterlogging on roads indicates that no work was done,” said Dharmendra Singh who got on Kalwar Road near Jhotwara due to waterlogging. Continued rainfall in Pink City for second consecutive day guided the mercury to take a dip as a maximum temperature of 36.9°C was recorded. The weather mainly remained pleasant across the city. Similarly good rainfall was witnessed in Bharatpur and Udaipur divisions of the state. A rainfall of 100 mm was received in Bayana (Bharatpur). Some of the roads connecting Bharatpur to Alwar witnessed rampant waterlogging. Similar scenes were witnessed at Rajsamand, Jalore, Jodhpur, Sirohi, Alwar and other parts of the state. Met office said mild to moderate rain will take place in western Rajasthan while moderate to heavy rain in rest of the state in next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/moderate-to-heavy-rain-continues-waterlogging-in-jaipur-hits-traffic/articleshow/76845346.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Goa||SWR officials call off inspection at Cansaulim after villagers protest||VASCO: The residents of Cansaulim, especially those affected by the double tracking project of the South Western Railway (SWR) gathered in large numbers at the Cansaulim railway station on Tuesday to protest against the inspection carried out for land acquisition for the project. On seeing the large number of people protesting against the land acquisition, the SWR officials returned without carrying out the inspection. Police personnel from the Vasco and Verna police stations were present in Cansaulim. This was the second time the inspection was cancelled following public protests. The earlier inspection had been scheduled on July 2, but was called off. Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha said, “The villagers are against the project as it will destroy their heritage houses and severely affect their health.” She said that as instructed by the chief minister, she has directed the deputy collector of Mormugao, Sachin Dessai, to keep the proceedings of land acquisition on hold. “Over 130 years ago our ancestors had offered their land to the railways, but now they are again here to take more land,” Saldanha said. Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, who was present at the site, said, “This double tracking project is only for the transportation of coal. All this is being done to benefit Adani and JSW at the cost of Goans and their land.” AAP’s Goa convenor Elvis Gomes said the government was only making a mockery of everybody. “If they have the courage, they should open up the assembly and take up this issue,” Gomes said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/swr-officials-call-off-inspection-at-cansaulim-after-villagers-protest/articleshow/76843547.cms||Ruvina Khan
July 8, 2020||Allahabad||PCS interviews from July 13 to August 7||Prayagraj: The Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) has announced the detailed schedule of the interviews of successful candidates of Provincial Civil Service (PCS) Exam-2018 to fill 984 posts. The interviews of Combined State/Upper Subordinate Services General Selection/ Divyanjan Backlog (Mains)-2018, commonly known as PCS (Mains)-2018, would begin from July 13 and continue till August 7. As per the schedule of the interviews, declared by the commission, interviews of 2,669 eligible candidates who have cleared the PCS (Mains)-2018 would be held in two shifts of the day. The first shift will start from 9am and the second one from 12 noon, informed the press communiqué of the commission. UPPSC exam controller Arvind Kumar Mishra said that the detailed roll number wise schedule of the interviews has been uploaded on the officials website of the commission— https://uppsc.up.nic.in/ for the benefit of the candidates. The interviews have been scheduled for 23 days out of the total 26 dates falling between July 13 and August 7. “No interview has been scheduled on three days between August 1 and August 3 while interviews would be held sans any gap between July 13 and July 31 including on Sundays,” he added. The last day would witness interviews of agriculture group candidates on August 7, Mishra said. He said that qualified students would need to provide some additional details online and options for this would become active on the official website of the commission afternoon of July 7. Out of the 988 posts, for four posts included in PCS-2018 no interviews are to be conducted including one post of executive officer Class-1/Assistant City Commissioner and three posts of Accountant Urban Development. The final result of these four posts will also be declared along with the final results of PCS-2018 after the interview round of other posts. The declaration of PCS-2018 interview schedule has also now made it clear that its final results would get declared before PCS (Mains)-2019 gets held from August 27. It is widely expected that after finishing off with the interviews on August 7, the commission will declare the final results of PCS-2018 by August 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pcs-interviews-from-july-13-to-august-7/articleshow/76839477.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Madurai||HC summons collector, others for allowing savadu soil mining||Madurai: Taking a serious view in a case where permission was granted to a person for quarrying savadu soil from his patta land in Virudhunagar district, the Madras high court on Tuesday directed the collector and three other officials to appear before the court. The permission was given despite an earlier interim order by the court staying the grant of such licences in 13 districts. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam directed the Virudhunagar collector, assistant director of mines and minerals department, Aruppukottai revenue divisional officer and Thiruchuli tahsildar to file individual counter affidavits and further directed them to appear through video conferencing on July 23. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Urangapuli, a resident of Thiruchuli in Virudhunagar district. Urangapuli stated that the collector on May 13 had granted permission to a person to remove ubari sand from his patta lands near Kiruthumal riverbed at P Vagaikulam village situated at Thiruchuli taluk. He stated that in the guise of removing sand from his patta lands, the person was involved in illegal mining of river sand from the Kiruthumal riverbed extensively, using heavy machinery. In 2019, a division bench had granted interim stay from granting fresh licence to quarry savadu soil in patta lands and also directed the 13 district collectors to cancel the existing licence. He noted that despite the order, quarrying was permitted. Since no steps were taken with regard to the representation submitted by him, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench seeking to restrain the person from quarrying ubari or savadu soil from his land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-summons-collector-others-for-allowing-savadu-soil-mining/articleshow/76863522.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Contactless thermal imaging system installed at Jaipur station||JAIPUR: The North Western Railway (NWR) is planning to install thermal imaging system based on artificial intelligence at various stations. On Tuesday, one such system was installed at Jaipur station which will enable authorities to ensure Covid protocol including taking temperature and images of passengers. This is going to eliminate the queue time and there would be reduction on manpower. NWR plans to extend it to its other divisions too. In the manual thermal screening, there was always a need to engage employees to check the temperatures of passengers. However, the thermal imaging system with the help of cameras will give exact temperature of passengers when they walk through the metal detector at the main entrance of the station. “In the usual thermal screening, one has to hold the device and check temperatures of passengers. However, in this system the camera will take the picture of the passenger and will automatically display his or her temperature on the monitor put near the X-ray baggage scanners,” said a senior officer of NWR. This will enable contactless thermal screening and eliminate queue time during rush hour. “Most importantly, this will record all passengers who enter the station and would also help us in enhancing the security and surveillance at stations,” said an officer. The system will enable authorities to simultaneously screen up to 30 passengers within a range of 6 metres within seconds. NWR chief public relations officer Abhay Sharma said, “We are planning to have 5 such machines at Bikaner division and one at Jodhpur division. The one proposed for Jaipur division has already been installed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/contactless-thermal-imaging-system-installed-at-jaipur-station/articleshow/76843542.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Goa||Saligao MLA calls for fresh public hearing for garbage plant expansion||PANAJI: Saligao MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar on Tuesday called for a fresh public hearing with all stakeholders from his constituency to oppose the expansion of the solid waste management plant (SWMP) at Saligao. The state cabinet had recently approved the expansion from its existing capacity of 150 tonnes per day (TPD) to 250 TPD to cater to additional garbage being generated. Salgaonkar also said that waste management minister Michael Lobo who opposed the expansion earlier has now changed his stance. Speaking to reporters, Salgaonkar said, “A meeting has been called on Wednesday against the expansion and we have invited politicians across party lines, the parish priest, NGOs, all panchayats within Saligao constituency and neighbouring panchayats.” “This is not a political issue. Everyone is unanimous in opposing the expansion. This issue is where the life of people is concerned and of future generations. Right now, the focus should be on whether we are opposing expansion of the garbage treatment plant or not opposing the plant. I was of the opinion right from the beginning before becoming MLA that I oppose the expansion, and till date I oppose it,” Salgaonkar stated. Salgaonkar also said that to back his opposition to the expansion of the treatment plant, he has called a meeting and has even stopped trucks carrying garbage from coastal panchayats to the Saligao treatment plant. The MLA said that earlier Lobo used to say that he would not allow garbage from Porvorim constituency but now Lobo is saying that it is a central facility for entire Goa. “Lobo’s stands (on the issue) have been changing but my stand has not changed,” he said. Salgaonkar was categorical that he will not allow the expansion “at any cost”, adding that the refuse-derived fuel (RDF) which is sent to cement factories as fuel has been lying at Saligao and is the size of a football ground. RDF is a fuel which is produced from waste such as municipal solid, industrial waste or commercial waste. The former minister said that water has been contaminated in Saligao because of the treatment plant, that garbage is being brought from Calangute to the Saligao plant and even roads have got damaged. Salgaonkar added that when a public hearing was held, they were informed that the plant was established only for two villages. “As they are going for100% increase in plant capacity they have to go for public hearing again,” he said. He also pointed out that the Parliament standing committee report states that there should not be a central facility for a garbage treatment plant as it will create problems for the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/saligao-mla-calls-for-fresh-public-hearing-for-garbage-plant-expansion/articleshow/76843554.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Toddler dies after road accident||Ahmedabad: A two-year-old boy who was being carried by his mother died after they were hit by a speeding scooter in the Vasna area of city on July 1. The child, had been flung on to the road due to the violence of the collision, died on Monday at a private hospital. According to an FIR filed with M division traffic police, Gauri Chavda, 23, resident of Mahakali Mandir Chawl in Vasna, had gone to buy vegetables near the Vasna APMC market. When she was crossing the road, a scooter ridden by a man hit her, causing her son Kevin to be thrown on to the road. Locals rushed to help her and she was taken to Jivraj Mehta Hospital due to its proximity. While Kevin was already unconscious, at Jivraj Mehta Hospital her son was denied treatment as a corona care facility is being run there. She then took him to a private hospital where he died on Monday afternoon. She later filed a complaint for negligent driving causing death against an unknown scooterist with M division traffic police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/toddler-dies-after-road-accident/articleshow/76842819.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Meerut||Leopard attacks 3 men on a bike in Bijnor||Bijnor: A leopard attacked three men on a motorcycle in Bijnor's Mandawar area near Shahwazpur villageon Monday late night. The trio, who guard a mango orchard, had just started for home on the bike, when a leopard emerged from among the mango trees and pounced on them. The trio fell off the motorcycle and sustained injuries. Commuters came to their rescue as they shouted for help. The leopard fled the scene.Bijnor divisional forest officer M Semmaran said, "We are trying to trace the pugmarks of the big cat which are yet to be found. If any leopard is found in the area, cameras will be installed and a cage will be set up there to capture it."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/leopard-attacks-3-men-on-a-bike-in-bijnor/articleshow/76840444.cms||Harveer Dabas
July 8, 2020||Bhopal||Needs more work, says MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan on portfolio allocation||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan returned to Bhopal from New Delhi on Tuesday morning, but the promised allocation of portfolios didn’t happen. And there’s no word on when it will. It’s an indication that the tussle between senior BJP leaders and supporters of Jyotiraditya Scindia for prized portfolios is intensifying. On Monday, after meeting BJP national president JP Nadda in Delhi, the CM had said there was no tussle and portfolios would be allocated as soon as he returned. Word got around that the list had been finalized. But on arriving in Bhopal on Tuesday, Chouhan said: “Not today (portfolios). Will work out today and distribute very soon. Cabinet expansion is over and the portfolios are to be distributed. Will work more on this.” It’s not only Congress that’s taking a dig at BJP over the stalemate that has dragged on for nearly a week. Former Union minister Shatrughan Sinha tweeted: “BJP has got divided into three camps in Madhya Pradesh -- Maharaj, Shivraj and Naraaz (dissenters).” Sources in BJP said the two factions -- one belonging to senior BJP leaders and the other led by Rajya Sabha member Scindia -- did not agree on the list that was handed over to the party central leadership in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/needs-more-work-says-shivraj-on-portfolio-allocation/articleshow/76843545.cms||Rajendra Sharma
July 8, 2020||Goa||Goan firm to make microfine cement||PANAJI: The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), the national standard body of India has granted India’s first license for manufacturing of microfine ordinary portland cement and ultrafine ground granulated blast furnace slag to Counto Microfine Products Pvt Ltd. Counto Microfine is a joint venture of Ambuja Cements Ltd and Alcon group and it has one of the largest manufacturing facilities for microfine materials in Goa. The Goan firm, based at Pissurlem industrial estate will be able to produce and sell the products with an assurance on quality and reliability of the product, said Pawan Kumar Kandoi, head of the BIS, Mumbai. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-firm-to-make-microfine-cement/articleshow/76843553.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Madurai||7,693 houses in Madurai zone 2 in containment||Madurai: As many as 7,693 of the 21,148 houses coming under Covid-19 containment areas in Madurai Corporation, fall in zone two, making it the zone with the most number of houses in containment. This is followed by zone three (6,576), zone one (4,330) and zone four (2,529). Similarly, zone two has the most number of barricaded houses at 639, followed by 549 in zone one, 417 in zone four and 450 in zone three. Corporation started barricading the houses where fever cases were identified in the past few days. Corporation commissioner S Visakan said that testing of symptomatic people is on the rise. “The corporation has been conducting more tests for the past one week. Now, it has been increased further by fully utilising the lockdown,” Visakan said. Corporation officials said that testing has increased from an average of 400 a day to 800 at the end of last week. It has been increased further as per instruction from the health secretary, J Radhakrishnan, who is conducting an inspection in Madurai to check the measures taken to contain the infection. People are made to undergo tests even if they have mild symptoms, they said. The highest number of Covid-19 cases recorded so far are Ponnagaram Broadway (17), Central Jail (14), Ellis Nagar Second Street (17), Janaki Nagar (HMS Colony Extension) (12), Gandhi Nagar (Shenoy Nagar) (13), Kakkan Street (Shenoy Nagar) (14), Police Quarters in Reserve Line (14), Mela Anupanadi Housing Board (15), TNHB Colony Villapuram (17), Pappankinatru Lane (South Masi Street) (13), Vasudhara and Agrini Apartments (14) and North Perumal Maistry Street (12).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/7693-houses-in-madurai-zone-2-in-containment/articleshow/76863530.cms||V Devanathan
July 8, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur: How Vikas Dubey invoked Chambal to earn epithet of ‘Gabbar’ of Bikru||KANPUR: Gangster Vikas Dubey’s hawk-like grip over the rugged hamlet in Kanpur district and the ruthlessness with which he crushed any whiff of challenge not only enforced terror, but also invoked the folklore of fear of Chambal, earning him the epithet of Gabbar Singh of ‘Bikru’. Drawing the ‘Sholay’ parallel and conjuring up its unforgettable villain, Gabbar, was not without reason. Dubey was law unto himself and residents of this predominantly Brahmin village would pay obeisance, not just out of caste compulsion, but also out of dread. “Nobody dare draw water from the village well without reciting a litany in his name. Any deviation triggers brutal retribution. I was only 10 years old when I was tortured and suspended upside down from a tree when I forgot to sing paeans before fetching water. At least four other villagers have met a similar fate,” said a villager sitting under a tree in outskirts of Bikru. Read AlsoUP: Vikas Dubey's close aide shot dead in police encounter in HamirpurAmar Dubey, the right-hand man of wanted gangster Vikas Dubey was shot dead in an encounter in Hamirpur early morning on Wednesday by a team of Special Task Force (STF) and Hamirpur police.Terror was unleashed when the few hand pumps in the parched village went dry a few years ago and thirsty villagers began flocking to the well, which was claimed by Dubey and his family. “Women and children have to queue up in front of his house and plead for water. At times, the don would make us wait for several hours, but none dares to walk towards the well without a nod from the Dubey household,” said another fear-stricken villager. Read AlsoVikas Dubey escapes from Faridabad hotel before cops arriveA team of UP STF and Haryana police detained 3 aides of Vikas Dubey after it raided a hotel in Faridabad in search of the gangster, who is the main accused in the Bikru village shootout in which eight policemen were killed. The UP STF came to know about Dubey’s location on Tuesday evening but beforeThe flamboyant gangster would often be on short fuse and his trademark sarcasm would mean a kangaroo court for delivering instant justice. “Cops at the local police station in Chaubeypur were in his payroll. No cop has ever tried to defy his writ,” said Khunti Pandey, a resident of Bikru. Once while he was holding a panchayat at the sprawling orchard near his home, bird poop fell on his shoulder. “The don whipped out his gun and went on a shooting spree till the crow and every bird atop the banyan tree dropped dead. And then his diabolical scream echoed in the village,” said another villager. Unlike other ganglords, he didn’t indulge in women, but hated betrayal. And wife Richa remained his able lieutenant, who participated in brainstorming sessions at the master control room of his now razed palatial house in Bikru village. After the Thursday night bloodbath, mobile surveillance by police, showed that Dubey sent an SOS to his wife two hours before the encounter to pack up and flee with their daughter. Richa, who was in Lucknow on the fateful night, is now a fugitive and on the most-wanted list of UP Police. But their relationship wobbled briefly after the don stormed into Shivli police station in Kanpur and shot dead a BJP minister, Santosh Shukla, in 2001. His wife fled and took shelter in her brother’s house in Shastrinagar, fearing police backlash. Read AlsoDay after eight cops killed, over 25 UP Police teams formed to nab Vikas DubeyLUCKNOW: More than 25 teams have been formed by the UP Police to nab history-sheeter Vikas Dubey who was yet to be apprehended 36 hours after eight police personnel were gunned down by criminals during an attempt to arrest him. Inspector General of Police, Kanpur, Mohit Agarwal on Saturday told PTI,“Dubey unleashed a wave terror in the locality of his brother-in-law and his henchmen raided every home for his wife. But none dared to complain to the police,” said a resident of Shastrinagar. Read AlsoKanpur: I will follow the footsteps of my brave father, says slain DSP's daughterVaishnavi Mishra, the elder daughter of DSP Devendra Mishra who was killed during a raid at gangster Vikas Dubey’s residence, on Monday said that initially, she wanted to become a doctor but now she would like to follow the footsteps of her father.Watch Kanpur: How gangster Vikas Dubey invoked Chambal to earn epithet of ‘Gabbar’ of Bikru village||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/how-don-earned-gabbar-of-bikru-epithet/articleshow/76843971.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Five new cases in Nilgiris take tally to 150||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded five new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking its tally to 150. While one is the primary contact of the public relations officer of the private needle manufacturing company, the remaining four are his secondary contacts. The new cases comprise three men and two women. Four of them are from Ketti area and the other one is a resident of Hospital Road in Ooty. With this, Yellanhalli and Ketti clusters have grown larger. The district now has 101 active cases. Of them, 74 are being treated in the Ooty government headquarters hospital, seven in the Coonoor government Lawley hospital and 20 in the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. There are 45 containment zones in the district and they are monitored by frontline workers. On Tuesday, Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya inspected five containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/five-new-cases-in-nilgiris-take-tally-to-150/articleshow/76843556.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Howrah Express now once a week||Ahmedabad: Western Railway has decided that the Ahmedabad-Howrah Express, which was a daily train, will now be a weekly train. The change in frequency was made following a request from the West Bengal government. DRM Deepak Kumar Jha said that the train will be a weekly train from Friday. The frequency was reduced as the Covid-19 cases were on the rise. Jha said that 02833 Ahmedabd-Horwah weekly special will leave Ahmedabad on Monday at 12.15am and will reach Howrah on Monday at 1.30pm. The train will leave Howrah on Friday at 11.55pm and will reach Ahmedabad on Sunday at 1.25pm. The train will have sleeper, third AC and second AC coaches. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/howrah-express-now-once-a-week/articleshow/76842822.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Madurai||Don’t transfer Sathankulam case to CBI, appeals outfit||Madurai: The Sathankulam double custodial murder case should not be transferred to CBI at this juncture when the CBCID had just started investigations, Joint Action against Custodial Torture, Tamil Nadu has demanded. All political parties and public should raise their voice against the move, it said. The outfit’s organiser Thiagu and secretary M T Pandian said there was opposition when the government announced the case would be handed over to CBI. Madras high court had expressed satisfaction at the course of CBCID investigation. The government should withdraw from the move and CBCID should continue the inquiry under the guidance of the court’s bench in the case. In the wake of the incident having shaken the country and the cops arrested, the government handing it over to CBI and the agency taking over the investigation have to be viewed with suspicion. It looks like a move to divert attention and hence the government should withdraw its decision, the organization said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dont-transfer-sathankulam-case-to-cbi-appeals-outfit/articleshow/76863536.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Meerut||No govt shield to protect 50k Bijnor villagers from floods||Bijnor: The sight of black monsoon clouds brings no joy to some 50,000 villagers living along the banks of the Ganga and its tributaries in Bijnor district. The rain-fed swollen rivers cause destruction and loss of livelihood by submerging and eroding their agricultural lands and homes.According to irrigation department sources, 312 villages located on the banks of these rivers have been declared flood-prone. Of these 25, along the Ganga, are critically endangered. A Rs 61-crore project to erect studs to stop land erosion has been in the pipeline for the past three years. This time round, the central government had given nod to the project but is yet to release funds, said the irrigation department officials.Now, it is too late as the Kalagarh dam authorities in Uttarakhand have already sounded the flood alert for many districts of UP, said villagers.For long, the flood-affected villagers have been demanding construction of studs along the Ganga from Kanav Ashram to Balawali, where the river enters UP from Uttarakhand, but to no avail.Besides, government has not even released sufficient funds for repairing existing embankments. The Irrigation department had asked for Rs 1.98 crore for the repairs but only Rs 50 lakh has been released.Talking with TOI, a villager, Bijendra Chaudhary, said, “The Ganga has become a curse for us as it wrecks havoc eroding agriculture land and destroying standing crops. Moreover, it has been changing coarse every year, sweeping away entire villages like Simali, Simala, Meerapur, Chaukpuri and Sukkhawala in the Khadar area. “Our demand for an embankment and a causeway along the Ganga to control flow of water has fallen on deaf ears," he said.When contacted executive engineer of the irrigation department Ram Baabu said they were awaiting release of funds. “Now, work will start only after the monsoon," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/no-govt-shield-to-protect-50k-bijnor-villagers-from-floods/articleshow/76840465.cms||Harveer Dabas
July 8, 2020||Goa||Colva youth arrested for stealing cellphones||COLVA: The Colva police arrested Flintoff D’Souza from Vanelim, Colva and recovered from him two stolen iPhones worth Rs 1.9 lakh. D’Souza was nabbed following a complaint filed by Kalandar Shafi from Ponda stating that the accused contacted him through an e-commerce site to purchase his phone. A meeting was scheduled in Colva, and after inspecting the phone, the accused convinced Shafi to format his phone and then fled with it. Police said that the modus operandi of the accused was to scout for sale advertisements on e-commerce sites, and then lure potential victims to secluded spots. D’Souza would then get them to delete all identifiable apps from their phone after which he would snatch the phones and flee. A case had earlier been registerd againt D’Souza at the Cuncolim police station, but at that time he was a minor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/colva-youth-arrested-for-stealing-cellphones/articleshow/76843566.cms||---
July 8, 2020||India||Why Mondays see a dip in fresh Covid cases||NEW DELHI: The number of new Covid cases across India fell this Monday by nearly 3,000 from Sunday’s count, reaffirming a pattern seen week after week for at least two months now. The pattern is this: daily case counts peak over the weekend, mostly on Sunday, and see a drop on Monday. The trend has held for too long — nine weeks in a row — for it to be a statistical quirk. For instance, fresh cases recorded this Monday were 22,007 — a big drop from Sunday’s tally of 24,976. In the previous week (June 28-29), Sunday’s count was 19,741, which dropped to 18,870 the next day. TOI looked at data of daily Covid-19 cases since May and found that the “Monday dip” pattern has held on all 10 weeks during this period, except the very first Sunday-Monday (May 3-4). The best explanation for why the case count falls every Monday lies in the testing figures. The number of tests conducted falls every Sunday, which then reflects on the number of cases detected on Monday, and sometimes on Tuesday as well, since the results of the RT-PCR tests take 24 to 48 hours to arrive. According to the website Covid19India.org, 2.48 lakh tests were done last Saturday (July 4). The number fell to 1.8 lakh on Sunday and again rose to 2.41 lakh on Monday. Likewise, in the week before that, 2.31 lakh Covid tests were done on Saturday (June 27), 1.7 lakh the next day (Sunday) and 2.1 lakh on Monday (June 29). For each Sunday since June 6, for which data was available, testing numbers showed a dip. Interestingly, daily figures for deaths don’t show any such pattern, again pointing to reduced testing on Sundays as the main reason for drop in case counts on Mondays. The “Monday dip” is another indicator of the close relationship between testing and detection of Covid cases, and why states need to ramp up testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/why-mondays-see-a-dip-in-fresh-covid-cases/articleshow/76844470.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
July 8, 2020||Shimla||6 people found infected, 27 patients recover in HP||SHIMLA: Six cases of Covid-19 was reported in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday, while 27 patients recovered from the virus. Among other cases, two each wee from Shimla and Una, and one from Solan. Among the patients who have recovered, 10 are from Kangra district, eight from Hamirpur, five from Shimla, two from Solan, and one each from Mandi and Una. The number of positive cases in the state has now increased to 1,083, of which 282 cases are active. Also, 777 patients have recovered, 13 have migrated out of state, nine have died of Covid-19, and two patients died due to non-Covid reasons. Also, 291 cases have been reported from Kangra district, of which 69 are active. In Hamirpur, 267 cases have been reported and 69 of them are active. In Una, 129 cases have been reported so far and 29 of them are active. In Solan, 120 cases have been reported and 41 of them are active. A total of 61,167 persons had been put under surveillance in the state till Tuesday. Of them, 41,626 people have completed their 28 days of surveillance. So far, 91,175 persons have been tested for Covid-19. Of them, 89,803 people have tested negative and results of 1,289 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/6-people-found-infected-27-patients-recover-in-hp/articleshow/76843573.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Madurai||Fruits get added to menu in Ramnad GH isolation wards||Madurai: Ramanathapuram district collector K Veera Raghava Rao has said that the quality and quantity of food being provided to patients and medical staff in Covid-19 isolation facilities, were closely monitored and fruit baskets are being supplied to the patients from Tuesday. He was reacting after four nurses, working in the isolation ward of the Ramanathapuram government hospital, fainted on Monday, allegedly due to food poisoning.The hospital has around 400 beds, in which 326 patients are undergoing treatment for Covid-19. A batch of 30 medical staff, including doctors, nurses, and nursing assistants, work on eight-hour shifts in these wards, on a daily basis.On Monday, the four nurses fainted and were admitted to the emergency ward for treatment. It was initially stated that they had suffered from food poisoning.Sources at the hospital said the food was being sourced from a hotel in Ramanathapuram, which was delivering substandard food. “Sometimes, even the dosas supplied are old and stale. The patients should be given more nutrition packed food,” a source said. The medical staff too consume the same food, as they had no way of getting food from home.Dean of the hospital, Dr M Alli, said that it was not known why only four nurses got sick when the same food was served to more than 300 people, including patients and other medical staff. “We are ordering the food from one of the best restaurants in the town,” she said.Alli raised doubts whether these nurses had ordered any non-vegetarian food from outside and consumed it. “However, they all have recovered and discharged,”’ she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fruits-get-added-to-menu-in-ramnad-gh-isolation-wards/articleshow/76863544.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Lucknow||IG Lucknow begins probe into row||Lucknow/Kanpur: The UP DGP office directed IG Lucknow range Laxmi Singh to probe the controversy over Deputy SP DP Mishra’s letter to then Kanpur SSP accusing SO Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari of shielding gangster Vikas Dubey and ascertain the nexus charges in it. Late on Monday night, in a high-level meeting at DGP headquarters, it was decided to assign the probe into the letter controversy to IG Lucknow range Laxmi Singh. Acting on the directions, Singh left for Kanpur on Tuesday morning along with a five-member team and some forensic experts. The forensic team seized laptops and huge pile of documents from the office of Bilhaur circle officer for testing. Singh was herself seen checking files and scrutinising the documents in the office. While coming out from the office of CO Bilhaur, the IG told mediapersons, “First let me complete my work, then I will tell you all about it.” Later, IG Lucknow range, ADG Kanpur range J N Singh, IG Kanpur range Mohit Agarwal, and SSP Kanpur Nagar Dinesh Kumar P were huddled in a meeting which continued till late evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ig-lucknow-begins-probe-into-row/articleshow/76843987.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 3 rythu bazaars go back to original spot||VIJAYAWADA: Agriculture marketing authorities on Tuesday reopened Ajith Singh Nagar, Bhavanipuram, and Payakapuram rythu bazaars, which functioned from makeshift premises following the Covid-19 outbreak. In a bid to prevent the spread of Covid-19, officials had shifted the farmers’ markets to open spaces to ensure social distancing. Moreover, mobile markets were launched and farmers were given special cards to sell vegetables on streets at price fixed by the government. But the rush at makeshift rythu bazaars dipped during Unlock 1.0 and Unlock 2.0 as people preferred purchasing vegetables from street vendors than travelling to the makeshift markets, which were away from their houses. After 120 days, agriculture marketing authorities reopened the farmers’ markets at their actual locations. But given that cases of infection are on the rise, officials took necessary measures to maintain social distancing. VMC authorities conducted inspections and imposed fines on buyers at the markets found without masks. Meanwhile, people’s associations and Left parties have demanded that makeshift markets be continued as Covid-19 cases are is rampant in crowded areas. “This is the crucial time to contain the spread of coronavirus. Many cases are being registered every day. Maintaining physical distance at congested markets is difficult. Officials should continue makeshift markets for some more time. Safety of vendors should also be considered and special teams should be deployed to take action against those found flouting Covid-19 protocols,” CPI city secretary Donepudi Shankar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-rythu-bazaars-go-back-to-original-spot/articleshow/76841844.cms||Venu Lanka
July 8, 2020||Madurai||Hosp staff worried as many test +ve in a week in Madurai||MADURAI: As frontline workers fall to Covid-19 infection at an alarming rate in the district, as 257 frontline workers including hospital staff tested positive during the last week, concerns have been raised about safety of healthcare professionals. According to hospital sources, more than 60 staffers including doctors and nurses at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) have tested positive in the last week. “Despite all safety measures being in place and being equipped with PPEs when handling Covid-19 patients, the fear is still there as we never know if by accident we can get infected. Outside the Covid-19 wards we are exposed to a large number of patients now who may be carriers of the disease,” said a GRH staff. The hospital employs staff in Covid-19 wards on a shift basis, including mandatory quarantining and testing. Further, some medical staff from other taluk-level hospitals and primary health centres have also tested Covid-19 positive. “Among the community, healthcare professionals are the most exposed even in lockdown. When a patient enters a hospital, it is not immediately known if the person is Covid-19 positive. Further, long hours in PPEs or even N95 masks are also extremely tiring. IMA has reached out to the government to help ensure safety of all healthcare professionals,” said Dr AK Ravikumar, IMA state secretary. Though only few private hospitals in Madurai are authorised to treat Covid-19 patients, a number of doctors and nurses from various private hospitals across the district have tested positive. At one of the private multi-speciality hospital in Madurai, after one doctor tested Covid-19 positive, other staff also tested Covid-19 positive in numbers. “At the private hospital I work at, after one of the staff tested Covid-19 positive, all of us were in fear when asked to isolate ourselves. There was fear and guilt of passing on the infection to my family. Even those who are attending general OP for non-Covid-19 patients are testing Covid-19 positive. We have only mask and gloves for protection, not PPEs. Even if we are careful to sanitise, we can no longer be sure,” said a doctor at a private hospital in Anna Nagar. District health officials meanwhile said that they have taken note of rising Covid-19 cases among private hospitals and hence held talks urging to ensure safety of their doctors and staff. “Doctors and healthcare professions too definitely need psychological support to deal with fear of contracting or spreading Covid-19. IMA branches are actively holding programmes regarding the same for doctors and paramedical staff to provide guidance and support,” said Dr Ravikumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hosp-staff-worried-as-many-test-ve-in-a-week-in-madurai/articleshow/76719995.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Spike in Covid cases: Andhra govt urged to stop flights, trains from high-risk cities||VISAKHAPATNAM: As Covid-19 cases continue to rise, the district administration has sent proposals to the state government to ban flights and trains from high-risk cities such as Mumbai and Delhi to Visakhapatnam for the time being. It is learnt that flights from high-risk cities to Tirupati and Vijayawada airports too may be banned and a government order in this regard is awaited. As per the state government’s Covid-19 instant order number 52, the high-risk states include Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Passengers arriving from these places, after collection of swab samples are to be sent for institutional quarantine with certain exceptions (like elderly, children, pregnant and lactating women and terminally-ill patients). Special officer for Covid-19 (north coastal Andhra) Dr P V Sudhakar said, “The district administration has recently sent proposals to the state government about putting a temporary stop to flights coming to Visakhapatnam airport from high-risk areas like Mumbai and Delhi. Also the government is being requested to stop running of trains from high-risk cities to AP such as AP Express from Delhi and Mumbai Konark Express from Maharashtra. Even airports at Tirupati and Vijayawada may pause flights from high-risk cities.” “Moreover, in the coming days, the administration is planning to do away with individual swab tests for all flight passengers. Most passengers from low-risk cities will be directly sent to home quarantine and only individuals who have fever or look ill will be tested,” added Dr Sudhakar. Almost 1% of outstation returnees tested positive out of nearly 20,000 passengers tested so far who arrived on trains, buses and flights. According to K Vijay Mohan, president of Tours and Travels Association of AP (TTAA), five to eight flights are operational (daily or on weekly basis) connecting Visakhapatnam with cities like Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Tirupati and Vijayawada. Arrival of passengers ranges between 500-1000 daily. Most of the flights to Visakhapatnam have a capacity of 180 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/spike-in-cases-govt-urged-to-stop-flights-trains-from-high-risk-cities/articleshow/76841881.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||HC admn: More functioning led to outbreak in courts||Chandigarh: Facing pressure from the lawyers’ for opening the courts in the region, especially for re-starting the physical hearings in courts, the Punjab and Haryana high court administration on Tuesday claimed that increase in the functioning of the courts has led to outbreak of Covid-19 in various offices of the court. “The HC is functioning in a restrictive manner to prevent the spread of the virus. However due to constant representations from various quarters, the functioning is being increased as a result of which more staff is required which seems to be the reason for the outbreak in different offices of the HC. All preventive measures are, however, being taken,” says the official release issued by the administration. An official release by the HC administration has claimed that around 500 judicial officers, their family members and staff members in the state of Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh had to be quarantined because of some accused produced in the subordinate courts after arrest having been found to be positive for Covid-19. It has also been claimed by the administration that two additional district and sessions’ judges in the state of Haryana have also tested positive and are under treatment at present. Even one of the branches of the HC has also been shut down by the court administration after the husband of a superintendent in gazette-II branch of the Punjab and Haryana high court was tested positive. Since the superintendent was attending office, some sections including gazette-II branch, GPF branch, translation branch and offices of registrar, the HC administration has decided to shut down the gazette-II branch temporarily as a precautionary measure. Another clerk of the pension branch has been admitted in the general hospital in Panchkula’s Sector-6 after he had complaint of running fever. He will be tested for Covid-19. The HC administration has recently extended the restrictions imposed on hearing of cases in the high court as well as the subordinate courts of both the states and the UT Chandigarh and deferred the hearing of all the routine cases till August. As of now, the HC has been hearing only the cases of urgent nature, which too on prior permission, to prevent the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. The cases are being heard by various benches through video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-admn-more-functioning-led-to-outbreak-in-courts/articleshow/76843586.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Lucknow||Slain DSP’s ‘letter’ stirs the khaki hornet’s nest||Lucknow: A letter written by slain deputy superintendent of police Devendra Mishra to then SSP, Kanpur, Anant Deo Tiwari has stirred up a hornet's nest in the police department. Anant, who was DIG, STF was shifted on Tuesday evening after much hue and cry over the viral letter as the STF had been assigned the job of investigating the Bikru village carnage. In view of fresh revelations, chief minister Yodi Adityanath, who also holds the home portfolio, has directed IG, Lucknow, Laxmi Singh to probe the mystery shrouding the slain deputy SP's letter. In his letter to then SSP Anant Deo, Devendra, who was brutally killed by Dubey and his men at Bikru village, had clearly stated that SHO, Chaubeypur, Vinay Tiwari was shielding Dubey and his men. Though Kanpur SSP Dinesh Kumar Prabhu has already stated that he could not trace any such letter in his office, several serving police officers and also a few who have retired recently have raised the demand for treating this letter of the deputy SP as a 'dying declaration' against Anant for his inaction in the entire episode. Endorsing these views, a former DGP said that “the letter by Devendra should be treated as his dying declaration.” With the letter of Devendra going viral and police also trying to confirm its veracity, a section of IPS officers in Kanpur told TOI that had Anant taken timely action on the letter, lives of eight policemen could have been saved. Anant, who has now been shifted to PAC, had managed to stick to the elite STF for long. Initially, he had joined the force as ASP, then he became SP, STF and then finally got the post of DIG. The Bikhru village killings would also be an acid test for Prashant Kumar, ADG, law and order, who would have to live up to his image as 'encounter man' in Meerut. He would have to come up to expectations of the CM who has reposed full faith on his 'police skills' . Apart from probing the police-political patronage to Vikas Dubey, evidence is being collected to assess how he continued to secure bails even after his involvement in over 50 criminal cases. Police are also investigating why no steps were initiated to cancel his firearms licences despite the fact that he was involved in so many cases of heinous crime, including murders, kidnappings and extortion, . Vikas managed to build his empire when the BSP was in power in the state. Between 2007 and 2012 not a single case was registered against him as it is said that he and his wife had blessings of senior BSP leaders. Later, in the SP regime, Vikas successfully raised his private army fully equipped with lethal weapons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/slain-dsps-letter-stirs-the-khaki-hornets-nest/articleshow/76844000.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 8, 2020||Madurai||Railways sets up biz devpt unit to raise freight revenue||Madurai: In line with the railway board’s focus on freight business, Madurai division on Tuesday set up a business development unit (BDU) aimed at doubling freight movement by 2024. The move is aimed at increasing the railway’s share in traffic and foray into miscellaneous non-bulk goods traffic.Senior divisional railway manager V Prasanna will be the chairman of the divisional-level committee while senior divisional operations manager R P Rathipriya will be convener. The BDU also has senior divisional finance manager Madhuri Jaiswal and senior divisional mechanical engineer Rajendra Nayak as members. It will interact with trade and industry to understand the pattern of goods transportation and attract additional freight traffic. They will also serve as a nodal point for speedy operationalization of any new traffic proposals.A senior official told TOI that demand for freight movement is on the rise from newer sectors. A leading tractor manufacturer in Vadipatti, Madurai, who transported tractors on 12 rakes (175 tractors per rake) in the whole of last financial year has transported 19 rakes from April. It was transported to destinations in Rajasthan, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The revenue from transporting tractors from the company in the first quarter of this year is Rs 3.66 crore (19 rakes) against Rs 61 lakh (3 rakes) during the corresponding period last year. Coal movement started in August last year has also seen an increase in demand with revenue in the first quarter for the division touching Rs 2.25 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/railways-sets-up-biz-devpt-unit-to-raise-freight-revenue/articleshow/76863582.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kanpur||Five deaths due to Covid, highest in a day in district||Kanpur: Five Covid positive persons succumbed to the disease in the city on Tuesday. This was the highest number of Covid related deaths in a single day. Three Covid patients had died on Monday, thus in past two days eight persons died due to Covid. The corona toll has reached at 66 now. The deceased belonged to areas - Chakeri, Kidwai Nagar, Danakhori, Govind Nagar and Phai Saheb Ka Hata. All of them were suffering from other ailments also like diabetes, hypertension. The district health department recorded 45 new Covid cases taking teh ditrict’s tally to 1,460. Total active cases in the city are 398 now and 996 have been cured. New cases were reported from Pandu Nagar, Govind Nagar, Phoolbagh, Maniram Bagiya, Babupurwa, Collectorganj, Canal Road, Danakhori, Harjinder Nagar, Avas Vikas Kalyanpur, Swaroop Nagar, M Block Kakadeo, Medical College, Chandra Nagar, Rooma, Rajeev Vihar Nabuasta, Dildar Hata, Acharya Nagar, Teacher Colony Ghatampur, Vishwa Bank Barra, Lal Bangla, Nehru nagar, Defence Colony, Tagore Road Cantt, Galla Mandi Naubasta, Kaushalpuri, Kidwai Nagar, Hans Nagar, Ratanlal Nagar, Anand Bagh and Ramadevi. The health department collected 693 swab samples on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/five-deaths-due-to-covid-highest-in-a-day-in-district/articleshow/76843590.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: NAD flyover to be ready by December, airport-NSTL flank done||VISAKHAPATNAM: Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) chairman Dronamraju Srinivasa Rao and metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara conducted a review meeting on the progress of the NAD flyover project on Tuesday. Srinivasa Rao instructed the representatives of the Vijay Nirman Company Pvt Ltd, the bidder of the project, to expedite the work and complete the project by December. According to Srinivasa Rao, the contractor has so far completed 60% of the physical components and achieved 55% of financial progress. The contractor has attributed the delay to traffic problems, lorry strike, non-availability of sand and recent lockdown restrictions. The representative of Vijay Nirman informed that the upper rotary from airport to NSTL side was completed and is ready to open to traffic. “On the Gopalapatnam side, the upper rotary work is in progress and will be completed by August 15. The upper rotary on the Marripalem side will be ready by October 15 and the NSTL-Airport arm by November 30,” they explained When it comes to the lower rotary works, the work is yet to begin and the agency has given timeline to complete the work by the end of December-2020. On the other hand, the railway authorities are yet to give permission to the proposed rail-over-bridge. The bidder informed that the RoB works will take about seven months once the permission is accorded. The VMRDA Authority entrusted the responsibility of construction of the multi-grade separator (flyover) at the busy NAD junction of the city to the bidder on November 18, 2017. Sand scarcity, traffic diversion issues, change in the designs of the project at the suggestion of the NIT-Warangal after the launch of the works, delay in getting permission for the rail-over-bridge, etc are some of the factors, which affected the progress of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nad-flyover-to-be-ready-by-dec-airport-nstl-flank-done/articleshow/76841902.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Goa||As demand wavers, MSMEs think twice before borrowing||PANAJI: Uncertainty over demand and the trajectory of Covid-19 has made several businesses, mainly Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), reluctant to avail fresh loans, despite the Centre and banks offering extra credit lines through the Guaranteed Emergency Credit Line (GECL) scheme. Data released by banks shows that just over one-third of the funds sanctioned by banks have been actually disbursed under the scheme. Of the Rs 223 crore sanctioned to 6,456 entities, banks have disbursed just Rs 66 crore as on June 25. Of the 11 banks that have disbursed funds to MSMEs in Goa under the Centre’s Rs 3 lakh crore emergency credit line, State Bank of India, Syndicate Bank, HDFC Bank and Bank of Baroda have disbursed the most funds. “In the May-June period, banks have sanctioned Rs 223 crore, but actual disbursement is just Rs 66 crore, which means that actual disbursement is just one third,” said a government officer who was present for the meeting. There are 16,106 enterprises in Goa that are eligible for the cheap loans offered by the Centre to infuse up to Rs 3 lakh crore liquidity into small businesses. Out of these 16,106 firms, 10,440 entities were issued offer letters for the loans. The State Level Banker’s Committee data shows that 6,456 firms were sanctioned Rs 223.02 crore, but only Rs 65.97 crore was disbursed to 3,590 accounts. “It is easy to sanction the loans and the loans are cheap, but if the actual disbursal is low it means there is still no demand or it means that enterprises are not starting,” said a government officer. A senior private sector banker, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that the wide variation between the sanctioned loans and disbursement is because local firms are hesitant to utilise the funds. “On one hand the demand is down and on the other side, the supply chain remains impaired,” the banker said. At the SLBC meeting, where private sector banks and public sector banks were present, bankers were asked to push credit to MSMEs in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-demand-wavers-msmes-think-twice-before-borrowing/articleshow/76843599.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Woman, 86, with heart disease recovers||PATIALA: An 86-year-old woman who tested positive for Covid-19 infection on June 30 has recovered and has been discharged from hospital on Tuesday, said an official. However, the source of her infection us yet to be traced. Jal Kaur, 86, is a resident of Sangrur city and the only member in the house to be tested positive for the virus infection. An official said the samples were taken on June 27 after she reached the civil hospital in Sangrur for treatment. The woman has cormorbidities, including dyspnea and cardiac patient. Meanwhile, Sangrur reported its 16th death on Tuesday, with 70-year-old woman of Bhanbhaura village of Malerkotla succumbing to the infection. She was admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala on Sunday, after being referred from civil hospital in Dhuri block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-86-with-heart-disease-recovers/articleshow/76843594.cms||Bharat Khanna
July 8, 2020||Lucknow||City entrepreneur growing award winning purple mango variety||Lucknow: A mango that emerged the winner in the state’s first ‘aam mahotsava’ (mango festival) held in June 2017, after having pipped the entries from seven other states, is unique in many ways.. Called Ambika, its distinct characteristic is its colour. “The fruit is purple when in growing stage but turns red once it matures. Some of these full-grown fruits may retain purple patches on the skin,” said SC Shukla, an orchardist and mango entrepreneur. Shukla got the award for Ambika in 2017. You can buy the award winning purple mangoes in the market. Shukla’s orchard in Lucknow has hundreds of trees laden with Ambika. His orchard boasts of more than 300 mango varieties collected from various research institutes and states. “Ambika is the best from all aspects. I doubt there is anyone else growing it in Lucknow. I also send the fruit to many other states every year,” said Shukla. The fruit is not only pleasant looking but has a longer shelf life than others. It can stay fresh for about two weeks, a quality that makes it a perfect export variety. Its aroma, too, is different from other varieties. A hybrid variety, Ambika is a cross of two long-grown mango varieties, Janardan Pasand and Amrapali. It was developed by a research institute but Shukla has been growing it for several years. What makes Ambika profitable for farmers is its weight and yield. A fruit weighs close to 400grams. A single tree may bear hundreds of fruit. It can be easily grown in high-density farming, as saplings planted very close would also grow to their normal size.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-entrepreneur-growing-award-winning-purple-mango-variety/articleshow/76844025.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Discrimination against Covid workers: 10 held in Srikakulam district||VISAKHAPATNAM: Ten people were arrested in Srikakulam district on Tuesday for discriminating against sanitation workers who helped cremate the body of a Covid-19 patient. The person had died of Covid-19 in Meliaputti village on July 4, and his cremation was arranged as per Covid-19 protocols. Four sanitary workers from Tekkali municipality were brought to Meliaputti for the cremation, who performed the last duties in the presence of officials from health, panchayat raj and police department. After completing the funeral work, when they returned to Tekkali, a group of locals prevented them from entering the town and asked them to get themselves tested for Covid-19 first. The four were forced to take shelter in an isolated building on the outskirts of the town.  When locals spotted their presence inside the abandoned house, they informed the police who immediately rushed to the place. When the cops questioned them, they described their ordeal. Responding to the incident, police filed a criminal case against 10 persons under section 341 and 188 of the IPC and section 51(b) of the Disaster Management Act. Tekkali sub-inspector Balivada Ganesh said the arrested are being counselled and would be sent to court later. Taking serious note of the incident, Srikakulam collector J Nivas warned strict action against those involved in such activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/discrimination-against-covid-workers-10-held/articleshow/76841931.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 8, 2020||Kanpur||Vikas seen threatening people in old viral video of panchayat||Kanpur:In yet another 47 seconds long old video that has gone viral on social media, gangster Vikas Dubey armed with rifle this time could be seen holding a ‘panchayat’ and threatening a group of people to mend their ways or be ready to face consequences. When one among the group tried to shoot a video of the ‘panchayat’, the gangster was seen pointing a rifle on him and terrorising him, saying that he will be sprayed with bullets if he dared to shoot his video. The video shows him holding a ‘panchayat’ in a village following a dispute between two groups of people. After listening to the two sides, the gangster tried to threaten and create pressure on one group on gun point, asking them to keep their mouth shut or be ready to face consequences. Sources informed that the gangster virtually used to run parallel ‘sarkar’ (government) in nearly 12 villages in and around Chaubeypur. “He used to resolve issues in the ‘panchayat’ and his ‘`farman’ (diktat) was a must and followed by every villagers. Out of fear, no one has reported the matter to the police so far,” said a villager preferring anonymity. Locals also said that many local politicians whether contesting panchayat or assembly polls used to rope in the gangster for their survival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/vikas-seen-threatening-people-in-old-viral-video-of-panchayat/articleshow/76843596.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Swadhatri Infra scam: 13 cheated of Rs 2.8 crore||Vijayawada: Cops registered a case against a couple for allegedly cheating around 13 people to the tune of Rs 2.77 crore at Penamaluru police station on Tuesday. According to Penamaluru CI M Satyanarayana, 13 residents of Tadigadapa lodged a complaint with them that their neighbour Venkat Narayana had taken a loan of Rs 2.77 crore assuring high interest rate of over a 100%. When they inquired Narayana and his wife said they had invested the whole amount with a real estate firm, Swadhatri Infra Ltd, which had embroiled itself in a Rs 156 crore scam in Telangana. “He claimed that he isn’t in a position to return the money as he himself was scammed by the private real estate firm,” Satyanarayana told TOI. Cops said that they had booked Venkat Narayana and his wife as well as Yarlagadda Raghu, who happens to be the owner of Swadhatri real estate firm. Cops said they are yet to verify how the money was transferred. “Based on one of the residents’s complaint, we have registered a case against Venkat Narayana while naming the remaining 12 residents as witnesses. And based on the statement given by the Narayana we have registered a case against Raghu as well,” Satyanarayana added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/swadhatri-infra-scam-13-cheated-of-rs-2-8-crore/articleshow/76841939.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Madurai||Cops aged 57 and above with health issues to be rested||Madurai: Madurai city police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha has instructed inspectors in each police station and unit to identify police personnel with health issues to give them rest in the wake of the increased Covid-19 cases in Madurai city.The commissioner said that police personnel aged 57 or above have been asked to go on home quarantine, considering their safety. Inspectors concerned will take call on others who are undergoing medication for chronic health problems. They will also be tested for Covid-19 and a general medical screening at police hospital, he said.Police officials said that so far 99 police personnel in various ranks have been identified in the said age category. Of them, 65 people underwent Covid-19 tests and general medical screening conducted by a medical team led by Dr Geetha.Police officials said that police personnel aged above 55 years and those who have health issues are already not being deployed in areas considered to be unsafe especially, at containment areas, vehicular checkups and hospital areas.Retirement age for IPS officers is 60 years, while it is 58 for other police officers. The state government has increased the retirement age of all government staff by one year, two months ago.A 51-year-old special sub-inspector of police attached with South Gate police station and a 47-year-old police head constable attached with Madurai city south traffic station were tested positive for Covid-19. They were the first to be tested positive among police personnel in Madurai city on April 25. Since then number of infected men has been steadily increasing.Police officials said that frequent medical screenings have been organized for police personnel and those who tested positive are being treated at the Railway Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cops-aged-57-and-above-with-health-issues-to-be-rested/articleshow/76863592.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Lucknow||DMs to scout for land for industries||Lucknow: As the government expedites the construction of expressways, more land is being identified along these projects across the state to push for industrial development. The government has asked the DMs of 35 districts to submit a list of such land in areas under their jurisdiction where industrial units can be established. A six-member committee, headed by additional chief secretary (industries) Alok Kumar, and having CEOs of the UP State Industrial Development Authority, Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority and UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority as members, has asked the district magistrates to identify land available at the starting and end points of exiting, under construction and proposed expressways and junctions where they are crossed by highways. Currently, these include the Agra-Lucknow Expressway, Purvanchal Expressway, Gorakhpur Link Expressway, Bundelkhand Expressway, Ganga Expressway and Ballia Link Expressway. “We see a lot of potential along these expressways for development of industrial areas which can promote ‘one district-one product’ scheme and where logistics or electronic hubs can be set up. We may also consider private development of industrial areas as envisaged in a recent policy,” Kumar said. On behalf of the committee, CEO, UPEIDA, Awanish Awasthi has written to DMs  to scout for land with a boundary of not more than 2x2km and assess the potential for development of industrial area if MSMEs are already functioning there. They have also been asked to ascertain the per hectare circle rate of the land. They have also been directed to look for land bank created by the revenue department and unused land of other departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dms-to-scout-for-land-for-industries/articleshow/76844037.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||University exams: After UGC order, Haryana to consult VCs||Chandigarh: The Haryana higher education department on Tuesday announced to take a call on exams of terminal years of various courses after consulting vice-chancellors and other stakeholders. The announcement came after a communication by the University Grants Commission (UGC) to all universities to mandatorily hold exams of terminal year in September. Last month, succumbing to pressure from student organisations, including National Students Union of India (NSUI), INSO, and a union affiliated with Indian National Lok Dal, the government had cancelled terminal exams. NSUI had even moved the Punjab and Haryana high court after the higher education department announced to conduct exams of all classes in July. Later, the department had announced to hold exams only for students of terminal classes. This too was challenged and the government ten announced to do away with exams. “We have received the communication. We will consult vice-chancellors and take a final call accordingly,” said Ankur Gupta, the principal secretary and financial commissioner (higher education).  NSUI Haryana president Divyanshu Budhiraja said, “In this situation (when there is spike in Covid-19 cases in the state), the amended UGC guidelines are akin to mental harrasment of students. When MLAs, MPs and bureaucrats are not feeling safe and not even suggesting to open Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and state legislative assemblies, why is the government playing with the health of students?” He said the Haryana government should stand by its decision to not conduct exams. ABVP state general secretary Sunil Jaglan said, “We welcome the order as exams are the only way to find out deserving candidates. But still they should be conducted after we get a relief from this pandemic,” he said. In Hisar, GJUST vice-chancellor Professor Tankeshwar Kumar said, “The UGC has issued a guideline, not an order. Whether to hold exams or not, it will be decided only after the state government’s takes a decision,” he said. Sirsa based Chaudhary Devi Lal University vice-chancellor professor R B Solanki also added that the university would abide by the the state government’s decision. On the same lines, Maharishi Dayanand University in Rohtak would go by the state government directions on conducting exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/university-exams-after-ugc-order-haryana-to-consult-vcs/articleshow/76843597.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata realty rebounds, clocks Rs 400 crore in June||KOLKATA: The real estate market in Kolkata has bounced back with aplomb, registering sales of nearly 850 units valued at Rs 400 crore in June. NK Realtors, the biggest real estate consultant in the city, has sold 210 units worth Rs 100 crore during the month. “The real estate market in Kolkata is back on track. We were initially surprised by the volume of inquiries but soon realised that customers have accepted the new reality. They are forming opinion on the projects based on virtual tours and just formalising the deal after a site visit. In July, we have rebounded to nearly 85% of the business prior to lockdown,” said NK Realtors vice-persident Biplab Kumar. The company saw a steady improvement in sales from 120 units in April to 159 units in May and 210 units in June. The 489 units sold in the three months compares with 554 units sold in the corresponding period last year. The industry sales during the quarter is pegged at 1,700 units worth Rs 850 crore. The Behala-Thakupukur-Joka belt accounted for 47% of sales followed by Serampore at 13%, Southern Bypass 10%, Dunlop-Barrackpore belt 8%, Madhyam-Barasat stretch 5%, Rajarhat 5%, and Mukundapur-Sonarpur 4%. Kolkata proper and New Town made up the rest. International consultants Anarock that released the first half data for 2020-21 said 3,170 units had been sold in the first six months year against 7,550 units in the corresponding period last year. Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) Bengal chapter president Nandu Belani isn’t surprised that customers are back but he admits the industry did not expect the revival this early. “The lockdown has made people realize the importance of a home. Decisions that had been put off earlier are now being pursued with purpose,” said Belani. Analysis of the NK Realtor’s data indicates that while three out of four homes sold are still those priced below Rs 60 lakh, demand for a new category has emerged post lockdown. Around 2.6% people who would have earlier settled for a 2BHK units now want a study and have purchased what is being touted as 2.5BHK units. The pie of 2BHK units that comprised 35% of units sold in January-March this year has shrunk to 29% in April-June. And while the sales of 3BHK units remained constant, sales of 4BHK units went up from 5.8% in the first three months of the year to 8% in the three months that followed. Sushil Mohta, the president of the state federation of Credai, and managing director of Merlin group, says Kolkata’s early recovery is owing to it being a user-driven market, rather than one that is driven by investors. Merlin has recovered nearly 60% of business in June and expects to improve further in July. “People have also realised interest rate on home loan is low. Prices haven’t increased in five years. This is the best time to buy,” he said, adding that even for investors, real estate offers the best opportunity now as the share market is in doledrums. Siddha Group that focuses primarily on the affordable housing segment has seen sales tough the same level as prior to lockdown. “People need homes more than ever now. And they are exercising their choice,” said MD Sanjay Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/realty-rebounds-clocks-rs-400cr-in-june/articleshow/76842903.cms||Subhro Niyogi
July 8, 2020||Madurai||Andipatti tightens restrictions, shops shut||Madurai: With 43 Covid-19 positive cases and 43 containment zones, Andipatti in Theni has restricted the movement of people after tightening the lockdown conditions. In Vilathkulam in Tuticorin district, all shops have been shut for three days after 44 traders tested positive in the area. Andipatti block is one of the worst affected areas, where 43 active cases have been reported. The district administration has decided to tighten the existing restrictions. With 43 containment zones, almost 80% of the Andipatti block is contained now. The district administration said that all the shops in Andipatti were closed, and essential commodities were distributed at doorsteps through mobile shops. The district has reported a total of 1,222 cases so far. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/andipatti-tightens-restrictions-shops-shut/articleshow/76863600.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Ayurvedic medicines beneficial for people at risk of virus: Report||CHANDIGARH/AMRITSAR: Ayurvedic medicines are proving to be beneficial to people in quarantine and frontline workers, says a report of the Punjab ayurveda directorate. It was observed that the immunity of most people who were given ayurvedic medicines in 15 districts improved and they did not develop symptoms for the virus, the report stated. Officials, however, clarified that at the moment it cannot be said that Covid-19 can be treated by ayurvedic medicines. To assess the efficacy of these medicines on the virus, clinical trials are being conducted with the assistance of ICMR. Of the 2,918 people, mostly in quarantine and frontline workers, who were given traditional Indian medicines, only five tested positive for the virus later. The medicines were meant for improving general well being, mental well being, influenza, respiratory stress, body ache and to improve sleep as well as appetite. According to the report, 144 people in Pathankot were given traditional medicines and only one tested positive later. In Patiala, 630 people were given these medicines, of whom 372 were in quarantine. Four of them later tested positive for Covid-19. In Amritsar, 216 people were given ayurvedic medicine, of whom 115 were in quarantine and no one tested positive. Also, tests of 142 people administered ayurvedic medicine turned out to be negative. A case report published in the journal of ayurveda and integrative medicine titled, ‘Ayurvedic Treatment of COVID-19/ SARS-CoV-2: a case report’ pointed out that focused ayurvedic treatment may prevent deterioration of the disease into a critical condition. A patient with symptoms, like high fever, severe body pain and severe cough, along with many of the other associated Covid-19 symptoms was put on ayurvedic treatment and the progress of the disease could be arrested within a short period. The report observed that there was a “wide scope to explore the variety of pertinent medicines present in ayurvedic pharmacopoeia, which can be used more rationally to suit every stage of the disease”. Dr Manoj Nesari, adviser (ayurveda), ministry of Ayush, said they have been receiving positive feedback from various states where ayurvedic medicines are given to people in isolation\quarantine. “More than 30 clinical trials are going on to assess the effect of ayurveda medicines on Covid-19,” said Dr Nesari, who lauded the efforts of Punjab government for giving ayurvedic medicines to patients in isolation and quarantine. “Till now, we have distributed the formulation, which contains sunth (dry ginger), tulsi (basil leaves), dalchini (cinnamon bark) and kali mirch (black pepper) to 700 persons. We have distributed it in police lines and now we will do so among jail inmates,” district ayurvedic and Unani officer Dr Ranbir Singh Kang said. Yogacharya Santosh Kumar, a herbal practitioner, said Indian kitchens have traditionally been using many herbs and spices as medicines to boost immunity. He said black pepper enhances metabolic performance, tulsi is rich in antioxidants, aaunth has anti-inflammatory properties and cinnamon is anti-diabetic. He said all the ingredients used in Ayush Kwath are part of the Indian kitchen and have healing powers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ayurvedic-medicines-beneficial-for-people-at-risk-of-virus-report/articleshow/76843608.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hospital gets notice for overcharging||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on Tuesday issued a notice to Sindhu Hospital, Kubernagar, for overcharging a Covid patient. AMC officials said that the notice was issued to the hospital after the corporation received a complaint from the patient’s son. Under the Epidemic Act, the AMC has requisitioned 50% beds for Covid treatment in 50-odd hospitals. On May 16, the AMC had fixed caps on costs for patients admitted directly by these hospitals. The per day cost is Rs 10,000 for a patient in a Covid ward; it is Rs 23,000 per day in an isolation ICU with a ventilator. Sindhu Hospital had on May 20 signed an MOU with the corporation, agreeing to the cost caps. Based on the complaint, an inquiry was initiated and it was established that the hospital had overcharged. The AMC’s notice to Sindhu Hospital asks why its registration should not be cancelled. It also asks why action should not be taken against it under the Epidemic Act. Earlier, the AMC had imposed fines of Rs 5 lakh each on Bodyline Hospital in Paldi and Aartham Hospital in Ambawadi for refusing to admit patients. A penalty of Rs 77 lakh was levied on Rajasthan Hospital in Shahibaug for delay in admitting a patient, leading to his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hospital-gets-notice-for-overcharging/articleshow/76842936.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Madurai||Sivaganga SP tests Covid-19 positive||Sivaganga: Superintendent of police of Sivaganga, R Rohith Nathan has tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. He is the first IPS officer to test positive for the infection in southern Tamil Nadu. As soon as the results were announced, he underwent home quarantine. As per protocol, people, who came into close contact with the officer have also been tested. They include special branch inspector, sub-inspectors and some ministerial staff. South zone inspector general of police S Murugan, who confirmed the news of the Sivaganga SP testing positive, said that Nathan will continue to carryout officials work from home quarantine. Superintendents of police from nearby districts can be utilized in case of emergency, he added. A source from the Sivaganga rural police office said that Nathan did not have any symptoms. He underwent the test only as a precautionary measure. Thorough disinfection activities were carried out throughout the rural police officer, including the SP’s chamber, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sivaganga-sp-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76863609.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Amritsar||Ayurvedic medicines beneficial for people at risk of virus: Report||CHANDIGARH/AMRITSAR: Ayurvedic medicines are proving to be beneficial to people in quarantine and frontline workers, says a report of the Punjab ayurveda directorate. It was observed that the immunity of most people who were given ayurvedic medicines in 15 districts improved and they did not develop symptoms for the virus, the report stated. Officials, however, clarified that at the moment it cannot be said that Covid-19 can be treated by ayurvedic medicines. To assess the efficacy of these medicines on the virus, clinical trials are being conducted with the assistance of ICMR. Of the 2,918 people, mostly in quarantine and frontline workers, who were given traditional Indian medicines, only five tested positive for the virus later. The medicines were meant for improving general well being, mental well being, influenza, respiratory stress, body ache and to improve sleep as well as appetite. According to the report, 144 people in Pathankot were given traditional medicines and only one tested positive later. In Patiala, 630 people were given these medicines, of whom 372 were in quarantine. Four of them later tested positive for Covid-19. In Amritsar, 216 people were given ayurvedic medicine, of whom 115 were in quarantine and no one tested positive. Also, tests of 142 people administered ayurvedic medicine turned out to be negative. A case report published in the journal of ayurveda and integrative medicine titled, ‘Ayurvedic Treatment of COVID-19/ SARS-CoV-2: a case report’ pointed out that focused ayurvedic treatment may prevent deterioration of the disease into a critical condition. A patient with symptoms, like high fever, severe body pain and severe cough, along with many of the other associated Covid-19 symptoms was put on ayurvedic treatment and the progress of the disease could be arrested within a short period. The report observed that there was a “wide scope to explore the variety of pertinent medicines present in ayurvedic pharmacopoeia, which can be used more rationally to suit every stage of the disease”. Dr Manoj Nesari, adviser (ayurveda), ministry of Ayush, said they have been receiving positive feedback from various states where ayurvedic medicines are given to people in isolation\quarantine. “More than 30 clinical trials are going on to assess the effect of ayurveda medicines on Covid-19,” said Dr Nesari, who lauded the efforts of Punjab government for giving ayurvedic medicines to patients in isolation and quarantine. “Till now, we have distributed the formulation, which contains sunth (dry ginger), tulsi (basil leaves), dalchini (cinnamon bark) and kali mirch (black pepper) to 700 persons. We have distributed it in police lines and now we will do so among jail inmates,” district ayurvedic and Unani officer Dr Ranbir Singh Kang said. Yogacharya Santosh Kumar, a herbal practitioner, said Indian kitchens have traditionally been using many herbs and spices as medicines to boost immunity. He said black pepper enhances metabolic performance, tulsi is rich in antioxidants, aaunth has anti-inflammatory properties and cinnamon is anti-diabetic. He said all the ingredients used in Ayush Kwath are part of the Indian kitchen and have healing powers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/ayurvedic-medicines-beneficial-for-people-at-risk-of-virus-report/articleshow/76850306.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC shuts itself for next 3 days, no judicial work||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday once again decided to shut its campus and suspended its judicial work for three days – between July 8 and July 10. The reason for shutting the HC premise was the advice by the additional chief secretary Rajiv Kumar Gupta and Ahmedabad municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar during a meeting with HC’s standing committee. The advice was on basis of six HC employees and a constable being tested Covid-19 positive during a testing drive last week as well as the data reflected through the Aarogya Setu app. The status of the HC premise as a micro-containment zone is not clear though. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on July 2 informed the HC that the Aarogya Setu app reflected that HC premises was in the list of 20 pink locations, where possibility of Covid-19 spread is very high. This led to the launch of testing drive on HC campus from July 4, in which seven persons were found Covid-19 positive. The HC’s standing committed has decided that the HC premises will remain shut for three days, when AMC is to carry out a thorough cleaning and sanitization of the entire premise. Since March 24, the judges conduct judicial work through video conferencing while sitting at their residences. Since then, the judicial functioning has been reduced. On three occasions, the HC tried to increase its functioning, but Covid-19 cases have restricted the judicial work every time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-shuts-itself-for-next-3-days-no-judicial-work/articleshow/76842935.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Noida||Noida: To avoid infection spread, district hospital to shift patients||NOIDA: With monsoon setting in, the district hospital in Sector 30 is gearing up to tackle patients affected with vector-borne diseases. For this, the hospital is planning to shift suspected fever patients from its quarantine ward dedicated to patients referred from its fever clinic to L1 Covid facility prepared by Tata Projects Ltd (TPL) in Sector 39 new district hospital building soon to avoid spread of infection. Besides, while all emergency OPDs are operating at the district hospital, now all routine OPDs, including ENT, orthopaedic, eye, skin and dental etc. will also begin operations. Currently, the fever clinic, created especially during Covid-19 lockdown to detect suspected, symptomatic Covid/ILI patients, operates out of the OPD at the district hospital. It will now be shifted to a separate area near the food court/old canteen of the hospital where a dedicated 20-bed quarantine ward has been functional for suspected fever patients. “We will shift our fever clinic from our OPD area to the quarantine ward area near the food court so that there is no threat of spread of infection to other patients of routine OPDs which we will begin soon,” said Dr VB Dhaka CMS of district hospital Noida Sector 30, adding that the quarantine ward will continue to treat patients referred from fever clinic. Patients who test positive for Covid or suspected ILI symptomatic patients from this ward will be shifted to Sector 39 new district hospital building which is being converted into a 400-bed L1 and L2 Covid hospital now by Tata. “The aim is to make the hospital ready for all patients so that none have to return without treatment. In this light, it was decided to segregate fever clinic from routine OPD area and also shift suspected patients from fever clinic to the new Covid hospital in sector 39 so that the hospital continues to treat all,” said Dr Dhaka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/to-avoid-infection-spread-dist-hosp-to-shift-patients/articleshow/76843603.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
July 8, 2020||Lucknow||Swimming against tide: Will Akhilesh be able to resurrect Mulayam legacy?||Lucknow: In his first term as the chief minister in 1989 when Mulayam Singh Yadav was told by his officers that then deputy PM evi Lal, also holding agriculture portfolio, had announced a steep hike in urea prices, an agitated Mulayam called him up and expressed his displeasure and immediately announced that farmers would not pay for the increased prices, but his government would give subsidy to them. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/will-akhilesh-be-able-to-resurrect-mulayams-legacy/articleshow/76847139.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/swimming-against-tide-will-akhilesh-be-able-to-resurrect-mulayam-legacy/articleshow/76844043.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan has no immunity||KOCHI: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday engaged in some quick damage control by forcing his principal secretary M Sivasankar, IAS, to step down, as a gold smuggling racket involving diplomatic channels threatened to expose the alleged complicity of the chief minister’s office (CMO) in the crime. Sivasankar, who was also IT secretary, applied for and was immediately granted a year’s leave after the UDF and BJP levelled serious allegations against him in connection to Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the gold smuggling case who is on the run. It was alleged that Sivasankar was responsible for recruiting Suresh to a plum post under the IT department, a portfolio held by Vijayan, despite a dubious background and a pending crime branch inquiry against her in a forgery case. The CM vehemently denied any wrongdoing on the part of the CMO and said his government welcomed any probe into the smuggling case. “When allegations were levelled against Sivasankar by linking him with the controversial woman, he was removed from the post. That doesn’t mean that any legally tenable allegation is levelled against him. But, there were several remarks in society against him linking to the woman. Such an individual shouldn’t be part of CMO at this juncture. Hence, we took such a decision”, Vijayan said. At a news conference on Tuesday evening, the CM, however, completely evaded or refused to answer pointed questions on the extent and nature of Swapna Suresh’s contact with Sivasankar and whether or not the CM should own some form of moral responsibility for what happened. On Sunday, 30kg of gold concealed in diplomatic baggage was seized at Thiruvananthapuram international airport by the customs department.Sarith PS, a former PRO in the UAE consulate, was taken into custody and after questioning his arrest was recorded. BJP state president K Surendran alleged that the first call to protect Swapna was from the CMO, while opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has demanded a CBI probe and has written to the prime minister on the matter. Following the controversy, the IT department terminated Suresh’s contract on Monday. Meanwhile, Customs commissioner Sumit Kumar said in Kochi that the offence is a violation of Customs Act and only Directorate of Revenue Intelligence and Customs have jurisdiction to probe the case at this stage. Sources also said that the Customs Commissionerate (Preventive) probing the smuggling bid at Thiruvananthapuram airport is unlikely to probe the CMO unless fresh evidence surfaces to indicate it is directly connected to the smuggling. Sivasankar has been replaced by IAS officer Mir Mohammed Ali in the CMO and Mohammed Y Safirulla in IT department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-has-no-immunity/articleshow/76843631.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||7,000 PPE, 10,000 masks for West Bengal govt bus drivers, conductors||KOLKATA: The transport department is procuring over 7,000 PPE along with 10,000 reusable masks and 14,000 face shields and several thousand bottles of hand sanitiser for the drivers and conductors of their buses which have proven to be the transportation lifeline of the city after the lockdown was eased. The decision was taken after the feedback from the drivers and conductors who informed that it was “almost impossible” to drive buses following the social distancing norms laid down by the government and that the drivers and conductors risked getting exposed to the virus. Under the current guidelines for public transport, buses are allowed to ferry passengers standing inside the vehicle. The drivers must shut the gates as soon as all the seats are occupied. But the drivers and conductors have informed the officials that during peak traffic hours in the evening passengers block the vehicles and force them to open the gates as transportation options are limited. “We want to safeguard our drivers and conductors because they come in direct contact with thousands of people every day. they are at high risk of getting exposed to the virus. Very soon they will be equipped with personal protective equipment along with masks and face shields and hand sanitisers. The tender has already been floated,” said an official of the transport department. “They are the frontline warriors nobody is talking about. They are responsible for keeping the entire city moving.” Reduced number of government buses plied throughout the lockdown period ferrying people working in essential services. The number increased once the lockdown was eased last month and the surge of passengers became unmanageable as Metro Rail services are still non-operational and private buses are plying in reduced numbers due to dispute over the amount of fares. A driver of route 9A between Dunlop and Ballygunge station narrated how passengers almost block the carriageway and don’t move till they open the gates and let them in. “Almost every day hundreds of block the carriageway at various crossing between Maidan and Chandni in the evening due to unavailability of buses and taxis. We shut the doors of the bus once all the seats are filled up but once we enter the central business district hundreds of stranded passengers almost barge in. This is putting us in danger too of contracting the virus,” said the driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/7k-ppe-10k-masks-for-govt-bus-drivers-conductors/articleshow/76842921.cms||Zeeshan Javed
July 8, 2020||Madurai||Madurai cops to crack whip on violators||Madurai: Madurai city police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha has instructed police officers to crack the whip against people wandering unnecessarily flouting the curfew regulations. The tightening came after the number of vehicles on the road have increased since Monday despite intense lockdown imposed in the city. Prem Anand Sinha said that people involved in essential services and travelling with valid reasons will be allowed as usual, whereas others will be taken to task. People should go on foot to purchase vegetables and groceries at the nearest shop available. Moving on vehicles for long in the name of purchasing vegetables will not be entertained. A police officer from Tallakulam police range said that they have started cracking the whip against unnecessary movement since Tuesday. It will be imposed strictly from Wednesday onwards. For the first time, a fine amount will be levied against violators. If the person is caught for the second time, the vehicle will be impounded. Another police officer from the city said that number of vehicle has increased on the road as police adopted a lenient approach after the Sathankulam incident. It would be controlled with legal measures like levying fine and impounding vehicle. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-cops-to-crack-whip-on-violators/articleshow/76863642.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cases in rural Ahmedabad cross 900-mark||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad district, barring the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation areas, reported 15 fresh cases on Monday, taking the total in the district to 906. This was third day when the district had reported 15 cases. Viramgam taluka became the fourth taluka in the district to cross the 100 mark. Viramgam with four fresh cases now has 102 cases. Of the 15 fresh cases, one case was reported from Green Residency in Sanand, Godavi Vas also in Sanand, and one case was reported from JRG Automotive in Karshanpura. Of the 15 cases reported in the district on Tuesday, four cases each were reported from Sanand and Viramgam while three cases were reported from Mandal, two cases from Dhandhuka and one case each was reported from Bavla and Detroj. Taluka-wise, of the 906 cases in the district, 260 were from Dholka, 180 from Daskroi, and 189 from Sanand. Total 102 cases were from Viramgam, 90 from Bavla, 28 cases from Dhandhuka, 29 from and Mandal, 19 from Detroj, and nine from Dholera. As on Tuesday, 1,220 people are under home quarantine in Ahmedabad district. On Monday, this number was 1,040 people. In the last just one day, the number of people quarantined increased by 180. The district has 80 active cases and five people were taking treatment in Covid care centre in the district. The district has so far reported 57 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cases-in-rural-ahmedabad-cross-900-mark/articleshow/76842948.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan has no immunity||KOCHI: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday engaged in some quick damage control by forcing his principal secretary M Sivasankar, IAS, to step down, as a gold smuggling racket involving diplomatic channels threatened to expose the alleged complicity of the chief minister’s office (CMO) in the crime. Sivasankar, who was also IT secretary, applied for and was immediately granted a year’s leave after the UDF and BJP levelled serious allegations against him in connection to Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the gold smuggling case who is on the run. It was alleged that Sivasankar was responsible for recruiting Suresh to a plum post under the IT department, a portfolio held by Vijayan, despite a dubious background and a pending crime branch inquiry against her in a forgery case. The CM vehemently denied any wrongdoing on the part of the CMO and said his government welcomed any probe into the smuggling case. “When allegations were levelled against Sivasankar by linking him with the controversial woman, he was removed from the post. That doesn’t mean that any legally tenable allegation is levelled against him. But, there were several remarks in society against him linking to the woman. Such an individual shouldn’t be part of CMO at this juncture. Hence, we took such a decision”, Vijayan said. At a news conference on Tuesday evening, the CM, however, completely evaded or refused to answer pointed questions on the extent and nature of Swapna Suresh’s contact with Sivasankar and whether or not the CM should own some form of moral responsibility for what happened. On Sunday, 30kg of gold concealed in diplomatic baggage was seized at Thiruvananthapuram international airport by the customs department.Sarith PS, a former PRO in the UAE consulate, was taken into custody and after questioning his arrest was recorded. BJP state president K Surendran alleged that the first call to protect Swapna was from the CMO, while opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has demanded a CBI probe and has written to the prime minister on the matter. Following the controversy, the IT department terminated Suresh’s contract on Monday. Meanwhile, Customs commissioner Sumit Kumar said in Kochi that the offence is a violation of Customs Act and only Directorate of Revenue Intelligence and Customs have jurisdiction to probe the case at this stage. Sources also said that the Customs Commissionerate (Preventive) probing the smuggling bid at Thiruvananthapuram airport is unlikely to probe the CMO unless fresh evidence surfaces to indicate it is directly connected to the smuggling. Sivasankar has been replaced by IAS officer Mir Mohammed Ali in the CMO and Mohammed Y Safirulla in IT department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cm-has-no-immunity/articleshow/76844963.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||Apex court notice to Centre and DGCA on refund of flight tickets||KOLKATA: The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Centre, ministry of civil aviation and the Director General of Civil Aviation, asking them to respond within three weeks on the flyers’ demand for full refund of tickets for flights cancelled due to suspension caused by Covid-19. The petition filed by Air Passenger Association of India has support from Travel Agents Federation of India (TAFI) and Pravasi Legal Cell, an NGO that has contended that the non-refund of the ticket amount by airlines is illegal and violates the requirement of DGCA. Instead of refunding tickets for cancelled flights, airlines are providing a credit shell that is valid for a year. Of late, there have also been allegations of airlines cancelling flights arbitrarily and offering credit shell to flyers. While that is okay for those who have urgent travel requirements, many including a large section of senior citizens find it unfair as they don’t have any plan to travel in the current scenario. Airlines have argued that they have been hit hard by the lockdown with no earnings for a month. “The industry was already floundering when the lockdown happened. If all the money has to be refunded, there might not be enough cash flow to sustain operations,” an airline official said. TAFI eastern region chairman Anil Punjabi, while acknowledging the difficulty that airlines were facing, felt the government needed to offer a bailout plan for the sector and not penalise flyers by blocking their money. Some domestic airlines, including IndiGo and SpiceJet, have begun refunding money as have several international carriers. TOI had reported on the refunds earlier. A Cathay Pacific spokesperson has clarified that the airline had issued refunds to all passengers. “Cathay Pacific has already issued money refund to passengers in Kolkata for the cancelled flights. We don’t have any refunds pending in the Kolkata market,” an airline spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sc-notice-to-centre-dgca-on-refund-of-flight-tickets/articleshow/76842951.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Transporters meet mayor over building ramp to ease traffic rush||Ludhiana: The members of Ludhiana Goods Transport Association conducted a meeting at Transport Nagar with mayor Balkar Sandhu here on Tuesday. The transporters had called the mayor at Transport Nagar for discussing a proposal to construct an up and down ramp between Samrala Chowk and Oswal Cancer Hospital chowk on the national highway for easing out traffic congestion. They claimed that it would help the transporters to easily reach Transport Nagar. The transporters claimed that in order to ease truck traffic an up and down ramp was a must as in the absence of entry and exit points they have to move on the national highway, which blocks the entire traffic. Also to reach the national highway too they have to take a long turn and even that creates a lot of problems as well as more fuel consumption. If there will be separate entry and exit points for the trucks then the national highway will get less congested. They also demanded that the main entry to the Transport Nagar from the link road is also closed, so even that should be opened to the traffic. Transport Nagar being the hub of commercial activity has always remained in a neglected state of affairs as roads there are in a pathetic condition and in every rainy season the entire area gets submerged in rainwater. The mayor, however, assured them of resolving the problems and take up these issues with the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). He claimed that they had to conduct the meetings with senior officials of the NHAI as several other important issues of the city are to be discussed and so they would take up this issue also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/transporters-meet-mayor-over-building-ramp-to-ease-traffic-rush/articleshow/76842905.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab launches phone app for telemedicine||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government on Tuesday launched a smartphone app for online OPD service, eSanjeevani, for convenience of patients facing problems in accessing healthcare services service as they required a laptop or desktop. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the people could dowload the eSanjeevaniOPD from Google Playstore. Explaining the registration process, the minister said patients will have to register on the app before consulting specialist doctor. They will then be able to download an e-prescription duly signed by the doctor. Divulging the features of eSanjeevaniOPD, Sidhu said telemedicine will be beneficial for patients across the state in future also, as many people need day-to-day medical advice and consultations for prevalent chronic diseases. The health department has also commenced the eSanjeevani OPD for gynaecology services to ensure mother and child healthcare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-launches-phone-app-for-telemedicine/articleshow/76843613.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Madurai||Staff shortage hits Sivaganga MCH||Madurai: Lack of manpower has forced the Sivaganga Medical College Hospital (MCH), which receives both Covid-19 and other patients from Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts, struggle from providing quality care, especially non-Covid patients. At present, there are 160 doctors and 360 nurses. “We have limited manpower here. Now, as we are treating Covid-19 patients, 50% of the workforce has to be in quarantine at a time. We are overworked and at least 12 hospital staff including doctors, nurses and lab technicians have contracted Covid-19 so far,” said a doctor, on condition of anonymity. Only three private hospitals in Karaikudi and Devakottai with very limited number of beds are also authorised to treat Covid-19 patients in the district. Unlike in other districts like Madurai, where asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients are sent to dedicated care centres, in Sivaganga all are admitted only to the medical college burdening the healthcare personnel. Doctors at the hospital said they are facing increased number of emergency and critical non-Covid-19 patients from both districts as many of smaller hospitals in the region are not admitting such patients due to Covid-19 fear. “Critical patients from two districts are being forced on us leading to apparent rise of deaths in the hospital. This has put undue pressure on medical college staff and everyone is also fatigued while working long hours. It is mentally draining as well,” said another hospital staff. District health officials, meanwhile, said that 500 beds are currently available for Covid patients at Sivaganga MCH. “We are also setting up 100 beds, including 50 with oxygen support, at the Old Government Hospital for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients if required and also identifying suitable hostels for Covid-19 care centres,” said a senior district health official. According to health department sources, there are 184 doctors and 207 nurses on the directorate of public health (DPH) side, which include primary health centres. Similarly, on the directorate of medical and rural health services (DMS) side, which include taluk and district headquarters-level hospitals, there are 120 doctors and 480 nurses. However, they have not yet been roped in for Covid-19 care. There has also been no deputation of doctors from periphery as well to the Sivaganga MCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/staff-shortage-hits-sivaganga-mch/articleshow/76863660.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Private schools, edu authorities lock horns over online classes||Vijayawada: The row over online classes for schoolgoing students is growing Krishna district. While district-level education officers have issued orders stalling online classes in private schools, the school education commissioner on July 6 gave orders asking government school teachers to conduct online bridge courses. The opposing orders have left teachers’ associations, private school managements, and parents both confused and unhappy. Following the suspense over the beginning of the new academic year, a majority of corporate and private schools in Krishna district started online classes for high school grade students. But following complaints from parents with regard to schools demanding fees, Krishna district DEO MV Rajyalakshmi passed orders directing private schools to not conduct online classes. This was quickly opposed by the private school managements and private teachers. But a majority of schools stopped online classes following the orders. But soon after orders were issued by the school education commissioner, Chinna Veerabadhrudu, directing government teachers to conduct online classes for students. Terming the move unfair, private teachers have begun raising their voices demanding the government to permit them to conduct online classes. “Around 20,000 families are dependent on private and corporate schools in Krishna district. Private school management are struggling to pay salaries with owing to Covid-19 impact. We are not supposed to get salaries if schools don’t start online classes. But the DEO has passed orders prohibiting online classes, ignoring our livelihood. On the other hand, government teachers have been directed to take up online classes in the name of bridge courses. This has exposed their double standard,” said K Lakshmi Narayana, a private teacher from the city. Speaking to TOI about the issue, Rajyalakshmi said the private schools started a new academic year online that is against the law. “Government teachers have been asked to conduct bridge courses and rectify the doubts online if there is a possibility. The new academic year has not started yet. But private schools are harassing parents in the name of fees for online classes. We are receiving around 200 complaints from parents every day. We will not tolerate schools that are harassing parents,” Rajyalakshmi said. Meanwhile, teachers’ associations have written a letter to the school education commissioner to provide internet, mobile handsets, laptops, and other devices to start online classes for government school students. They said they cannot start online classes without proper infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/private-schools-edu-authorities-lock-horns-over-online-classes/articleshow/76841982.cms||Venu Lanka
July 8, 2020||Dehradun||Process to recruit 763 doctors is on: CM Rawat||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday said that the process of filling 763 vacant posts of doctors has started in the state. Under the Uttarakhand Provincial Medical and Health Services Cadre, an ordinance has been sent to the Uttarakhand Medical Services Selection Board to fill the vacant posts of ordinary grade medical officers. The Board is expected to publish the immediate release for direct recruitment to the vacant posts and to initiate the selection process on priority. CM Rawat has said that the state’s health system will be strengthened by the recruitment of 763 doctors. “Health infrastructure has been greatly improved in the state. Today, every district has ICU facilities. The number of physicians has been doubled as compared to earlier. Teleradiology and telemedicine have also been introduced,” he said. The CM added, “We have been successful in controlling the spread of Covid-19. Uttarakhand is the state with the highest recovery rate. The death rate here is much lower than the national average. During this Covid-19 period, 400 more doctors were recruited, 273 ICU beds were installed, and 165 ventilators were arranged. In addition, oxygen supply pipe lines are being made in the 13 district hospitals and the base hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/process-to-recruit-763-doctors-is-on-cm-rawat/articleshow/76840664.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 8, 2020||Kanpur||Slain DySP’s family given Rs 1-Cr||Kanpur: State minister Chandrika Prasad Upadhyay on Tuesday handed over a bank statement about transfer of Rs 1 crore to the wife of martyred DySP Devendra Mishra at her house. The state minister met with the wife of the late circle officer of Billhaur and informed him that a sum of Rs 1 crore had been transferred to the late officer’s account through RTGS and handed over a certificate to this effect issued by the district magistrate Kanpur Nagar. He informed the martyr’s wife that the state government was with her and as per announcement made by the chief minister, one of the family members would get a government job and an extra-ordinary pension. He stated that if the family of the circle officer would like to meet with the chief minister then a meeting would also be arranged. Upadhyaya once again assured the bereaved family that the accused would not be spared. Gangster Vikas Dubey would be arrested soon and law would punish him severely. District magistrate Dr Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari and Dinesh Kumar SSP were present on this occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/slain-dysps-family-given-rs-1-cr/articleshow/76843614.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Mumbai||Non-essential shops can stay open till 7pm on alternate days, markets all 7 days a week||The state government on Tuesday allowed non-essential shops and markets to function for two more hours from July 9, reports Bhavika Jain. Shops can stay open till 7pm, instead of 5pm, but on alternate days. A notification issued by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said the extra hours will have to be used to reduce crowding. Also, markets can function 7 days a week, unlike earlier when they had to shut on Sundays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/non-essential-shops-can-stay-open-till-7pm-on-alternate-days-markets-all-7-days-a-week/articleshow/76844056.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ludhiana||New rule for those entering Punjab irks bizmen||Ludhiana: Businessmen are upset over the new rules set by the state government for entry of the people into Punjab, under which the person will have to be home quarantined for 14 days. According to businessmen, the move will prove to be a setback for them as it will badly affect the inflow of workers who have started coming back to Punjab after such a long gap. They are also of the view that workers will also be at the receiving end as they will have to sit without work for at least 14 days after coming back and therefore the rules for workers should be relaxed. Speaking on the issue, Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), “In the month of May and June the government sent workers through special trains to their home towns in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Jharkhand. But after a few days only the workers exhausted the money they had with them earned by working in Ludhiana factories and condition of most of them became very pathetic. Now, they are unable to even meet the day to day expenses there.” Ahuja added, “When these workers started coming back and even businessmen went out of the way to help them by ensuring their safe travel back to Ludhiana by way of taxis and other means the government has made a new law that anyone entering Punjab from other states would be subject to mandatory home quarantine of 14 days.” He further said, “With such strict guideline in place it will be another blow to the workers as they are coming here in the search of work and now they will have to sit idle for two weeks first and then report to work. Moreover, with this condition in place the load will be on the factory owners again to manage the living expenses for 14 days of the workers. These new rules are not justified and the government should exempt factory workers from this restriction and rather conduct free Covid-19 tests of workers upon their arrival in the state. Only those workers should be quarantined whose report comes positive, while those found negative should be allowed to report for duty after the report is received.” According to Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of CICU, “With the new rules in place for entry into Punjab it would be very difficult for our industry to operate. We have already suffered huge losses during the lockdown and now when little bit of work started in factories this condition has been set. Right now, we only have 40% workforce available in Ludhiana factories as compared to the pre-lockdown time. As of now, factory owners are bringing back their workers on buses and taxis as the trains from the far-off states have still not started running. In the wake of such a situation if our workers will be subjected to 14 days quarantine the industry will suffer huge losses.” Jatinder Singh Tinku, a garment manufacturer from Basti Jodhewal, said, “If the factory workers will be subjected to home quarantine upon their arrival, it will lead to huge problems for us as on one side our expenditure incurred on bringing back workers will go waste while on the other hand we will not be able to operate our factories without labour. Therefore, the government must relax the norms for the factory workers and rather than subjecting them to 14-day mandatory quarantine, free of cost testing should be done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/new-rule-for-those-entering-punjab-irks-bizmen/articleshow/76842918.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Lucknow||Pay Rs 500 for not wearing face mask||Lucknow: In the wake of poor compliance of mandatory mask rule, the Uttar Pradesh government has increased the penalty on violators from Rs 100 to Rs 500. Until now, a person caught without face mask for two times had to pay Rs 100 penalty, and Rs 500 thereafter. But now everyone will have to pay Rs 500 for the first time. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said: “The number of cases has increased significantly since the lockdown ended. Economic activity is returning to normal but the Covid risk still remains. Since a large number of people seem to ignore preventive steps, specially wearing masks, the government has decided to increase the fine.” Masks were made mandatory after recommendation from the Union health ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pay-rs-500-for-not-wearing-face-mask/articleshow/76844058.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Nagpur||Woman loitering with ‘home quarantine’ stamp sends policemen, officials in a tizzy||Nagpur: An unidentified woman was shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) triage ward and placed under psychiatric treatment on Tuesday after Kalamna police found her roaming near the APMC market area, a crime hotspot, late Monday night. The police patrolling team were baffled as she had home quarantined stamp on her hand. Assuming she may have fled from nearby quarantine centre, the police took her to Pachpaoli quarantine centre where the doctors had a tough time convincing the cops that she couldn't be admitted there as she allegedly appeared mentally ill. Later, she was taken to Nagpur University lower hostel at Law College Square which has rooms on ground floor. Pachpaoli centre had refused entry to the woman as they had only upper floors vacant and there was a risk due to unguarded balconies from where she might try to jump. An official from NU hostel quarantine centre said she was violent and couldn’t be admitted there too. “She was accommodated until Tuesday morning and then referred to regional mental hospital,” the official said. He added the woman was spitting on everyone and was violent. As unidentified patient can’t be admitted without an affidavit by a doctor, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) shifted the woman to GMCH. GMCH acting superintendent Dr Kanchan Wankhede said the woman’s swab sample has been taken and result is awaited. “She will be treated under psychiatric department and has been kept in triage ward. Her behaviour is abnormal and she is unable give her identity,” he said. Kalamna police sources said, “the woman was not eager to speak to us about anything. We tried to gather some information regarding her address or relatives but she was not speaking anything,” said an officer. "Since there was quarantine stamp on her hand, she was taken to an institutional quarantine centre as precaution. The woman was handed over to NMC team that later took her to Law college square centre,” he said. “Our first aim was her safety and also her treatment. She also appeared famished," said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-loitering-with-home-quarantine-stamp-sends-policemen-officials-in-a-tizzy/articleshow/76842925.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 14 micro-containment areas added, total rises to 138||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on Tuesday declared 14 more micro-containment areas. The total number of such areas in the city is now 138. The AMC on Monday had quarantined a population of 1,595 people in 370 houses. The officials said that the AMC will now declare a society a micro-containment area if it reports three or more cases. The list was declared on Tuesday after a discussion in a meeting chaired by Rajiv Gupta, the additional chief secretary of the forests and environment department, who heads the mission to fight Covid in Ahmedabad. The AMC on Tuesday removed from the micro-containment list two block of Shivanandnagar in Amraiwadi and Haridharshan Bungalows in Nikol. Of the 14 areas that were included on the list, four are from the East Zone, three from the South Zone, two each from North West and South West zones, and one each from West, Central, and North zones. The list of 14 areas includes Bungalows B-36 to B-40 Shane Burhan Society (Juhapura) and Phulraj Bungalows No. 222 (Fatehwadi). Some floors in B-block, D-block, H-block, and I-block of Akanksha Savvy Swaraaj (Chandlodia) have made it to the list. Abu Nagar D-Cabin in Chandkheda in the West Zone features on the list. The South Zone entries include 295, Ambedkar Vas. In the East Zone, the areas include Gnaneshwarti Society (Arbudanagar).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/14-micro-containment-areas-added-total-rises-to-138/articleshow/76842964.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Mumbai||Obesity, sleep apnea are risk factors among Covid positive patients||MUMBAI: Not just diabetes and hypertension, even conditions such as obesity and sleep apnea can dictate the outcome of a Covid-19 infection. A new study of 1,687 Covid-positive adults hospitalized in New York City showed obesity was an independent risk factor for respiratory failure but not for in-hospital mortality. “Our findings, at least in part, explain the extensive use of invasive mechanical ventilation reported in the United States, where the prevalence of obesity exceeds 40%,” said the authors at Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, in their study published in the Annals of Internal Medicine. In India’s urban areas where obesity could be as high as 30%, doctors say an obese patient should be started on oxygen therapy at the earliest. “Obesity is one of the risk factors, especially if a patient’s body to mass index is over 29,” said infectious diseases specialist Dr Om Shrivastava. “If a person has a very high BMI, they already have inflammation to begin with. The Covid-19 infection would worsen this inflammation. There is a multiple metabolic action that makes them prone to Covid and its complications,’’ said Dr Shrivastava. In the US, obesity is among the top ten Covid death causes. Dr Shashank Joshi, an endocrinologist and dean of Indian College of Physicians, said, “Obesity is like a triple whammy as it causes insulin resistance, diabetes and hypertension. It also causes sleep apnea and hypoxic (low oxygen) situation.’’ Obese patients suffer the worst of sleep apnea at night.”That is why some patients die between 2 and 4am.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/obesity-sleep-apnea-are-risk-factors-among-ve-patients/articleshow/76842975.cms||Malathy Iyer
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Spare restricted drugs for serious patients’||Ahmedabad: After reports emerged that life-saving drugs are being given to patients with even mild Covid symptoms, the Food and Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) on Tuesday reminded doctors that the medicines are meant for restricted use. Reports had indicated that drugs such as Tocilizumab and Remdesivir are being given to mildly affected patients in cities such as Ahmedabad and Surat. In an appeal, FDCA commissioner H G Koshia said that widespread use of the drugs may lead to a shortage, harming those who need them the most. “These two injections are given to patients with moderate symptoms or those who require oxygen support,” Koshia said. “Tocilizumab is an imported drug, while Remdesivir injections have to be given in line with ICMR’s clinical management guidelines.” Tocilizumab is a drug that modifies the immune system or its functioning. Remdesivir is an anti-viral drug meant for severely ill Covid patients on “emergency and compassionate grounds.” Koshia said, “If the situation goes out of control, we may have to step in to regulate use.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spare-restricted-drugs-for-serious-patients/articleshow/76842971.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Coimbatore||MGR vegetable market reopens after 10 days||Coimbatore: After an interval of 10 days, it is business as usual for traders at MGR wholesale vegetable market on Mettupalayam Road on Tuesday. The corporation had shut the market on June 26 after three traders had tested positive for Covid-19. A trader from the market said that while onion and tomato traders have resumed their business at New bus stand on Mettupalayam Road, the remaining traders have reopened their shops at the market beginning Tuesday. The corporation has issued specific instructions like spraying disinfectants on trucks, ensuring nobody enters the market premises without a face mask and providing hand sanitizers to customers. In addition, traders have also been creating awareness through public announcement systems. The corporation has scheduled timings for loading and unloading the vegetables from trucks. A trader said the business hours of the market were reduced by three hours, and it would be opened for retailers only till 7 am. Vegetables from several places including Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Agra are brought to the market and sold to retailers in the district apart from selling it to neighbouring states. “On the first day, we recorded only 20 to 40% of the business. It is because people are unaware that the market is reopened and about the market timings. We are hopeful that business would pick pace within a few days,” said another trader. When the market was closed, some traders had unloaded trucks full of vegetables either at private godowns or farmlands to sell it to retailers, while remaining traders had just shut their business down and waited for the corporation to reopen the market premises, the trader said. “Over 2000 traders and workers were affected due to the closure.” Meanwhile, the corporation has set up temporary market at the Government College of Technology (GCT) on Thadagam road. Traders from Anna retail market are selling vegetables there. Ramalinga Chettiar higher secondary school in Saibaba colony, where traders from Anna market had put up stalls, was closed last week after a person tested positive. “To ensure social distancing norms at the market, only 190 traders are allowed to sell vegetables in a day... traders have decided to put up stalls on rotation basis. The corporation has marked 6X6 feet area for each shop and about 20 feet gap is given between rows,” said a source privy to the development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mgr-vegetable-market-reopens-after-10-days/articleshow/76842974.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ludhiana||PSIEC moots setting up new focal point for MLU industry||Ludhiana: In what can be termed as good news for the city’s mix land use industry, Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) has decided to set up a new focal point in Ludhiana, where the factories located in the mix land use (MLU) areas will be given preference to set up their units. PSIEC is scouting for land in the range of 100-150 acres for this purpose in the rural areas near Chandigarh Road. This was confirmed to TOI by the chairman of PSIEC, Gurpreet Gogi. Speaking to TOI, Gogi said, “As per the masterplan of Ludhiana, the factories located in the MLU areas like Janta Nagar, Dashmesh Nagar, Shimla Puri, Partap Nagar, Shivpuri, Haibowal, etc. have to be shifted out of these areas to the designated industrial areas by 2022 or face closure. Therefore, the small factories located in these areas need to have a suitable place where they can shift and presently, all existing focal points and industrial area have no scope for setting up of new units, particularly smaller ones as already there are a large number of factories in these areas. Moreover, the rates of land are very high now.” He continued, “So, the PSIEC has decided to set up new a focal point for the small industry, where the plots, sized between 250 to 500 square yards will be available for the industry at nominal rates and preference will be given to the factories which are presently located in MLUs and want to shift from there. We are currently looking for 100-150 acres and presently the search is going on near Chandigarh Road.” Welcoming the decision, Ranjeet Kaushal, a nut bolt manufacturer from Shimlapuri, said, “This is a great initiative by the PSIEC and moreover, it has been our long pending demand that the factories in MLU areas should be given plots in a suitable designated industrial area. But it is our request to the department that the rates of plots should be kept nominal so that small businessmen are able to afford the purchase or else it will defeat the entire purpose of this project.” According to Atul Sharma, a wooden boxes manufacturer, “No doubt, having a new focal point, particularly for the factories located in MLU areas is a great initiative, but the PSIEC needs to ensure that the new focal point should be located near to the main city because it will not be viable for the small scale industrialists and their labour to commute to areas which are very far off. Besides, this it should also be ensured that the electricity, water and government charges should be available at subsidised rates in this focal point.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/psiec-moots-setting-up-new-focal-point-for-mlu-industry/articleshow/76842931.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Teachers to intensify their stir, plan Chalo MLAs protest on July 10||Hyderabad: After taking part in the Chalo Collectorate protest on July 1, private teachers are now planning a Chalo MLAs camp office programme on July 10 to intensify their protest against private schools managements. Teachers, who have been seeking full salaries for the lockdown period, said that despite making several requests neither the government nor the managements are helping lakhs of private teachers, who are struggling to survive without any pay since March. “There are schools that did not pay teachers’ salaries since December-January. But no one is concerned about the private teaching or non-teaching staff,” said Shabir Ali, president, Telangana Private Teachers Forum. The other demands of the private teachers include government providing them with financial support, recognizing private teachers and issuing them with identity cards. Private teachers also demanded that the state should either provide or direct managements to give EPF, ESI and insurance to all the teaching and non-teaching staff working in private schools. They also said that a committee should be formed to regulate private schools in the state so that school managements abide by all norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-to-intensify-their-stir-plan-chalo-mlas-protest-on-july-10/articleshow/76842968.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Madurai||1,231 new cases, 12 deaths in south TN||Madurai/Trichy: For the first time, the number of Covid-19 cases in south Tamil Nadu crossed the 1,000 mark in a single day on Tuesday. The region recorded 1,231 Covid-19 cases, and 12 deaths on Tuesday taking the total to 13,907 cases and 150 deaths. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded 163 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths taking the tally to 3,719 on Tuesday. A 70-year-old woman and a 53-year-old man from Trichy died at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH). The health bulletin showed 16 deaths in the eight central districts whereas the actual number would be high because some of the deaths were yet to be updated in the data. Madurai, meanwhile, reported the most number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the southern region on Tuesday -- 334 cases and eight deaths. The eight deaths included two patients who died on July 5 and two patients on July 6 at various private hospitals in Madurai, all with co-morbid conditions. At Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), a 62-year-old woman died on July 4, while two other Covid-19 patients with co-morbid conditions died on July 5. A 32-year-old man from Madurai with hypertension, who died on July 6 at Government Omandurar Medical College and Hospital, Chennai, was also included in Madurai’s tally. The total Covid-19 tally in Madurai has climbed to 4,674 cases and 77 deaths. The 334 cases recorded on Tuesday, meanwhile, included 173 Influnza-like illness (ILI) cases, 96 contacts of Covid-19 patients, 27 frontline workers, three pregnant women and 24 others who were admitted to hospitals for non-Covid-19 treatments/surgeries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1231-new-cases-12-deaths-in-south-tn/articleshow/76863670.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Digha catch may reduce hilsa price||KOLKATA/DIGHA: A week ago, hilsa from Diamond Harbour had hit city markets. On Tuesday, the first catch of hilsa reached the Digha Mohona wholesale fish market with the offloading of two tons of Bengalis’ favourite fish from fishing trawlers that docked at the Digha coast in the morning. Over the last one week, the price of hilsa in the city markets like Gariahat and Manicktala has been steep. Consumers have been shelling out Rs 850 a kg for hilsa weighing 500-700 grams. The price of hilsa weighing 700-800 grams is Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,500 for hilsa weighing 1kg to 1,200 grams. So far, the catch from Diamond Harbour has yielded only a small quantity of hilsa in the 700-800gram weight category and an even smaller amount in the 1kg to 1,200 gram category. “Bad weather is coming in the way of supply of hilsa in city markets,” said Amar Das, a fish trader and fish market secretary of Lake market. “The price of hilsa is too high and the size of the fish on sale is also very small,” said Sampriti Sarkar, a buyer at Gariahat market. All this may soon change. “The average size of the 2-ton catch that arrived on Tuesday, weighs between 800 grams and 1 kg,” said Shyam Sundar Das, Digha Sankarpur Fishermen and Fish Traders’ Associaton secretary. Those in the trade are now hoping that the increased supply would pill down the price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/digha-catch-may-reduce-hilsa-price/articleshow/76842969.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
July 8, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Slain DSP Mishra’s daughter found his letter, call recording||KANPUR: The suspicions on the source and veracity of the slain deputy superintendent of police Devendra Mishra’s letter and the audio clip were laid to rest on Tuesday, as Mishra’s family announced that both were found by them and shared with media. Mishra’s elder daughter Vaishnavi had found the letter exposing the nexus of SHO Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari in his suitcase. She had also found the recording of a conference call among Mishra, then SSP Anant Deo and Tiwari. The deputy SP’s brother-in-law Kamalkant told reporters on Tuesday, “Vaishnavi found the letter along with copy of the FIR mentioned in it, besides other official documents that were among the enclosures listed in it. She also found the call recording of a conference among Mishra, SSP Anant Deo and suspended SHO of Chaubeypur, from his mobile phone. She got very disturbed and had shared the letter and call recording with media and both went viral on social media on Monday.” The letter exposes that senior police officials did not take the matter seriously, he added. “If the then SSP had shown alacrity and taken strict action on the communication, the situation would have been very different,” Kamalkant said while talking to reporters at Mishra’s Swarupnagar residence. He also demanded that then SSP Anant Deo, who is now posted as DIG STF should not be involved in the probe of the Bikru encounter case. The STF is actively involved in the probe. “We want to know he didn’t take any action on the letter. He should not have any role in further probe of the massacre of eight policemen by gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides,” he added. “What is even more painful is that police department is questioning the genuineness of the letter and audio clip. However, we have full trust in our judiciary and hope truth will come out,” Kamalkant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/slain-dsp-mishras-daughter-found-his-letter-call-recording/articleshow/76843626.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||First full-stretch run of NJP electric train today||KOLKATA: With regular train services suspended during the lockdown, Indian Railways succeeded in bridging a major gap between north Bengal and the rest of the country by completing electrification of the entire stretch till New Jalpaiguri. On Wednesday, the 02377 Sdah-Noq Special (the Padatik Express) will be the first express train to run from Sealdah to New Jalpaiguri with an electric locomotive. According to Eastern Railway (ER), the running time of the train between Sealdah and New Jalpaiguri will get reduced by five minutes. While this may not sound much, this is a major development, so far as infrastructure upgrade is concerned. “We have been working towards electrification of this stretch for quite some time now. While work had been completed till Malda Town, work was continuing for a small distance beyond that. The work has now been completed and the Sealdah-New Alipurduar Special will be the first passenger-carrying train to run with an electric traction between Sealdah and New Jalpaiguri from Wednesday. When the Darjeeling Mail starts running again, it will also be hauled by an electric locomotive,” Nikhil Kumar Chakraborty, CPRO, ER, said. Among the other important trains that will be benefited due to the electrification are the Howrah-NJP Shatabdi Express. Electric locomotives not only result in savings but are also much more reliable. The breakdown rate among diesel locomotives is much higher when compared to electric ones. Over the years, Indian Railways has been attempting to reduce diesel costs through electrification. Over the last few years, orders for electric locomotives have also gone up. Chakraborty also pointed to how ER has also completed electrification between Shibnarayanpur and Bhagalpur, allowing important trains like the Brahmaputra Mail to use electric traction. “It will be a great day when the Darjeeling Mail uses electric traction for the first time for the entire stretch. The Darjeeling Mail is one of the oldest and prestigious trains in Indian Railways. It started at a time when there was no direct rail connectivity between north Bengal and Kolkata. The train has witnessed a lot of changes,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/first-full-stretch-run-of-njp-electric-train-today/articleshow/76842984.cms||Jayanta Gupta
July 8, 2020||Ludhiana||LIT employees protest work against ‘police inaction’||Ludhiana: Employees of Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) continued their protest on Tuesday as the person who had allegedly misbehaved with an executive engineer of the trust during a demolition drive had not been arrested so far. The employees of LIT were supported by officials from all over the state, along with the trust employees in various cities, who also declared a strike, due to which there was no work in the LIT offices. The XEN, Jagdev Singh, who was manhandled by the accused during the demolition drive, said that cops had been claiming of having taken action and conducting raids to nab the accused but the entire family had in fact fled away. He said there was no point in conducting raids at the moment as cops could have arrested the accused on the spot as everything happened in front of their eyes. He said they would continue their strike unless there was action taken on their complaint. Due to this ongoing strike the work at the LIT office was hit hard as people who visit the office for getting NOC for their properties or pay the water supply bills could not get it done and had to return. The employees had started their strike on Thursday but on Friday they were working and then again on Monday, they again went on strike. On June 30, the LIT officials had gone to remove illegal structures in Model Town extension scheme area, where one of the accused Sonu Jatt allegedly slapped the XEN, Jagdev Singh. However, later on, the LIT officials were successful in removing the illegal structure but this incident left a deep impact on the staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lit-employees-protest-work-against-police-inaction/articleshow/76842946.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Effort to consensually cancel yatra delayed decision’||AHMEDABAD: The city police commissioner on Tuesday told the Gujarat high court that the delayed decision on the Rath Yatra owed to his efforts to bring a consensus on cancelling the procession. The move was due to the Covid situation. The procession was curtailed by the HC. But while staying the procession on June 20, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala expressed its astonishment over the indecision on part of the authorities about the Jagannathji Temple’s application seeking permission for the procession, from May 18 till June 20. The Rath Yatra was scheduled on June 23. Interestingly, the police commissioner rejected the temple’s application for the Rath Yatra a day after the HC’s stay order. The reply filed by police commissioner Ashish Bhatia revealed that he was informed by all police stations and other police authorities subordinate to him that it was not advisable to permit the procession during the pandemic. They based their opinion on figures of Covid positive cases and containment zones on the Rath Yatra’s route. However, the police commissioner said that there were efforts to convince the temple management to cancel the procession this year. The police commissioner also cited his communication with the director general of police on June 16 when he sought permission for a budget allocation of Rs 2.34 crore to manage the procession, in case permission was granted. However, the police commissioner told the HC that there were seven meetings organized between the police authorities and the temple trust to convince the latter to cancel the procession. Additional chief secretary Sangeeta Singh also told the HC that police authorities were trying till the last moment to convince the temple management to either cancel the Rath Yatra or to take it out in a symbolic manner. Municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar also filed an affidavit and said that he did not receive an application and therefore there was no question of delay in decision-making on his part. The issue of the Rath Yatra was much debated even in court after the Supreme Court granted permission to the yatra in Puri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/effort-to-consensually-cancel-yatra-delayed-decision/articleshow/76842983.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Noida||As Covid cases spike, Noida plans to ramp up its L2 and L3 facilities||NOIDA: With Gautam Budh Nagar nearing the 3,000-mark in Covid-19 cases, nodal officers in the district have asked officials to increase the number of beds in L2 and L3 hospitals. While Sharda Hospital has been asked to increase its capacity from 400 to 650 beds within a week, the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida will also add 100 beds to the existing 150. Meanwhile, the Child PGI in Sector 30 will also function as a 75-bed general L2 Covid hospital starting Wednesday. The 50-bed Covid facility has been focussing primarily on the treatment of children so far. Officials informed that around 4.5% of all Covid cases in the district have been children (below 17 years) and most of them have been asymptomatic. “There is sufficient arrangement of L1 facilities in the district that have been kept in reserve and the capacity can be increased whenever required. However, we require more number of L2 and L3 facilities. We have asked Sharda to get 200 L3 beds. These will include 140 general beds for serious cases, 30 ICU beds and 30 HDU beds,” said Narendra Bhooshan, nodal officer for Covid response in the district. He added, “The CM has directed that all L1 hospitals should keep some oxygen cylinders for emergency care.” Including the paid hospitals, the district currently has 2,964 operational Covid beds. There are 600 oxygen beds and 110 are with ventilator support. Officials said that the district is well-prepared to handle serious cases when people will need oxygen or ventilator support. “We will be increasing the capacity now, even though we have 110 beds with ventilator support, including around 60 at the government facilities and some in reserve. Looking at the data, the percentage of active cases at any given time that needs ventilator support is very less,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate. Of the 766 active cases till July 5, there are 19 patients on ventilator and 50 on oxygen support in the district. Health officials said that only patients with comorbid conditions have required ventilator support so far and their percentage has not increased over 2.5-3 of all active cases at any given time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/as-covid-cases-spike-noida-plans-to-ramp-up-its-l2-and-l3-facilities/articleshow/76843636.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||T registers 1,879 new cases, 7 deaths||Hyderabad: Telangana recorded 1,879 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths, on Tuesday. The state government said it has enough beds and appealed to the people to opt for state-run facilities. The state currently has 11,012 active cases while only 1,335 of the total 17,081 beds available in the government sector hospitals have been taken. Officials said the bed occupancy stood at 7.8%, while 92.2 % beds are vacant. “It is informed that the government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid-19 patients. Sufficient beds are available in government hospitals. Based on the clinical requirements, beds will be provided and treatment will be given free of cost in government hospitals. Sufficient quantities of PPE and medicines are available in hospitals,” a statement from the state health department reads. The total count of Covid-19 in the state stood at 27,612, sixth overall among all states, while the death toll stood at 313. “Patients with moderate to severe symptoms, who are Covid-19 positive should go to Gandhi hospital, where the government has made elaborate arrangements for treatment and management. Patients with symptoms but have not yet been confirmed and require Covid-19 testing should go to District hospital, King Koti, Fever hospital and Chest hospital,” the statement added. Authorities also identified the Gandhi Hospital, Secunderabad as a ‘Centre of Excellence for Covid-19 care. Majority of the cases continue to be recorded from the GHMC limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-registers-1879-new-cases-7-deaths/articleshow/76842978.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Second round of checking for vendors||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation had decided to conduct a special Covid-checking drive for vegetable vendors, pani-puri stall owners and shopkeepers. This is the second such round for the vendors. Rajiv Gupta, ACS, forest and environment, who has been appointed as overall incharge for Covid-19 activities in Ahmedabad, said that the first round of checking was taken up in May and a total of 33,500 super-spreaders were checked. Of these, 700 were found to be Covid-19 positive. Gupta said that the second drive will now be taken up from Wednesday. He said that 48 teams have been formed one each for one ward and these teams will check the vegetable vendors, fruit vendors, milkmen, shopkeepers, and medical shop owners. These vendors will be checked with antigen test and a fresh health card will also be issued to these super-spreaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/second-round-of-checking-for-vendors/articleshow/76842999.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Child rights body for snipping syllabus||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (TSCPCR) has recommended to the government to consider reducing school syllabus on account of the Covid-19 situation. “There is a need to revisit the syllabus to minimise the burden on the children of the primary, upper primary and secondary/high school considering Covid19 situation,” the TSCPCR, a statutory body constituted by an Act of Parliament under the Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CPCR) Act, 2005, said in an official releaseon Tuesday. TSCPCR chairman J Srinivas Rao on Tuesday said Telangana was passing through challenging times in all spheres of life and the children were one of the most affected. The commission said to engage children positively and to avoid vagueness in the minds of all children, parents, institutions and authorities, immediate appropriate decision should be taken by the government. The department of education should evolve a detailed plan and provide guidelines considering age and as per gender-specific needs of the children of the government and private schools separately, for the academic year 2020-21, the commission said. In the context of the Covid19 situation, the commission recommended that the government make prior plans regarding the beginning of new academic year for schools. Private schools also should be regulated and a prescribed standard fee structure inclusive of all types/forms of fee should be given, it said. The commission said the government should plan for an appropriate mechanism regarding online classes. The commission said the government needs to immediately constitute an expert panel. “There should be reassurance of equal opportunity for every child from all socio-economic backgrounds,” TSCPCR chief Srinivas Rao said in his advisory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/child-rights-body-for-snipping-syllabus/articleshow/76842979.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Mumbai||2 track workers run over by local near Bandra stn||Two WR track maintainers were run over by a local during work between Bandra and Khar around Tuesday midnight. Both were rushed to Bhabha Hospital where they were declared brought dead. According to the train crew, the motorman applied emergency brakes, but could not prevent the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-track-workers-run-over-by-local-near-bandra-stn/articleshow/76844059.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Nagpur||SRPF to raise all-women battalion in Katol: HM||Nagpur: An all-woman State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) battalion will be raised at Katol in Nagpur district, announced state home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday. Deshmukh is NCP member of legislative assembly from Katol constituency. Deshmukh in a video statement said 1,400 girls would be groomed for the battalion, which would be housed at a training centre proposed on 100 acre land. During a high-level meeting chaired by deputy CM Ajit Pawar, a decision has also been taken to recruit 10,000 constables in state police, said Deshmukh. The decision has been approved by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. “It is crucial to recruit 10,000 constables for strengthening police machinery for better surveillance and maintaining law and order. Apart from opening employment opportunities for urban as well as rural youth, this will also help reduce burden on the existing personnel,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/srpf-to-raise-all-women-battalion-in-katol-hm/articleshow/76842949.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 8, 2020||Ludhiana||SAD protests against rising fuel prices, forget social distancing norm||Ludhiana: The Shiromani Akali Dal leadership staged a protest against the rising fuel prices, unfair ration distribution and removal of names of various blue card beneficiaries by the Congress government. In their bid to raise their voice the leaders perhaps forgot to maintain social distancing as people in large number gathered for participating in this protest. People in large number had gathered outside the mini-secretariat while holding placards in their hands. The leadership claimed that people are so disturbed these days that they are forced to come out on roads despite the fear of coronavirus. While describing about the protest senior Akali Dal leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal said, “The common man is reeling under the financial burden of rising petrol prices and various taxes, especially at a time when people are losing jobs. Through this protest we have appealed to the central government as well as the state government for reducing taxes on petrol and diesel so that the common man should not face extra burden.” Secondly, many beneficiaries did not get ration in time because their names were removed from the list by the ruling party and due to this, migrants in large number left the city,” he said. Regarding their protest against their allies, Grewal said, “When it comes to raising voice for the common interests, then voice is raised within party, like in Congress Partap Bajwa did. We have also raised voice against our alliance party in the same way.” However, when asked about social distancing, he said when chief minister Amarinder Singh could allow to ferry buses with full capacity, then social distancing rule has been ended by the ruling party and moreover, the migrants were made to stand in queues. However, Akali Dal district president Ranjit Dhillon said, “When the central government had increased the price of petrol and diesel, then the state government’s share increased automatically. But even then the state government increased more VAT on the petroleum goods.” He said they have requested both parties, Centre as well as the state to reduce the prices for public convenience. However, regarding social distancing he said, “We had gathered only a few people at the spot but when the protest started even common people gathered, who are perturbed with various kinds of taxes.” Meanwhile, Youth Akali Dal district president said, “During Covid we did not sit at home even a single day. I served food to many poor people. But the Congress government struck out the names of various beneficiaries without caring about them, which is unfortunate.” He said they had appealed to the Union government and the state government to give the desired relief to the people in Punjab. ‘Centre has done everything, now its state’s turn’ Reacting to the protest of Shiromani Akali Dal, the state BJP general secretary, Parveen Bansal, said, “The central government has announced relief package, given free ration to poor, run free trains for migrant labourers and various aids were given. But what about the state government. The state government could not even distribute ration properly.” He said Akali Dal had protested against the Congress government and not the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-protests-against-rising-fuel-prices-forget-social-distancing-norm/articleshow/76842956.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Police stations to get table shields and pulse meters||VISAKHAPATNAM: For the first time in the state, Visakhapatnam police introduced ‘table shield’ for cops at the police stations. They would also be provide with pulse meters. City police commissioner Rajeev Kumar Meena said the table shields have been installed at the Three Town police station on a experimental basis on Tuesday. The glass shield would be thick and keep the petitioners and others who come to station at a safe distance. The table shields would be introduced at the stations of all wings of police in the next 10 days. All reception counters in the stations, one each at circle inspector’s table and sub-inspector’s table, ACPs, DCPs, CP office and other establishments in the police department would get these table shields. More than 50 shields would be installed at the city police stations. Pulse meters would be provided at police stations to know the temperature of the body and oxygen levels. “We are arranging these facilities with an estimated cost of around Rs 10 lakh,” city police commissioner Meena said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/police-stations-to-get-table-shields-and-pulse-meters/articleshow/76842012.cms||Siva G
July 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu tribal girl for whom Kerala ran a special bus scores 95%||COIMBATORE: A 16-year-old girl from a tribal settlement in Annamalai Tiger Reserve is on cloud nine after becoming the first in her community to secure 95% in Class X board exams. C Sreedevi from Poochukottamparai tribal settlement in Udumalpet range of Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) in Tirupur district beat all odds by clearing the Class X board exams from a residential school in Kerala’s Chalakudy, and will now pursue higher secondary education. Her achievement is an exception for girls from her community as most tribal students from her village drop out after elementary or middle school. With a beaming smile on her face, Sreedevi, a student of Nayaranagadi model residential school in Chalakudy, said, “I can hardly believe I have scored A plus grades – more than 95% - in my Class X examination.” The tribal settlement from where she belongs is steeped in a distant past, with no power supply nor mobile network coverage. Most students from the settlement discontinue their studies after elementary or middle school. While girls are married off to a suitable groom within their community, boys are asked to begin working as soon as possible. Students like her have to travel at least a few km every day from her settlement to reach a place where phone networks work, she said. About a month ago, the Kerala government had arranged a vehicle to transport Sreedevi from Tamil Nadu Kerala border to the school to ensure that she attends her remaining exams, She had returned to her settlement after the lockdown was imposed. She said she travelled on foot and on her farther’s bike for several kms to just reach the Kerala border. “I am really proud that my daughter has scored good marks at examinations. Let people say whatever they want, I will ensure she continues her studies further. We don’t want to hide our children within our settlement and restrict them from scaling professional heights,” said M Chellamuthu, Sreedevi’s father, a farmer.  “Amid stiff opposition, Chellamuthu took a brave decision to educate his daughter.. and the girl used the opportunity wisely. Taking her as an inspiration, we hope many villagers would come forward to educate their children,” said P Shanmugam, state vice-president of Tamil Nadu tribal association. Read this story in BengaliWatch Tamil Nadu tribal girl first in her community to secure 95% in Class X board exams||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tribal-girl-from-udumalpet-scores-95-in-class-x/articleshow/76842985.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 8, 2020||India||Kang: Shouldn’t shift focus from drugs, testing in race for vaccine||NEW DELHI: In the race for a vaccine against Covid-19, India must not lose its focus from drugs, diagnostics and contact-tracing which are critical to tackle the pandemic right now, says Gangandeep Kang, noted scientist and the first Indian woman to be inducted as a fellow of Royal Society in London. “I am worried that we are ignoring drugs, diagnostics and contact-tracing in favour of vaccine, which is meant for prevention. There shouldn’t be a trade-off between the two. Right now, there are people who are sick and need tests and treatment. It’s important to reduce deaths and ensure containment,” Kang said, stressing on the need for a comprehensive strategy focused on clinical research, testing, tracking and treatment. Kang, who resigned on Monday from Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI) under the ministry of science and technology, said she would like to start a new project on influenza vaccines, which may also show some promise to tackle Covid-19 and other flu outbreaks in future. Kang played a key role in developing India’s first locally developed vaccine Rotavac against rotavirus. Emphasising that rigorous processes must be followed before launching any vaccine or drug, she said a vaccine is unlikely to be developed before next year, but maintained that even after development, delivery will take a substantial amount of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kang-shouldnt-shift-focus-from-drugs-testing-in-race-for-vaccine/articleshow/76844501.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 8, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Corona count jumps to over 1,300 in a day||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh recorded its biggest single day spike of 1,346 Covid cases on Tuesday, that pushed the state tally to 30,340. The virus claimed 18 more lives in the state in last 24 hours, taking the toll to 827. Meanwhile, 518 more patients recovered from the infection, with this the total number of persons discharged is now 19,627. “At present, 9,514 active cases are undergoing treatment in UP,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. Health officials said that in terms of overall burden, UP is ranked fifth in the country while in terms of active cases its rank is seventh. As per the state bulletin, hightest number of cases (196) were recorded in Lucknowin last 24 hours. However, confusion prevailed over the situation in Lucknow as the district health officer confirmed only 84 cases. Meerut division districts accounted for 400 cases – Ghaziabad (149), Gautam Budh Nagar (115), Meerut (51), Baghpat (47) Bulandshahr (22) and Hapur (21) – which is about 30% of the total cases reported in the past 24 hours. More than 20 cases were reported in 13 districts. The list included Bareilly (51), Jhansi (47), Kanpur (40), Moradabad (36), Gorakhpur (36), Ballia (36), Varanasi (29), Prayagraj (28), Muzaffarnagar (27), Barabanki (26), Aligarh (24), Kannauj (21) and Sonbhadra (21). Three deaths were reported in Kanpur while two were reported in Varanasi. GB Nagar, Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Firozabad, Moradabad, Rampur, Aligarh, Prayagraj, Mathura, Bareilly, Etawah, Mirzapur and Hamirpur recorded one death each. 9 lakh samples tested and countingHealth officials stated that two mile stones in terms of testing of coronavirus samples were achieved in the past 24 hours. “While the target set by CM of conducting 30,000 samples per day was achieved, 9 lakh samples were tested in UP to reach the tally of 9,22,049. The state’s priority is on testing which will be intensified further once the door to door survey is completed,” said Amit Mohan Prasad. He added that the capacity will be scaled up further once the BSL labs get functional. The use of rapid test kits and covid-19 screening through use to TruNat and CBNAAT will also continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-count-jumps-to-over-1300-in-a-day/articleshow/76844061.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||Phoolbagan murder: Gun supplier held||KOLKATA: In a boost to the Phoolbagan murder probe in which chartered accountant Amit Agarwal had shot his mother-in-law before committing suicide last month, Kolkata Police managed to nab the gun runner, who had supplied the murder weapon and ammunition to Amit at Howrah station after travelling all the way from Bihar’s Nawada district. “The alleged gunrunner, Pankaj Kumar, was arrested at 4.30am on Tuesday from his residence at Dosut village in Bihar’s Nawada. Pankajhad come to Kolkata in the first week of March to deliver one pistol and 10 rounds of ammunition to Agarwal. He has confessed to the crime. He was produced before Nawada magistrate for transit remand,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. Sources said technical analysis of Agarwal’s call records since January, combined with local inputs, helped cops nab Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/phoolbagan-murder-gun-supplier-held/articleshow/76842994.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 8, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad to get 15 more ambulances to ferry Covid patients||GHAZIABAD: The state government has agreed to add 15 ambulances to the district health department’s fleet to help it ferry patients smoothly. Citing a sudden spurt in the number of Covid cases, the Ghaziabad health department had requested the state department for more ambulances. “We had placed a request of 15 dedicated ambulances to ferry covid patients with the state government as we were grappling with its shortage. The state government has approved our demand and shortly, we would be adding these ambulances to our fleet,” said an official from heath department. Currently, the department has 14 dedicated ambulances of its own and had acquired about 30 more from private hospitals. An official said that there is another reason why the need for more ambulances was felt. “Till recently, we had Covid hospitals within the district. But now, due to rise in number of cases which stands at 2,283 with 1,251 active cases, we had to set up Covid hospitals in faraway places like Newari and Modinagar,” said the official. He added that on an average, an ambulance takes about two hours to ferry patients to these Covid hospitals which are far from the city’s municipal limits, and this was adversely affecting the transportation of Covid patients. “So, the need for more ambulances was felt and we placed the request with the state government,” he said. While there is a 200-bed Covid hospital in Newari, 60% of which are occupied as of now, the 250-bed Covid hospital in Modinagar has 65% occupancy. Apart from having two Covid hospitals on the outskirts, the health department has set up two more within city’s municipal limits -- one located in Sahibabad and the other within Santosh Hospital in New Bus Stand -- where the rest of the Covid patients are kept.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/gzb-to-get-15-more-ambulances-to-ferry-covid-patients/articleshow/76843640.cms||Abhijay Jha
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Virus fear: Ahmedabad man evicts wife, two kids||AHMEDABAD: A 35-year-old woman from the Anandnagar area of city on Tuesday filed a complaint against her husband, alleging that he deserted her because he thought she was infected with ‘some Corona-like virus’. In her FIR with Anandnagar police, the woman, the mother of two children aged six and five, stated that she married a realty developer from Vadodara and they lived in Anandnagar. In May, her mother-in-law suffered cardiac problems and was admitted to a hospital in Vadodara. The complainant used to take care of her mother-in-law, who underwent cardiac surgery, and visited the hospital regularly, the FIR states. As she developed a cough and respiratory trouble, her husband and in-laws suspected that she was infected with some Covid-19-like pathogen and decided to make her to leave their house. When she resisted, he assaulted her and pushed her and the kids out of their house in Karelibaug, Vadodara, on May 20. He told her to get treated in Ahmedabad and return only if she was cured. She then lived in the house owned by her husband at Anandnagar in Ahmedabad. She got treated at a private clinic and was cured. On June 29, her husband came to the Anandnagar house, objected to her staying there and began forcing her to leave that house. She said that he threatened to separate from her legally and not even keep his children. After this, she approached Anandnagar police and filed a complaint of domestic violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/virus-fear-man-evicts-wife-two-kids/articleshow/76843001.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Vadodara||Dead co-morbid patients considered ‘discharged’||Vadodara: If the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) data is to be believed, persons who tested positive for Covid-19 and died due to co-morbidities or other ailments, have been categorized summarily as ‘discharged’.At least, that is the head under which such dead patients have been included! The VMC had on July 2 clarified that patients with co-morbidities will not be considered as succumbing from Covid-19. Since then the number of Covid-19 deaths in the city and district has remained at 57. All deaths due to co-morbidities that have taken place before or since July 2 have, however, not been disclosed. Even VMC officials have sealed their lips on the number of deaths due to co-morbidities among positive patients. The grim picture surfaced when officials disclosed that there were zero deaths of Covid-19 positive cases from the city and district on June 10 and that only one person each died on two previous days. However, since then or quite some time before June 10, no such claims have been made. VMC data in its medical bulletins seems to get its arithmetic right except for the deaths of persons with co-morbid conditions. This data strictly adds the number of persons under treatment, those discharged and the 57 dead since July 2. However, the bulletin is mum on the co-morbid deaths – which is a large number – and under what head have they been included. The only two heads available are surprisingly – that of admitted cases or discharged cases. VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel said that such cases have been included in the discharged cases. “Basically, the concept is that if a person has tested positive and not died due to Covid-19, it is as good as recovered,” he said. Also, Covid-19 patients who died after testing negative are also included in the same list as discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dead-co-morbid-patients-considered-discharged/articleshow/76842046.cms||Sachin Sharma
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Colleges await NOC for 6 new BTech courses, approval denied for AI||Hyderabad: Although the no-objection certificates (NOC) have been given for the closure of courses and reduction of seats by the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH), NOCs for six new BTech courses, which are to be introduced from the academic year 2020-21, are yet to be released. To get approval from the AICTE to start new courses, colleges are required to submit an NOC from the varsity. “We had applied for starting the new courses in emerging technologies in the last week of February, but are yet to receive NOC from the state government and university, which is necessary to get AICTE’s permission to start these courses,” said KVK Rao, general secretary, All India Federation of Self-Financing Technical Institutions, adding that about 75 colleges have applied for introduction of courses in emerging technologies this year. He also said that although artificial intelligence (AI) is an approved course from the JNTUH, which was started during the academic year 2019-20, the varsity is now asking colleges to apply for computer science and engineering instead. “We are waiting for the government to issue NOC. The government will set the upper limit on the number of seats in a course a college can offer,” said Hussain, adding that if required, they will write to the AICTE and seek extension of deadline. Hyderabad: After taking part in the Chalo Collectorate protest on July 1, private teachers are now planning a Chalo MLAs camp office programme on July 10 to intensify their protest against private schools managements. Teachers, who have been seeking full salaries for the lockdown period, said that despite making several requests neither the government nor the managements are helping lakhs of private teachers, who are struggling to survive without any pay since March. TNN“There are schools that did not pay teachers’ salaries since December-January. But no one is concerned about the private teaching or non-teaching staff,” said Shabir Ali, president, Telangana Private Teachers Forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/colleges-await-noc-for-6-new-btech-courses-approval-denied-for-ai/articleshow/76842988.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
July 8, 2020||Nagpur||Allow all labs in state to conduct Rapid Antigen Tests, demand pathologists||Nagpur: The Maharashtra Association of practicing Pathologists and Microbiologists (MAPPM) has demanded that almost 5,000 pathology laboratories in Maharashtra run by the registered pathologists/microbiologists should be permitted to conduct antigen testing for Covid-19. Rapid antigen testing can be used to detect whether the patient’s immune system has Covid-19 or has recovered from it. The test can detect evidence of past or present exposure to the coronavirus in less than 30 minutes. At present, accreditation by National accreditation board for laboratories (NABL) is must for labs to conduct any of the Covid-19 related tests. There are only 48 such labs in state, claimed Dr Sandeep Yadav, President of MAPPM. “In Maharashtra, there are only 48 laboratories with NABL accreditation. Majority of them are located in metro cities. Whereas, more than 5,000 pathology labs run by qualified pathologists/microbiologists registered with the Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) are distributed across the state,” he said. “Considering the need of the hour in containing pandemic, we have requested the ICMR to withdraw the clause of NABL accreditation. All labs attached to us are running with full time pathologist/microbiologist and abiding all guidelines of ICMR as well as state government,” Dr Yadav added. MAPPM has submitted a written proposal to the ICMR in this regard. “Rapid Antigen test is quick, simple, safe and can be used as a point-of-care test. But, the rider of NABL accreditation is major hurdle to ramp up testing,” said pathologist Dr Prasad Kulkarni. “In all registered labs, we are already taking care of all quality norms. If doctors in all hospitals, irrespective of NABH accreditation can treat Covid-19 patients, then what is the problem in allowing at least Rapid Antigen tests to all labs?,” he asked. Pathologists have written a five-page letter in which they have mentioned the fact that cases of Covid-19 are increasing in the rural areas and set to increase with mission begin again in force. If labs in rural areas get kits and permission to conduct the rapid tests, it may help the authorities a lot in containment of Covid-19. In Nagpur, Dhruva path lab, which has NABL accreditation, has received permission to conduct these tests. At present, this is the only lab in Vidarbha to have this permission. In Buldhana and Akola, government authorities have started rapid antigen tests right there in the covid-19 hotspot zones. They have given good results in last two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/allow-all-labs-in-state-to-conduct-rapid-antigen-tests-demand-pathologists/articleshow/76842973.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 8, 2020||Dehradun||Month after lockdown curbs lifted, guests no-show at hotels in Corbett, Nainital||Nainital: A month after the lockdown curbs were lifted, several hoteliers in the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) and Nainital said they have recorded zero occupancy and blamed strict government guidelines for it. “The government’s guidelines in June had mandated that tourists must stay for at least a week and must not go to tourist spots. People come to Nainital for sightseeing, how can they stay holed up in a hotel?” said Dinesh Sah, president, Nainital Hotels’ Association. Sah said several hotels had therefore chosen to remain shut. Revised guidelines last week continued the mandatory week-long stay but allowed tourists to sightsee if they have a Covid-negative certificate. The revised norms, too, have left hoteliers upset. “Do we expect families to first go for Covid-19 tests, each of which costs thousands of rupees, and then go for a holiday? This is a deterrent,” said Ved Sah, another hotel owner in Nainital. In Ramnagar as well, where CTR is now open to public, hotels have not seen tourist inflow. Hari Mann, president, hotels’ association of Ramanagar, told TOI, “It is the peak tourist season but hotels in the area have not seen even one percent of the bookings that were done last year.” Hoteliers said they had to take drastic measures, some have not paid their staff for months while others have laid off employees. According to Ved Sah, “I have paid my employees even though there have been no bookings. If I have to continue paying my staff of 40, I will have to take a loan,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/month-after-lockdown-curbs-lifted-guests-no-show-at-hotels-in-corbett-nainital/articleshow/76840708.cms||Prashant Jha
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Delay in exams may hit placements||Hyderabad: The UGC move to postpone university exams till September-end has left students and college managements jittery as delayed exams will result in delayed campus placements. Colleges are now negotiating with firms over joining dates. “We are now planning to issue provisional degrees so that students can join their jobs,” said NLN Reddy, head, placement cell, Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology. Students in colleges where campus placements were to begin by June-July fear that by the time their exams end, firms may revoke their offers. “During the lockdown, 30% firms revoked offer letters. We doubt if we will have our jobs,” said Sohailuddin, a final year BTech student. All eyes are now on the state higher education department as it is set to submit its response to the high court on the academic calendar and the university exams on Thursday. Meanwhile, many students opposed the UGC’s move. MANUU students’ union has decided to write an open letter to the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/delay-in-exams-may-hit-placements/articleshow/76842996.cms||Preeti Biswas
July 8, 2020||Goa||Schools told to pay Balrath workers’ salaries from June||PANAJI: Institutions availing of Balrath bus services have to pay the salaries of the drivers and attendants from the month of June, the directorate of education has stated in a new circular. The state provides Balrath buses to aided high schools, higher secondary schools and special schools through a scheme in order to facilitate quality education for children without transportation hardships, director of education Vandana Rao said. “Considering the orders/instructions issued by government of India and the government of Goa, all government aided institutions, which are availing the benefits of Balrath buses, are hereby instructed to pay the salary to their Balrath drivers and attendants of the academic year 2020-21, ie from the month of June onwards,” Rao said. The Balrath scheme was introduced in Goa in 2009. Schools get financial assistance to offer the service to students free of cost and is only available to students of aided schools and not government schools. In 2018, the grant to government-aided schools to operate Balrath buses was hiked by the state from Rs 3 lakh annually to Rs 3.66 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schools-told-to-pay-balrath-workers-salaries-from-june/articleshow/76843642.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 patient escapes from hospital, brought back||Coimbatore: A Covid-19 patient escaped from ESI Hospital in the city on Tuesday evening. With the help of the patient’s son, the city police traced him at least 3km away from the hospital on Trichy Road and re-admitted him at the same hospital. Police said a 55-year-old man from Kundadam in Tirupur district was admitted at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, two days ago for kidney problem. Meanwhile, he developed symptoms of flu and his swab samples were lifted on Monday. He tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to the Covid-19 care ward of the ESI Hospital on Tuesday morning. Around 5pm, he escaped from the hospital. He contacted his son over phone and told him that he had managed escape from the hospital. He also asked his son to come to Singanallur to pick him up. Meanwhile, his son contacted Aathma trust and sent his father details and photographs. A team of police from Singanallur station launched a search and traced him at Trichy Road. Immediately, an 108 ambulance was brought to the spot and he was sent to ESI Hospital again for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-patient-escapes-from-hospital-brought-back/articleshow/76843010.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||72% of new cases from western part||AHMEDABAD: The western part of the city reported 72% of the fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest share in the fresh cases so far from this part of the city. Of the 168 fresh cases reported on Monday, the western part had 122 cases. On Monday, West Zone, which includes wards of Sardar Patel Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Ranip, Paldi, and Vasna, recorded 49 cases. That was the highest figure from any civic body zone for the day. This was followed by the North West Zone, which reported 440 fresh cases. The North West Zone spans areas such as Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia, and Gota. The South West Zone, which includes Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Maktampura, and Sarkhej, reported 29 cases. Of the seven deaths reported from the city, five were from the western part of the city. Three deaths were from the west zone and two were from South West Zone. This part of the city has been reporting constantly high number of cases. In the first six days of July, the city had reported 892 cases of which 551 were from these three zones. Of the 551 cases in six days, the West Zone has reported 236 cases, 171 were from North West Zone and 144 were from South West Zone. Currently, the western part of Ahmedabad accounts for 48.6% of the total active cases in the city. Till Tuesday morning, the city had a total of 3,079 active cases of which 1,499 were from the western part. Of these, the West Zone has 603; the North West Zone 463, the South West Zone, 433. As for other zones, 228 were from the Central Zone, 437 from the North Zone, 454 from the East Zone, and 461 from the South Zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/72-of-new-cases-from-western-part/articleshow/76843008.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||No HC relief for Karvy, but court halts SFIO probe||HYDERABAD: Justice A Rajasheker Reddy of the Telangana high court on Tuesday reserved his judgment in two petitions filed by Karvy Stock Broking Ltd (KSBL) questioning the decision of the Union corporate affairs ministry to order a Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) investigation into affairs of the company. The judge, however, directed SFIO not to proceed further till the judgment in the two cases. Earlier in the day, counsel S Niranjan Reddy, who appeared on behalf of KSBL, said the Centre’s action was contrary to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. “It has to form an opinion before ordering a probe,” he said, stating that it did not show anything other than a report from the Registrar of Companies. “This alone cannot be the basis for forming an opinion,” he added. Arguing the case for the ministry and SFIO, assistant solicitor general N Rajeswara Rao said they followed every provision of the law in letter and spirit before ordering a probe. SEBI, the oversight committee of the ministry, RoC, the regional director of the ministry, a forensic audit and several others had gone through complaints against Karvy and concluded that a thorough probe was essential, he said. “If this is not sufficient material to form an opinion, then there is no end to define the term sufficiency,” the ASG said. Coming to the facts of the case, the Centre’s counsel said that the company had flouted all norms of propriety and pledged stocks of its investors without their consent. It raised Rs 1,141 crore and diverted the money through some companies to its realty company against norms, he said. “The stakes of 80,000 innocent investors, who had invested their money with the company, are at stake. It betrayed their trust in it. We have to protect the interest of the small investors,” the ASG said. The judge, while reserving his orders , made it clear that he would not go into the aspect whether the material before the Centre was sufficient to order a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-hc-relief-for-karvy-but-court-halts-sfio-probe/articleshow/76849754.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Mumbai||State to raise its first female SRPF battalion||Mumbai: The Maharashtra government will recruit 10,000 constables to strengthen law and order and reduce the stress of the police force. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar said on Tuesday that a proposal for the recruitment would be placed before the cabinet soon. Besides, an all-woman battalion of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) will be raised in Nagpur's Katol, constituency of home minister Anil Deshmukh, reports Bhavika Jain. Deshmukh said a 100-acre training academy would be set up and 1,384 women recruited. Pawar has instructed officials to ensure the recruitment is completed within a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-to-raise-its-first-female-srpf-battalion/articleshow/76844064.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||HC dismisses PIL on easing lockdown||Hyderabad: Stating that imposing and lifting of a lockdown is a policy decision to be taken by the executive and that courts will not usually interfere in them, the high court has dismissed a PIL that questioned the state’s decision to relax the restrictions. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this after hearing a PIL filed by social activist Dr Sunitha Krishnan who sought a stricter lockdown to be enforced with the help of the Army. While the state has to take many aspects like livelihood of poorer sections etc into consideration while taking decisions on lockdown, the bench however wondered as to what stops those who can afford to stay back from coming out. “There is no compulsion that one should necessarily visit temples, hotels and malls etc,” the bench said. Writing the judgement for the bench, Justice Vijaysen said in the order that the strength of democracy, apart from several factors, depends upon each organ of the state respecting the functions and decisions of the other organs. He added that a popular dispensation is expected to have knowledge and expertise in matters relating to health, security, law and order, etc and that a court cannot be expected to have expertise in all these matters. “Merely because another view is possible, the courts would not interfere with a policy decision, unless there is a violation of rights, or violation of provision of law,” the bench said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-dismisses-pil-on-easing-lockdown/articleshow/76843020.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 162cr to bolster MNREGS in UP||Lucknow: Lending further traction to the Centre’s flagship Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA), the state government has released over Rs 162 crore for execution of the scheme. The programme is seen as one of the biggest contributors to employment generation for migrants who have returned to the state following the lockdown. The amount corresponds to the grant of Rs 488 crore by the Centre which has already tweaked the scheme to allow unskilled labour force to get employed in construction of community sanitary complexes under Swachh Bharat Mission. The state government’s grant is seen as a step to boost the scheme which has already led to engagement of over 60 lakh people in the state. Rural development department sources said that besides using it in MNREGA, the state government plans to reserve part of the funds for execution of PM Gareeb Kalyan Rozgar Scheme which was launched by PM Narendra Modi in 31 districts of UP on June 27. MNREGA additional commissioner Yogesh Kumar said that the department has an additional Rs 160 crore which can be used for furthering the state government’s goal of providing more employment opportunities to the people under MNREGA and Gareeb Kalyan Rozgar scheme in the state. The department would soon be releasing utilization certificates as mandated by the Centre and the state government under MNREGA. The amount sanctioned by the state would be spent as per guidelines issued by the Centre on March 23—a day before nationwide lockdown came into effect. Accordingly, the rural development department will have to get financial sanction of the competent authority before utilizing the funds. The rural development commissioner (RDC) has been made accountable for utilizing the funds to achieve the target set by the government. In fact, the RDC will seek utilization certificates for spending of funds by the department under the scheme. The guidelines further said that the released amount would not be spent in one go but would be staggered and spent as per requirement. The state government has also made spending of the amount mandatory in the ongoing financial year itself. The department will be required to follow stipulated guidelines issued through various government orders under financial rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-162cr-to-bolster-mnregs-in-up/articleshow/76844067.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||Bus crushes two cops from same family in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Two police personnel, including a young trainee sub-inspector, were crushed by a private bus on Kalyani Expressway at Titagarh on Monday night. Worse, both the cops were from the same family. Police later seized the bus and arrested the driver and helper. Witnesses said the bus, running at a breakneck speed, was trying to overtake another vehicle. The accident took place at Kundu Bari More around 10.40pm when SI Agniva Paul (28) from Barrackpore Commissionerate and his brother-in-law Maniklal Dutta (44), a constable from Barrackpore Latbagan armed police battalion, were on their way back home on Paul’s bike. Both the deceased cops were residents of Kanchrapara. “Paul was riding his bike and Dutta was riding pillion. While they were passing by the intersection of Kundu Bari More, a speeding private bus, which was heading to Kolkata from Murshidabad, hit their motorbike from behind,” said Paul’s colleague, Shantanu Sen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bus-crushes-two-cops-from-same-family/articleshow/76843006.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
July 8, 2020||Business||No HC relief for Karvy, but court halts SFIO probe||HYDERABAD: Justice A Rajasheker Reddy of the Telangana high court on Tuesday reserved his judgment in two petitions filed by Karvy Stock Broking Ltd (KSBL) questioning the decision of the Union corporate affairs ministry to order a Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) investigation into affairs of the company. The judge, however, directed SFIO not to proceed further till the judgment in the two cases. Earlier in the day, counsel S Niranjan Reddy, who appeared on behalf of KSBL, said the Centre’s action was contrary to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. “It has to form an opinion before ordering a probe,” he said, stating that it did not show anything other than a report from the Registrar of Companies. “This alone cannot be the basis for forming an opinion,” he added. Arguing the case for the ministry and SFIO, assistant solicitor general N Rajeswara Rao said they followed every provision of the law in letter and spirit before ordering a probe. SEBI, the oversight committee of the ministry, RoC, the regional director of the ministry, a forensic audit and several others had gone through complaints against Karvy and concluded that a thorough probe was essential, he said. “If this is not sufficient material to form an opinion, then there is no end to define the term sufficiency,” the ASG said. Coming to the facts of the case, the Centre’s counsel said that the company had flouted all norms of propriety and pledged stocks of its investors without their consent. It raised Rs 1,141 crore and diverted the money through some companies to its realty company against norms, he said. “The stakes of 80,000 innocent investors, who had invested their money with the company, are at stake. It betrayed their trust in it. We have to protect the interest of the small investors,” the ASG said. The judge, while reserving his orders , made it clear that he would not go into the aspect whether the material before the Centre was sufficient to order a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-hc-relief-for-karvy-but-court-halts-sfio-probe/articleshow/76843007.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Vadodara||Nishar was tied to chair, pen pierced between his fingers: FIR||Vadodara: The offence against the six cops was registered based on the statements of Satish Thakkar, a resident of Chhani, who lodged a complaint of theft attempt at Fatehgunj police station, his brother Mukund and other staff members of Fatehgunj police station. On December 10, Satish was asked to visit the police station and he along with his brother had met PSI Rabari. Satish was then asked to sign on a computer-typed complaint and told that he would receive the copy of it the next day. Satish, according to the complaint lodged by ACP Patil, was also told that the person who attempted theft in his house was kept in the computer room. Satish told police in his statement that he had seen an elderly man sitting in that room. Later, the probe revealed that when Nishar was in the computer room, Gohil had questioned him and had tied him to a chair using a belt and a rope. He was beaten up and tortured by piercing a pen between his fingers. The staff of the police station also said that they used to hear Nishar shouting in Hindi, “I have not done anything, let me go.” When he suddenly fell silent, another PSI NK Charan checked in the computer room and thought that Nishar had died. On the same evening, PSI Rabari asked the police station officer (PSO) to mention in the station diary that Nishar’s statement had been taken and he was allowed to go. However, Nishar’s statement was not handed over to the PSO and nobody saw Nishar leaving the station. Police officials also found out that the accused cops had deleted the complaint given by Satish from the computer too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nishar-was-tied-to-chair-pen-pierced-between-his-fingers-fir/articleshow/76842063.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: For end-semester students, universities to stick to 80-20 evaluation plan||KOLKATA: State-run universities have decided not to conduct pen-and-paper tests by September-end for end-semester students this year, and evaluate them on the 80-20 formula, as proposed by the government. This, despite the UGC issuing a circular on Monday night, advising universities to hold exams by September-end. Education minister Partha Chatterjee on Tuesday said he would leave the individual universities to take the final call on the evaluation method, but the statutory body’s “advice” created confusion, with some accusing it of “playing with students’ future”. Times ViewChanges in schedule and format should be made only if the virus’s spread warrants them. Timely dissemination of information to students, too, is essential. Students are, anyway, going through unprecedented stress; all government agencies and universities should try to reduce that as much as possible.An expert committee, set up by the MHRD to revisit the end-semester exam guidelines and suggest rules for admissions and starting of the new academic session, asked UGC to advise universities to hold exams for final-semester students. A source said the UGC had specified final-semester exams be conducted by September-end in pen-and-paper or online or blended mode, as per feasibility and suitability. The UGC’s circular came as a surprise to the Bengal higher education department, which had already suggested that universities should not take pen-and-paper tests. Instead it was proposed that students be evaluated on an 80-20 formula, 80% weightage be given on the best aggregate percentage received in any past semester and 20% on the internal assessment of the current semester. Most state universities have agreed to the formula and passed resolutions. A few, like Presidency University and JU’s engineering department, have already finished assessment. All state-run universities’ VCs have for now decided to stick to the no-September-test formula till the higher education department decides to alter it. North Bengal University VC Subiresh Bhattacharyya said, . “End-semester candidates are waiting to join jobs. How can we delay results any further? Is there any guarantee that the Covid scene won’t get worse in September?” Another VC added, “We have already completed the assessment process. We can’t go back on the decision.” Some, however, remained confused over whom to listen to. “Now what are we supposed to do? Follow the UGC guideline and scrap the decisions? UGC is not just an advisory body, universities have accepted its syllabus and implemented its pay scale. Now, how can we suddenly say the state’s decision on exams will hold, setting aside the UGC’s Monday advice? Education is a concurrent list subject. In any conflict in opinion, the decision of the Centre rules over the state, ” said a senior higher education official. “If we follow a different evaluation system, the uniformity across the country will be lost. But, some states, including Maharashtra, have scrapped terminal-semester exams. What about that?” a VC said. CUTA general secretary Sankhayan Choudhury said, “We have stressed the need to increase the current semester assessment weightage of specific subjects, based on the developing scenario that may vary. Only 20% allotment to the current semester is not adequate. Given the UGC circular, there should be a parity in evaluation across the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-end-sem-students-univs-to-stick-to-80-20-evaluation-plan/articleshow/76843032.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 8, 2020||Nagpur||Allow 50% occupancy in hotels, let restaurants open: Owners||Nagpur: While Vidarbha hoteliers are happy that government has finally allowed their establishments to open up, they hope the occupancy limit will be increased from current 33% to 50% in the coming days. Following the Covid-19 guidelines will increase their operating cost and hence higher occupancy is must to recover fixed costs, they say. Many hoteliers also admit it will be difficult to get guests during this period. Welcoming the state government order, Khamgaon hotelier Piyush Rathi said authorities should realize that some relaxations are necessary to make the hotels run profitably. “If a hotel has only 18 to 20 rooms, then it is not possible to operate at 33% capacity. Minimum 50% is required. Secondly, restaurants should be open for everybody and there should be no time restriction,” he told TOI. Rathi further said when salons have been allowed to run, there is no point in keeping restaurants and bars closed. “These facilities are necessary for running a hotel profitably. Government should allow them to open with Covid distancing,” he added. The hotelier admitted that with intra-state rail travel not allowed, hotels in places like Khamgaon could not get much guests through road travel only. TS Renu, president of Nagpur Residential Hotels Association (NRHA), said the association wanted state government to further relax restaurant and banquet conditions at the earliest so that hoteliers could generate some business. “As guests coming from outstation will not be many initially, we need extra local public to generate revenue so that break-even is achieved,” he said. “NRHA assures the government that we’ll make our best possible efforts to keep our establishments and surroundings virus-free for safety of our valuable customers,” said Renu. Pawan Dixit, general manager of Hotel Royal Orchid, said while 33% capacity was OK for small and medium establishments, big hotels would find it difficult to recover fixed costs at such low occupancy. Hotelier Mohabbat Singh Tuli, however, expressed happiness over state government’s decision to allow hotels to open. “Safety of guests is paramount. We will abide by all norms. I run hotels as well as resorts. I would advise people who can afford resorts to chose them over hotels as they are spread out over huge areas and therefore safer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/allow-50-occupancy-in-hotels-let-restaurants-open-owners/articleshow/76843016.cms||Ashish Roy
July 8, 2020||Vadodara||Probe got swift after HC moved||Vadodara: Vadodara police claim that an ACP became the complainant and the investigation was being done by another ACP as they had taken the custodial death very seriously. The victim Nishar’s family members have, however, alleged that police were always lax about searching his father. If records are to be believed, city police moved quickly only after Salim approached high court on June 16. The high court on June 19 had asked police to reply on Salim’s petition on June 24. But, just a day before hearing the missing person probe being done by the inspector of Sayajigunj police station was handed over to ACP SG Patil and the court was informed that he will submit his report in the next hearing on July 6. On July 6 too, the high court was given a report but the public prosecutor requested that the report be not placed on record as Patil is ‘trying hard to reach truth’. The court then asked Patil to submit a report on July 10. However, before the next hearing, police registered an FIR against six cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/probe-got-swift-after-hc-moved/articleshow/76842095.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Licence of 18 instant tea units cancelled||Udhagamandalam: Licences of 18 units producing instant tea and bio-fertilizers in the southern region, mainly in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, have been cancelled for deviations in rules. The defaulted units are located in Ooty, Ketti, Coimbatore, Theni, and Madurai in Tamil Nadu and three in Kerala. According to the Tea Board (south), it was observed during inspection that sold out tea wastes were found misused in recycling with added colour and marketed in rural shops. M Balaji, executive director, Tea Board (south) said, “A series of inspections were carried out in the past three months in units in various places in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. And the reports showed deviations in at least 22 units. And they were issued show cause notices.” Further, on perusal of replies received from the defaulted units and their depositions and following the due procedures laid down under the Tea Waste (control) Order 1959, the licences of 18 bio-fertilizer units and instant tea factories were cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/licence-of-18-instant-tea-units-cancelled/articleshow/76843022.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Nagpur||Most mandals plan to curtail Ganesh festivities||Nagpur: Many Ganesh mandals in the city are in a spot after mayor Sandip Joshi’s appeal to restrict the height of idols to 4 feet or less, as many of them have already placed orders for much bigger idols. However, most mandals also said they have plans to curtail the festivities in view of the pandemic. Ganesh mandals said the decision to restrict heights of idols to 4ft by NMC has come late. Some mandals told TOI that though they will incur a loss, they will reduce the height of idols in accordance with the government orders. Several Ganesh mandals had already decided to have low key celebrations this year, while some are yet to take a decision. Deepak Jaiswal of ‘Nagpur Ka Raja’ said their mandal has already placed order for 12ft idol. “But we will reduce the height if asked,” he said. With the spike in Covid-19 cases, he said, the mandal, which has been organizing Ganesh festival for over three decades, is planning to cancel celebrations this year. “Instead, we are planning to use the money to be spent in organizing the 10-day long festival on social causes like distributing tricycles to physically challenged, providing essential commodity kits to orphanages etc,” he said. Sanjay Chichode of Shri Shanti Ganesh Utsav Mandal, Itwari, said they have already announced curtailing the festivities this year. “We are the first Ganesh Utsav Mandal to celebrate the festival for over 60 years. We met district collector Ravindra Thakre around two months ago to seek the administration’s view on Ganesh utsav this year,” he claimed. Amol Joshi of Rani Laxmibai Nagar Ganesh Utsav Mandal agreed with the mayor’s statement and said that it is not the time to celebrate a festival in these pandemic times. “We have a permanent 6ft idol and we will seek permission to hold the celebrations,” he said. “We have decided not to collect donations, and will celebrate the festival with minimum fanfare. The mandal is already involved in various social activities and has been conducting health check-up and blood donation camps,” he said. Kamlakar Ingle, a sculptor from Mahal, said the height restriction will impact their income. He said many big mandals had already placed orders and so the sculptors have already started making the big idols. “But now we may have to undertake the Herculean task of modifying the orders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/most-mandals-plan-to-curtail-ganesh-festivities/articleshow/76843002.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||AP reports 1,178 fresh infections, 13 deaths||Visakhapatnam: AP reported 13 coronavirus deaths, the highest number of casualties in a single day and 1,178 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the caseload to 21,197. While the death toll rose to 252, altogether 825 people were discharged from various hospitals in the state, the highest single-day number of people released from hospital. The cumulative toll in Kurnool district increased to 85 with four new fatalities, followed by Krishna (70 deaths), Guntur (20), Anantapur (16) and Chittoor (15). Kurnool and Krishna districts accounted for over 60 percent Covid-19 deaths in Andhra Pradesh. There are currently 11,200 active cases with 9,745 cumulative recoveries and 252 deaths. Nearly 2,200 people are being treated at the Covid Care Centres. Guntur alone reported 238 new cases on Monday to cross the 2,000-local infection mark after Anantapur and Kurnool.  East Godavari contributed 171 cases, followed by Anantapur 142, Kurnool 136, West Godavari 106, Srikakulam 104, and Krishna 100. During the review meeting with the collectors on Tuesday, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy lauded the efforts of the officials in crossing the one million Covid testing milestone. Meanwhile, health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) visited the Covid hospital in Vijayawada. The health minister said that the state government is spending Rs 500 daily to provide quality food to each of the Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-reports-1178-fresh-infections-13-deaths/articleshow/76843034.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Goa||Low on staff, CCP yet to call workers from Covid-hit areas||PANAJI: At least 115 workers of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) who hail from Covid-19 affected areas like Chimbel and Camrabhat have not yet been been asked to resume duty, stretching the corporation’s manpower thin and leaving it with no option but to rely on a limited number of employees. “We have not taken these staff back into office. We are waiting for this week to end in order to take a decision in the matter,” mayor Uday Madkaikar, said. Of the 115 workers at the Corporation of the City of Panaji, 90 alone are from Camrabhat in Taleigao where the coronavirus outbreak last week compelled the authorities to seal the area. These workers, who engage in garbage collection and management and also work as drivers and sweepers, were then instructed not to report to work until further notice. “There have been no positive cases reported from Camrabhat since Monday. Testing is being carried out full swing. We are taking all precautions,” Madkaikar said. As of Tuesday, 53 cases have been detected in Chimbel, according to the numbers shared by the directorate of health services. When reports of positive cases emerged from the Xivrem and Indiranagar in Chimbel last month, the Corporation of the City of Panaji had urged vegetable vendors from the village to produce a Covid-19 negative certificate to be allowed to carry out business in the Panaji market. However, the workers employed with them who hail from Chimbel have been asked not to report to their duties until further notice, Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/low-on-staff-ccp-yet-to-call-workers-from-covid-hit-areas/articleshow/76843649.cms||Nida Sayed
July 8, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 tightens grip, fresh peak on 3rd consecutive day||Vadodara: Fresh Covid-19 cases in the city and district made yet another peak with 68 persons testing positive. This is the third consecutive day when the cases have made a new peak in the city. With the new cases, the total number of cases reached 2,718. The new cases were identified from 426 tests conducted since Monday evening. The south zone of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) had the largest number of new cases with 20 persons here testing positive. This was followed by the west zone of the city where 14 tested positive and north zone where 12 tested positive. Five persons tested positive in the eastern parts of the city. Sixteen positive cases were detected in the rural areas of the district.  These positive cases include those from Padra, Savli, Koyali, Nandesari, Por, Karjan and Shinor. One person from Gandhinagar also tested positive in Vadodara. In a major relief to the administration, 101 persons were discharged from various hospitals as well as home isolation. With this the number of discharged patients rose to 1,991. This left 670 persons under treatment including 36 on ventilator and BIPAP machines and 138 on oxygen support. The condition of the remaining 496 patients is reported to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-tightens-grip-fresh-peak-on-3rd-consecutive-day/articleshow/76842111.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Homeopathic medicine trials in Hyderabad, Machilipatnam||HYDERABAD: Homeopathic medicine Arsenicum album has been distributed as a prophylactic (a preventive measure) and immunity booster in Covid-19 hotspots in Hyderabad and Machilipatnam as part of a clinical trial, which was launched in 11 states. Arsenicum is being given to high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients in containment zones. Dr Ch Ravinder, principal investigator, Regional Research Institute for (Homoeopathy), GGH Medical College Campus, Eluru, said, “In Machilipatam, we have given Arsenicum album to 1,000 persons as part of the study. After 21 days, all observations will be submitted. Apart from the study area, we have adopted ten villages and administered the medicine.” “If found effective, it could prove to be a vital contribution in public health care for a disease with high mortality. Further, the cost-effectiveness of homoeopathy will enable developing countries in controlling such deadly disease effectively,” Central Council of Homeopathy researchers said. Dr P Hima Bindu, principal investigator from Hyderabad, said, “We are giving Arsenicum album as an immunity booster in Covid-19 hotspots in Hyderabad. There are no side-effects. The ministry of Ayush has already clarified about its use in Covid-19 care. Though the drug got caught in controversies, it has a proven track record.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-homeopathic-medicine-trials-in-hyderabad-machilipatnam/articleshow/76843042.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 8, 2020||Dehradun||Over 800 trees felled by villagers in Tehri during lockdown period||Dehradun: It has come to the knowledge of forest officials that some villagers of Tehri district unlawfully felled 845 Rhododendron and Taxus baccata (Talispatra) trees located at an altitude of 8,500 feet above sea level during the Covid-19 lockdown period. According to the officials, some locals of Gaangi village, the last settlement on the way to Thapling Glacier, took undue advantage of the Covid-19 lockdown and knocked the trees down. The trees that have been felled were located nearly 1.5 kilometres away from Gangi village, added foresters. Taking cognisance of the crime, an FIR has been registered under section 26 of the Indian Forest Act (IFA) of 1927 against eight villagers of Gaangi, located 21 kilometres away from Ghuttu town. It is being alleged that the trees were felled by the villagers for "cultivation of potatoes". Notably, Rhododendron is Uttarakhand’s state flower. “According to the preliminary findings by our staff, these trees were felled during the lockdown. Our investigation is ongoing,” said Koko Rose, divisional forest officer of Tehri Garhwal. The forest officials claim that among the trees felled, almost 60% were small. Majority of the trees that were felled come under the revenue forest department and around 65 felled trees were under the reserved forest area. The district administration is also conducting a probe into the matter along with the forest department. The crime highlights the shortage of frontline forest brigades required to protect the state's rich biodiversity. TOI accessed the documents of the forest department which point out that the forest department is short staffed. “Out of the 82 sanctioned posts of forest guards in Tehri, only 37 are filled. This is less than 50% of the required staff. In the hill terrains, additional workforce is required,” said a senior IFS officer stationed in Dehradun on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-800-trees-felled-by-villagers-in-tehri-during-lockdown-period/articleshow/76840745.cms||Shivani Azad
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: US visa news sparks panic among students||KOLKATA: City youngsters studying in American institutions pressed on the panic button after US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) made an announcement on Monday, slamming the door on those with F-1 and M-1 visas, if their universities moved to online-only instructions during the Fall 2020 semester beginning early September. Their parents are equally worried about the uncertain future of their children, some of whom in the US have signed a petition to White House, requesting international students be allowed to finish courses. Meenakshi Basu (name changed), whose son studies in an American private college, has read the directive, stating neither the US Department of State will issue visas to students enrolled in schools and/or programmes, which will be fully online in Fall, nor will the US Customs and Border Protection allow them to enter the US. “We spend close to a crore for two years. Just before the flights were discontinued, my son returned to Kolkata. My son is here and I hope this directive would be amended soon,” she said. Many of her son’s friends, who study in Illinois, couldn’t return home during the pandemic. “Most reputable universities have shifted online. Even if my kid’s university offers hybrid courses, it will be risky to attend classes,” she said. Former Jadavpur University student Myra Sikdar (name changed) has two years left to finish her PhD. Her scholarship requires her to teach in the US as a graduate assistant and serve as a full-time graduate student. “International students in the US are on their F-1 visa (J-1 for exchange programme),” Sikdar said. “Most of our health insurances are terrible and students like us can’t afford a $3k treatment for Covid-19. Our universities haven’t issued any statement yet and all my friends here are anxious.” Sikdar and her friend from JU, a computer science student at a California university, on Tuesday signed on a petition to the White House, requesting international students be allowed to finish their degrees, adding they shouldn’t have to choose between health and studies. “It’s July and classes start in August. It will be cost prohibitive, and potentially unsafe for students to enrol in a new university now,” the petition said. “The health insurance, for which we pay over $5000 annually, is basic and requires extra payment for Covid-19 treatment. We haven’t heard from the university about how this new rule will impact instruction and student employment,” the student said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/us-visa-news-sparks-panic-among-students/articleshow/76843049.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||HC to HP: Tell docs to write legible reports||Shimla: “Improve your handwriting” may sound like something a schoolteacher many tell some students, but in this case it’s the Himachal Pradesh high court that has issued a directive to the state government to ask the doctors writing MLC (medico legal case) reports to write legibly. Fed up with indecipherable scrawl on the MLCs, the court has asked the director (health services), Himachal Pradesh, to issue instructions, advisory and guidelines to doctors to record their observations, findings and opinions in MLCs (medico legal cases) and other documents of medical examination in such a manner that it is at least readable as this will enable the court as well as others involved in adjudication of MLCs to understand the correct meaning of the information. While disposing of a bunch of petitions on Monday, Justice Vivek Singh Thakur in a common judgment pointed out that it was difficult not only for the court, but the advocate general (AG) as well as police officer present in the court to read the observations and findings recorded by the doctor in MLCs. The documents were returned to the AG on July 2 with a request to assist the court by reading the same and convey relevant extract, but even he was stumped by the scrawl and said that only the doctor, who had written these would be able to explain the documents, the court said. Court said MLCs of the petitioners as well as accused persons available in the police record, were written in such a manner that it was not possible to read these, and these MLCs appeared to be incomplete in all respects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-to-hp-tell-docs-to-write-legible-reports/articleshow/76843647.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||All Old City localities sanitised regularly: GHMC||Hyderabad: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on Tuesday submitted an ‘Action Taken Report’ on the sanitisation process in Old City after a TOI report highlighting the unhygienic conditions and growing mosquito menace there was published in these columns on July 6. The residents had alleged that some localities in Old City were not being sanitised properly and as a result, coronavirus cases are increasing. Firasat Ali Baqri, spokesperson, BJP Minority Morcha told TOI that his locality in Darulshifa was inspected on Tuesday. He said that he has urged the GHMC authorities to take stock of the prevailing situation in affected localities. “People are suffering everyday in Old City areas and the poor sanitisation system still persists. A Covid-19 patient recently passed away in my locality and the authorities have failed to sanitise the area properly,” he said. The report, meanwhile, stated that the anti-larval operation units were working as per pin point programme in Malakpet and Charminar, and that fogging was being done regularly with portable machines in each division. “A minimum of 23 signatures are taken in the logbook daily from the corporator concerned, ward member, resident welfare association and TLF members. For more transparency of services, logbook and WhatsApp photos are uploaded daily on entomology group and cross-checked randomly by the entomological field assistant, assistant entomologist and senior entomologist,” stated the report submitted by the GHMC chief entomologist. However, Nazir Aleemuddin, a resident of Noorkhan Bazaar, Khilwat said that his locality was not yet sanitised by the GHMC. “There are Covid-19 patients in home quarantine at Khilwat and Shahgunj. Unfortunately, there is no proper sanitisation,” he said. Mohammed Ahmed, TDP Greater Hyderabad minority wing vice-president, added that no effective measures were being initiated to curb the spread of the virus in the Old City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/all-old-city-localities-sanitised-regularly-ghmc/articleshow/76843047.cms||Omar bin Taher
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Ensure free rice to transgenders without ration cards: High court to Telangana government||HYDERABAD: The high court on Tuesday directed the state to inform it within one week whether it would supply free rice to transgenders and other sections of people who do not have ration cards under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana which promises foodgrains even to those who do not possess ration cards. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh ChauhanPradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojanaand Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave the order while hearing a PIL filed by Vyjayanti Vasanta Mogili seeking welfare measures for the transgender persons. Appearing for the petitioner, senior counsel Jayna Kothari, said that the state has taken a position that it is not able to distribute foodgrains to the members of the transgender community, who do not have ration cards in their names, but under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana, the Prime Minister has already announced that the foodgrains would be distributed even to those who do not have ration cards. “The scheme has been extended upto November 2020. Furthermore, according to the Centre, so far, Telangana has lifted only one per cent of the foodgrains being distributed under the central scheme. Therefore, transgenders who do not have ration cards in their favour, should be given the benefit of the central scheme,” she said. The bench directed advocate general BS Prasad to talk to the commissioner of civil supplies and ensure supply of foodgrains to transgenders and other poorer sections. The court further directed the state government to synchronise its movement with the central scheme so that the benefit of the central scheme can be extended to as large a population as possible. The petitioner’s counsel said that the state has taken a position that it is not able to distribute foodgrains to transgenders without ration cards||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ensure-free-rice-to-transgenders-without-ration-cards-hc-to-t/articleshow/76843037.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 8, 2020||Gurgaon||FIR against two Karnal rice mills||By: Amit Kumar KARNAL: The Karnal district administration has initiated police action against two rice mills in Karnal after finding less paddy stock than procured for government agencies. Police have registered an FIR against two rice mills, New India Rice mill on Kaithal road and Balaji rice mill on Pingli road in Karnal, at Sadar police station. A physical verification of the stock had revealed 4500 quintals of less rice. The action was initiated after two trucks allegedly carrying the rice meant for public distribution system (PDS) in Uttar Pradesh were seized by the officials of district food and supplies department and police. Subsequent investigation revealed that the owners of both the rice mills had purchased PDS rice from UP to complete their stock. The deputy commissioner has also ordered a physical verification of rice mills in the district and formed a team to initiate an inquiry in this matter. “I have ordered an inquiry under the additional deputy commissioner. Teams have been constituted to check the record and stock of allotment of paddy for CMR with the available rice in the mill. In case, we find shortfall of rice and other types of irregularity in their stock, we will take action under the rules,” said D C Nishant Kumar Yadav. He said there are 200 rice mills under food and civil supplies department in the district. They had returned only 77% (46 lakh tonnes) of rice and failed to return the remaining 23% (14 lakh tonnes). Millers under Hafed and Warehousing Corporation in the district have returned 92% of their CMR to agencies, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/fir-against-2-karnal-rice-mills/articleshow/76843648.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Vadodara||Wary of nCov, shop owners call for 4pm closure deadline||Vadodara: Ahead of the festive season, shops in the city may down shutters well before evening every day. Wary of the rising Covid-19 cases, an association of traders and shopkeepers is planning to impose a deadline of 4 pm on all the shops. A closed group of 10 shop-owners representing different associations met on Tuesday to discuss the issue. “The shop-owners and staffers are at risk as shoppers have begun thronging markets ahead of the festive season. It has become unsafe for us to do business as so many of us feel that shops shouldn’t function for longer hours,” said Paresh Parikh, convener of Vadodara Vepar Vikas Mandal (VVVA). “Over last few days, many shop-owners have been discussing to shut the shops by 4 pm. We are trying to create consensus among all our members. An online meeting has been organized on Wednesday for taking a final decision,” Parikh told TOI. VVVA has 62 members, who are representatives of different associations and groups in the city. While most of the shop-owners in Mangal Bazaar and Mandvi Road have agreed to down shutters by 4 pm, some markets like electronic item shops in Mari Maata Lane, cutlery shop-owners and garment shop-owners in Nava Bazaar are against early deadline. “These shop-owners are scared of losing out on business. Most of them are already reeling under losses due to the lockdown and hence want to make the most during the festivals,” Parikh added. But most traders in the city are scared as the number of Covid-19 positive cases are increasing in the old city. “The joint secretary of VVVA too has tested positive for the virus. We will have to take a tough decision,” Parikh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/wary-of-ncov-shop-owners-call-for-4pm-closure-deadline/articleshow/76842149.cms||Tushar Tere
July 8, 2020||Dehradun||75-yr-old Covid +ve dies, 69 new cases found||Dehradun: A 75-year-old Covid-19 positive man from Bijnor district of Uttar Pradesh died at Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH) on Tuesday, taking the toll of the infection in Uttarakhand to 43. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that the patient was referred to GDMCH from Max Hospital on June 24. He had a fracture in his neck and femur. Later, he was diagnosed with Covid-19 infection when the doctors conducted his test before operation. “He developed sepsis, bilateral pneumonia while undergoing treatment and died on Tuesday morning,” the official added. On the day, 69 new cases were reported across Uttarakhand, taking the state tally to 3,230. Among these, 25 cases were reported from Udham Singh Nagar, followed by 18 cases from Dehradun, seven cases from Haridwar, five cases from Nainital district, three cases each from Pauri, Pithogarah, and Uttarkashi, two cases each from Almora and Champawat, and one case from Tehri. With around 50 fresh cases being reported in the last three days and 125 active cases in total at present, Udham Singh Nagar has now become the second district with most number of infections. Nainital has the maximum of 181 active Covid-19 cases in the state. “With 35 people getting recovered from the infection, the total number of recoveries reached 2,621 in Uttarakhand on Tuesday,” added Tripathi. Meanwhile, the state government also announced that Rs 140 lakhs were approved for the development of the U-skill Centre at GDMCH in the state capital. A letter in this regard was issued by health secretary Amit Negi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/75-yr-old-covid-ve-dies-69-new-cases-found/articleshow/76840753.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 8, 2020||Nagpur||After 113 days, hotels can resume ops with 33% capacity from today||Nagpur: Closed for 113 days due to lockdown, hotels, service apartments, lodges and guest houses will be able to resume services but with a cap of 33% capacity. The remaining capacity of the establishments can be used for quarantine facility in association with the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) if they so desire. As per state government’s order, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Tuesday issued a circular allowing all these establishments to resume services from Wednesday. NMC deputy commissioner Nirbhay Jain told TOI, restaurants and hotels serving food in their premises would not be allowed. “Restaurants inside hotels will be allowed to serve only their own guests,” he said. In city, four hotels are providing institutional quarantine facility for the last couple of months. These can now use their 33% rooms for commercial purpose. Already, government and NMC had allowed marriage functions with maximum attendance of 50 persons in hotels. Now, the government has allowed meeting halls subject to maximum participation of 15 persons. Only asymptomatic persons will be permitted to enter. Gaming arcades, children play area, gymnasiums and swimming pools in hotels will remain shut. The establishments will face action including closure in case of violations of guidelines. They will have to isolate any person falling ill and inform NMC or nearest hospital immediately. All Covid-19 guidelines like wearing masks, usage of sanitizers etc will have to be followed. With hotels opening, very few businesses and activities remain under prohibition. They are religious places, gymnasiums, malls, shopping complexes, bars, shops selling tobacco related products, roadside food, tea, snack kiosks, hawkers etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-113-days-hotels-can-resume-ops-with-33-capacity-from-today/articleshow/76843031.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Funds misuse: College panel dissolved||Sangrur: Taking serious note of allegations of funds misuse in the Akal Degree College for Women in Sangrur, the Punjab government has dissolved the institution’s management committee. ADC general has been appointed as the college administrator. Punjab PWD minister, who is also the local MLA, Vijay Inder Singla said the college was the only institute for girls in the 40-km radius of Sangrur area. He added that since the start of the controversy, he had continuously been giving feedback to CM Amarinder Singh and higher education minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa to save the college. Singla said the institute would not be allowed to stop admissions for BA for academic session 2020-21. “The special committee will expose the wrongdoings of committee, if they have utilised the funds against norms,” the PWD minister said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/funds-misuse-college-panel-dissolved/articleshow/76843650.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Show us your expenses, parents tell schools||KOLKATA: A large group of parents reached the gates of Rajasthan Vidyamandir near Girish Park on Tuesday afternoon, demanding fee waiver during the times of crisis. They even offered to show the school management proof of their financial losses due to the lockdown but asked the institute to show them the calculations of their teachers’ and staff’ salarie. Denied entry, the protesters left an open letter for the management. They were not the only group of guardians to have made such a request. Apparently, parents in many schools have written, saying they were ready to show proof of financial problems leading to non-payment of fees of the first quarter, provided schools showed them audited accounts and balance sheets. Such letters have reached a large number of private schools in the city, ranging from Christian minority institutions, public schools, run by reputable business houses, and new schools. The letters are variations of a draft that has been prepared and posted on a digital protest platform that has nearly 16,000 parents from 116 schools from the city and suburbs. Parents in letters have even drafted a formula that they be allowed to pay the tuition fees or the amount that schools need for staff salaries and divide this by the number of students. “You will have to promise not to lay off any staff. Please also confirm that you have not paid to the PM Cares Fund or the CM’s Relief Fund,” a letter from Ritu Bahety, an employee with a real estate broker said. This school had sent a letter, giving a deadline for striking off name of a child for non-payment of fees within due date. Similar letters have gone to two prominent schools, one near Park Circus and another off Camac Street. “If schools are asking for our details they should show us their earning/expenditure status, too”, said Sanjiv Sharma, a parent whose transport business is in a bad shape. “There is nothing to hide from the parents’ side, but if schools are saying they are unable to run only on tuition fees, they need to show us proof of their expenses,” said Vivek Singhvi, another parent. A school in New Town, which belongs to a popular franchise, had sent a similar notice to parents. The notice indicates kids of parents who fail to comply will not be allowed to sit for online classes. “Please do not threaten to remove kids from online classes or to strike off their names... The contract between us was that of schooling and not online classes...” says a letter. Parents at a missionary school at Kidderpore have also sought clarity on school expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/show-us-your-expenses-parents-tell-schools/articleshow/76843059.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Parakala slams hosp||Hyderabad: Former communications advisor to AP government Parakala Prabhakar called a private hospital in Hyderabad as “heartless” for charging Rs 10.5 lakh from a Covid-19 patient and not giving time to the family to make the payment despite requests. The patient is brother of a Telugu film director who passed away a few years ago. In a tweet, Prabhakar said: “A big private hospital in Hyderabad so far billed Rs 10.5 lakh for 9 days Covid treatment. Patient aged 83 not discharged yet. When family asked for 12 hours time to pay last tranche, they said NO. Either pay NOW or take him away (sic).” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parakala-slams-hosp/articleshow/76843057.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Let J&K gurdwara board continue: SGPC||Amritsar: The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has written to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Union territory lieutenant governor Girish Chandra Murmu to allow the state gurdwara management board there to continue till the elections were held and appoint an administrator. On Tuesday, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said since the State Gurdwara Parbandhak Board Jammu and Kashmir’s term was expiring in July and fresh elections couldn’t be held due to the pandemic, the J&K administration was preparing to appoint an administrator, which was not acceptable. He said local sangat (Sikh community) of the Union territory had approached the Akal Takht and SGPC protesting against the appointment of an administrator. Stating that handing over the gurdwara management to government was not justifiable, he said he had urged Murmu to stall the process. “We have strong apprehensions about the gurdwara management slipping into the hands of private persons from the sangat,” Longowal said. One of the 15 members of the board, Jammu-based Surinder Singh said there were two gurdwara management set-ups in J&K. The term of gurdwara committees of all 22 districts of J&K was expiring on July 8, 2020. The elected members of district committees elect eight and seven members of the board from Jammu and Kashmir regions respectively. The existing board has been continuing since 2010. “The elections were due in 2015, but couldn’t be held,” Surinder said. He added that the J&K government didn’t propose to appoint an administrator on its own but the move was initiated on the request of sangat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/let-jk-gurdwara-board-continue-sgpc/articleshow/76843651.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 8, 2020||Ludhiana||No pistols, Sikh man held for langar at Delhi's Shaheen Bagh: Kin||PATIALA: The Family of 21-year-old Sikh man, who was arrested by Delhi Police and two pistols recovered from him, has claimed that he was targeted solely for serving langar to the anti-CAA protesters at Shaheen Bagh in Delhi. Satnam Singh, elder brother of the accused Lovepreet Singh, on Tuesday demanded an independent probe into the whole issue. Meanwhile, Lovepreet’s undated photos from Shaheen Bagh comtinued to circulate on social media on Monday and Tuesday. Protesting arrest of some Sikh men under UAPA by Punjab Police in recent days and then Delhi Police action booking three Sikhs, including Lovepreet, Twitter users made #StopTargettingSikh trend. Most of those who have tweeted under the hashtag were Muslim Twitter handles and picture of Lovepreet became face of the campaign. Apart from Muslims, some others too expressed solidarity with Sikh activists. The hashtag was started on Monday evening and around 8pm it was trending at fourth place in India. People were tweeting using the same hashtag on Tuesday evening too. Lovepreet and his brother were employed at different private shops in Samana block of Patiala district. During the lockdown, they had joined an NGO being run by some Sikhs to distribute dry ration among the poor and needy families in Samana, said Satnam. “Lovepreet used to work as a salesman at a CCTV shop in Samana town of Patiala. On June 18 evening, he called me after getting free from work. He was bringing home the fodder for our buffalo but never reached home. A few hours later, one of the villagers told us that Lovepreet was picked up by Delhi police. We haven’t seen him since. Lovepreet is the youngest sibling,” he added. Satnam alleged, “ Lovepreet had participated in serving langar to the protesters in Delhi and this probably became a major reason behind his implication in a false case.” He added, “We all work as farm labourers these days. I am yet to get back my job as a welder. Our parents are nearing 70 years of age. How is it possible for my brother to get a weapon? He used to wear passionately a t-shirt carrying picture of Sant Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale only when he had to serve langar in the gurdwaras. Bhindranwale’s pictures are in Golden Temple too. It is not a crime.” Delhi Police had claimed that Lovepreet was part of a three member module and they intended to execute some targeted killings. In the online campaign, Twitterati shared pictures of Sikhs serving langar to the needy at other places too. “The only crime of Luvpreet Singh that he participated in #ShaheenBagh protest & had served langar to Muslims. Now booked under UAPA. Serving Muslims becomes a New crime in India. Shame,” tweeted @iMubashirbhat. Delhi University student Swati Khanna with twitter handle @mynameswatik, tweeted, “Now it’s the Sikhs, we need not just Secular protesting but Secular Unity against oppression. We need to have trending hashtags and each one of us speaking out. Lovepreet, 21 years old, his only crime – Langar. If they come for Sikhs, then I am a Sikh. Period. #Lovepreet.” What’s the case?Lovepreet’s lawyer in Delhi Paramjeet Singh said, “The Delhi Police special cell claimed to have arrested Lovepreet on June 18 and then kept him under police remand till June 29. The police claimed they arrested Mohinderpal Singh, a tabla performer in local gurdwara, on June 15 and recovered a pistol and two cartridges from him. After Mohinderpal’s interrogation, the police arrested Lovepreet on June 18 and recovered a pistol and two live cartridges from his possession. “ Three days later, on June 21, the police again claimed to have recovered a pistol, along with five cartridges, from Lovepreet who is now under judicial custody till July 10. It seems these youth have been falsely implicated in such a serious case and weapons are planted on them. Things will be clearer after the police files chargesheet in the court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/kin-no-pistols-sikh-man-held-for-langar-at-shaheen-bagh/articleshow/76843652.cms||Bharat Khanna
July 8, 2020||Goa||More public toilets to be built at Camrabhat||PANAJI: Following the outbreak of coronavirus in Camrabhat, the North Goa district collector has ordered the construction of two new public toilets, four seater each, in the area. Currently, there are two toilets of eight seater each for the 500-odd residents to use. Most of these houses don’t have their own private toilets, sources said. As the existing toilets are not sufficient for the residents of the slum area, a meeting was held in the presence of the collector and the CCP commissioner, recently. The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has directed Sulabh International to undertake the construction of the toilets in Camrabhat. “Due to lack of individual toilets in Camrabhat, the inhabitants use the public toilets that are especially constructed for them. Now, however, the need for more public toilets arises in the wake of the pandemic,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. He further said that the site inspection has been done and the process of constructing the new toilets has commenced from Tuesday onwards. “The existing public toilets are being sanitised daily,” the mayor added. Camrabhat was sealed after a man who works at the Goa Medical College (GMC) tested positive last week. After the outbreak at Camrabhat, regular sanitising of the spaces around the slum is being done, including parts of Taleigao and St Inez. In Shankarwadi, Taleigao, five cases have been detected in one family. One of the family members is employed at the electricity department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/more-public-toilets-to-be-built-at-camrabhat/articleshow/76843656.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Vadodara||Bail denied to Bharuch bizman in Rs 71cr GST case||Vadodara: A sessions court here denied bail to a Bharuch-based businessman who was arrested by Goods and Service Tax department for evading taxes worth Rs 71 crore. Dilip Jain had applied for bail on June 17 pleading innocence and denying all charges claimed by GST department against him. However, the bail plea was opposed by the department and the court of additional sessions judge P T Patel turned down the plea. “The accused in his recent filings had claimed that he did not have to pay any tax. But in reality, he had taken money from over five lakh investors and he had indulged in transactions amounting to Rs 425 crore,” said district government pleader Anil Desai. “The accused had evaded tax amounting to Rs 71 crore, which is a serious economic offence,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bail-denied-to-bharuch-bizman-in-rs-71cr-gst-case/articleshow/76842121.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Coimbatore||80 patients refuse to move to Codissia centre from ESI hosp||Coimbatore: The Covid-19 care centre at the Codissia trade fair complex, which is equipped with projectors, DVD players and food from a reputed catering company, doesn’t seem to have impressed the asymptomatic patients in the ESI Hospital. According to health department officials, close to 80 of them have refused to move to the centre from the hospital, where they have been undergoing treatment. The patients, who were scheduled to be shifted to the new centre on Monday, said they preferred to remain in the hospital until their treatment ended. The officials, however, managed to move all the new asymptomatic patients, who tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Sunday and Monday, to the Codissia centre. A health department official said, “They refused to move out, stating they wanted to remain in the hospital and that they were used to its care and doctors. Some of them are put up in twin sharing rooms, which they didn’t want to give up. Only 15 patients agreed to be shifted and they were taken to the Codissia centre.” As on Tuesday morning, the centre had 115 patients - 15 from the ESI Hospital, around 20 from the Covid-19 care centre in Uppilipalayam and new patients from Selvapuram cluster and other parts of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/80-patients-refuse-to-move-to-codissia-centre-from-esi-hosp/articleshow/76843061.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Amritsar||Pakistan court rejects petition against temple construction in Amritsar||AMRITSAR: The Islamabad high court has rejected the petition against construction of a new Hindu temple in the city. While talking to TOI over phone from Islamabad on Tuesday, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf’s (PTI) member of national assembly, Lal Chand Malhi said, “Reports suggest that the petition against the construction of the temple has been rejected”. He said the court had directed the Islamabad Hindu Panchayat (IHP) to complete certain formalities before the construction of Sri Krishna Temple. Malhi added, “So far, this is the information with but we are waiting for the detailed judgment.” On Monday, the court had reserved its verdict on the construction of a new Hindu temple in Islamabad. The ground breaking ceremony of the temple was done on June 23, which had led to a hue and cry and a Lahore based Islamic seminary had even issued fatwa against the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pak-court-rejects-petition-against-temple-construction/articleshow/76843654.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 8, 2020||Nagpur||24 more jail inmates test positive, random tests begin||Nagpur: The Covid spike in Nagpur Central Jail continued on Tuesday with 24 more prisoners testing positive. The process of random tests among the 1,861 prisoners, a measure also suggested by the Bombay high court, kick-started with 100 swabs being collected on the first day. The decision to randomly test prisoners was taken following a meeting of collector Ravindra Thakare, civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar, SP Central Jail Anup Kumar Kumre, and zilla parishad district health officer at the prison on Tuesday. The first team of doctors and paramedical staffers from Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) also visited Nagpur Central Jail to check asymptomatic patients, and collect samples. According to a jail official, prisoners with co-morbidities like hypertension, diabetes and other illnesses, along with elderly inmates, were selected for random testing on the first day. With the latest 24, the numbers of prisoners in Central Jail who tested positive has increased to 68. The 57 jail staffers who tested positive are recuperating at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH). Around 34 prisoners, all asymptomatic, have returned to the newly developed barrack-turned-Covid Care Centre (CCC) in the prison to undergo further treatment. A jail official said the prisoners who tested positive on Tuesday would be kept along with those now in the CCC. SP Kumre said 2,000 tablets of Vitamin C and other immunity booster doses would be provided to prisoners in the jail, and also to those who have tested positive in the past. “We are also providing ayurvedic kadha as per the guidelines of the Ayush ministry to the prisoners to rid them of any throat infection and boost their immunity,” he said. TOI had on Tuesday reported Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is yet to notify two colonies of Central Jail as containment zones and barricade them to restrict movement of people. After a delay of seven days, a NMC team started disinfection drive at the two colonies on Tuesday. The NMC team led by assistant commissioner Raju Bhivgade inspected the two colonies and earmarked locations for containment zone. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe will issue notification for containment zone followed by barricading on Wednesday. NMC will also conduct door-to-door survey to find if any more persons have symptoms. Also, contact tracing will continue to ensure no high risk contacts of those who tested positive are left out of quarantine and testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/24-more-jail-inmates-test-positive-random-tests-begin/articleshow/76843041.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 8, 2020||Nagpur||Central Jail inmate’s autopsy done at GMCH||Nagpur: Postmortem of rape convict 40-year-old Bablu Yadav, who died after a fall while taking bath a day ago at Central Jail, was conducted at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Tuesday. The autopsy was conducted by forensic team in the presence of a sub-divisional magistrate. A case of accidental death was registered at Dhantoli police station. It’s learnt that no external injury marks were found on Yadav’s body. Yadav was convicted on rape charges and also under the provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Sources said viscera and blood samples of the prisoner have been preserved and sent for histopathological tests at Regional Forensic Science Laboratory (RFSL).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-jail-inmates-autopsy-done-at-gmch/articleshow/76843053.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Vadodara||BCA members seek postponement of AGM citing Covid-19 risk||VADODARA: Days after the Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) declared July 23 as date for its annual general meetings (AGMs), some of the members have raised objections citing Covid-19 pandemic. The association, however, is yet to respond to the objections. “About 50% of the BCA members are over 60 years of age. If they turn up for the AGM, it will be a risk for them and others as well. The association should postpone the AGM date till the situation normalizes,” said Kalpesh Parmar, a BCA member who has written to the apex council and demanded postponement of the AGM. The BCA had last week decided to organise its pending annual general meetings (AGMs) of 2015-16, 2016-17, 2017-18 and 2018-19 on July 23 for passing the annual accounts. Once the accounts are passed, the association will get grant worth crores of rupees from the BCCI. “These AGMs have been pending since years. If they are postponed by a few more months, it won’t do any harm. Why so much hurry,” Parmar, who has also written a similar letter to the police commissioner as well as district collector, added. Apart from Parmar who belongs to the royal group, two other BCA members from the same group too have demanded postponement of the AGM. A member of the apex council, however, said that the postponement demand won’t go down well with many members who want the association to get its grant as early as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bca-members-seek-postponement-of-agm-citing-covid-19-risk/articleshow/76842182.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Coimbatore||2 spl teams to nab chain snatchers||Coimbatore: The city police have formed two special teams to nab two unidentified men who snatched a gold chain weighing 13 sovereigns from a 42-year-old woman from Palaniyappa layout at Sundarapuram here on Sunday. An investigation officer said the incident took place on Sunday night when Stella, wife of Jaisingh Raja, of Palaniyappa layout at SIDCO in Sundarapuram, ventured out of her house for walking with her dog. “Two men followed her on a motorcycle and snatched her gold chain. Though she raised an alarm, they sped away on their two-wheeler,” the officer said. The woman lodged a complaint with the Podanur police, who registered a case under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code and formed two special teams to nab the culprits. “We have collected CCTV footage from the area, but they are not clear,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-spl-teams-to-nab-chain-snatchers/articleshow/76843067.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Transgender ward gets first Covid patient||KOLKATA: A transgender healthcare worker, who tested positive for Covid-19, has been admitted to MR Bangur Hospital, making her the first and the lone occupant of the transgender ward. Her condition is stable while her symptoms are very mild. The 26-year-old, one of the two transgender OT technicians in the state, works at a private hospital off EM Bypass. She had been attending the hospital regularly till about a week ago when she had started developing fever and general weakness. Even as the fever subsided with medication in the next few days, she decided to get her Covid test done. The result on Monday confirmed that she was infected. “I am getting all the required medical attention and everything is fine in the ward. I don’t have much symptoms and I could have stayed in home quarantine. But as I live alone, I was a bit concerned about who would run errands for me. That is why, I got hospitalised,” she told TOI. State minister of health Chandirma Bhattacharya had taken the initiative to create a separate ward for the transgender community in the biggest Covid hospital in the city towards April end. “We are happy with the arrangement at MR Bangur Hospital for the community. Many in the community stay away from approaching hospitals because they are either dumped in the male ward or the female ward,” said Ranjita Sinha, a member of Association of Transgenders and Hijaras of Bengal. The OT technician has been living in the office of NGO Prantakatha in South Kolkata that is about 4-km away from the hospital where she works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trans-ward-gets-first-covid-patient/articleshow/76843062.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Seized implants were worth Rs 8 cr, says PGIMS, Rs 27L says CGST team||Rohtak: The Central GST team found seized surgical implants worth Rs 27 lakh embezzled by the doctor-private supplier nexus at PGIMS Rohtak in 2018. When the raid was conducted two years ago and surgical implants were seized from the trauma centre, PGIMS authorities claimed that the goods were worth Rs 8 crore. The matter was handed over to the CGST team to make an evaluation of the seized goods. Recently, the central GST team submitted its report before the director, PGIMS Rohtak, saying that the implants given to them for assessment were worth Rs 27 lakh only. The investigation team asked PGIMS authorities to provide them documents for the remaining goods. In its letter dated June 23, 2020, CGST said the seized goods consist of consumables, implants and some reusable equipment used for various surgeries calculated to be worth Rs 27 lakh according to the MRP printed on them. However, it was reported by PGIMS Rohtak that the seized items were worth Rs 8 crore. “You are requested to reaffirm valuation of Rs 8 crore with further invoices/documents along with the said goods with the team,” the letter reads. PGIMS Rohtak had been receiving complaints about the doctor-private supplier nexus in surgical implants. After the raid and recovery in 2018, the goods were stored in a room under surveillance camera. The CGST team was tasked with evaluation but now questions are being raised on whether the remaining goods have gone missing or did PGIMS authorities overestimate the cost. In 2019, PGIMS admitted to a nexus between doctors and private suppliers of surgical implants in Punjab and Haryana high court. In its undertaking, PGIMS stated, “there is collusion between doctors and implants suppliers, who charge exorbitant prices in violation of ethics.” Neither vice-chancellor Dr O P Kalra nor PGIMS director Rohtash Yadav responded to repeated calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/seized-implants-were-worth-rs-8-cr-says-pgims-rs-27l-says-cgst-team/articleshow/76843657.cms||Sat Singh
July 8, 2020||Nashik||Nashik’s Peth Road emerges as hotspot with 200 patients||Nashik: The Peth Road in the Panchavati division has emerged as major Covid-19 hotspot as it has reported close to 200 patients within a short time.Peth Road covers three containment zones of Phule Nagar, Ram Nagar, and Datta Nagar, which are predominantly slum areas.The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials said most workers of the Nashik agriculture produce market committee reside in these three areas of Peth Road.Some drivers, who transport vegetables to Mumbai, had tested positive. A few workers from the APMC, residing in Peth Road areas, had also tested positive. This Mumbai connection is a major reason for the spike in Covid-19 positive cases in these areas, said the NMC officials.“We immediately track down over 20 high-risk contacts once the patient tests positive. Of of the contacts traced, nearly 40% are testing positive. Covid-19 cases are still coming from these three areas on the Peth Road,” a civic official said.The NMC officials said they were conducting surveys in Peth Road to find patients and people with co-morbid conditions and sending their throat swab samples for testing.Nashik APMC officials have been instructed to conduct auctions in phases throughout the day and to hold vegetable auctions in open spaces in other parts of the city.Although the city has crossed the 3,000-mark of Covid-19 patients, most patients are from Nashik East and Panchavati divisions, while just 38% of the patients are from other four divisions in the city.Of the total 3,074 patients (by Sunday), around 1,890 patients were from Nashik East and Panchavati divisions of the city, while the remaining 1,184 patients were from other four divisions: Nashik West, Satpur, Nashik Road and Cidco divisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashiks-peth-road-emerges-as-hotspot-with-200-patients/articleshow/76840761.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 8, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur carnage: Slain DySP Mishra’s daughter found his letter, call recording||The suspicions on the source and veracity of the slain deputy superintendent of police Devendra Mishra’s letter and the audio clip were laid to rest on Tuesday, as Mishra’s family announced that both were found by them and shared with media. Mishra’s elder daughter Vaishnavi had found the letter exposing the nexus of SHO Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari in his suitcase. She had also found the recording of a conference call among Mishra, then SSP Anant Deo and Tiwari, reports Faiz Siddiqui. The deputy SP’s brother-in-law Kamalkant told reporters on Tuesday, “Vaishnavi found the letter along with copy of the FIR mentioned in it, besides other official documents that were among the enclosures listed in it. She also found the call recording of a conference among Mishra, SSP Anant Deo and suspended SHO of Chaubeypur, from his mobile phone.” P2||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-carnage-slain-dysp-mishras-daughter-found-his-letter-call-recording/articleshow/76843655.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Dehradun||Cop booked for abetting woman colleague’s suicide||Roorkee: Police have registered a case against a police constable posted at Jhabreda station for allegedly abetting the suicide of a woman colleague. In a complaint, the family of the victim claimed that the accused used to harass her both mentally and physically, and even discriminate her on the basis of caste. The woman police constable was found hanging at her quarters on Sunday. In a police complaint, the victim’s brother alleged that constable Pravinder Singh Aswal had been harassing his sister mentally and physically for a long time and used to even ill-treat her due to her scheduled tribe (ST) background. He said, “She had complained to us over phone about his behaviour several times. We had advised her to lodge a complaint to her seniors. She did it but to no avail. We need an unbiased investigation against Pravinder who abetted her suicide.” Both the police constables used to work together at Gangnahar police station in Roorkee before they were transferred to Jhabreda. SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh said, “We have registered a case against Pravinder under section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code along with the relevant sections of SC/ST Act. Suitable action will be taken against the accused based on the inquiry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cop-booked-for-abetting-woman-colleagues-suicide/articleshow/76840768.cms||Tapan Susheel
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Phoolka: Dera behind sacrilege blame on Sikh preachers||Bathinda: Supreme Court lawyer and former MLA H S Phoolka, while welcoming Special Investigations Team (SIT) move to nominate dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and his three followers in the bir theft case, has alleged a plan by the sect to defame Sikh preachers by accusing them of sacrilege. “The dera seems to have a plan of asking its followers to create an atmosphere so that people actually start believing that various preachers are behind the sacrilege and Sikh preacher Harjinder Singh Majhi was at the front of such malicious agenda,” he said while talking to TOI on Tuesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/phoolka-dera-behind-sacrilege-blame-on-sikh-preachers/articleshow/76843664.cms||Neel Kamal
July 8, 2020||Hubballi||Bank sealed after manager in Karuneshwar Nagar tests +ve||KALABURAGI: A 38-year-old bank manager tested positive for Covid-19 here, resulting in the bank he worked in being sealed. The manager had given his samples during a random testing of bank employees recently. People who were in contact with him have been home-quarantined. Some of them have also been sent to institutional quarantine. The manager’s house in Karuneshwar Nagar has also been sealed, and his neighbours have been asked to quarantine themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bank-sealed-after-manager-tests-ve/articleshow/76822447.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court: Any action on private hospitals over high tariffs?||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Tuesday sought to know from the state government as to what action it had initiated against Thumbay Hospital for allegedly detaining a government doctor over a payment issue. The court questioned as to how private hospitals were still charging exorbitant rates despite a government order capping treatment charges. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a public interest petition filed by senior advocate Srikishan Sharma that charged several private hospitals with levying treatment charges in the range of Rs 5 lakh to Rs 30 lakh per patient. Referring to recent reports of Dr Sultana’s ordeal, who is said to have been charged Rs 1.5 lakh for two days of treatment, the bench sought to know from advocate general BS Prasad as to what action had been taken against the hospital. “This is a matter of grave concern,” the bench said referring to the hospital’s alleged insistence on clearing dues in order to discharge the patient. “On one hand, the government has issued a GO indicating upper limits for charges...but private hospitals are flouting the GO at will and charging exorbitantly...We are sure that some action might have been taken against such hospitals. Tell us about that. If you have not taken any action then tell us reasons for this inaction by July 14,” the bench said. The petitioner’s counsel Pratap Narayan Sanghi told the bench that although upper limit for a hospital room with ventilator is Rs 9,000 per day, some hospitals had been displaying at their receptions that charges for such rooms were Rs 90,000 per day. “The Clinical Establishments Act says that this cap is applicable to all patients not just Covid-19 patients. The government is supposed to regularly monitor the functioning of these hospitals. It is not being done,” the petitioner’s counsel said. The bench issued notices to the principal secretary for health, medical health commissioner, national and state councils for clinical establishment and four private hospitals directing them to respond to contentions within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-any-action-on-pvt-hosps-over-high-tariffs/articleshow/76842989.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 8, 2020||Nashik||Two more Indiranagar police station cops infected||Nashik: Two more policemen from the Indiranagar police station have contracted the Covid-19 infection. The two sub-inspectors, aged 34 and 56 years, have been admitted to the MVP medical college. Nilesh Mainkar, senior PI of the Indiranagar police station, said both the SIs are in a stable condition and they would be discharged soon. So far, five policemen from the Indiranagar police station have contracted Covid-19. One of them succumbed at Seven Hills hospital in Mumbai. Mainkar said they have arranged for a thermal scanner to check the body temperature of the personnel at the police station and also an oximeter to check their blood oxygen level. Apart from this, a special officer has been appointed to keep a tab on the cops’ health. Senior officials said 13 personnel of the city police commissionerate have been infected so far and currently, six were under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/two-more-indiranagar-police-station-cops-infected/articleshow/76840783.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 8, 2020||Goa||Don’t victimise those from zones, says Godinho||VASCO: The government should issue directives to companies not to victimise those who had been infected by Covid-19 or those who reside at containment zones, said panchayats minister and Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho during a meeting he convened on Tuesday at Chicalim to seek feedback on the Mangor Hill containment zone. It may be recalled that during a meeting with the chief minister on Monday, Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida had requested that a minister be appointed to look after the affairs of the containment zone. Accordingly, Godinho was appointed on Wednesday. “Three main grievances were reported — shortage of ambulances, demand for mass testing and the concern that if confinement inside the containment zone is extended then there are chances of people losing their livelihood,” said Godinho. He urged the government to ask employers not to differentiate among workers based on their place of residence or for having tested positive. He directed the deputy collector of Mormugao to add more items to groceries being supplied to Mangor Hill .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-victimise-those-from-zones-says-godinho/articleshow/76843671.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man arrested for murder of five-year-old girl||HYDERABAD: Ghatkesar police on Tuesday arrested a 27-year-old private employee for the murder of a five-year-old girl at her home on Thursday following an altercation with her mother and her lover. The accused, G Karunakar from Kushaiguda, was in a relationship with the victim’s mother but the two grew apart as he grew close to another woman while she became close with his friend. On July 2, Karunakar went to their house suspecting that his friend was there. The mother hid his friend in the bathroom. They then picked up an argument in another room where the girl was playing.  The mother latched the room from outside allowing his friend to escape. Meanwhile, Karunakar slit the girl’s throat with a surgical blade. She was taken to a hospital where she pronounced dead on arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-for-murder-of-five-year-old/articleshow/76843090.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Shimla||41 tourists sans Covid test report sent back from HP||MANALI: After the Himachal Pradesh government opened the state with certain conditions for tourists, several tourists are reaching here without mandatory Covid-19 negative test reports. Kullu police have sent back 41 such tourists from its Bajaura checkpoint in two days. The tourists had managed to cross many other checkpoints and were finally stopped at Kullu district border at Bajaura. When cops asked tourists to show their Covid-19 negative certificate, they had none. The police then stopped them from entering Kullu-Manali and asked them to return. Most of these tourists were from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh confirmed that 41 tourists couldn’t produce the test results. “We are strictly checking all the tourists for the required certificate that has been made compulsory by the government. Kullu district has 11 coronavirus check posts where vehicles are being checked,” he said. The state government has made it compulsory for tourists to bring a Covid-19 negative report which should not be older than 72 hours and five days advance hotel booking proof. The travellers, especially from neighbouring states, have rushed to the hill state without the test report and hotel booking voucher. Before reaching Kullu, tourists need to undergo checking at Swarghat checkpost at border between Punjab and Himachal and at Mandi district. The tourists told cops that they entered state via Swarghat in Bilaspur. Over 80% of the cases of coronavirus infection in Himachal Pradesh have travel history of other states. A lot of state residents are opposing the government’s decision of opening doors for tourists at this point.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/41-tourists-sans-covid-test-report-sent-back-from-hp/articleshow/76843666.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal teacher to go for vaccine trial in Odisha||KOLKATA: A teacher from Durgapur, who has volunteered to participate in the clinical trial of the Covid-19 vaccine, is likely to head for Odisha next week to receive the antigen of the attenuated virus. The first volunteer from West Bengal, an RSS worker, will then undergo the phases of the human trial for Covid-19 vaccine, which is being developed by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech. Chiranjit Dhibar, the 30-year-old teacher at a primary school in Durgapur, had applied to participate in the clinical trial of the proposed vaccine. He received a confirmation from the ICMR a few days back after his profile went through a rigorous “exclusion list” checked by the apex body for biomedical research. He has been asked to appear at the Indian Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital at Kalinganagar, Odisha. “It immediately made me feel that there is a chance to do something for the country. This dreaded disease has been sweeping across countries and I now have a chance to contribute to putting an end to that,” said Dhibar. As a volunteer he will be placed in any of the three groups being prepared for the first phase of the trial. It will be followed by the collection of data and the volunteers will then enter into the second phase of the trial.  “The follow up of any volunteer will involve observing the health conditions apart from other observations,” said an official at the ICMR. Dhibar, who faced initial resistance from parents was able to convince them. His father Tushar Kumar said, “There is always a fear as we never faced such a situation. But then I thought parents have accepted their children being on the frontline. We hope that the human trial is successful and the vaccine comes out quickly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-teacher-to-go-for-vaccine-trial-in-odisha/articleshow/76843070.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 8, 2020||Dehradun||Barking deer found dead||Mussoorie: A barking deer (Kakad) was found dead on Jharipani- Dehradun road on Tuesday after being attacked by stray dogs. Forest officials said that at least five barking deer have been found dead on the outskirts of the town in the past month. They added that stray dogs have been attacking these herbivores who are now venturing into residential areas more often in the wake of limited human movement due to the Covid-induced restrictions. Mussoorie divisional forest officer Kahkasha Naseem said that stray dogs were displaying aggressive behaviour and attacking wildlife ever since the lockdown was imposed, probably because of unavailability of food. “It is an alarming trend. We have asked the civic authorities to take appropriate steps to control the stray dog population,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/barking-deer-found-dead/articleshow/76840784.cms||Anmol Jain
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Man alleges torturein custody, policedeny hitting him||Hyderabad: A person residing under Cyberabad police commissionerate’s Keshampet limits alleged that he was assaulted with a belt by a sub-inspector. The matter was also posted on social media. Police, on their part, have denied the allegations. In his video on social media, K Narsimhulu from Papireddyguda in Keshampet, alleged that he was beaten in police custody on July 6 and had to be shifted to hospital for treatment. Denying the allegations, Keshampet sub-inspector, K Venkateshwarlu said: “Narsimhulu had been creating nuisance in the village and had been verbally harassing villagers and local politicians. We picked him up to produce him before the tehsildar as a warning for his behaviour on Monday. He was not beaten up.” “Two days ago, a clash took place between workers of Congress and TRS in the village. He (Narsimhulu) was among those who had clashed and got hurt during the incident. The allegations made in the video are false,” said Shadnagar ACP, V Surendar. The claim of police beating up those in custody is among several similar cases during the lockdown where instances of police officials manhandling civilians has come to light. Earlier, two police personnel — a constable and a home guard — were suspended by Hyderabad police for beating up two men and causing bleeding injuries in separate incidents. In another case, a constable from Wanaparthy was suspended for thrashing a man in public while his son pleaded for his father to be spared. This, in front of six other police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-alleges-torturein-custody-policedeny-hitting-him/articleshow/76843064.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Expert panel in Patiala, Asr||Chandigarh: To augment its Covid management and care strategy, Punjab government on Tuesday constituted two expert advisory committees under the overall guidance of adviser, health and medical education Dr K K Talwar. The committees have been set up to ensure better management and handling of Covid care related matters in the government medical colleges of Patiala and Amritsar. The panels have been mandated to chalk out strategies to ensure that non-Covid patients are not ignored and will also make recommendations to the government on financial and other support needed for upgradation of the required facilities and equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/expert-panel-in-patiala-asr/articleshow/76843667.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||At NIMS, Dr Sultana’s health continues to be critical||Hyderabad: Days after Dr Sultana was shifted to Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), her condition continues to be critical. A video of the senior doctor from state-run Fever Hospital had gone viral where she is seen seeking help to be discharged from Thumbay Hospital where she was allegedly detained for non-payment of bills. Dr Sultana is currently admitted in the RICU ward and is still having breathing difficulties. Several family members of the doctor are also undergoing treatment for Covid-19 or are under home quarantine which has made it difficult for them to take action against the hospital. “Once I am discharged, I want to make a complaint to the government but I don’t know whom to ask. The hospital authorities have made false allegations against me,” Dr Sultana told TOI. Despite details of her ordeal being shared, even among state health authorities and doctors, it is said that all Dr Sultana’s department did was to make a few phone calls after she paid the sum demanded by the private hospital and getting her admitted to NIMS. As for inquiries so far, only one doctor from Darulshifa urban health centre has called her up to know what had happened. “I told the doctor that I cannot speak at length now. I will do so after I recover,” Dr Sultana said. Meanwhile, Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) and the Telangana Government Doctors Association have demanded action against the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/at-nims-dr-sultanas-health-continues-to-be-critical/articleshow/76843011.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Narayankhed bank employee murder: Cops arrest wife & lover||Hyderabad: Three days after an SBI employee was found dead in his Narayankhed residence in suspicious circumstances, police arrested his wife and her lover on Tuesday on the charges of murdering him. On July 5, Narayankhed police received a ‘Dial 100’ call at around 5 am. “The complainant, Santu Bai, said her husband Munuswamy had fallen accidentally in the toilet and suffered a fatal head injury. We found his body lying in a pool of blood,” Narayankhed DSP R Satyanarayana Raju said. During the postmortem examination, cops were informed that Munuswamy had died of strangulation. Police made initial enquiries with family members of Munuswamy and neighbours. Later, they took Santu Bai into custody. During the interrogation, she confessed to have committed the murder with the help of her lover, Nazeer Ahmed, an almirah maker from Narayankhed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/narayankhed-bank-employee-murder-cops-arrest-wife-lover/articleshow/76843081.cms||Mahesh Buddi
July 8, 2020||Varanasi||Viral load patients quarantined with suspects in Covid coaches||Varanasi: In a major breach in pandemic protocol, health officials in Mau district quarantined 27 patients with high viral load in Covid-19 coaches along with suspected cases, exposing the latter to risk. Mau district magistrate Gyan Prakash Tripathi told TOI on Tuesday, “On Monday, I was told that 27 positive cases had been accommodated in Covid-19 coaches at Mau railway station. A notice has been issued to the chief medical officer and an explanation sought. The lapse is being probed by a committee. All Covid-19 patients have been shifted out of these coaches by Tuesday morning.” Health officials of district began accommodating patients diagnosed with Covid-19 in coaches since July 3. “When health officials were questioned, they said the Level-1 Covid facility at Pardaha was full to capacity and new cases were sent to Covid-19 coaches. It was the fault of health officials. If beds were unavailable at Pardaha, they should have sent patients to the Kopaganj facility,” the DM added. The shocking aberration came to light when 96 persons quarantined in coaches, posted videos of infected persons collecting water from common taps and they went viral on social media. The videos showed unhygienic conditions and lack of sanitation in coaches, which were to be used only for mild cases clinically assigned to Covid-care centres as per guidelines issued by Union ministry of health and family welfare. Mau was the first district to utilise coaches as institutional quarantine centres. Dr Arjun Kumar Sharma, who is taking care of suspected cases in Covid coaches, said, “Confirmed positive cases were sent to these coaches four days ago and by Monday their strength rose to 27.” “On Monday night, 23 were shifted to Kopaganj Level-1 facility and two women on Tuesday morning. Two children are still in these coaches as their parents are here,” Sharma added. The district magistrate said, all complaints of persons quarantined in coaches had been resolved after talking to additional divisional railway manager of North Eastern Railway. Meanwhile, 15 new cases were detected pushing the total figure of Covid cases in the district to 182. On June 20, Mau had become the first district in the country to start using Covid coaches by accommodating 59 people for institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/viral-load-patients-quarantined-with-suspects-in-covid-coaches/articleshow/76839764.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Don’t behave rudely, instead impress public, city top cop tells police force||Coimbatore: City police commissioner Sumit Sharan on Tuesday said police should impress the public with their exemplary way of performing duty and that there was no room for any kind of rude behaviour with the latter. He said this while addressing more than 50 police officials at the police recruitment school in the wake of Sathankulam custodial deaths. He also sensitized them on having better rapport with the public. Pointing out that the pandemic has ushered in a new life style with people were wearing masks, using hand sanitizers and maintaining social distancing, Sumit Sharan said, “The city police are working well in this situation and getting positive feedback from the public. Still, we have to be very careful and conscious hereafter. Police must keep in mind certain do’s and don’ts during vehicle check, patrol, beat duty and arrests.” He reiterated that there was no room for any kind of rude behaviour while approaching the public. “A single negative incident could ruin the image of entire police force. There will be zero tolerance on cops who behave in a rude and abusive manner with the public. We have to impress them by way of our duty. Cops should not be hard or harsh with people.” The city top cop instructed the officials to ask cops under them to maintain good rapport with the public. He also called on the police personnel to take precautionary measures to keep the novel coronavirus at bay. “If cops are not feeling well, they must tell their colleagues. They should get tested for Covid-19 and remain in home quarantine until their results arrive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dont-behave-rudely-instead-impress-public-city-top-cop-tells-police-force/articleshow/76843072.cms||A Subburaj
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||US visa order makes Telangana students’ loan burden heavier, future tense||HYDERABAD: The United States’ announcement asking those on student visas (F-1 and M-1) to leave the country if their universities start taking courses fully online, has disappointed many students who have taken huge loans to travel and study in US. Their plans to stay and work there are also likely to be hit. Banking sources estimated that an unsecured education loan can range between Rs 30 to Rs 35 lakh while a secured loan can even go up to Rs 1 crore which is usually required for admissions in high ranking universities. Meanwhile, institutes such as Harvard University have announced plans to allow only 40% students back on campus this fall while the University of Southern California has issued a statement that undergraduate students will “primarily or exclusively” be taking online classes. Such decisions have left many who have invested in a US education in a dilemma. “I have taken a loan of Rs 40 lakh to fund my education,” said a student from Hyderabad enrolled at New York University, who has been continuing classes online. On an F-1 visa, the student said he did not know what will happen going forward and expressed doubts over the possibility of a hybrid model in the epicentre of a viral outbreak. Industry estimates suggest there are around 2,00,000 Indian students in the US of whom at least 60,000 are Telugus. “I am shocked at the decision. This is akin to pushing students out during a raging public health crisis or asking them to face deportation,” said Bansari Kamdar, who went to US to pursue her Masters in applied economics at the University of Massachusetts. The course which was set to go online from fall has faculty rethinking their plans. She said students risked going out of status if they had to leave the country which could make it cumbersome to study and work again on shore. Putting the onus on universities, Sudhanshu Kaushik, executive director of the North American Association of Indian Students (NAAIS) said: “Universities can change their programmes to help international students so they don’t have to leave the country. We, as students and alumni, must all email, message and call universities to adopt a hybrid model.” He said the human cost of the current announcement would be huge. “Students will be financially and socially impacted,” he said, adding there might be a decline of Indian students coming to the US following such decisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/us-visa-order-makes-t-students-loan-burden-heavier-future-tense/articleshow/76843055.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Video shows dog gnawing at body of Covid-19 victim||HYDERABAD: In a footage that went viral on social media, dogs at a busy city crematorium can be seen roaming around funeral pyres while one dog was seen gnawing at the half-burnt body of a Covid-19 victim. The video evoke widespread outrage among netizens who flooded civic authorities with questions over the situation at crematoriums. In response, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) said that heavy rain had doused the flames while the stray dogs had sneaked inside through a broken wall. Authorities said they heard about the incident on July 5 and had immediately swung into action. “The body at the Sanathnagar crematorium was cremated as per the Covid-19 protocols. Due to the rain, the flames doused,” said a senior official of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. The officials said that a portion of a wall had also collapsed, allowing easy entry of stray dogs into the area. “After that incident, sheds were constructed over the pyres and the broken wall was also reconstructed. In addition to that, an electric crematorium is also being repaired,” the officer said. With the video being widely shared on social media showing dogs roaming around the pyres, authorities put together a team to monitor the area when bodies of victims are brought for cremation. “A team has been constituted in three shifts for monitoring Covid-19 dead body disposal in the crematorium. But many non-Covid-19 bodies by private hospitals and individuals are also burnt at the crematorium,” the GHMC said in its statement. Civic body authorities have started renovation works in fourteen crematoriums and graveyards across the city. The GHMC plans to revamp these areas with amenities like ghats, restrooms, changing rooms, drinking water facilities along with fortifications to the compound walls and increasing greenery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/video-shows-dog-gnawing-at-body-of-covid-19-victim/articleshow/76843028.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Coimbatore||30-year-old man gets life for killing friend||Coimbatore: A 30-year-old man was on Monday evening sentenced to life imprisonment for murdering his friend in a drunken brawl on Vasuki Street in Thondamuthur in November 2017. Police identified the convict as P Sakthivel, a wall painter from Thondamuthur. The incident, they said, took place on November 15, 2017 when Sakthivel, along with 33-year-old V Giriraj, of Thondamuthur, went to the house of Manimaran on Vasuki Street for work. “During lunch break, the duo consumed alcohol and got into a fight. In a fit of rage, Sakthivel assaulted Giriraj using an iron rod and fled,” a police officer said. Giriraj was rushed to a nearby government hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. Giriraj’s mother V Banumathi, 53, lodged a complaint with the Thondamuthur police who registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested Sakthivel. He was lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison, but later came out on bail. The case trial was held before the III additional district judge court. Judge Sanjai Baba pronounced the verdict on Monday and sentenced Sakthivel to life imprisonment. Following this, Sakthivel was lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/30-year-old-man-gets-life-for-killing-friend/articleshow/76843082.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Nashik||Kin of 10 Covid victims refuse to perform last rites||Nashik: Of the 69 people who have succumbed to Covid-19 in Dhule district, there have been at least 10 cases where the relatives of the deceased person have refused to perform the last rites. This left the officials of the district administration with little choice but to perform the last rites themselves.Officials said the last rites can be performed by wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and the same was informed to the relatives of the deceased patients. Still, they were not willing to perform the last rites.Officials of the health and administrative departments in Dhule said this development has baffled them. On one hand, the government officers, doctors, nurses, ward boys, police and many other people in the government machinery are risking their lives every day to treat the infected patients and to take steps to prevent the infection from spreading. On the other hand, there are some people who were turning away from their responsibility of performing the last rites of deceased family members.In Dhule alone, of the 1,306 Covid-19 cases so far, 76 are medical staffers. “These are the people who are aware of the risks, yet they report to duty,” said officials.Dhule district collector Sanjay Yadav said such behaviour has left the doctors, police and other health workers, who have been putting sincere efforts to treat the patients and control the spread of the virus., unimpressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/kin-of-10-covid-victims-refuse-to-perform-last-rites/articleshow/76840797.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 8, 2020||Dehradun||Admin to keep record of every person visiting Mussoorie||Dehradun: To curb the spread of Covid-19, the local administration has announced that the tourists entering Uttarakhand from Asharodi, Raiwala, and Rishikesh, will now have to undergo a check-up. In a meeting held with the officials, Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava directed to maintain the record of the people entering the state. This has been done in view of the road accidents that have become more frequent after the onset of monsoon season in the state. Furthermore, the DM has also asked the officials in Mussoorie to record the details of tourists coming from Kuthal Gate. The entrance from Hathipaon-Kimadi Gate will remain closed for tourists between 7 am and 8 pm. However, the movement of local residents will remain unaffected. To keep a check on travellers and ensure safety of people during monsoon season, officials will ensure that security protocols are strictly followed at tourist hotspots like Gucchupani, Sahastradhara, and Maldevta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/admin-to-keep-record-of-every-person-visiting-mussoorie/articleshow/76840803.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Nashik||Traffic cops net Rs 1cr in fines in over 3 months||Nashik: The traffic branch of the city police has collected around Rs 1 crore in fines from motorists violating various traffic rules, including the lockdown norms, in the past three months. Police have now shifted their focus on violation of post-lockdown rules such as rickshaws and taxis carrying more than the prescribed number of passengers and two-wheeler riders carrying pillion riders. “Ever since the lockdown began in the city on March 25, we have imposed Rs 99.72 lakh fines on motorists for various rules such as bike riders not wearing the helmet and car drivers avoiding seat-belts, till July 3,” said a traffic police officer on Tuesday. Pourima Chaugule, DCP (HQ and Traffiic), said, “Over the past two weeks, focusing has been shifted to autorickshaws carrying more than the permissible number of passengers and bikers riding double seat.” The officer said that only two passengers are allowed in autos while no pillion rider is allowed on a two-wheeler to contain the spread of Covid19 in the city. Chaugule added that the traffic police have launched a drive to keep a check on bikers riding double seat until the rule is relaxed. Police said that they would soon be deploying cranes to take action against motorists who park their vehicles illegally in different parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/traffic-cops-net-rs-1cr-in-fines-in-over-3-months/articleshow/76840811.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 8, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: CBI takes over Sathankulam deaths probe||CHENNAI: The Central Bureau of Investigation has taken over the probe into the alleged custodial torture and deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks of Sathankulam in Tuticorin district. They were arrested by Sathankulam police on June 19 night and tortured all through the night and the two died in judicial custody on June 22 night. The Centre’s notification announcing the central investigating agency taking over the case, issued by the the ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions in response to the state government’s plea, was received by the state on Tuesday. As public pressure mounted and the Madras high court intervened, Tamil Nadu announced that the case was being handed over to the CBI. To speed up CBI investigation, “in view of the importance and sensitivity of the issues involved in the cases,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami wrote letters to Union home minister Amit Shah and minister of state for personnel, public grievances and pensions, Jitendra Singh. As per the notification, the CBI will probe all aspects of the case including the conspiracy angle, abetment and the events that unfolded after their deaths to destroy the evidences. In his letter to Shah, the chief minister said that in view of the sensitivity of the case, prompt action was taken by the government to transfer the case to the CBI. “I am, therefore, to request you that, necessary instructions may kindly be issued to the CBI to take over the cases immediately and commence the investigation on the above said cases relating to the death of Jeyaraj and Beniks of Sathankulam, Thoothukudi district, expeditiously, in view of the importance and sensitivity of the issues involved in the cases,” Palaniswami said. An identical letter was written to Jitendra Singh also. As the Centre had not responded even a week after the state’s request for a CBI probe, the state government was planning to go ahead with the CB CID probe. The state agency has booked former Sathankulam inspector Sridhar, two SIs and two constables for murders. All the five, who were earlier suspended, were arrested and remanded in judicial custody. The CB CID was planning to take the five into police custody for interrogation. Meanwhile, Joint Action Against Custodial Torture – Tamil Nadu, a forum of activists and some parties, demanded on Tuesday that the state government withdraw its plan to hand over the case to CBI. In the light of the progress made by the CB CID in arresting the culprits, the state agency should continue with the investigation, the forum said. The case would get diluted and diverted if CBI investigates, the forum said in a statement. The case was handed over to CB CID as an interim measure by the high court to prevent the culprits from destroying evidences. A magisterial inquiry had said that police personnel at Sathankulam station were non-cooperative during the inquest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cbi-takes-over-sathankulam-deaths-probe/articleshow/76843091.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 8, 2020||Vadodara||A’bad PI’s transfer irks tribals, Chhotu hits out too||Vadodara: The transfer of an inspector with Vadaj police station in Ahmedabad doesn’t seem to have gone down well in the tribal belt of the state. Since Tuesday morning, tribal activists and others from the region have taken to social media and have been sharing messages on WhatsApp in support of the inspector JA Rathwa, who was transferred to the special branch. A couple of days before his transfer, Rathwa had an altercation with the driver of a Kalol-based religious leader. Activists and citizens have written messages and posts on social media questioning the government over Rathwa’s transfer. In fact, #I_Support_PI_Rathva was among the top 12 Gujarat trends on Twitter on Tuesday. Jhagadia MLA and tribal leader Chhotu Vasava also questioned Rathwa’s transfer and wrote several sarcastic posts over it. Tribal activist from Narmada, Dr Praful Vasava, also wrote: “We are proud of PI Rathwa. He is an officer of high values and not somebody who works under the pressure of any religious leader, MLA, minister or senior police official.” Amit Rathwa, a resident of Kawant in Chhota Udepur, questioned, “Why does a man of truth have to apologize to an accused in Gujarat?” An architect from Santrampur in Mahisagar said, “Why is the state relying on religious leader so much that a government officer has to apologize to him?” Police have, however, defended Rathwa’s transfer due to an audio clip. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Zone 1, P L Mal said an audio clip has gone viral which has Rathwa abusing someone and the sound of a slap. As the audio clip went viral, an inquiry headed by assistant commissioner of police, A-division, was initiated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/abad-pis-transfer-irks-tribals-chhotu-hits-out-too/articleshow/76842231.cms||Jay Pachchigar
July 8, 2020||Dehradun||37 IFS officers transferred, JS Suhag made chief wildlife warden||Dehradun: In a bureaucratic shuffle, 37 IFS officers were transferred on Tuesday. The coveted post of chief wildlife warden of the state was given to JS Suhag. The post was earlier held by Rajiv Bhartari, who has now been made the chairman of Uttarakhand Biodiversity Board. In other major appointments, JS Suhag was given the charge of the CAMPA section and Sameer Sinha was transferred to the Planning and Community Forestry. DK Singh, earlier deployed in the Nanda Devi Biosphere, was made the director of Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) and Amit Verma, who held the post of RTR director, was moved to the Yamuna Circle. Among other important decisions, Kahkashan Naseem was replaced as the divisional forest officer (DFO) of Mussoorie by Nitishmani Tripathi. Naseem has now been moved to Tons Forest Division. Also, Koko Rose has been made the new DFO of Nainital and TR Bijulal will now look over the Tehri Forest Division. Some IFS officers have expressed surprise over the orders saying that "transferring officers in quick intervals would not bear good results" and that they should be given more time at a place so as to bring about a positive change. Reportedly, the shuffle has been done as some IFS officers, earlier deployed in other states, have already joined the Uttarakhand cadre and some others are expected to join soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/37-ifs-officers-transferred-js-suhag-made-chief-wildlife-warden/articleshow/76840816.cms||Shivani Azad
July 8, 2020||Salem||Mumbai returnee, 30, booked for spreading Covid-19 in Salem city||Salem: A 30-year-old man was on Tuesday booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act for concealing his travel history to Mumbai and spreading Covid-19 to 20 people in Salem city. All 21 people have been admitted to the Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam medical college and hospital for treatment. Salem corporation officials had initiated a door-to-door inspection for Covid-19 tests since July 4, after 1,288 people had tested positive in the district. “Nearly 680 workers from the health department were involved in the door-to-door campaign,” said R Sadheesh, commissioner of SMC. During their visit to Sreerangan street in Dhadagapatty in the city, they came to know that a 30-year-old man had recently returned from Maharashtra. He was employed in a silver anklet manufacturing unit in the city and had visited Mumbai as part of his work. “He did not obtain an e-pass to return to Salem from Maharashtra,” the commissioner said. The health officials then tested the man and his wife, along with his two children. "All four tested positive for Covid-19,” Sadheesh said. After returning to Salem, the man had frequently roamed across Sreerangan street in the last one week. Health department officials immediately tested nearly 250 people living in the street. “Of them, 17 have tested positive,” an official said. The corporation officials have lodged a complaint against the man for not alerting them of his journey to and from Maharashtra, which led to him infecting 20 others. Based on the complaint, police booked him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/mumbai-returnee-30-booked-for-spreading-covid-19-in-salem-city/articleshow/76843094.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Nashik||NMC receives 4th plaint of overcharging by pvt hospital||Nashik: The civic administration has received another complaint of a private hospital in the city overcharging a Covid-19 patient. This is the fourth such complaint the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has received against private hospitals. “We are in the process of inspecting the details related to the complaint of overcharging against the private hospital. We will serve a notice to the hospital after we verify the details,” said NMC officials.“Earlier, we had received three complaints of overcharging against private hospitals. We have already directed one of the three hospitals to return Rs 1.25 lakh of the Rs 3.50 lakh bill that was handed over to the patient,” said officials. The state government has already fixed the charges for private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients. The private hospitals have already been issued directions to charge patients as per the rates set by the government. “We have also started various measures to prevent hospitals from overcharging. We have displayed the rate cards at all the private hospitals with the helpline number mentioned on it. We have also appealed to the patients to contact the helpline number in case they have any complaints or issues related to the private hospitals,” said officials. Teams of officials have been deployed to randomly collect bills of Covid-19 patients taking treatment in private hospitals. A panel of 20 auditors are examining the bills. “So far, we have collected 25 bills from some private hospitals and the auditors have started inspecting those bills. We will take action against private hospitals if they are found overcharging patients,” said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-receives-4th-plaint-of-overcharging-by-pvt-hospital/articleshow/76840828.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Water released from Chithirai Chavadi anaicut for irrigation||Coimbatore: With rain lashing Western Ghats region and Siruvani catchment areas in the past two days, water has been released from Chithirai Chavadi anaicut into its feeding channel for irrigation purposes. Tanks along the channel would also get replenished. According to an official source, water level in the Siruvani dam has on Tuesday touched 6.64ft, following its catchment areas recorded 54mm rainfall on Monday night. An official with the Public Works Department’s water resources wing said, “We opened the Chithirai Chavadi anaicut on Monday for irrigation after its water level touched around 2ft. We had been desilting the channel. As the water level increased after the rainfall and irrigation was more important for cultivation, we halted the work and released water, which will fill connected tanks along the channel.” Farmers in the region said around 4km of the 11.75km-long feeding channel has been desilted so far. K Vijayakumar, a farmer, said water has just started flowing in the channel and more rain was required for it to attain full flow and reach the tanks down the way. “Water was released yesterday (Monday). There has not been much rain this season. Only if we see more showers, we would get enough water for cultivation.” The main cultivation in the area include banana, turmeric, sugarcane and areca nut. Among them, crops such as banana and sugarcane are water intensive and depend on irrigation. Waterbody conservationists in the district too expressed a similar view. They said more rain was required for water flow to increase in the channel and get tanks filled. R Manikandan, a member of Kovai Kulangal Padhukappu Amaippu, says water from the Chithirai Chavadi channel would benefit around 2,000 acres farmland before it reaches the first tank. “It would then flow on, filling tanks such as Pudhukulam, Kolarampathi, Krishnampathi and Narasampathi. For this, we need to get more showers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/water-released-from-chithirai-chavadi-anaicut-for-irrigation/articleshow/76843097.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Dehradun||India to open Nepal border for 3 days for ex-Army personnel to withdraw pension||Pithoragarh: The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has allowed the India-Nepal border to be opened for three days, so that Nepalese soldiers (or their widows) who served in the Indian Army can withdraw their pension. Suspension bridges at three places - Dharchula, Jauljibi and Jhulaghat - will be opened from Wednesday to Friday. As reported by TOI in June, more than 1,600 Nepalese citizens who have served in the Indian Army, mostly in the Gorkha regiment, were unable to withdraw pension for the past three months after both India and Nepal went into lockdown and closed their borders three months ago. “The chief development officers (CDO) of Nepal’s Baitadi and Darchula districts had requested the Pithoragarh district administration to allow these soldiers to come to India to collect their pension. The administration forwarded the request to the MHA, which has now released guidelines for the bridges to be opened for three days,” said Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande. “The bridges will be open from 8 am to 6 pm. However, the pensioners will be allowed to enter India only till 1 pm, as they cannot get their work done after that anyway. They can stay till evening and leave before 6 pm,” the DM added. Instructions have been issued to follow all Covid-19 related protocol at the bridges and the banks. Thermal screening will be conducted before letting anyone enter, the bridges and the banks will be sanitized at regular intervals and social distancing will be maintained. "If a place gets too crowded, the person will have to choose a safe place and wait there for their turn. If anyone wants to stay in India overnight, the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) will make the necessary arrangements,” Jogdange added. Meanwhile, local shopkeepers rejoiced at the news. “The marketplaces here will finally receive increased footfall,” said Pramod Bhatt, a shopkeeper at Jhulaghat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/india-to-open-nepal-border-for-3-days-for-ex-army-personnel-to-withdraw-pension/articleshow/76840826.cms||Prem Punetha
July 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Panel suggests a judicious mix of methods to continue online classes||BENGALURU: An expert committee tasked with formulating guidelines for online classes in Karnataka has recommended “a judicious mix of interactive and non-interactive methods, active and passive methods, synchronous and asynchronous methods” during sessions. However, the report, titled ‘Continuation of learning in school education of Karnataka’, has strongly emphasized digital sessions cannot be standalone methods of imparting knowledge and teachers should be in personal contact with each child. The report, handed over to primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar on Tuesday, also states, “... a cafeteria approach that is a mix of other technological and offline / face-to-face methods is prudent”. The committee has specified guidelines on technology-enabled distance learning for different levels of schooling based on international best practices and National Guidelines for Digital Education. One measure is for parents to collect learning material — books, worksheets and hand-outs and tasks children can do at home — from schools once a week. While picking up material, parents can also turn in the previous week’s learning pack to the teacher for assessment. Just as TV programmes were used for Class 10 students, the report suggests the government develop a detailed timetable and the required number of channels to provide enough content for the duration allowed. It also points out radios could be one of the best media given that most phones have a radio option and it can be operated without the internet, solving both electricity and bandwidth problems in one go. For technology-based distance learning, the committee has recommended focus on curating existing content and aligning it with the curriculum instead of preparing fresh material. It also favours creating a virtual helpdesk to support stakeholders. For instance there can be an SMS sent to all registered parents regarding the schedule of the radio or TV programmes for respective grades. For digital learning, the committee headed by M K Shridhar, who was also part of drafting the new National Education Policy, said videos can offer valuable learning resources, provided sufficient bandwidth and engaging content are available. Interestingly, the committee also has suggested face-to-face interactions by using common areas like verandahs, community halls, open spaces or through local mapping of safe, sanitised spaces even as anganwadis and schools remain closed. With limited number of children in each group and staggered timings, children can attend combined activities in smaller groups. Community volunteers, youth leaders, gram panchayat and SDMC/SMC members can provide support. The committee for technology-based education comprises Gururaj Karajagi, member chairman, Academy for Creative Teaching; Niranajan Aradhaya VP, Centre for Child and the Law, National Law School of India University; Dr K John Vijay Sagar, Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Nimhans; Rishikesh BS, School of Education Azim Premji University and representatives from private schools’ association and the education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/panel-suggests-a-judicious-mix-of-methods-to-continue-online-classes/articleshow/76842250.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
July 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Applications invited for nat’l awards for teachers||Coimbatore: The human resource development ministry has invited online applications for the national awards for teachers. In a first, according to the ministry, candidates shortlisted by district, state and Union Territory committees would be given away certificates this year. Teachers could also apply through their mobile phones, it said. Officials with the state school education department said 115 teachers from across the state had applied for the award online so far. Teachers could apply for the award till July 11, and within July 21, they would be shortlisted by the district or regional selection committees. The list would then be forwarded to the state selection committees thorough an online portal. By July 31, state selection committees’ shortlist would be sent to the national jury, the ministry said. After interaction with the shortlisted candidates, the finalists would be decided by August 14, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/applications-invited-for-natl-awards-for-teachers/articleshow/76843100.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Private hospitals say no to treating patients under Aarogyasri||HYDERABAD: Private hospitals have rejected the possibility of treating Covid-19 patients having Aarogyasri cover. During a video-conference with governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Tuesday, the managements said that it won’t be feasible for them as they were not getting Aarogyasri scheme reimbursements from the government. Sources told TOI that governor wanted the hospital representatives to come up with cost-effective Covid packages and offer services to the patients having the Aarogyasri cards. “But, the representatives refused her suggestion,” a source said. Somesh Kumar and special CS, health, Santhi Kumari were also present. To a query from Soundararajan, the representatives said drugs like Remdesivir are prohibitively expensive and hence, the government should come up with a scheme to get these medicines at a concessional rate. “Majority of the hospital bills are steep because of the high cost of medicines which is not included in the packages,” they pointed out. In response to the governor’s suggestion to create a plasma bank, they said the government should create the plasma bank and seek permission from ICMR on an ad hoc basis to treat patients. The governor also told the medical colleges affiliated with private hospitals to increase the bed strength in the wake of reports of shortage of beds. “I made it very clear to them that I want the best medical care provided to the patients all the time, especially in this extraordinary pandemic situation.” The governor also told the private hospitals to give utmost importance to pregnant women infected with Covid-19. She also made suggestions like avoiding delay in test reports, beginning early treatment of the needy patients, having a common pool of beds, making it known to people so that they need not run from one hospital to another in search of beds and ensuring staff availability and augmenting the beds with oxygen and ventilator facilities to meet the surge in the positive cases. The managements, it is learnt, had told her that they were facing shortage of staff and beds. “The availability of beds can be announced by the government by tracking data from all the hospitals,” a representative said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-hosps-say-no-to-treating-patients-under-aarogyasri/articleshow/76843675.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 8, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Six policemen booked for custodial death||VADODARA: Six cops of Fatehgunj police station were booked for custodial death of a 62-year-old Ahmedabad man, who was arrested as a theft accused and then allegedly tortured to extract a confession, in December last year. The offence was registered on Monday night on the day when Gujarat high court had ordered the city police to present the probe report. The victim Sheikh Babu Nishar’s son Salim had filed a habeas corpus petition in the high court last month as there was no trace of his father since January 25 when he had submitted a missing person complaint at Sayajigunj police station. Nishar used to sell bedsheets in different cities by roaming around on his bicycle while his son has a provision store in Ahmedabad’s Shah-e-Alam area. There is no trace of his body yet. The six cops have been identified as PI Dharmendrasinh Gohil, PSI Dashrath Rabari and LRD jawans Pankaj Mavjibhai, Yogendrasinh Jeelansinh, Rajesh Savjibhai and Hitesh Shambhubhai. Gohil was later shunted out to the traffic branch and then to Ahmedabad police. On December 10, Nishar and his son-in-law Ibrahim Khan Pathan had parted outside the Vadodara central bus depot to meet again after a few hours. When Nishar did not return by evening, Pathan searched for him and later informed Salim. After searching in Vadodara and Ahmedabad for over a month, Nishar’s family members lodged the missing person complaint. Police claim the investigation was being done by inspector SG Solanki of Sayajigunj police station. “A day before the complaint was registered on January 31, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) P H Bhesaniya alerted me that something fishy had happened at Fatehgunj police station. After informing senior officials the ACP was asked to conduct a confidential probe,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Deepak Meghani. Bhesaniya had got a whiff of it through his informers. Meghani added that two parallel probes were being conducted and at a later stage, the investigation by Bhesaniya was handed over to his colleague ACP Bakul Chaudhari and that of Solanki to another ACP SG Patil. Patil, on Monday, became the complainant against the six cops. They were booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, disappearance of evidence, destruction of documents to prevent its production as evidence and giving false information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/6-policemen-booked-for-custodial-death/articleshow/76842254.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Nashik||Maximum 3-ft tall Ganesh idols to adorn pandals||Nashik: This year, Ganesh mandals across the city will have to ensure that the idols of Lord Ganapati that will be installed in the pandals are not more than 3ft tall. Commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare Patil convened a meeting with the office-bearers of the Ganesh mandals at the police commissionerate on Monday, where it was unanimously decided that the mandals will keep the celebrations simple this year. The Ganesh mandals will not be allowed to use large music systems or loudspeakers. Moreover, there will be no procession on Visarajan day — the concluding day of Ganesh Chaturthi when Ganpati idols are immersed. Police said that many Ganesh mandals in the city provided masks, grain and groceries to the poor during the lockdown — a move that was appreciated by all sections of the society. Police said they have appealed to the Ganesh mandals to organise blood donation camps and health check-up camps so that citizens became more aware of the Covid infection and took neccesary precautionary measures to keep the viral infection at bay. Meanwhile, the money from the Ganesh mandals would also be donated to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. “Office bearers of all mandals will adhere to all the guidelines issued by the government,” said Samir Shete on behalf of all the Ganesh mandals in the city. Nangare Patil expressed satisfaction with the unanimous decision of Ganesh mandals to keep the celebrations simple and appealed to them to prepare an action plan which will help in controlling the spread of Covid-19 so that the Nashik pattern of Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations is replicated all over the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/maximum-3-ft-tall-ganesh-idols-to-adorn-pandals/articleshow/76840843.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Police foil 10 child marriages in 3 mths||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad rural police prevented 10 child marriages during the last three months and also successfully convinced the parents of these minor girls to send them to school. What has surprised police is that the parents had readily agreed to marry off their minor daughters because of the lockdown-related restrictions in view of the coronavirus pandemic. “The parents said that giving dowry and inviting large number of guests for the wedding were always beyond their capacity. Hence, they readily agreed to get their daughters married off during the lockdown,” said an officer with the special squad. Superintendent of police Mokshada Patil and her special squad received information about the child marriages through a communication channel, Abhinn (integral), which they have established. “Unfortunately, some parents are found agreeing to marry off their minor daughters as they cannot afford dowry and lavish wedding,” said Patil. The officer said that in all these cases, the rescued girls are in the age group of 12 and 16 years. The local area police station, social workers and the special squad of police have been tasked with remaining closely in touch with the rescued girls’ families so that they are not married off. Asked if any offences have been registered, Patil said that all the girls were rescued before the marriage and registering an offence against their parents would have further added to their woes. “The incidents were taken on record, parents counselled. In some cases, the girls were produced before the women and child welfare committee and handed over to NGOs,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-foil-10-child-marriages-in-3-mths/articleshow/76840839.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 8, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: Woman PCS officer ends life in Ballia||VARANASI: A PCS officer who held the charge of executive officer of Maniyar Nagar Panchayat Manimanjari Rai (30), committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling of her room in Awas Vikas Colony under the limits of Kotwali police station in Ballia on Monday night. The incident came to light when the neighbours came to know about the incident on Tuesday morning and alerted the police. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “She has left a suicide note in which wrote two-three lines. In it she had alleged that she had been falsely implicated with political motivation.” “She has not mentioned any other detail of ‘political motivation’ or referred to any incident. Police will investigate the matter to know the details,” he added. \ Rai, a natyive of Bhanvarkole in Ghazipur district, had been posted as EO of Maniyar Nagar Panchayat for past two years and she dwelt in a rental house in Awas Vikas Colony. She was alone at home on Monday night. On Tuesday morning her neighbours saw her body hanging from the ceiling of her room from an open window and alerted Kotwali cops. On getting information, district magistrate Ballia Hari Pratap Shahi, SP Devendra Nath, nayab tehsildar Jaya Singh, EO Bansdih Sima Rai and many other officials reached the spot while forensic experts were also called. During initial investigation, the cops recovered a suicide note. In it she had said sorry to her brother and parents taking this step. The note also contained, “I came safely from cities like Delhi and Mumbai but here she had been falsely implicated with political intentions.” Later, police sent the body for postmortem. She had posted some inspirational lines in her Facebook account. “For girls who want to say something’- to stop them from committing suicide and fight the battle of life,” read one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/woman-pcs-officer-ends-life-in-ballia/articleshow/76840849.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Soon, Telangana to conduct rapid antigen tests||HYDERABAD: Telangana will soon join the list of states to conduct the rapid antigen tests. The state government is gearing up to procure more than one lakh antigen test kits. However, it is still not clear when the antigen tests will kick-start. These tests provide results in 30 minutes unlike the current RT-PCR tests where the samples have to be collected and sent to labs. In the antigen tests also swabs will be collected but the results are quicker. It is not known whether in cases where antigen test is positive, an RT-PCR tests will be done or not. Officials said that these tests will be useful mostly for door-to-door surveillance. Based on these test results, RT-PCR tests can be done to confirm if a patient is Covid-19 positive. Private hospitals representatives reiterated that with antigen test, the result can be known in just half an hour. “It should be immediately organised by the state government, as some states have started the antigen testing” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/soon-t-to-conduct-rapid-antigen-tests/articleshow/76843677.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Workforce shortage hits foundries||COIMBATORE: With almost 80% of the guest worker workforce in the district’s foundries having left for their homes in north India, their output has been hit and is affecting operations in other automobile and engineering MSMEs as well. Foundries are the basis for other industries to function, as they supply castings which are then machined and made into components by several industries in the district. Foundry sector representatives said before the Covid-19 crisis and the lockdown, foundry units from the district were supplying 27,000 tonne of castings per month to other industrial units in Coimbatore alone. “This output has come down by 60%, due to workforce shortage,” said A Sivashanmuga Kumar, president of Coimbatore Tiny and Small Foundry Owners Association (Cosmafan). Foundry workfloors need all workers to be present for seamless production. But now, on average, out of the 10 workers who have to be on the floor to man production, eight are not present, said foundry owners. “Foundry is the mother industry for all others. Automobile industry and pump industry cannot function without castings from foundries. Once the market revives, and if we don’t have workers, then it would cause a huge disruption,” said Sivashanmuga Kumar. Engineering industrialists said they will not be able to deliver even the meagre orders at hand as there is no regular supply of castings. C Sivakumar, president of Coimbatore Tirupur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association (Cotma), said they were not able to get raw material in the form of castings. “We are working on whatever small orders we have at hand at present. Even for that, we don’t get raw material due to workforce shortage in foundries,” he said. As for the delivery of finished orders, they were able to do it only within the district, as inter-district movement has been stopped, said S Surulivel president of Railway Suppliers Association (Rasa).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/workforce-shortage-hits-foundries/articleshow/76843104.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
July 8, 2020||Aurangabad||12 farmers quarantined after talathi tests +ve in Hingoli||Aurangabad: A dozen of farmers have been quarantined in Hingoli district after they came in contact with a revenue official (talathi) who recently tested positive for Covid-19. When contacted, district collector Ruchesh Jaywanshi confirmed the development. “Following the SOP, contact tracing was carried out and those who were in contact with the talathi have been quarantined as a precautionary measure,” he said. The talathi tested positive around a couple of days ago. Sources in the revenue department said the farmers, who have been quarantined, are the ones that had come to the talathi’s office for getting the copies of their latest 7/12 extracts. A health department official said the 12 farmers hail from Borala, Mahatargaon and Mahagon villages, and had come in contact with the talathi days before she tested positive. “Currently, these farmers have been quarantined at the sub-rural hospital based building at Borala,” he said. Farmers from across the state are making a beeline to talathi offices for recording the sowing on their respective farmlands and collecting fresh records depicting land holdings for making applications for farm loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/12-farmers-quarantined-after-talathi-tests-ve-in-hingoli/articleshow/76840873.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 8, 2020||Kanpur||How Dubey invoked Chambal to earn epithet of ‘Gabbar’ Of Bikru||Kanpur: Gangster Vikas Dubey’s hawk-like grip over the rugged hamlet in Kanpur district and the ruthlessness with which he crushed any whiff of challenge not only enforced terror, but also invoked the folklore of fear of Chambal, earning him the epithet of Gabbar Singh of ‘Bikru’. Drawing the ‘Sholay’ parallel and conjuring up its unforgettable villain, Gabbar, was not without reason. Dubey was law unto himself and residents of this predominantly Brahmin village would pay obeisance, not just out of caste compulsion, but also out of dread. “Nobody dare draw water from the village well without reciting a litany in his name. Any deviation triggers brutal retribution. I was only 10 years old when I was tortured and suspended upside down from a tree whenI forgot to sing paeans before fetching water. At least four other villagers have met a similar fate,” said a villager sitting under a tree in the outskirts of Bikru. Terror was unleashed when the few hand pumps in the parched village went dry a few years ago and thirsty villagers began flocking to the well, which was claimed by Dubey and his family. “Women and children have to queue up in front of his house and plead for water. At times, the don would make us wait for several hours, but none dares to walk towards the well without a nod from the Dubey household,” said another fear-stricken villager.The flamboyant gangster would often be on short fuse and his trademark sarcasm would mean a kangaroo court for delivering instant justice. “Cops at the local police station in Chaubeypur were in his payroll. No cop has ever tried to defy his writ,” said Khunti Pandey, a resident of Bikru. Once while he was holding a panchayat at the sprawling orchard near his home, bird poop fell on his shoulder. “The don whipped out his gun and went on a shooting spree till the crow and every bird atop the banyan tree dropped dead. And then his diabolical scream echoed in the village,” said another villager. Unlike other ganglords, he didn’t indulge in women, but hated betrayal. And wife Richa remained his able lieutenant, who participated in brainstorming sessions at the master control room of his now razed palatial house in Bikru village. After the Thursday night bloodbath, mobile surveillance by police, showed that Dubey sent an SOS to his wife two hours before the encounter to pack up and flee with their daughter. Richa, who was in Lucknow on the fateful night, is now a fugitive and on the most-wanted list of UP Police. But their relationship wobbled briefly after the don stormed into Shivli police station in Kanpur and shot dead a BJP minister, Santosh Shukla, in 2001. His wife took shelter in her brother’s house in Shastrinagar, fearing police backlash. “Dubey unleashed a wave terror in the locality of his brother-in-law and his henchmen raided every home for his wife. But none dared to complain to the police,” said a resident of Shastrinagar. .The flamboyant gangster would always be on short fuse and his trademark sarcasm would sent shockwaves in the village as it meant a kangaroo court to deliver instant justice. “Cops at the local police station in Chaubeypur were in his payroll. No cop would dare interfere,” said Pinki Pandey, a resident of Bikru. Once while he was holding a panchayat at the sprawling orchard near his home, bird poop fell on his shoulder. “The don whipped out his gun and went on a shooting spree till the crow and every bird atop the banyan dropped dead on the ground. And then his diabolical scream echoed through the village,” said another villager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/how-dubey-invoked-chambal-to-earn-epithet-of-gabbar-of-bikru/articleshow/76843676.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 8, 2020||Kanpur||How Dubey invoked Chambal to earn epithet of ‘Gabbar’ Of Bikru||Kanpur: Gangster Vikas Dubey’s hawk-like grip over the rugged hamlet in Kanpur district and the ruthlessness with which he crushed any whiff of challenge not only enforced terror, but also invoked the folklore of fear of Chambal, earning him the epithet of Gabbar Singh of ‘Bikru’. Drawing the ‘Sholay’ parallel and conjuring up its unforgettable villain, Gabbar, was not without reason. Dubey was law unto himself and residents of this predominantly Brahmin village would pay obeisance, not just out of caste compulsion, but also out of dread. “Nobody dare draw water from the village well without reciting a litany in his name. Any deviation triggers brutal retribution. I was only 10 years old when I was tortured and suspended upside down from a tree whenI forgot to sing paeans before fetching water. At least four other villagers have met a similar fate,” said a villager sitting under a tree in the outskirts of Bikru. Terror was unleashed when the few hand pumps in the parched village went dry a few years ago and thirsty villagers began flocking to the well, which was claimed by Dubey and his family. “Women and children have to queue up in front of his house and plead for water. At times, the don would make us wait for several hours, but none dares to walk towards the well without a nod from the Dubey household,” said another fear-stricken villager.The flamboyant gangster would often be on short fuse and his trademark sarcasm would mean a kangaroo court for delivering instant justice. “Cops at the local police station in Chaubeypur were in his payroll. No cop has ever tried to defy his writ,” said Khunti Pandey, a resident of Bikru. Once while he was holding a panchayat at the sprawling orchard near his home, bird poop fell on his shoulder. “The don whipped out his gun and went on a shooting spree till the crow and every bird atop the banyan tree dropped dead. And then his diabolical scream echoed in the village,” said another villager. Unlike other ganglords, he didn’t indulge in women, but hated betrayal. And wife Richa remained his able lieutenant, who participated in brainstorming sessions at the master control room of his now razed palatial house in Bikru village. After the Thursday night bloodbath, mobile surveillance by police, showed that Dubey sent an SOS to his wife two hours before the encounter to pack up and flee with their daughter. Richa, who was in Lucknow on the fateful night, is now a fugitive and on the most-wanted list of UP Police. But their relationship wobbled briefly after the don stormed into Shivli police station in Kanpur and shot dead a BJP minister, Santosh Shukla, in 2001. His wife took shelter in her brother’s house in Shastrinagar, fearing police backlash. “Dubey unleashed a wave terror in the locality of his brother-in-law and his henchmen raided every home for his wife. But none dared to complain to the police,” said a resident of Shastrinagar. .The flamboyant gangster would always be on short fuse and his trademark sarcasm would sent shockwaves in the village as it meant a kangaroo court to deliver instant justice. “Cops at the local police station in Chaubeypur were in his payroll. No cop would dare interfere,” said Pinki Pandey, a resident of Bikru. Once while he was holding a panchayat at the sprawling orchard near his home, bird poop fell on his shoulder. “The don whipped out his gun and went on a shooting spree till the crow and every bird atop the banyan dropped dead on the ground. And then his diabolical scream echoed through the village,” said another villager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/how-dubey-invoked-chambal-to-earn-epithet-of-gabbar-of-bikru/articleshow/76843673.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 8, 2020||Nashik||3 urban areas under complete lockdown||Nashik: Starting Tuesday, complete lockdown was imposed on three major urban areas in Jalgaon district — Jalgaon city, Bhusawal city and Amalner — to curb the spread of Covid-19 and will remain in effect till 11pm on July 13. The roads in these three urban centres wore a deserted look on Tuesday except for the police personnel manning the roads to restrict the movement of vehicles. Shops and commercial establishments (barring medical shops) remained shut. Even fuel stations have been directed to provide fuel to only those vehicles meant for essential services. The bulk of the Covid-19 cases have been emerging from these three centres in the district. Of the 4,803 Covid-19 cases reported from Jalgaon district till Tuesday, 2,977 cases were from these three urban areas. With 1,095 cases, Jalgaon city reported the maximum Covid-19 patients. 134 of the total 282 deaths in the district are from these three urban areas. The district administration, the police and the civil hospital have established helpline numbers for people in distress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-urban-areas-under-complete-lockdown/articleshow/76840881.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist’s Covid tally may touch 4k by Aug 1||Coimbatore: The health department on Tuesday said the district’s Covid-19 tally would touch 2,000 by July 20 and 4,000 by August 1, going by the current doubling time of cases, which now stands at 10.2 days. When the count touches 4,000, officials say, there would be more than 1,000 active cases in hospitals from the district alone. In this wake, the district administration has asked the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) to ready a 200-bed Covid-19 treatment facility to be used, if the ESI Hospital runs out of beds in the next few weeks. District collector K Rajamani says, “Since CMCH is a tertiary care hospital, we have not used the facility to treat Covid-19 patients so far. But we have asked the hospital to arrange a facility to house and treat such patients if need arises.” The Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association (Codissia) has, meanwhile, green signalled the health department to takeover more halls, if required, to extend the Covid care centre for asymptomatic patients by adding more beds. As on Monday, the district has reported a total of 839 Covid-19 cases. Of them, 548 are active cases. Health officials say when the tally hits 4,000, there would be more than 1,000 active cases, which would require hospitalization or institutional quarantine. Presently, the district has 500 beds in the ESI Hospital and another 350 in the Codissia Covid care centre. The district collector says, “Around 360 Covid patients are undergoing treatment in the ESI Hospital, which could be upgraded to an 800-bed facility. And we have already begun working on it. Once the hospital starts treating only symptomatic patients, there would be more free beds.” Patients from neighbouring Tirupur and Ooty, and further away districts such as Namakkal have been coming to the ESI Hospital for treatment, he said without directly mentioning that there was a high demand for the beds in the hospital. According to Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, the government sector alone has 165 to 170 ventilators on standby, if required. “There is also a 100-bed Covid-19 treatment and isolation ward in the Pollachi government hospital and another 100-bed facility for symptomatic and asymptomatic patients in the Hindusthan Hospital in Mettupalayam.” Codissia authorities, who have facilitated the 350-bed Covid care facility at their trade fair complex, have agreed to let the health department extend the facility to more halls. The complex has five halls, of which hall D has already been converted into the Covid care facility. While this is the smallest hall in the complex, this is the most well-equipped one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dists-covid-tally-may-touch-4k-by-aug-1/articleshow/76843107.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kochi||Four years ago, he won CM’s trust; now finds himself disgraced||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: M Sivasankar is known as a no-nonsense officer. A workaholic, the IAS officer of 1995 batch, who had excelled as the chairman of KSEB, director of public instruction and the director of state IT mission, had caught the attention of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan when he was searching for an officer who would work round the clock and meet impossible deadlines. For the past four years, Sivasankar’s actions had matched the pace of Pinarayi Vijayan’s thinking. The boost in IT sector triggered by the entry of tech majors like Nissan helped the growth of Sivasankar’s career graph too. The CM started to entrust him with more responsibilities. Unfortunately, the same officer is now responsible for keeping the CM’s office in the dock. On Tuesday, the chief minister clarified that the hiring of Swapna Suresh, one of the accused in the gold smuggling case, in the IT department was not through Sivasankar who had been the IT secretary. “She was hired through a placement agency on contract basis for a marketing job. That is not unnatural,” said Vijayan. However, he was not ready to absolve Sivasankar from the moral responsibility and by ousting him from the personal staff within hours of allegations he tried to reiterate that blemished characters have no place in the chief minister’s office. On the eve of swearing in, while speaking to reporters, Vijayan had hinted about ‘avatars’ who might roam around in the corridors of power, boasting about closeness to power centres. By tightening security and surveillance in the secretariat, he had given a strong signal against such undue influences by external forces. The gold smuggling scandal was the first test of fire for the CM and he walked the talk by disowning his most trusted man. Recently, Sivasankar had landed in soup following the revelation about a contract signed by IT department with the US-based Sprinklr to manage Covid-19 data. He took the initiative and quickly managed to get the company on board to start the work. When the opposition took up the issue, Vijayan defended him and even criticised opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala for dragging hard working officers into controversy. The CPI was also unhappy over Sivasankar’s role in the Sprinklr deal. But he personally met CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran and explained the entire episode to pacify them. Sources said the violation of rules by Sivasankar was pointed out by the CPM state secretariat then but those were overlooked as the CM was convinced about the genuineness of the purpose. The CPM has now demanded a comprehensive probe into the gold smuggling case so that all those involved would be brought before law. “Nobody related to the case would get any help from the LDF or the government”, CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/4-yrs-ago-he-won-cms-trust-now-finds-himself-disgraced/articleshow/76842278.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Nashik||Rural cops discourage visits to tourism spots||Nashik: The rural police in Nashik have cautioned citizens against visiting tourist spots in view of the Covid pandemic across the district. The police have also put up nakabandis near the tourist spots. Every year, during the monsoon, nature lovers like to visit dams, hills and other picturesque locations. This year, the police said the gathering of people at any one place is not allowed. The same rule applies to popular tourist spots. Senior officials warned the people that ignoring the rule will attract police action. Kasara police said they are patrolling the ghat sections to ensure that motorists do not stop their vehicles. The cops said that people from Nashik and Mumbai often come to Kasara and Igatpuri during the monsoon to admire the natural beauty. They often stop on the ghat roads. Now, the police have put up boards along the ghat section and have set up checkpoints on the highway to prevent such visitors from entering the ghat area or moving towards the Bhavali dam. A large number of people also visit Trimbakeshwar, where too, the police have set up nakabandi. The police are taking action against people flouting the lockout orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rural-cops-discourage-visits-to-tourism-spots/articleshow/76840895.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 8, 2020||Varanasi||Chlorine gas leak on Jal-Kal campus leaves six ill||Varanasi: A chlorine gas leak at the campus of the Jal-Kal department sickened six persons and led to panic in the vicinity of Bhelupur area late on Monday. The incident happened when a cylinder filled with chlorine gas leaked in the scrap store of the campus. Municipal commissioner formed a team to investigate the matter and asked it to submit the report within 48 hours. UP minister Ravindra Jaiswal also took stock of the situation on Tuesday and asked officials to ensure proper investigation. Around 7.30 pm on Monday, panic prevailed in and around the Jal-Kal campus, where raw water lifted from river Ganga is treated before supplying it to city. People started having difficulty in breathing as the gas leaked in the area. Apart from a Jal-Kal’s pump superintendent, five other persons in the vicinity of this campus fell unconscious. Taking note of it, Bhelupur cops stopped the movement of traffic between Kamaksha and Bhelupur crossing while the fire fighters started the operation to minimise the effects of chlorine spread in air. After exercising hard for two hours, the fire fighters succeeded in checking the leakage from a cylinder. Chief medical officer Dr VB Singh confirmed that six persons were admitted to SPG divisional hospital and three of them were further referred to BHU hospital as their condition deteriorated. He said the condition of all these patients was stated to be stable on Tuesday. After initial inspection of the site, the municipal commissioner Gauran Rathi said the leakage had taken place in the cylinder, which had been declared obsolete several years back and was lying in the scrap store of Jal-Kal campus. “A team comprising chief engineer of UP Jal Nigam and additional municipal commissioner-III has been formed to investigate the matter. Necessary action will be taken accordingly after the submission of the investigation report by the team,” said Rathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/chlorine-gas-leak-on-jal-kal-campus-leaves-six-ill/articleshow/76840914.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid toll rises to 6 in dist, another 6 critical||Coimbatore: One more Covid-19 patient died in the district on Tuesday, taking the toll to six, even as 36 people, including a district magistrate and a police officer, tested positive for the virus. District collector K Rajamani said at least six more patients were in critical condition and that they were on life support. An official source identified the deceased as a 65-year-old woman from Ondipudur. She was admitted to the ESI Hospital on June 26. She breathed her last on Tuesday morning after 12 days of hospitalization, for the entire duration of which she was on ventilator. She hadn’t had any comorbidities. A health department official said three courts in the district court complex were closed down for three days for disinfection after the judicial magistrate, 33, who was incharge of a fast-track court that mainly handled cases related to cheque bouncing and financial irregularities, tested positive for the infection. “We will be tracing his contacts soon.” The Podanur police station was also shut down after a woman head constable contracted the virus. The station would now temporarily function out of a nearby wedding hall. Similarly, a Tasmac outlet just off Sundapalayam Road in Veerakeralam was also sealed on Tuesday after one of the employees tested positive on Monday. A lab technician with a private hospital in Periyanaickenpalayam is also among the newly-tested cases. While hospital authorities shut the hospital themselves for disinfection, deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar monitored the sealing, testing of the technician’s contacts and disinfection works. The goldsmith cluster continued to expand, with nine more people testing positive, taking the count to 43. While three of them were from Chetti Street in Telungupalayam, one was from an apartment in the area and four were from Ayyappa Nagar. The Balan Nagar cluster also continued to grow, with a 36-year-old woman testing positive in the neighbourhood and two others - a 40-year-old man and 12-year-old girl – on Rayappan Street in Peelamedu. Three women from Sugunapuram in Madukkarai also tested positive. They were reportedly in touch with a patient from Edayarpalayam. The ESI Hospital, meanwhile, discharged another 33 patients. It was also the day when a 25-year-old Covid-19 patient delivered a boy baby through C-section. “Both the mother and baby are healthy,” a doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-toll-rises-to-6-in-dist-another-6-critical/articleshow/76843111.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Aurangabad||117 +ve cases emerge in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: As many as 117 Covid-19 patients were recorded in the district on Tuesday, taking the tally of positive cases to 7,134. The number of Covid-19 cases in the rural areas of the district suddenly registerd a spike on Tuesday with as many as 50 people testing positive for the contagion. By Tuesday morning, only 13 people from the rural areas had tested positive for Covid-19. However, when the reports of the throat swab samples of suspected patients arrived in the afternoon, 37 more confirmed positive for the contagion. In Aurangabad city, the number of Covid positive cases was much lesser. As against the 101 people who tested positive for the viral infection on Monday, only 67 people are said to have test positive Covid-19 on Tuesday. A 4-year-old boy from Aref Colony, who was admitted on June 30, died late on Monday evening while being treated at the dedicated Covid-19 treatment centre in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). He died due to disseminated intravascular coagulation with severe acute respiratory syndrome along with septic shock due to Covid-19. Among others who succumbed to Covid-19, coupled with other comorbidities, on Tuesday morning include a 47-year-old woman from Waluj and a 53-year-old man from Chetnagar, Aurangabad. Eight people have died of Covid-19 between Monday evening and Tuesday morning, taking the death toll to 318. Officials in the administration said that of the 7,134 Covid-19 cases registered in the district so far, 3,571 patients have been treated and duly discharged from hospitals across the district while 3,245 patients were still being treated at the GMCH an other private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/117-ve-cases-emerge-in-aurangabad/articleshow/76840897.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Nashik||4 Sena corporatorsjoin NCP in Parner||Nashik: With elections to the Parner municipal council scheduled for later this year, the battle for political supremacy is on between Shiv Sena and NCP, the two Maha Vikas Aghadi partners. Four sitting Sena corporators, along with an independent corporator, recently joined the NCP. The Sena camp is, however, optimistic about winning back the rebel corporators. “We will talk to these corporators and convince them to return to the partyfold,” said the Ahmednagar Sena district president, Sashikant Gade. The rebel Sena corporators have ruled out returning to their old party. “We are unhappy with the local Sena leadership for failing to resolve the water crisis in Parner. We are not returning to Sena,” said one of the corporators, Nandkumar Deshmukh. In the last civic polls, out of 17 seats, Sena had won nine, NCP two, Congress one and independents five seats. Although Parner is a stronghold of Sena, NCP has made inroads of late as former Sena leader Nilesh Lanke won that seat on an NCP ticket defeating the formidable Sena candidate Vijay Auti by nearly 60,000 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-sena-corporatorsjoin-ncp-in-parner/articleshow/76840908.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tightening immigration rules and Covid cast shadow over foreign edu||Visakhapatnam: In a move that is expected to affect thousands of Indian students, the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) on Monday asked foreign students whose colleges have shifted to online teaching to shift to schools with in-person instruction or leave the country. The US is not the only country to have imposed restrictions on immigration as universities undergo a transformation in pedagogy amid the pandemic. While many institutions have adopted the ‘new normal’ and shifted to remote learning, some foreign universities are offering the choice of deferring admission to the next semester after paying the deposit. Explaining similar measures by other countries, Sneha Surapaneni, head of operations at Edmium, an overseas education consultancy, said, “In the UK, students can complete the courses online and can still avail the post-study work visa. Australian varsities are allowing students to pursue up to two modules from India through the virtual mode. Canadian institutions made it clear that the post-study work visa will be given to only those who enter their borders on or before December 31, 2020.” Universities are also encouraging students to opt for two-year courses, instead of one-year courses, Surapaneni said. “Otherwise, they will lose the opportunity of studying onshore at the campus given the pandemic. Even though the application flow is not affected much, we are expecting an overall drop of student enrolment by 40% this year in foreign varsities,” she said. Closer home, M Siva Saketh, an engineering graduate, had long nurtured the dream of a Master’s degree in the US. Saketh received acceptance letters from several premier educational institutions. The uncertainty brought on by the pandemic and the closure of international borders, however, has him planning to defer admission to the 2021 spring semester, instead of opting for online classes. Like Saketh, thousands of Telugu students who have aspired to an education overseas and have received acceptance letters are caught in a Catch-22 situation. Director, Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy, Prof VSRK Prasad has asked students to continue overseas education instead of deferring it to the next semester or year. “They can attend in-person classes once normalcy returns. In fact, competition may turn fierce next semester as freshers may join the foreign education bandwagon. Institutions may go for a fee revision. Deferring will also cost students an academic year,” said Prof Prasad. P Vasu Ramakrishna, senior branch manager, Union Bank, MVP Colony, said there has been a lull in students approaching the bank for overseas education loans. “This might be due to the pandemic and the ongoing uncertainty. Enquiries for loans have reduced,” said Ramakrishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tightening-immigration-rules-and-covid-cast-shadow-over-foreign-edu/articleshow/76842275.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 8, 2020||Surat||Cash-starved Daman hoteliers roll out huge discounts to woo tourists||SURAT: While authorities in Gujarat's watering hole of Daman have banned the entry of single-day visitors to contain the spread of coronavirus, hoteliers of Daman are making all-out efforts to woo tourists by dishing out huge discounts to salvage their businesses. The Daman Hotel and Restaurant Association (DHRA), apex body of the hoteliers and restaurant owners in the union territory (UT), has unanimously decided to give one-night free stay for those booking for one or more nights. Offers also include room tariff discounts ranging from 15-20%, cheaper liquor and beer purchased from the wine shops and huge discounts on food bills. DHRA office-bearers said the hospitality industry in Daman was on the verge of shutdown since the lockdown began on March 25. Except for the workers in the industrial units in Daman, the entry of leisure travellers is banned. About 10 hotels in Daman are occupied by the employees of the big industrial houses from Gujarat. The Daman administration has allowed the entry of tourists into Daman only through the hotels. Tourists will have to book the hotels two days in advance and make the payment online for getting approval from the administration. Secretary of DHRA, Haresh Thangal told TOI, “It is for the first time in the history of our association that one night free accommodation is being offered on the booking of one or more days. Incomes of hotels and restaurants have drastically reduced.” Pramod Tandel, a hotelier said, “There has been no business since March. We have a staff of about 25 people and half of them have left. To sustain, we have to offer discounts.” Gopal Tandel, president of DHRA said, “Earlier, a beer would cost Rs 250-Rs 350 in the hotel. But now the visitors can get the beer from the wine shop for Rs 60-Rs 100 and enjoy in the hotel rooms.” Tandel added, “We have to offer unconventional plans to attract tourists and generate revenue to pay to at least pay salaries to our employees and other overheads including electricity bills.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cash-starved-daman-hoteliers-roll-out-huge-discounts-to-woo-tourists/articleshow/76842289.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kochi||Allegations baseless, govt open to any probe: Kerala CM||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday termed the allegations raised against his office in connection with the gold smuggling case politically motivated and said “it should not be compared with the solar scam that rocked the previous UDF government.” The CM, who explained in detail each and every controversy raised against his office, said, “all these controversies are an attempt to destabilize this government since the state is going to face the elections in less than a year.” Vijayan said neither his office nor his government is in anyway related to the case. “The government is open to any kind of probe in the case and the Centre has to take a decision on this. The government will extend its full support if the Centre goes for a probe,” he said. “The parcel that has been seized by the Customs at the airport was not addressed to the chief minister’s office or to any state government agency. But it was addressed to the UAE consulate. Then, how can my office or my government be made responsible for this?” the CM asked. The state government has no role in the airport or in the Customs probe. The Customs officials themselves have made it clear that there was no call from the CM’s office to them. “The allegations levelled by the opposition that his office had intervened in the case has become baseless with this revelation,” he added. The only controversy is the appointment given to the woman, who has alleged links in the gold smuggling, in the IT department under the government. The fact is that she was not a direct employee under the IT department. There are agencies under the IT department which look after several projects. This woman was given an appointment in one of the projects as a contract employee. She was recruited by a placement agency, the CM said. This placement agency might have given appointment depending upon the experiences she had while working with the UAE consulate and with the subsidiary of Air India AISATS at the airport. The state government had nothing to do in all these recruitments. It has to be probed on whose recommendation she got placement in these two agencies, Vijayan said. “The state government till date has not received any complaint against her while working with the project. There was no allegation of any kind of irregularities made by her,” he added. It should also be noted that the crime branch has filed an affidavit against her before the high court in a case. Hence it is evident that the state government has not favoured her in any manner. “The allegations are aimed at creating a bad impression about the government and the opposition wants to capitalise on this to face the next election. The people of the state are well aware what has happened with the UDF in the solar scam,” said the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/allegations-baseless-govt-open-to-any-probe-pinarayi/articleshow/76842310.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Chennai||Hit hard by fund crunch, 68% of MSMEs in Tamil Nadu face closure, finds IIT-M survey||CHENNAI: Post Covid-19, Micro Small Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Tamil Nadu are under severe stress due to revenue loss, fund crunch, delayed payments and reduced logistics services. With demand falling and orders being cancelled, 68% of MSMEs have less than a month’s cash flow to function which may result in layoffs and closure if corrective measures are not taken, an IIT-Madras survey has found. While 27% MSMEs said they can manage up to three months, nearly 5% said they can sustain operations from four to six months, and more. The survey found that more than 50% of enterprises were affected by cancellation of orders while 74% reported revenue loss in excess of 80% compared to last year. IIT-Madras along with ConsoTree, a research body, found 78% of MSMEs were shut down during the lockdown. “The day to day functioning of MSMEs is crippled due to non-availability of workers and cancellation of orders. It is directly linked with lack of demand which is a serious obstacle,” said Subash Sasidharan from the department of humanities and social sciences, IIT Madras, and one of the researchers. “While transportation, financial services, communication, construction, manufacturing, education, hotels and restaurants, services, wholesales and retails reported heavy revenue loss, poultry, logistics and rent stated their revenue has no difference compared to last year,” he said. A few industries like advertising, health and social sector have reported increase in revenue by 10% to 20%. “Around 45% of MSMEs said they will not lay off workers despite revenue loss while 18.32% said they will terminate more than 50% of the workforce,” said Santosh Kumar Sahu, an IIT-M researcher. Around 91% said they need government support to tide over the crisis. The firms suggested interest subvention (62.78%), GST exemption (60.12%), debt relief (53.79%), rent and electricity tariff reduction (48.63%) for the recovery of micro small medium enterprises. “The government should reduce the interest to MSMEs and make the credit available to micro firms to revive the sector,” Sasidharan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fund-crunch-falling-demand-hit-msmes-hard/articleshow/76843110.cms||A Ragu Raman
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana secretariat buildings' demolition: No implosion, officials fall back on time-tested methods||HYDERABAD: Contrary to the belief that implosion technology would be put to use to bring down the secretariat buildings, the R&B department and GHMC went by the time-tested method of demolishing them manually and by using bulldozers. Sources close to a top R&B official involved in planning the demolition exercise said it may take at least 15 to 20 days for the entire process, demolition and clearing of debris, to be completed. Earlier, the government had asked the R&B officials to study the success percentage of the implosion technique following which the officials also got in touch with some of the agencies involved in pulling down structures through the implosion technique. Though utilising implosion technique was always there on the cards, sources said the government did not adopt the technique as inviting tenders and selecting the lowest bidder would have consumed lot of time allowing the opposition parties and others to go to Supreme Court and get stay orders. Also, no public notice was issued for diversion of traffic to alert the motorists as it would have given scope for the opposition parties to create hungama by holding protests and marching towards the secretariat. The TRS government did not want to take any chances given the fact that the main opposition Congress was planning to a file a case in the Supreme Court to get a stay order on the high court verdict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-implosion-officials-fall-back-on-time-tested-methods/articleshow/76843685.cms||Roushan Ali
July 8, 2020||Vijayawada||For many, an end to the American dream||Vijayawada: Following the announcement by the US ICE that foreign students must leave the country if universities switch to online-only classes, students from the state pursuing a degree in the US are now regretting their decision of moving to the US. According to a 2019 Open Doors Report on International Education Exchange, the US has 2,02,014 Indian students. The number of Indian students increased by three per cent, compared to previous years, the November 2019 report says. Members of the Telugu Association of North America (TANA) said students from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana comprise at least a third (around 66,000) of Indian students in the US. Despite changes in immigration policy, the desire for a US degree remains high among students from the state. Speaking to TOI, K Ravindranath, pursuing a Master’s degree at the University of California said he had received a job offer but has little chances of returning to the US. “My parents are from a farming background and with high expectations they had taken loans by mortgaging their land to enroll me at the university. Now, almost several universities are looking to shift to online-only classes and this will leave us stranded even after the lockdown in the US is lifted,” Ravindranath told TOI. Vaaka Shilpa, another student from East Godavari district, who is pursuing a Master’s degree in pharmacy at the University of Pittsburgh said her course is taught online as well as through in-person instruction as clinical studies depend on lab facilities. “Our situation is described by the immigration and customs enforcement (ICE) as a ‘hybrid model.’ We could get to stay here only if the college officially declares to the Student and Exchange Visitor Programme (SEVP) that the course is not entirely online. The ball is in the respective colleges’ court,” Shilpa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/for-many-an-end-to-the-american-dream/articleshow/76842306.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 8, 2020||Varanasi||Mau cops confiscate illegal properties of dons, henchmen||Varanasi: After hitting the economic empire and armoury of jailed mafia don Mukhtar Ansari, Mau cops confiscated the property of over Rs 60 lakhs of his sharpshooter and land mafia Brijesh Sonkar. Earlier, properties of over Rs 6 crores of another jailed mafia don Dhruv Singh alias Kuntu Singh, who was in limelight after former MLA Sarvesh Singh Sippu murder case in 2013, had been confiscated in Azamgarh. Kuntu’s properties, mostly immovable, were in the name of his wife. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “The drive against the mafia elements, gangsters and their close ones is continuing against organised gang activities. The wealth generated by them by indulging in activities like grabbing precious government land, illegal trades, extortion and investing in properties are also being checked by maintaining coordination with all other departments concerned.” The ADG said that as a part of the drive, the officials of Mau district administration and police confiscated the property of Mukhtar’s sharp-shooter and land mafia Brijesh Sonkar of Rs 60.15 lakhs including a plot and vehicles in Kopaganj area. He was booked under Gangster Act and the confiscated properties had been found purchased with money earned through illegal means, he added. Sonkar was co-accused with Mukhtar in Ram Singh Maurya murder case, which took place in Dakshintola area in 2010. He was arrested in Subhas Ram murder case in 2019 after a cash reward of Rs 50,000 and a case of grabbing land of a local was also registered against him after which he was booked under Gangster Act. He is in the list of land mafias of Mau. Before a week of this action in Mau, the Azamgarh district administration and police had confiscated the properties of jailed don Kuntu Singh of Rs 6.48 crores after booking him under Gangster Act, he said. Two constructed houses and a plot in the name of Kuntu’s wife Vandana Singh and a polytechnic college campus were covered in this action, said the ADG. Kuntu, who is presently lodged in Ballia jail, is known for continuing his gang activities from jail. As per police records, 40 criminal cases are lodged against him. His involvement had also come to light in 2013 former MLA Sarvesh Singh Sipu murder case after which law and order problem had generated and angry mob of Sipur supporters had also attacked police station. Since the launching of fresh drive against the organised gangs, the people associated with Mukhtar mainly come on the target of cops in Mau, Ghazipur, Varanasi and Azamgarh districts since May end. In June, Mau cops booked 11 henchmen of Mukhtar under Gangster Act for extorting money in the name of taxi stands and also busted an illegal slaughter house by arresting five after which cash reward was announced on three others while three of his accomplices involved in illegal trade of fish were also held with over 10 ton of fish. The armoury of Mukhtar and his hanchmen were also hit by the cops in Mau and Ghazipur. Land of Andhau air strip and gram sabha on which FCI godown were run, were also freed from the possession of Mukhtar’s family members and henchmen. Jaunpur cops, who had arrested Mukhtar backed fish mafia Ravindra Nishad and B Narang Rao on July 4, were also booked under Gangster Act on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mau-cops-confiscate-illegal-properties-of-dons-henchmen/articleshow/76840932.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Pharmacy institute to prepare immunity booster||Aurangabad: The principal and staff of Kamala Nehru Polytechnic (Pharmacy) run by the Maulana Azad Education Society in Aurangabad have decided to start a sub-centre of the Unani medical college in Malegaon to prepare and distribute immunity boosters. Principal Ghalib I Hundekari said Mohammadia Tibbiya College and Assayer Hospital in Malegaon, which had introduced the combination of Ayurvedic/Unani herbs as immunity booster, advised them to prepare the kadha and distribute it. He pointed out that Tibbia college has made public its preparation in the larger interest of the people. “We had requested Tibbiya College to send us the material in ample quantity. Instead, they shared details of how the immunity boosters can be prepared with the concoction of nine herbs, each of which has to be taken 6gms.” “The Tibbiya college pointed out that the joshanda/kadha traditional medicine given to the patients admitted in their OPD and also to the state police had obtained good results,” said Ghalib. The nine ingredients include mulethi (glycerrhisa glabra), unnab (zizphus vulgaris), khaksi (sisymbrium Lori), gaozaban (Borago Officinalis), khatami (Althaea officinalis), khubbazi (Mlava sylvestris) , sapistan (cordia latifoila), Barge Adusa (Athatoda Vasica) and ustkhuddus (Lavwndula stoechas). These things are easily available in the market and are very cost effective. “We will also rope in NGOs to distribute this immunity booster among citizens,” said Ghalib. “We are also asking people to take utmost precaution like washing hands regularly with soap, avoiding crowds, stepping out only when necessary and maintaining social distancing to keep Covid-19 at bay,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pharmacy-institute-to-prepare-immunity-booster/articleshow/76840918.cms||---
July 8, 2020||India||Reference to ‘community spread’ sparks confusion||NEW DELHI: A reference to “limited community transmission” in a guidance paper on mental health in the times of Covid sparked speculation over the spread of the disease but was clarified by officials as a passing mention and not part of any epidemiological study. The guidance prepared by the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru, said that “at the time of this publication, in early April 2020, India is still at the stage of limited community spread and there is no idea how this pandemic will unfold”. Officials said the reference was not elaborated and the passage itself indicated that the trajectory of the disease was uncertain. Moreover, the tract dealt with SOPs for mental health challenges. In March too, a similar mention in another set of SOPs had triggered comment. Then the government had said the phrase has been used in a limited context. The mental health guidelines at another point states “screening of the high-risk (vulnerable) population once community transmission is established”. Officials maintain cases of enhanced local transmission are targeted by containment zones to ensure they do not result in exponential growth in cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/reference-to-community-spread-sparks-confusion/articleshow/76844561.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Online learning distant dream for over 2.75L students in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: A survey carried out by Aurangabad zilla parishad (ZP) has revealed that over 2.75 lakh school and junior college students do not have access to smartphones. The survey covered all 2,799 educational institutions from Aurangabad district imparting education from Std I to Std XII. Aurangabad ZP education officer (primary) SP Jaiswal on Tuesday said that the survey results have been shared with the government for taking an informed decision while framing policies for virtual education in the state during the ongoing pandemic. “We all are working on finding solution to the problem of unavailability of smartphones with a large section of students,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/online-learning-distant-dream-for-over-2-75l-students-in-aurangabad/articleshow/76840947.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra CM Jagan to distribute house sites on Aug 15||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has postponed its house sites distribution programme from July 8 to August 15. The decision was taken following court orders. The issue is still pending in the Supreme Court. Following a petition against land acquisition in West Godavari, the high court had quashed the government’s decision. The state government had challenged the issue in the Supreme Court. Meanwhile, chief minister during his interaction with the district collectors on Spandana review through video conference from his Tadepalli residence on Tuesday, asked them to resolve any issues before the new deadline. The CM said the government had proposed distributing 30 lakh house site pattas and registering them in the name of women. The programme is expected to cover over 20% of the state’s population, he said. The programme required 62,000 acres of land in 13 districts, which have already identified. Some private lands too were purchased, at a cost of Rs 7,500 crore, he said. The CM said the programme involved the distribution of land worth Rs 20,000 crore to the poor and criticised the opposition for creating hurdles to welfare programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-to-distribute-house-sites-on-aug-15/articleshow/76842314.cms||Gopi Dara
July 8, 2020||Pune||Over 1k cases in 24 hours shoot up PMR tally above 30k||Pune: The Covid-19 case burden in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) breached the 30,000-mark on Tuesday, with the addition of 1,134 cases in the last 24 hours, which pushed the region’s tally to 30,978.Besides, 29 more patients succumbed to the contagion in the region on Tuesday, pushing the death tally to 919. According to District Health Office (DHO), the areas under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) added 584 cases on Tuesday, while the Pimpri Chinchwad areas recorded 356 new cases. The rural and Cantonment areas reported 119 and 75 cases, respectively, on Tuesday. PMC health officials said 672 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours in PMC limits. “As many as 385 patients were at critical stage and being treated at various hospitals. Of these, 63 patients were on ventilator support,” a PMC health official said, adding that 3,467 swab samples were collected and sent for testing on Tuesday. The official said the active caseload in PMC limits came down to 7,859 on Tuesday as compared to from Monday’s 7,912. Among the casualties reported on Tuesday, seven patients succumbed to the infection at the Sassoon General Hospital. These included a 75-year-old man from Bavdhan, a 76-year-old man from Phursungi, a 55-year-old man from Bhavani Peth, a 78-year-old woman from Hadapsar and a 41-year-old man from the Bopodi area, The patients who die3d at private hospitals included a 60-year-old man from Guruwar Peth, a 74-year-old man from the Koregaon Park area, a 61-year-old man from Dhanakawdi, a 61-year-old man from Kothrud, a 70-year-old man from the Bibvewadi area, an 89-year-old woman from Somwar Peth, a 71-year-old man from the Bibvewadi area, a 55-year-old woman from the Parvati area, a 42-year-old man from Yerawada, a 70-year-old man from Ghorpadi Peth, a 55-year-old woman from the Sinhagad Road area, a 39-year-old man from Erandwane, a 63-year-old woman from the Bibvewadi area. A 58-year-old man from the Sutarwadi area succumbed to the infection at the district hospital Aundh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-1k-cases-in-24-hours-shoot-up-pmr-tally-above-30k/articleshow/76843683.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 8, 2020||Patna||Rs 8.59 lakh looted from banks in Vaishali, Buxar||PATNA: Armed criminals looted more than Rs 8.59 lakh in cash from two bank branches in Vaishali and Buxar districts in broad daylight on Tuesday after holding employees and customer hostage at gunpoint. At least three criminals barged into the branch of Fino Payments Bank at Suraj Chowk under the Sarai police station area in Vaishali district around 11am. SHO of Sarai police station Sunita Kumari said the criminals fired three rounds in air before escaping with the cash. “The criminals took just five minutes to loot Rs 3,98,430 from the bank. Three empty cartridges were recovered from the spot,” she added. “In the CCTV footages obtained from the bank, three criminals with their faces covered are seen. Their associates were probably waiting outside the bank. No CCTV camera was installed outside the bank branch,” the SHO said. An hour later, a gang of about 12 criminals struck at the Bank of India branch at Mahdah under the Mufassil police station area in Buxar district and looted Rs 4.61 lakh. Buxar SP Upendra Nath Verma said seven criminals were visible in the CCTV footages obtained from the bank. Verma added borders of the district had been sealed immediately after the incident and raids were on to arrest the criminals. SHO of Mufassil police station Mukesh Kumar said the criminals had covered their faces with towels while committing the crime. “At least three criminals were carrying firearms. Only a male customer was inside the bank when the incident occurred,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs8-59l-looted-from-banks-in-vaishali-buxar/articleshow/76842344.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Vijayawada||CM on two-day Kadapa visit||Tirupati: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy reached Kadapa on Tuesday on a 2-day visit. After halting for the night at Idupulapaya, he will pay obeisance at his father and former chief minister YS Rajasekhar Reddy’s memorial on the occasion of the latter’s birth anniversary on Wednesday. Jagan will later unveil YSR’s statue at the IIIT campus. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-on-two-day-kadapa-visit/articleshow/76842337.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Pune||Around 60% patients recover in PCMC limits||Pimpri Chinchwad: Over 3,000 Covid-19 patients have recovered in Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits, putting the recovery rate at a healthy 60%. According to the PCMC health department, of the 5,203 people tested positive for the contagion till July 7 evening, as many as 3,138 or 60% have recovered. On Tuesday itself, 239 patients were discharged after being declared cured. Santosh Patil, additional municipal commissioner, said ample facilities and early detection had resulted in better recovery rate. Even though the recovery rate is encouraging, the corporation is more focused on reducing the number of positive cases, for which various strategies will be implemented in the coming days, he added. A PCMC health department official said the number of infected persons in the age group of 13-39 account for more than 50% of the total positive cases, which also helped in recovery. The recent data from the health department revealed that there were 1,956 cases in the 22-39 age group and 577 cases in the 13-21 age group. The official said there had been a steady surge in the cases after the PCMC lifted curbs in the lockdown four (May 18) and five (June 1). “But the recovery rate too has remained steady in the municipal limits,”he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/around-60-patients-recover-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/76843686.cms||Piyush Bhusari
July 8, 2020||Chennai||Violating coronavirus curbs? Tamil Nadu govt may slap fine of up to Rs 2 lakh||CHENNAI: Violating Covid-19 precautions can attract a penalty of up to Rs 2 lakh or more if the public health department has its way, director of public health Dr TS Selvavinayagam said. In the wake several people and offices violating norms, the director of public health, in a letter to deputy directors of health services and municipal authorities, has given instructions to register cases under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act. “The state can recover the cost of treatment for people infected or the cost of sanitation from individuals and institutions,” Dr Selvavinayagam said. While in the Nilgiris a man infected 95 people in 20 days, there were instances of people violating quarantine rules in Salem. “Super spreaders usually increase caseloads across the world. Studies have shown that 60% of the cases are caused by 20% of people,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur. Senior public health officials said if the state decides to strengthen the case further, it can book them under for violations under the Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code. “Punishments under these legal provisions are more severe and includes jail term,” a senior deputy director of public health said. In 2017, to contain dengue, the state booked people under Section 269 of IPC. The case is slapped against “whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is - and which he knows or has reason to believe to be - likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life.” The person can be punished with imprisonment of up to six months, or fined - or both. In October 2019, Greater Chennai Corporation fined Zomato Rs 1 lakh for leaving discarded bags its delivery executives use for carrying food on the terrace of the firm’s premises in Chetpet. It also fined Central government organisations like the Integral Coach Factory in Perambur for “mosquito breeding”. “We will be initiating similar measures for containment of Covid-19,” said joint commissioner health Madhusudhan Reddy. “As lockdown rules are relaxed we have asked all institutions to follow standard operating procedures,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/violating-covid-curbs-get-ready-to-pay-a-fine/articleshow/76843117.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold-smuggling case: In a checkered career, Swapna Suresh pulled strings||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The career graph of Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the high-profile gold-smuggling case, has been one of spectacular climbs, ever since she relocated to Kerala and started her career as a low-key employee in a run-of-the-mill travel agency in the state capital. Residents in Neyyattinkara, where her mother still lives, say Swapna relocated from Abu Dhabi around 2010-11. Not many had any idea about her activities, though several of them attest to her opulent lifestyle in the years that followed. Read AlsoWhat is Kerala's gold smuggling scam?NEW DELHI: In a major haul of gold smuggled into Kerala, customs officers at Trivandrum International Airport on July 4 seized gold worth more than Rs 13 crore. The gold brought in the cargo was addressed to a consulate office in Manacaud, Thiruvananthapuram. Around 30 kilograms of gold was seizedFrom her early childhood, Swapna had lived in Abu Dhabi, where her father was working. There, she had a brief stint in the passenger service wing of Abu Dhabi airport before her move to her home state. It was in 2011 that she completed her bachelor’s degree in commerce from Dr Dadasaheb Ambedkar University in Maharashtra. Adept at developing contacts, Swapna soon become part of power circles when she joined Air India SATS, a ground-handling agency at Thiruvananthapuram airport. She had to quit the job after a series of sexual harassment charges plagued the company, leading to the ouster of a few AISATS and Air India officials. One of the victims approached the high court against the complainant and the crime branch registered an FIR against Swapna, for forging documents for a fake complaint, based on the HC directive. Read AlsoKerala gold scam claims 1st scalp: CM’s principal secretaryKerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday engaged in some quick damage control by forcing his principal secretary, IAS officer M Sivasankar, to quit as a gold smuggling racket involving diplomatic channels threatened to expose the alleged complicity of the chief minister’s office (CMO) in the crime.Immediately after leaving the job at the airport, she joined the UAE consulate here in a key position. However, she was sacked a few years later, allegedly for improper professional behaviour. Her foray into the IT department, say insiders, was after PwC selected her with the help of a manpower supply agency. “Kerala State IT Infrastructure Ltd (KSITL) provided a workstation to space park project management unit. She worked as an operations manager there. She was reporting to ICT academy CEO Santhosh Kurup who is the special officer of the space park project,” they said. Read AlsoKerala gold smuggling case: Diplomatic channels, other modus operandi of smugglersThe recent incident where 30kg of gold was smuggled in using diplomatic baggage (and its political fallout), highlights to what extent the yellow metal is in demand in the state and, worse, the nexus between criminals and supposed crime fighters.It was in July last year that the state government announced its plans to set to a space systems park. Sources add that a background check by the manpower agency didn’t reveal any case against her. Swapna continued to work for KSITL till Monday, when her contract was terminated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/in-a-checkered-career-swapna-pulled-strings/articleshow/76842338.cms||B S Anilkumar
July 8, 2020||Hubballi||Hebbalkar decries Ramesh’s remark on poll spend||Belagavi: Water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has kicked up a row by stating that he would spend as much money as possible to ensure the defeat of rival candidates in the next elections to DCC (District Cooperative Central) Bank, which may be held next year. The statement was made targeting his arch political rival Belagavi Rural MLA, Laxmi R Hebbalkar, as her brother is poised to contest for the post of the bank director. Ramesh also alleged that Laxmi had distributed pressure cookers as a freebie — at his expense — to voters during the 2018 poll campaign. Laxmi is now planning to file a complaint against the minister with the Election Commission as he has openly declared that he would spend money from his pocket for the DCC polls. Ramesh made the statement after inaugurating the party’s Belagavi Rural office. He said: “At any cost, we have to bring the party to power in the Rural constituency in the 2023 assembly polls. In the last elections, the candidate (Laxmi) has supplied cookers and it was my money as I was in Congress then.” Suresh Angadi, minister of state for railways, was present at the event. The EC had filed a case against Laxmi for allegedly violating the election code of conduct, and the matter is now sub-judice. He later appealed to the party workers to start preparing for all the upcoming polls. Although the DCC bank poll is not fought on symbols, party loyalists have to win the elections. “For winning DCC, I will spend double the amount what a rival candidate could spend,” he said. The video clip of his talk on poll spend has gone viral on social media. Speaking to TOI, Laxmi said that she has taken note of his statement, and is discussing with her legal team to file a complaint. “Cookers were distributed during the launch of Harsha Sugars (sugar factory) as a promotional activity, and the matter is in the court. Now, Ramesh will have to prove that the money spent on cookers is his,” she said. The Congress legislator further said that she is contemplating to file a complaint with the EC against the minister for openly claiming that he would be spending cash to win the bank polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hebbalkar-decries-rameshs-remark-on-poll-spend/articleshow/76838946.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Mylabs launches portable lab for faster testing||PUNE: Molecular test maker Mylabs Discovery Solutions has launched a new product that can reduce manpower and space requirements — and give results faster — for Covid-19 test. the company said the new machine can process 32 tests per hour. Mylabs said that the new kit can reduce the requirement of 4-5 technicians and 800-1,000 sqft space for a molecular test lab, and also help with greater precision testing. The Pune-based company — in which Serum Institute of India’s Adar Poonawalla has invested over Rs 100 crore so far — said it producing less than half of its capacity of 2 million tests a week as “there is no demand”. Mylabs said the new machine, which can process 32 tests in a single hour, is priced at Rs 40 lakh. The company and Poonawalla also appealed to the government to allow exports of the tests. Mylabs director Sujit Jain said the company has received many enquiries from European nations and Gulf cooperation countries. In India, the company sells each test at less than Rs 1,000 per kit to government and private labs, which then decide their own pricing subject to caps imposed by respective state governments. Mylabs managing director Hasmukh Rawal said they were also in the process of making rapid antigen test kits. “However, a negative result requires further confirmation with the RT-PCR test, which remains the gold standard,” he said. Mylabs has provided about 20% of the 10 million tests conducted in India so far. Poonawalla said that the government must reconsider its strategy for testing and allow more tests for people who want it. “More testing is the only way to prevent the spread till a vaccine is developed,” Poonawalla said, adding, “Now people can get a test only if there is a prescription. So many asymptomatic cases are getting missed.” He said SII will bring out a vaccine only after thoroughly checking its efficacy and following the three-stage trials. “It is at least six months away,” he said. Poonawalla said the government is, perhaps, not testing to keep the numbers low. “Harm is not in testing and cases going up. If the numbers go up and there is no risk, there is no problem. Harm is in people dying and it happening because the virus is not being detected early,” he added. Serum Institute of India’s founder Cyrus Poonawalla said testing and isolation was the only way forward, otherwise there was a risk of mass contamination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mylabs-launches-portable-lab-for-faster-testing/articleshow/76843689.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 8, 2020||Allahabad||Lawyers to attend virtual courtproceedings at 8 e-seva centres||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has made arrangements of cubicles and eight eSeva Kendras across the city for the lawyers to participate in court proceedings through video conferencing without travelling to the high court premises. This will enable the lawyers to participate in virtual hearings at the centres closest to their residence/office. The scheme will be available from July 13, and any lawyer interested in appearing in virtual court through video conferencing can avail the facility. According to a notice in this regard issued by the joint registrar (j) (computer) of the high court on Monday, considering the continued gravity of the situation created by the Covid-19 pandemic, the High Court at Allahabad has decided to continue the system of enabling counsels to appear in virtual court hearings through the video conferencing (VC) mode if they so desired. First and foremost, the video conferencing cubicles have been set up at Gate 3A, 3B and 5 and in the stadium pavilion where lawyers may appear in their respective cases. These cubicles will be run on the internet of the high court, they will enable seamless video conferencing hearings without the problems of internet connectivity or bandwidth issues. The facility established will be able to cater to 30 simultaneous video conferencing sessions during time slots earmarked for courts separately. Apart from this, video conferencing cubicles at eight eSeva Kendras have also been earmarked and exclusively set apart for hearings if the case, enabling lawyers to participate in virtual hearings at the Kendra closest to their residence/office without having to travel to the high court premises. The above facilities for VC are in addition to the existing facility to lawyers availing the facility of hearing through video conferencing from their mobile phone or laptop from their residence or office as the case may be.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/lawyers-to-attend-virtual-courtproceedings-at-8-e-seva-centres/articleshow/76820747.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Nashik||Centre increases onion procurement target||Nashik: The Centre has revised its onion procurement target for creating the buffer stock from 50,000 tonne to 1 lakh tonne due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed) has been directed by the government to procure onions in order to tackle possible scarcity between August and October. In April, the Centre had directed Nafed to procure 50,000 tonne of summer onions and the procurement process had begun in the first week of May. “For the first time the Centre will create a buffer stock of onions to such a large quantity. We have doubled the onion procurement target considering the scarcity of onions due to Covid-19 pandemic,” an official from union agriculture ministry said. A Nafed officials said that they have already procured 45,000 tonne of onions with bulk of the purchase coming from Nashik district and other parts of Maharashtra. “The Centre has directed us to procure 1 lakh tonne of onions. The ongoing rainfall is delaying the procurement, but we are expecting to complete the target by the first week of August,” Sanjeev Kumar Chadha, managing director of Nafed, told TOI. “Of the 1 lakh tonne, 85,000 tonne will be procured from Maharashtra, while the remaining 15,000 tonne are to be procured from Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/centre-increases-onion-procurement-target/articleshow/76840984.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Oppn pans govt on secretariat demolition||Hyderabad: The opposition parties strongly condemned the demolition of structurally-fit secretariat buildings and said it was a black day in the history of the Telangana state. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said, “It is a glaring misuse of public money during coronavirus pandemic crisis. The courts intervene when the government fails to act as per law but in the case of secretariat demolition, people were disappointed with the judiciary,” he said. Uttam said the verdict of the high court permitting construction of the new secretariat buildings was challenged in the Supreme Court and the matter was to be heard on Wednesday. However, the old structure was demolished in a midnight operation only to nullify a possible stay by the Supreme Court. “The new secretariat complex is being constructed to benefit the contractors with a Rs 1,000 crore deal,” he said. BJP state president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar said the state could have completed a state-of-the-art hospital for the poor to treat coronavirus patients with Rs 500 crore it will be spending on building the new secretariat. BJP chief spokesperson K Krishna Sagar Rao said while the chief ministers in the country are busy building infrastructure to accommodate Covid-19 patients, unfortunately Telangana has a CM who is busy demolishing the existing infrastructure which could have been easily turned into a facility to accommodate thousands of Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/oppn-pans-govt-on-secretariat-demolition/articleshow/76843728.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Pune||One held, 2 booked for assault on constable||Pune: A chicken shopowner was arrested on Monday on the charge of assaulting a police constable when the latter asked the patrons not to crowd in front of the shop in Bopodi on Sunday night. The Khadki police are on a lookout for his two accomplices for their alleged involvement in the attack. A few police personnel were patrolling the area around 8pm when they spotted a crowd in front of the shop. “Constable DR Lonkar told the patrons to disperse in view of the coronavirus outbreak in the city. This enraged the chicken shopowner and his two accomplices, following which they beat up the constable,” an officer from Khadki police said. The officer said that the trio rushed punched and slapped the constable. The officer said Lonkar suffered injuries on his chest and back. “We arrested the chicken shop operator, Sahil Arvind Pardeshi (31) of Bopodi, on Monday. We are on a lookout for ,” the officer said. He said according to Lonkar’s complaint, the shop was operating beyond 7pm deadline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-held-2-booked-for-assault-on-constable/articleshow/76843697.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Vendor killed in dispute over Rs 1,500||KOTA: A 41-year-old fruit vendor, who sustained stab wounds in his stomach following a dispute over Rs 1,500, died during treatment in a government hospital in Jhalawar late on Monday night. On the basis of his dying statement and report by his father, police lodged a case of murder against two accused, who are yet to be nabbed. Police handed over the body to family members after postmortem on Tuesday. “The man identified as Ikrar, a resident of Pachpahad village under Bhawanimandi police station in Jhalawar, was brought to hospital following an attack with sharp weapons in his village on Monday evening,” Bhawanimandi SHO Mahavir Singh said. In the statement to police before death, the deceased stated that two persons, identified as Harish and Vishnu, on Monday evening took him to a place where they first provoked him and then Harish attacked him with a sharp weapon causing severe injury in stomach, the SHO said. In his dying statement he also said there was a dispute over Rs 1,500 between him and the two accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vendor-killed-in-dispute-over-rs-1500/articleshow/76843145.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Preference to kids of government staff in state-run English schools criticised||JAIPUR: The state government’s decision to give preference to children of government employees in Mahatma Gandhi English Medium Schools is facing criticism from parents and education experts who said that the move defeats the purpose of providing quality education to children of economic weaker sections. There are about 167 Mahatma Gandhi English Medium Schools at the block level across the state. The standard of infrastructure of the schools, teachers and facilities are supposed to better in these government schools as compared to others. Rajasthan Abhibhavak Sangh president Sushil Sharma said due to the economic downfall due to the pandemic, government jobs are financially secure. “The most affected in this pandemic is the unorganized sector. If the government has established schools, then economic weaker section should be given preference. Almost all the government employees can afford to send their children to private schools. This order not justified and giving unwanted privilege to some section of people,” said Sharma. Thousands of applications are arriving for admissions in the schools. According to school staff at the Mahatma Gandhi English Medium School at Mansarover here, parents residing 20 km away are coming forward to get their wards admitted there for free and quality education. According to rules, one section will consist of 30 students and if the number of applications is more, then the lottery system will be followed. A senior education department officer said, “The process to prioritize government employees’ students has to be looked into. We are currently drafting the policy for the English medium schools and once that is be ready, things will be cleared.” While commenting on it, education expert K.B.Kothari said similar policy has been adopted in KV Schools and Navodya Vidhalaya because of which students from better social and economic status are now given admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/preference-to-kids-of-govt-staff-in-state-run-english-schools-criticised/articleshow/76843128.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Hotels await civic bodies’ nod to open their doors to guests||PUNE: The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations on Tuesday said hotels could not resume business from Wednesday. However, the district collector, in an order on Tuesday, allowed hotels, lodges and guesthouses in Pune rural areas, such as Hinjewadi, to reopen. The state government had given the go-ahead for hotels to reopen — at reduced capacity — from Wednesday. However, the order needs to be reiterated by the civic or district authorities first. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said it was adopting a “wait and watch” approach for a few days. “The number of positive patients is very high in the city. We will not allow hotels to open immediately. They will have to wait for another couple of days,” Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said on Tuesday, adding they would review the situation soon. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation said the situation was too uncertain and that it would take a decision in this regard later this week. “We will assess the need for quarantine centres and beds, and take a decision to (let hotels) reopen later this week,” PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, On the state government nod to reopen hotels, collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “After the state government issues instructions, the order is reiterated by the civic or district authorities and only then can it be implemented in toto in the city/district. The hoteliers must wait for permission from the civic bodies.” “We are empowered to take stringent measures considering the ground situation. Unless the civic body issues an order to hoteliers, allowing them to resume business, they cannot reopen,” Gaikwad reiterated. “Hoteliers are taken aback and shocked, especially because till late on Tuesday night we had no official (or unofficial) communication from PMC about not opening from Wednesday. We were all set to open, many staff members were called back and room booking channels were reopened for Wednesday,” the Poona Hoteliers’ Association (PHA) told TOI. But PHA president Sharan Shetty said they will toe the line. “We had not received a notification from PMC in this regard, so we were all prepared to open from Wednesday based on the state order. It is a shock to know so late that we cannot reopen from Wednesday. We will now wait for an official order from PMC in this regard before reopening our premises,” he said. “It is definitely a big setback for all those hotels that had made preparations to open up and may have taken some confirmed bookings online or from their corporate company segment,” another hotelier said. According to PMC’s data, the number of positive patients in the municipal limits crossed 23,000 on Tuesday. The number of active positive cases stood at 7,859. (With inputs from Satyanarayan Iyer)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hotels-await-civic-bodies-nod-to-open-their-doors-to-guests/articleshow/76843724.cms||Neha Madaan
July 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold scam: Probe to focus on Customs Act violation||KOCHI: Amid calls for a CBI probe into the gold smuggling attempt through diplomatic baggage in Thiruvananthapuram, Customs commissioner Sumit Kumar said that the offence was a violation of the Customs Act and only DRI (Directorate of Revenue Intelligence) and Customs have jurisdiction to probe the case at this stage. “If any other offences like money laundering, income tax violations, corruption, etc. are involved, it would only be revealed after our primary probe. Other agencies may be able to conduct a probe later, if details about such activities surface at a later stage. Now, the offence that has occurred is the violation of the Customs Act and Customs and DRI are the only agencies which have jurisdiction over this,” said Kumar. The commissioner on Tuesday held a meeting with his officials, including the team probing the case, at his residence in Willingdon Island as his office in Broadway was in the Covid-19 containment zone. The meeting which started around 11.30am continued till 1.30pm. Meanwhile, sources privy to the information said that the Customs commissionerate (Preventive) probing the smuggling bid at Thiruvananthapuram airport is unlikely to probe the chief minister’s office unless the CMO is in any way directly connected to the incident. “Connection of the suspect Swapna Suresh with CM’s office is not within our purview unless any direct involvement of the office with smuggling activities come to the fore. The probe is only about the violation of the Customs Act as and about the smuggling activity,” said an official source. Customs would soon seek the custody of Sarith P S, who was arrested and remanded in judicial custody on Monday night. He underwent a Covid-19 test at Aluva on Tuesday morning, source said. Meanwhile, sources under condition of anonymity said that state or central agencies can carry out a probe to find out about the connections Swapna maintained with the CM’s office if any evidence of foul play surfaces. “Probe into appointment of staff in the state government agencies has nothing to do with Customs and if there is any preliminary evidence for any foul play in such appointments, then agencies concerned can probe that aspect,” said a source. Meanwhile, sources said that the DRI is closely monitoring the case since the diplomatic channel was used for smuggling activities and it could have connections with other cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/probe-to-focus-on-customs-act-violation/articleshow/76842377.cms||Disney Tom
July 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: ITDA hospital carries out its first C-section||VISAKHAPATNAM: The first Cesarean section at a hospital under the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Paderu in Visakhapatnam district was successfully performed on Tuesday. ITDA project officer Venkateswar Salijamala said both mother and baby are doing well. The delivery is the first such in the history of the ITDA area hospital in Paderu, the project officer said, adding that the woman is 23-year-old Lochali Vasantha from Hukumpeta in Visakhapatnam district. Deputy chief minister Pamula Pushpa Sreevani, who visited the hospital, said government authorities would previously refer emergency cases to nearby plains, such as Vizag city, but the trend is changing. Ön behalf of the government, I congratulate everyone for successfully carrying out the C-section delivery. This is the best exmple of how well health services function in tribal pockets of Andhra Pradesh,” the deputy chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/itda-hospital-carries-out-its-first-c-section/articleshow/76842368.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Pune||Woman, scribe & former cop in net on charges of extortion bid||Pune: A woman, a local journalist and a former policeman were arrested while a search was on for two more persons, including an RTI activist, on the basis of an FIR filed by a builder (64) accusing them of trying to extort Rs2 crore and a plot in Rasta Peth from him. The builder, in his FIR with the Kothrud police, said the five persons had also issued death threats to him. In January, the woman arrested in the instant case had lodged an FIR with the Hinjewadi police accusing the builder of sexually exploiting her over a period of 12 years on the promise of marriage. Kothrud police inspector Kiran Balwadkar told TOI, “The builder gave us a complaint application In March against the woman and the four others. He has now lodged a formal FIR following relaxations in the lockdown. We have made the three arrests and are further investigating the matter.” Balwadkar said, “The builder has alleged in his FIR that the woman and the journalist claimed before him that they had contacts with influential people from politics, police and social fields, including the RTI activist, the policeman (who has been dismissed from service) and the fifth suspect and, that, they would implicant him in a false case.” The builder said he came in contact with the woman in 2007 and rented a Bavdhan flat for her in 2013. In 2017, he bought the flat in a joint ownership with the woman. However, since 2019 the woman started demanding money from him and threatened to frame him in a false case, the FIR stated. “In November 2019, the woman told the builder that the former policeman, RTI activist and journalist were with her and that she would destroy him if he did not give her Rs6 lakh and transferred the flat in her name,” said Balwadkar. In December 2019, the builder executed a stamp paper agreement about flat ownership in her favour and agreed to give her Rs6 lakh in eight instalments, the FIR stated and added, he transferred Rs1.5 lakh to her account. ”On December 26 last year, she scaled up her demand to Rs2 crore and the Rasta Peth plot,” the officer said, citing the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-scribe-former-cop-in-net-on-charges-of-extortion-bid/articleshow/76843130.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Dead fish float in Medchal lake, fisherfolk blame it on chemicals||Hyderabad: A large number of dead fish floated on the surface of Suthariguda lake in Gundlapochampally municipality of Medchal district on Monday, leaving local fisherfolk distraught. While locals alleged that toxic chemicals were brought in the middle of the night and dumped in the lake by chemical units, officials said the fish might have died due to lack of dissolved oxygen. Local fishermen said that they had suffered the loss of lakhs of rupees due to the pollution that killed the fish. Medchal district fisheries officer Narasimha Rao told TOI that Rs 60,000 worth fish may have died in the lake. “I inspected the lake after receiving information from local officials. The loss is being exaggerated by the fishermen.” He said a connecting drain brings sewage into the lake. “Our preliminary observation is that due to weather phenomenon and rains, the dissolved oxygen levels have come down in the lake which has resulted in the death of fish. We have pressed into service hree aerators for restoring dissolved ooxygen levels. We will keep the lake under observation for the next two days,” he said. Fisheries officials said that they had informed the Telangana State Pollution Control Board about the dead fish. PCB Medchal environmental engineer Praveen Kumar told TOI that they have collected the samples from the lake and sent them for an examination. “There are no signs of chemical pollution. We will examine the water and file a report,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dead-fish-float-in-medchal-lake-fisherfolk-blame-it-on-chemicals/articleshow/76830331.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Trough shifts, monsoon on a short break till next week||PUNE: The monsoon is likely to enter a subdued phase for most of Maharashtra, some parts of peninsular India and central India from July 9, India Meteorological Department’s weather models showed on Tuesday. India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists told TOI that the subdued monsoon phase over most of Maharashtra, except Konkan, is likely to continue till July 16. Till then, rainfall would be scattered with mainly light rain over Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha. Whenever the monsoon trough shifts towards the foothills of Himalayas, it is associated with subdued rains over parts of Maharashtra and adjoining regions. The monsoon trough, which is now south of its normal position at lower tropospheric levels, is very likely to shift gradually northwards along the foothills of Himalayas from Wednesday. This would result in less rainfall activity over most parts of the state, even though widespread rain over Konkan may continue. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune said that during the next few days, Madhya Maharashtra, Vidarbha, Marathwada and some parts of central and peninsular India are likely to get only scattered light to moderate rains at isolated places as weather models indicate the absence of systems to trigger good rains in these regions as of now. “Around July 9, the monsoon trough will move towards the foothills of Himalayas. In addition, a high convergence of south westerlies/southerlies winds from Bay of Bengal at lower tropospheric levels is very likely over northeast and east India from Wednesday,” he said. Under its influence, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over northeastern states, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim, Bihar and East Uttar Pradesh from July 8 onwards. Therefore, though rains will increase in these parts, most of Maharashtra may record a reduction in rains for a few days, Kashyapi added. After July 9, the forecast for Pune city by IMD has also changed to light rain from the current moderate or light to moderate rain forecast. D S Pai, scientist and head, Climate Research and Services, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, said, there will be a slight decrease in rains over most parts of Maharashtra during the next few days, as the monsoon trough will move towards the foothills of the Himalayas. “When this happens, rainfall generally increases over the foothills of the Himalayas as well as northeast India which is also likely to also happen after July 9. Even though rains will decrease in interior parts of Maharashtra during that time, south Konkan will continue to get widespread rains,” he added. The last time when monsoon activity was subdued over parts of the state, rains had increased in North India as the trough had moved to the Himalayas’ foothill. But monsoon had not remained subdued over the state for long even then, Pai said. “We may see something similar now and rainfall activity may pick up again in Maharashtra after a few days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trough-shifts-monsoon-on-a-short-break-till-next-week/articleshow/76843121.cms||Neha Madaan
July 8, 2020||Nashik||Lasalgaon APMC shut for 3 days||Nashik: Onion auction at the Lasalgaon APMC has been suspended for three days beginning Tuesday after an onion trader tested positive for Covid-19. This is the third time the APMC has been closed in the last three months due to Covid-19. “We immediately closed the onion auction for three days as a preventive measure and the premises of the APMC are being sanitized,” said an APMC official. The APMC has been closed at a time when the arrival of onions had increased to 20,000 quintal per day and the average wholesale onion price stabilised at Rs 750 per quintal. The onions coming at the market are of summer onions, harvested in March and April. The summer onions have a shelf life of over six months. Hence, farmers prefer storing them in the hope of getting better prices. There is no fresh harvest for almost five months till mid-October, when fresh kharif onions will start arriving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lasalgaon-apmc-shut-for-3-days/articleshow/76841019.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 8, 2020||Rajkot||Boy molested at quarantine centre in Gujarat||RAJKOT: A 14-year-old boy from Surat, who had tested positive for Covid-19, was allegedly molested in a government quarantine facility in Bhavnagar. The boy, a Class X student, and his mother had tested positive on returning from Surat on July 1. However, his mother was shifted to the state government-run Sir T Hospital after her condition deteriorated on July 4. According to the complaint lodged by his mother, some unidentified person wearing a mask and a white shirt entered her son's room at around 2pm. The man identified himself as a doctor and, on the pretext of a medical check, asked the boy to undress. The man then allegedly tried to sodomize him, the FIR states. While leaving the room, the man told the boy that the check-up would be done again and that he shouldn't tell anyone about it. The traumatized boy then called up his mother from the cellphone of a patient in the adjacent room. She in turn informed her husband who was at her parents' house. "The boy and his mother were already suffering from fever and cough when they had started from Surat for Rajpara Bhal village where her parents live. As per her parents' directions, they directly went to Sir T Hospital and tested positive on July 2,” said M B Nakum, police inspector, Neelambaug police station where the complaint was lodged. Police are screening the CCTV footage of the Samras Girls Hostel where the quarantine facility has been set up. "We are also questioning some people to identify the person based on the description given by the boy," Nakum added. The unidentified person has been booked under section 12 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/boy-molested-at-quarantine-centre-in-guj/articleshow/76842381.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Greens see red over island of toxic silt in Hussainsagar||Hyderabad: An island created in the Hussainsagar as part of work to beautify and restore the water body has raised eyebrows. Civic activists are wondering if the mound made of silt could cause more harm than good to the lake. A special drive was initiated by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) two weeks ago ago to clean up the lake and to attract birds back. The mound, created with silt gathered from the Kukatpally inlet confluence, is meant to serve two purposes. First, remove difficulties faced in disposing of the dredged silt and second, attract birds and other fauna. There are two more mounds expected to come up soon. But, some activists say the island is toxic and harmful to the lake. “The silt from the Hussainsagar is carcinogenic and will not reduce the pollutants in the lake. This island will only reduce the holding capacity of the lake,” said Lubna Sarwath, former convenor, Save our Urban Lakes (SOUL). Sarwath said the matter is sub-judice with cases pending both in the National Green Tribunal and High Court which disallows any construction activity that could compromise the water body. Agreeing, Subba Rao, former member of the lake protection committee, Environment Protection Training and Research Institute, said: “What must be seen is not just the mound on top, but that volume of water below surface has been displaced. This could cause inundation in nearby areas.” He also questioned the idea of attracting birds through the island. “The mound does not replicate the natural habitat of birds.” However, the municipal administration department’s move to clean up the lake has received backing from some quarters. IICT scientist Raju L Kanchibhotla said: “The mound is small when compared to the size of the Hussainsagar. If it is well consolidated and covered, there will be no issues.” Studies have shown that sediment from the lake has heavy metals. Disposing of the sediment at dumpyards has not been permitted. Says Kanchibhotla: “Whether it is Jawaharnagar or Gajularamaram, one must also be cautious against polluting these areas as well.” Meanwhile, TSPCB authorities are not aware of the islands. A senior official said the PCB’s role was restricted to checking the water quality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/greens-see-red-over-island-of-toxic-silt-in-hussainsagar/articleshow/76830308.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Roja flayed for driving ambulance without mask||Tirupati: The launch of 108 and 104 ambulance services at Puttur in Nagari assembly constituency in Chittoor district has raised a controversy after images and videos surfaced of actress-turned-politician RK Roja taking to the driver’s seat of one of the ambulances without wearing a mask. The Nagari legislator launched the ambulance fleet on Tuesday. TDP state official spokesperson Kommareddy Pattabhiram lashed out at Roja for posing for pictures and videos while driving an ambulance meant to save lives. “Just a day ago we saw bodies of Covid-19 patients dumped in pits using earthmovers and today we see a ruling party legislator taking an ambulance for a joyride,” Pattabhiram said. Pointing out that the incident is also a violation of the ambulance code, Pattabhiram questioned how the legislator was authorised to drive an ambulance. Pattabhiram also criticised the manner in which Roja drove around in the ambulance without wearing a mask. “She also did not wear a mask which is mandatory for everyone and there is no rule that exempts elected representatives when the pandemic is fast spreading. Elected representatives should behave responsibly,” Pattabhiram said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/roja-flayed-for-driving-ambulance-without-mask/articleshow/76842392.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Vendors protest police action at vegetable market in Old City||Charminar: Vegetable vendors protested against police action at Khilwat ground in the Old City on Monday. Police said that the vendors were asked to maintain social distance which was not being followed. “We were not allowed to sell vegetables here. This is not right as all other businesses are on as usual. Some locals alleged that we were not maintaining social distance in the market. They called the cops to shoo us off,’’ said Imran one of the vendors. “The lockdown has made our lives miserable,” Shaik Mahmoob, one of the vegetable vendors, said. “Already we are suffering a lot due to monetary issues. Many of us took loans for doing business and which we will have to repay. If we are not allowed to sell here, then show us an alternate place,’’ said, Mahmoob, another vendor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vendors-protest-police-action-at-vegetable-market-in-old-city/articleshow/76830357.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Pune||NCL’s Venture Center to give N95 masks to frontliners||Pune: Venture Center, the non-profit technology business incubator located at National Chemical Laboratory, will raise funds up to Rs35 lakh to provide one lakh free N95 masks for frontline workers at government-approved Covid-19 hospitals. Venture Center has designed, manufactured and tested N95 masks that meet the relevant ISO standards. The project was initiated to solve the shortage of good quality N95 masks for frontline workers. The masks are named ‘MH12’. The masks will be made available against formal requests. Organizations can request for the MH 12 N95 masks on the website http://www.venturecenter.co.in/masks/. These efforts were aided by research testing support from Tata Institute of Fundamental Research in Mumbai, Bhabha Atomic Research Center in Mumbai and Defence Research and Development Establishment in Gwalior. A statement issued by the Venture Center said Ultra Autosonic India had been identified as a commercial partner for manufacturing and marketing these masks.V Premnath, the director of Venture Center, said, “The project was executed in a record time of two months including, manufacturing and testing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ncls-venture-center-to-give-n95-masks-to-frontliners/articleshow/76843740.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Pune||Pune municipal corporation allows demolition of University flyover||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) has issued a work order for the demolition of the University and E-Square flyovers after it got permission from the civic administration. On Monday, the Pune Municipal Corporation issued a conditional no-objection certificate (NOC) to PMRDA, in which the civic body clearly stated that it would not bear the cost of demolition and sought a detailed traffic alignment plan during the demolition work. The PMRDA was also told to abide by any further instructions issued by PMC’s general body, whenever it meets. PMRDA commissioner Vikram Kumar on Tuesday said they plan to complete the demolition of both structures — as a part of the plan to develop a Metro rail corridor — in 25 days. “A detailed traffic plan will be readied before the demolition. Vehicular movement will face no trouble,” Kumar said. Last month, the state government gave the go-ahead for the demolition of the two flyovers on Ganeshkhind Road. A new 1.5km-long flyover will be built in accordance with the alignment of the Shivajinagar-Hinjewadi Metro viaduct and the High-Capacity Mass Transit Route. However, the demolition could not proceed without permission from the PMC general body, which hasn’t met due to the pandemic outbreak. On Monday, the PMRDA received the conditional NOC from PMC, allowed it to take up the work. PMRDA chief Kumar said their concessionaire — Tata-Siemens — will chalk out a detailed plan for demolition and that work would start soon at various spots. “The concessionaire seemed confident of carrying out the work, even though many workers have moved back to their native places because of the pandemic,” he said. PMC — via the standing committee and then the general body — would have to approve the demolition. While the standing committee gave its approval, the GB meeting could not be held due to Covid-19, prompting the authorities to take a written consent from the members and a conditional clearance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-allows-demolition-of-university-flyover/articleshow/76843135.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Patna||Muzaffarpur civil surgeon, ACMO and 18 Bhojpur DM’s staff test +ve||PATNA: The civil surgeon and additional chief medical officer (ACMO) of Muzaffarpur and 18 employees posted at Bhojpur collectorate and the DM’s residence in Ara tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. However, the test report of Bhojpur DM Roshan Kushwaha was negative. Muzaffarpur civil surgeon confirmed the test reports and told TOI over the phone that he along with ACMO and several of his staff members tested Covid-19 positive late Monday night. The civil surgeon said he along with the ACMO and other infected employees were in quarantine. Bhojpur ADM Kumar Mangalam said limited number of the collectorate employees have been asked to come on duty. “No outsider will be allowed to enter the collectorate premises at least for a week. The entire collectorate premises is being sanitized,” he said. “Altogether 280 samples were collected from the employees at collectorate and the offices and residences of DM and SP for testing on Monday,” the ADM said. He said test reports of several employees were yet to come. “All the 18 staff members have been shifted to the isolation centre. The SP is already in isolation after testing Covid-19 positive,” he said. The ADM said most of the officers were in self quarantine as a precautionary measure. “The DM is still discharging his duty,” he said. In Kishanganj, a 72-hour special drive was conducted in the town on Tuesday after 40 coronavirus positive cases surfaced in the last eight days, DM Aditya Prakash told TOI over the phone. He said there were 15 containment zones in the town and most of the shops and establishments, except those under essential services category, were closed. “Some shops will remain shut. The district administration will take stern action against those found moving without masks,” he said. In Kishanganj, five civil courts employees and three inmates of district jail had also been tested Covid-19 positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/muz-civil-surgeon-acmo-and-18-bhojpur-dms-staff-test-ve/articleshow/76842416.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 8, 2020||Ajmer||ACB arrests lineman for bribe in Ajmer||JAIPUR: An electricity department lineman was arrested on Tuesday in Ajmer district while allegedly taking a bribe of RS 3,500, an Anti-Corruption Bureau official said. “Technical assistant (lineman) Babulal Charpota had demanded Rs 24,000 from 12 BPL families in Khorapada gram panchayat for power connection,” ACB ASP Madho Singh said. The accused had already accepted Rs 19,900 and was arrested red-handed on Tuesday while taking Rs 3,500, Singh said. He said a case has been registered against the accused under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/acb-arrests-lineman-for-bribe-in-ajmer/articleshow/76847157.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||‘Dropouts’ seek promotion without exams||KOTA: Over a hundred engineering ‘dropouts’ staged a protest outside Rajasthan Technical University (RTU) in Kota demanding to be promoted without clearing pending exams on Tuesday. These students enrolled for BTech between 2006-2011 and have exhausted all extra chances to clear their back papers. They are called dropouts and are eligible to apply for jobs which are based on Class XII exam. The RTU had allowed them a mercy chance to clear their back papers in March and April with an aim to see them become engineers. The exams had to be cancelled due to the pandemic. So, RTU had announced to conduct the exams once the situation became normal. The protesting students said that since the state has allowed the students to be promoted without exams, they should also be promoted. One of the protesters, Mohammad Ameer, a 2010 student of BTech civil, with two back papers, said, “We should also be promoted in the back paper on the basis of marking in our previous papers.” Controller of examination Dheeraj Mathur did not respond to the repeated calls and WhatsApp messages while RTU V-C Prof R A Gupta refused to speak. A senior RTU official has called the demand ‘unjust’ by the students. “They have exhausted all chances given to them as per the RTU rule book and still failed to clear the exams. The RTU is under no obligation to provide any further chance. It is just our kind-heartedness that we have decided to provide them with one last chance to clear their exam so that they can be called engineers,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dropouts-seek-promotion-without-exams/articleshow/76843139.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Pune||Four assault & rob bizman of 2 gold chains||Pune: Four motorcycle-borne men allegedly attacked and robbed a businessman of two gold chains, collectively worth Rs1.45 lakh, on Handewadi Road on the night of July 4. Businessman Harshal Modak (23) from Wadki registered an FIR with the Wanowrie police on July 6. A CCTV camera at a bakery in Satavanagar captured the images of the robbers as the altercation took place in front of the establishment. Their faces were masked and they were riding motorcycles without registration numbers. Police said Modak was heading home, after attending his friend’s birthday party, when two men on a motorcycle chased and intercepted his car. The pillion rider abused and thrashed Modak claiming that his car grazed their two-wheeler. Meanwhile, two more men reached the spot on another motorcycle. Police said one of these men, riding pillion, took a sickle and assaulted Modak on his neck. One of the suspects snatched two chains from Modak and then they all sped away, police said. “Our probe is on,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-assault-rob-bizman-of-2-gold-chains/articleshow/76843137.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||ACB arrests lineman for bribe in Ajmer||JAIPUR: An electricity department lineman was arrested on Tuesday in Ajmer district while allegedly taking a bribe of RS 3,500, an Anti-Corruption Bureau official said. “Technical assistant (lineman) Babulal Charpota had demanded Rs 24,000 from 12 BPL families in Khorapada gram panchayat for power connection,” ACB ASP Madho Singh said. The accused had already accepted Rs 19,900 and was arrested red-handed on Tuesday while taking Rs 3,500, Singh said. He said a case has been registered against the accused under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-arrests-lineman-for-bribe-in-ajmer/articleshow/76843131.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Private school students make a beeline for government English schools||JAIPUR: The state education department’s 334 English medium schools under two leagues — Mahatma Gandhi English Medium Schools (MGEM) and Swami Vivekanand Model (SVM) School — are draining students from private schools in the state. In the recently concluded admission process in 33 Mahatma Gandhi English Medium Schools, almost 40%-50% students were from private schools, reversing the education scenario in the state. “A good number of students from private schools have sought admission in our Mahatma Gandhi English Medium Schools even in their maiden year, which is a great motivation for us,” said Sourabh Swami, school education director, Rajasthan. He announced that the admission process in the remaining 167 schools will start from July 16, an opportunity not to be missed by parents. The MGEM schools based in urban areas are up to upper primary level, with a minimum intake of 60 students in each class. It has close to 80,000 seats. “I appeal to the parents from across the state to look for admission in these 167 schools. The admissions will be done on the basis of lottery and we encourage students from both private and government schools to apply for the same,” said Swami. Another reason that they are eating away private school students is that education is free and English medium students are more comfortable to go there, especially in upper primary classes. In Jaipur’s Mahatma Gandhi English Medium School, for 100 seats, it has received close to 1,600 applicants. This ratio of 1:16 is among the highest ever in any private school reported this year. The school has gone for a lottery to ensure fairness in the admission process. In Class I, for 30 seats, the applicants were 150 which shows the popularity of the school. The school is located in Mansarovar area which has several private schools, yet parents were seen queued up for this one-year-old school. Officials said that these schools are no less than the private schools when it comes to facilities and infrastructure. The SVM schools even have their dress, modern labs, playgrounds and some have swimming pools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pvt-school-students-make-a-beeline-for-govt-english-schools/articleshow/76843136.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||DRDO to set up research cell for def tech in IIT-H||Hyderabad: DRDO will set up a research cell in IIT-Hyderabad as part of effforts to develop critical defence technology indigenously. DRDO chairman and secretary, department of defence R&D, G Satheesh Reddy said the DRDO-IITH research cell would play a significant role in ensuring seamless execution of projects. “This MoU is aimed at bringing together the capabilities of DRDO and IITH in order to achieve greater heights in indigenous technology through collaborative research,” he said. The DRDO-IITH research cell will undertake basic and applied research programmes in identified technology areas and meet the future defence technological requirements. The MoU was signed by KK Pathak, director, Directorate of Futuristic Technology Management (DFTM), DRDO, MSR Prasad, scientist and director general, missiles and strategic systems (MSS), DRDO, and professor BS Murty, director, IITH. The MoU was signed during a virtual event organised at the DRDO DG-MSS office in the city on July 3 in which officials from DRDO and IITH took part. Professor Bhaskar Ramamurthi, director, IIT-Madras, hoped that the proposed research cell would make headway under the umbrella of RIC with strong collaboration between DRDO scientists and IITH researchers. Hyderabad: Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) has signed a License Agreement and Transfer of Technology (LAToT) with DRDO for Akash Missile Weapon System (Indian Army Variant). BDL is the lead integrator for Akash Weapon System. The contract was signed last week by Dr Dasharath Ram Director, DRDL and P Radha Krishna, Director (Production), BDL, Defence officials said.  Mayank Dwivedi, Director DI2TM , Dr Ajit Chaudhary, Project Director (Akaash), Narendra Kale, Project Director (Akaash Prime), Commodore (rtd) A Madhava Rao, Executive Director, BDL and P V Raja Ram, General Manager, BDL participated in the programme. TNNThose who participated in the programme included Mayank Dwivedi, Director DI2TM (through Video Conference), Dr. Ajit Chaudhary, Project Director (Akash), Narendra Kale, Project Director (Akash Prime), Commodore (rtd) A Madhava Rao, Executive Director, BDL and P V Raja Ram, General Manager, BDL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drdo-to-set-up-research-cell-for-def-tech-in-iit-h/articleshow/76830352.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 8, 2020||Pune||Duo arrested in relation to mechanic’s murder||Pune:Two youths were arrested on Tuesday on the charge of hacking a 25-year-old two-wheeler mechanic to death in the latter’s garage near Gandhi Bhavan in Kothrud the previous day around 3.30pm. The duo and their five accomplices then hacked Rakesh Kshirsagar to death with sharp weapons and fled. A crime branch team led by senior inspector Rajendra Mokashi received a tip-off that one of suspects was at Chandni Chowk. “We laid a trap and took Prashant Bavdhane (21) of Uttamnagar into custody,” Mokashi said. During questioning, Bavdhane revealed that his friend, Abhijit Manjile, had entered into a brawl with Kshirsagar, following which they hacked Kshirsagar to death, the officer said. Constable Rajendra Landge received a tip-off about Manjile, after which a team led by sub-inspector Suraj Gore arrested Manjile (20) from Pashan, senior inspector Kalpana of the Alankar police said. Both the arrested suspects have been handed over to the Kothrud police for further probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-arrested-in-relation-to-mechanics-murder/articleshow/76843142.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19 spreads to rural parts of region||Kolhapur: From cities to remote hilly areas, Covid-19 cases are now being reported from diverse locations in three districts of western Maharashtra. In Kolhapur district, 336 of the total 1,243 villages have reported patients. Kolhapur reported its first patient in the last week of March but recorded first cases from the rural area almost 40 days later. Data from Kolhapur indicates that 154 of the 983 positive cases are from urban or semi-urban regions, while the remaining are from grampanchayat areas. Similar trend is seen in Sangli district, which had 519 positive cases till Monday night. There are 50 cases from Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad municipal corporation, while 61 are from municipal council jurisdiction. Sangli district has recorded as many as 408 patients from grampanchayat jurisdictions. The hilly tehsil of Shirala, which is along Sangli and Kolhapur district border, has the highest number of patients (132), followed by Jat tehsil (74). Mandur village in Shirala tehsil has emerged as a hotspot with more than 75 patients so far. Bilur village in Jat tehsil is also showing rapid registration since a fortnight with over 50 patients so far. Satara district has reported Covid-19 patients in 393 out of 1,719 villages. Officials said June month recorded rapid registration in rural areas, including Patan, Mahabaleshwar, Jawli tehsils. These three tehsils had 287 of the 1,372 patients recorded till Tuesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-19-spreads-to-rural-parts-of-region/articleshow/76841042.cms||Satyajit Joshi
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid turns pharma courses into a lucrative career option||Hyderabad: With Covid-19 bringing the entire world to its knees, pharmaceutical sciences is turning into a lucrative career option for students planning to pursue undergraduate courses from the academic year 2020-21. “In the current pandemic, the number of affected patients is only set to rise. Naturally, requirement for pharmaceutical sciences professionals is also going to increase,” said Dr Srinivas Nanduri of placements and industry interaction and international collaboration cell in National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research Hyderabad. After clearing intermediate, four years of bachelor of pharmacy and six years of Pharm. D courses are on offer in the state. Students who pursue these courses, get placed as duty medical officers, drug quality controllers etc. “Private hospitals offer anywhere between Rs 30,000 and Rs 60,000 to Pharm. D graduates for positions such as clinical research analysts and duty medical officers. A large human resource is now required to take up administrative jobs at hospitals for which only Pharm. D graduates are eligible,” said K Ramdass, president of Telangana Pharmacy Colleges Managements Association.  Telangana engineering, agriculture and medical common entrance test is the eligibility test to secure admission in pharmaceutical sciences. So far, close to 80,000 candidates have registered for agriculture and medical sciences stream in the state. Last date for applying for Telangana Eamcet with late fee of Rs 10,000 is July 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-turns-pharma-courses-into-a-lucrative-career-option/articleshow/76830388.cms||Preeti Biswas
July 8, 2020||Ajmer||Sub-inspector interviews from today||AJMER: After a three-month long wait, the Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) will start interviews for the sub-inspector and platoon commander posts from Wednesday. RPSC has constituted three boards to conduct interviews of about 25 candidates per day. Each of the three boards will conduct at least eight interviews everyday. The state home department plans to recruit 511 sub-inspectors. The commission has issued an advisory to candidates directing them to wear masks as well as face shield while attending the interview in RPSC head office in Ajmer. The interviewees must use sanitizer before entering the main building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/sub-inspector-interviews-from-today/articleshow/76843144.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Students’ unions oppose UGC’s directive to conduct final-year exams||PUNE: The University Grants Commission (UGC)’s order for conducting examination for all final-year students in offline, online or blended mode by September-end has triggered panic and confusion among the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) students. Mahesh Kakde, controller of examination at SPPU, said the university would await a decision from the state government. “Being a state university, we have to abide by the state government rules and regulations. Once the Maharashtra government comes out with the exam rules, we shall follow the same.” Varun Sardesai, secretary of Yuvasena, said most courses followed a semester pattern which meant subjects change per semester. “It effectively means a final-year student has completed 85-90% of the course and even studies for the final semester. Hence, an aggregate of previous examination marks must be considered to evaluate final semester students.” Kalpesh Yadav, Pune city president of the Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena, said, “Isn’t UGC aware about the pandemic? The health of students should be of primary concern for any organisation. UGC’s fresh guidelines reflect that they do not care about the students’ health. Exams should be cancelled and the health of students should be given top priority.” SPPU Students’ Union, another group which has members from Maharashtra Pradesh Youth Congress and Yuvak Kranti Dal, had earlier sent a letter to the PMO requesting exam cancellation in the wake of Covid-19 spread. Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad has, however, welcomed the UGC’s move. “We think the university must hold exams by following all social distancing norms so that students’ careers and future is saved,” Dayanand Shinde, ABVP’s SPPU unit president, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-unions-oppose-ugcs-directive-to-conduct-final-year-exams/articleshow/76843750.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Application process for industries streamlined||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat Pollution Control Board, in an office order issued on Tuesday, has changed the definition of micro, small, medium and large enterprises in the state and fixed responsibilities for granting approvals for applications by industries. This is after the central government, through a notification, made changes in the micro, small and medium enterprises act, 2006 on the basis of investment that they have made. The GPCB chairman will grant approvals for applications for large industries, the member secretary will grant approvals for medium enterprises and environmental engineers will grant approvals for small enterprises. GPCB member secretary AV Shah said that these changes will reduce the time in granting approvals to industries and bring in transparency. Some of the applications which the GPCB processes are consent to establish units, consent to operate units, changes in product mix and amendments in existing applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/application-process-for-industries-streamlined/articleshow/76843155.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Pune||Youth rapes minor, held||Pune: A 22-year-old youth was arrested on Monday on the charges of raping a 16-year-old girl on December 10 last year. The girl recently told her mother about the incident, following which the latter lodged an FIR with the Kondhwa police on Monday. The suspect has been booked for offences under the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The police said he took her to a store roomand raped on the promise of marrying her. A police officer said, A” medical examination report of the girl is awaited.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-rapes-minor-held/articleshow/76843147.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC breather for Sastripuram units||Hyderabad: Admitting that its officials quoted wrong provisions of law while issuing notices, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on Monday informed the court that it is withdrawing all the show-cause and closure notices issued to the business, industrial and trade houses in Sastrypuram and Tatanagar areas located in the outskirts of Hyderabad.  Advocate General BS Prasad informed this to a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy that was hearing more than 700 petitions filed by the aggrieved traders. The bench while declaring the pleas as infructuous in view of the decision of the authorities to withdraw them, however gave liberty to them to issue fresh notices quoting the correct provisions of law. If the trade is not permitted in a residential area, say so. But do not say that it is a polluting industry. If it is a tiles godown, say so. But don’t say that they are burning tiles. No tiles trader would burn them, the bench said. while pointing out that the officials issued these notices without going to the site. The bench made it clear notices issued by pollution control board clearly pointing out polluting industries would remain intact and the hearing in such cases would continue. Pushpender Kaur, the counsel who has been fighting for the residents in the areas of Sastrypuram and Tatanagar, wanted the court to fix a time frame for the GHMC officials to act in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-breather-for-sastripuram-units/articleshow/76830364.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Delhi||Green quota: 20% of parking to be reserved for e-vehicles in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The new municipal rules have made it mandatory to reserve 20% of parking space for electric vehicles — with the provision of charging infrastructure — in all future projects, including malls, hospitals, public buildings, housing societies and commercial complexes. A senior civic official from the building department explained that the reserved parking spots would have to be displayed in the building layout plan, without which approval would not be granted. Officials believe this step would create a positive trend towards adopting cleaner electric technology, as lack of charging stations remain a hindrance for prospective buyers of e-vehicles. The officials said the proposal in this regard was moved by the Union ministry of power last year, based on future projections that almost 20% of vehicles would be electric in variety. The provision has now been incorporated in the building bylaws of the city and been notified by Delhi Development Authority. “Based on the occupancy pattern and the total parking provisions in the premises of various building types, charging infrastructures shall be provided only for EVs (electric vehicles), which is 20% of all parking capacity of the premise. Additionally, the building premise should also have additional power load, equivalent to the power required for all charging points,” the provision states. The amendment goes on to add that for all non-residential buildings, including group housing societies, any charging station installed in building premises that caters to commercial mode of charging of e-vehicles, will be deemed as a public charging station and shall have to install the minimum requirements of chargers as specified in the guidelines. Encouraging adoption of e-vehicles is expected to indirectly help in cutting down carbon emissions of the city. While comparing Indian cities for their emission scores, Delhi is on top as the biggest emitter at over 38 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent overall emissions, followed by Greater Mumbai at 22.7 million tonnes and Chennai at 22.1 million tonnes. The capital has 85 private cars per 1,000 people, against the national average of 8 cars. In terms of CO2 emissions due to motor vehicles, Delhi emits about 12.4 million tonnes. “Creating more charging infrastructure is seen as a pre-condition for phased migration towards sustainable transportation,” the guidelines state. The new provisions were also part of Delhi Electric Vehicles Policy. “Once adequate numbers of charging points are present, people will be more inclined to move towards cleaner fuels,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/green-quota-20-of-parking-to-be-reserved-for-e-vehicles/articleshow/76843166.cms||Paras Singh
July 8, 2020||Pune||Watchman duped of Rs 50.5k with Rs 12.6 lakh lottery bait||Pune: An unidentified caller posed as a representative of an e-commerce website and cheated a 26-year-old watchman of a housing society in Pashan of Rs50,500, by promising him a Rs12.6 lakh lottery amount on June 21.The watchman lodged an FIR against the suspects with the cybercrime police station on Monday. The watchman had used the e-commerce website, following which he received a call on June 21 from an “executive” of a popular e-commerce website. The caller told him he had won a luxury car. He told the watchman he could also avail the cash lottery of Rs12.6 lakh, which he opted for.The suspect gave him three bank account numbers and told him to transfer money to them as registration fees, income tax and other charges. The caller said it was mandatory as per the government rules. The watchman transferred a collective sum of Rs50,500 to the three bank accounts, a police officer said. “After receiving the money, the suspects stopped answering his calls. The victim exhausted all his savings,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/watchman-duped-of-rs-50-5k-with-rs-12-6-lakh-lottery-bait/articleshow/76843153.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Pune||‘CBSE syllabus cut fine, but what about competitive exams’||Pune: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE)’s move to rationalize syllabus for Classes IX to XII to the extent of 30% has local stakeholders relieved as well as concerned, with many raising questions if corresponding cuts will be made in the syllabus of competitive examinations too whenever these students become eligible to appear for them. On Tuesday, human resource minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank tweeted about the syllabus cuts and CBSE too uploaded circulars announcing rationalization in the syllabus from Class IX to XII. Pooja Garg, whose son is in Class IV and daughter in Class X, said online education was hard on students and with the reduced syllabus, it would be possible for teachers to finish it on time. “This will also reduce pressure on students. This was a necessary move in the present times,” she said. CV Madhavi, principal of DAV Public School, said the move might not do well for the students’ future. “Even the remaining 70% syllabus would need to be completed by taking extra classes once the physical classes begin. Hence, it is a good move for teachers. But for students, I think they will lose because many topics, which are skipped now, may form the basis of higher education.” Durgesh Mangeshkar of IITians Prashikshan Kendra advised students to ensure that they study the deleted topics at home. “Most probably entrance examination syllabus will not be cut and even if it is, these topics may come up again when the students take engineering or BSc. Hence, it is better to study them at home now than feel handicapped later,” he said. Vaibhav Bakliwal of the Bakliwal Tutorials, however, said most entrance examination syllabi were derived from what CBSE prescribed and the corresponding cuts would be done during entrance exams too. “This should, however, be applicable not just for the next year but even for the 2021-22 batch. I think it is better to wait and watch than jump to conclusions and panic,” he said. Amruta Prabhu, principal of the HDFC School, Pune, said with the pandemic situation worsening in the past few months, CBSE has rightly tried to reduce the mental and emotional stress that could be felt by the students in higher grades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cbse-syllabus-cut-fine-but-what-about-competitive-exams/articleshow/76843758.cms||Ardhra Nair
July 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Rapid test for 1L senior citizens in Solapur||Kolhapur: The Solapur Municipal Corporation (SMC) has identified one lakh senior citizens who will undergo rapid antigen tests. A plan has been chalked out to curb the spread of coronavirus as the city has been witnessing a sharp rise in the number of cases and deaths. According to the officials, the civic administration has identified one lakh senior citizens with the help of private and government hospitals. It has also identified another 20,000 citizens who have some kind of serious health issues and are vulnerable to Covid. These patients will be given treatment immediately if they show Covid symptoms. Officials said students of three medical colleges in the city will be trained for the massive exercise. Meanwhile, on Monday, 126 new patients were identified in Solapur city. On Tuesday, Solapur rural got 30 new patients. Meanwhile, Satara district has identified 36 new patients since Monday night. According to officials, 46 patients were discharged and three men succumbed on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rapid-test-for-1l-senior-citizens-in-solapur/articleshow/76841049.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to convince UGC for exemption from holding college exams||JAIPUR: Reacting to the UGC directive to hold exit exams in college and universities, the state higher education department on Tuesday said they will try to convince the regulatory body to allow states to take a call on holding the undergraduate and postgraduate exams. The department which had already announced the cancellation of the UG/PG exams due to the Covid-19 situation in the state is in a fix as the UGC directions are just the opposite. “Our department will examine the UGC guidelines. At some time, we will apprise UGC about the Covid-19 situation in the state and will convince them to give us exemption from holding exams. I am sure they will listen to us and other states where the situation is worse than us,” said Bhanwar Singh Bhati, state higher education minister. Defending the move of cancellation of exams, Bhati said that they took the decision after evaluating that the situation doesn’t look favourable for holding exams in the next one or two months. “Students were under severe stress over appearing in the exams under the strict rules of social distancing. Even thousands of students have to travel to appear in the exams making them vulnerable to the infectious disease. We wanted to give them clarity that they should prepare for the upcoming session,” said Bhati. The UGC guidelines said that exams will be held in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-to-convince-ugc-for-exemption-from-holding-college-exams/articleshow/76843152.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Nanjangud factory could soon produce remdesivir||BENGALURU: If the state government has its way, Jubilant Generics, the Nanjangud pharmaceutical company, which was the epicentre of a cluster outbreak in Mysuru district, could produce antiviral drug remdesivir, which is used to treat Covid-19. “The company has the licence [to produce the drug],” medical education minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday. “I have written to the Centre seeking approval for production of the drug.” He said a committee has been formed in Karnataka only to look into drugs used across the world for Covid-19 treatment. The minister also said officials on the frontlines in the battle against the pandemic for the last 120 days have been complaining of fatigue. “We need volunteers who can work jointly with the government. We will launch an app soon where volunteers can register. NGOs like Lions club, Rotary Club and RSS will be roped in,” said the minister. Meanwhile, since a time-limit was not set to regularise their services at a meeting with ministers on Tuesday, 507 MBBS doctors on contract have decided to go ahead with their plan to skip work from Wednesday. “Barring those of us working in emergency wings and Covid facilities, most of us will come to Bengaluru to request the government to set a time-frame to recruit us directly,” Karnataka Government Contract Doctors Association said late on Tuesday. A 57-year-old nurse working with KC General Hospital in Bengaluru died on Tuesday. The male nurse was a suspected Covid-19 patient and was admitted to a hospital in Chitradurga. “His death is a huge loss to the institution. He worked in both Covid and non-Covid wings of the hospital. He had suffered from breathlessness. His report for Covid was negative three days ago. We are not sure if he was tested again,” said KC General hospital authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nanjangud-factory-may-produce-remdesivir-to-treat-covid-19/articleshow/76842236.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand Cong passes resolution to make Rahul Gandhi party’s national chief||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand State Congress Committee, which met on Tuesday, passed a resolution requesting Rahul Gandhi to once again take charge of the party. Besides, it passed two other resolutions opposing the petrol-diesel price hike and lauding the efforts of the party members for their contribution in the fight against the Covid-19. In the five hour marathon meeting at state headquarters, ex-CM Harish Rawat said that the BJP has proved a failure on all fronts. “Through our resolution, we have requested Rahul Gandhi to take charge of the party as the country is going through a rough patch. The decisions taken by the BJP government have not gone well with the people and we need to raise our voice strongly against the ruling party.” He added that under the leadership of Gandhi, the party would start a nationwide protest against the failures of the BJP government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-cong-passes-resolution-to-make-rahul-gandhi-partys-national-chief/articleshow/76840063.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 8, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Toxic foam on Indrayani river triggers concern||PUNE: A thick layer of toxic foam on the surface of Indrayani river waters in the temple town of Alandi has caused alarm and concern among local residents, many of whom use it for drinking and domestic purposes. Residents as well as officials of the Alandi Municipal Council (AMC) have alleged that effluents released into the river at multiple locations by industrial units in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits are causing the problem. Citizens said that water supplied by the AMC is contaminated. They blamed the council and the Pune district administration for failing to address the issue and pointed out that the water was harmful for daily use. “Water contamination level is very high. We have to maintain the plant at least four to five times a year and this is a time consuming process,” an AMC engineering department official said. Maharashtra Pollution Control Board’s sub-regional officer (Pune rural) Nitin Shinde said, "In the past, we have stopped industrial discharge from PCMC areas into the river, but still we will survey the industrial zone afresh to find out the source, if any. Also, the possibility of some housing societies in Moshi and other villages along the river releasing sewage water directly into the river cannot be ruled out." Shinde said, "Two sewage treatment plants are being constructed in Chikhali to treat the water. We will review the project." Vaijayanta Umargekar, AMC president, said, "This a recurring problem. The PCMC and MPCB need to act tough on polluting industries as Alandi has no source other than the river for meeting water requirement."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/toxic-foam-on-indrayani-river-triggers-concern/articleshow/76843162.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Ministers slam TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy , defend sectt move||HYDERABAD: Coming down heavily on TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy and others, ministers and TRS leaders said the government would go ahead with the construction of the new secretariat. “During the pandemic, the government did not abandon people and their welfare. At the same time, it will keep its election promise on the new secretariat,” ministers G Jagadish Reddy and Talasani Srinivas Yadav and Rythu Bandhu Samithi president Palla Rajeshwar Reddy said. Addressing a press conference along with MPs, MLAs and MLCs here on Tuesday, they said it appeared that Uttam was not happy with the realisation of a separate state of Telangana functioning as he was demanding imposition of section 8 of AP Reorganisation Act, which gives powers to governor to take over certain powers. “It seems the TPCC president is not aware of the fact that there are separate governors for Telangana and AP now,” they said. Srinivas Yadav said, “It is not a TRS building. BJP leaders should know that the NDA government at the Centre is planning to construct a new parliament and they should stop politicising the secretariat issue.” Finance minister T Harish Rao also condemned the comments of Uttam seeking imposition of section 8. He said even after six years of Telangana being formed, the TPCC president wants AP’s domination over Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mantris-slam-uttam-defend-sectt-move/articleshow/76843775.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: No need for prescription, you can get tested at 17 private labs, says BMC||MUMBAI: From Wednesday, Mumbaikars can get tested for Covid-19 at any of 17 government-authorised private laboratories without a doctor’s prescription. BMC also said patients in institutional quarantine must test negative for Covid before discharge. Neither a prescription nor a self-declaration will be required for testing symptomatic or asymptomatic individuals, civic officials said. Private laboratories in Mumbai now offer the antibody test (to check for exposure to Covid) and real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, considered the gold standard in testing worldwide. Home swab collections will also be allowed. The move follows a Union health ministry directive signed jointly by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan and ICMR DG Dr Balaram Bhargava. The letter said impediments to restrict testing in states should be removed and immediate steps should be taken to facilitate and ramp up testing. BMC commissioner I S Chahal said on Tuesday evening that as track-test-track treat is the key strategy for early detection and containment of the pandemic, it is important to augment Covid testing in all wards. “This is the most liberal Covid testing policy anywhere in India to be implemented by BMC with immediate effect,” he said. But the laboratory will have to inform a patient’s positive status to BMC, which will intimate patients. Reports of positive cases can be shared by the laboratory with the patient a day after BMC is intimated, and after 11am, said a BMC circular. The testing capacity for a laboratory shall be taken as equal to number of samples that can be processed by a laboratory and submit results to the epidemiology cell of BMC within 24 hours of receipt of the sample, it said. Creation of even a single backlog by any testing laboratory shall be liable for strict action, including cancellation of licence, it added. BMC had earlier allowed people aged 70 to get themselves tested without a prescription. BMC’s failure to increase tests was criticised. “The city’s share in number of tests conducted across the state has been shrinking for the last few months. It should have increased. Hopefully, this Union government directive will do needful,’’ said Association of Medical Consultants president Dr Deepak Baid. Around 4,500 tests are being done in Mumbai daily. On July 6, BMC’s update said 3,961 tests were conducted, while 4,510 were done on July 5. Senior BMC officials said this was another step towards its Mission Universal Testing, which it launched a fortnight back. Under this BMC is keen on ramping up testing from the average 4,500 tests per day to 6,500. A senior official said an early diagnosis of the disease makes it possible to start treatment in time and the patient is more likely to recover early. “In view of this and considering increased private laboratories in Mumbai which are now allowed to conduct Covid-19 tests, the decision was taken to allow tests without the written advice of a doctor,” said the official. Rates for testing will be those fixed by government. In case of private laboratories, if samples for the medical test are taken to the house, Rs 2,800 will be charged, while it will Rs2,500 per test at private laboratories. The laboratories which have been authorized are as follows:Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, Thyrocare, Suburban, HN reliance, Metropolis, SRL, Infexn, SRL Phadke, IGENETICS, PD Hinduja, Qualilife Diagnostics, Dr.Jariwala, Nanavati hospital, Sunflower, NM Medical, Jaslok, Life care diagnostic (With inputs by Malathy Iyer)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-need-for-prescription-you-can-get-tested-at-17-pvt-labs-bmc/articleshow/76843346.cms||Richa Pinto
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||14 graveyards get uplift amid Covid-19 surge||Hyderabad: After the Sunday midnight rain left a Covid-19 body partially burnt, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials swung into action and put works pertaining to 14 graveyards in the city on the fast track. A GHMC source said the body at Erragadda graveyard was set afire as per Covid-19 protocol, but the rain doused the flames.  “Soon after the caretaker at the graveyard called us, we rushed back to the location in the wee hours to ensure the body is cremated as per norms,” a GHMC officer said. As there was no shed where the body was burnt, the pyre got doused. On Monday, GHMC staff started constructing sheds at the Erragadda graveyard. Chairing a meeting at the Commissioner and Director of Municipal Administration office, Masab Tank, on Monday, MAUD principal secretary Arvind Kumar on Monday directed GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar and zonal commissioners to ensure the last rites of Covid-19 victims were performed as per guidelines laid down by the government. The GHMC would revamp graveyards with amenities such as ghats, rest rooms, changing rooms, drinking water facility, renovated compound wall and greenery. Of the 14 existing graveyards which were being renovated, four of them have electrical crematoria. Graveyards at SR Nagar, Bansilalpet (Secuderabad) and Amberpet were among the 14 graveyards being renovated. GHMC officials said that there was a shortage of body handlers. “Before the spike in numbers, we used to send body handlers to private hospitals, but now that is not possible. Just managing bodies at government hospitals with the staff we have is tough,” a GHMC official on Covid-19 duty told TOI. The GHMC has formed a committee, headed by a nodal officer, to ensure proper disposal of Covid-19 bodies as per guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/14-graveyards-get-uplift-amid-covid-19-surge/articleshow/76830400.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Plots allotted to industrialists at Aithor GIDC||Gandhinagar: Deputy chief minister, Nitin Patel, on Tuesday, allotted plots to industrialists in the newly constructed Aithor GIDC in Mehsana district, through a draw of lots held at Gandhinagar. Constructed over 47 hectare, the Aithor GIDC, has 279 plots of which draw of lots was conducted for 245 plots. A total of 1,135 applications were made by industries for plots in the newly constructed industrial estate. Speaking on the occasion, Patel said that the state government has announced a slew of sops for industrialists who set up units in the GIDC industrial estates. “Apart from providing land at ‘jantri’ rates, the state government has provided all necessary infrastructure at the industrial estates, he said. He further added that in a bid to provide employment to local people, the state government will set up more industrial estates at taluka levels in the state. “The Rs 14,000 crore economic package announced by the state government will help industries to set up units and begin production quickly,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plots-allotted-to-industrialists-at-aithor-gidc/articleshow/76843165.cms||---
July 8, 2020||World||Visa to students: India voices ‘disappointment’, US says will review order||NEW DELHI: India has asked the US to reconsider its latest order on foreign students, saying it would seriously inconvenience the 2,00,000-strong Indian student community in US. Strongly raising the issue during consultations on Tuesday between foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and US undersecretary David Hale, India said it was “disappointed” by the order. The US Student and Exchange Visitor Program has issued a direction asking foreign students in US schools and colleges, whose classes have moved online, to return to their own countries. This, Shringla said, would only aggravate the uncertainty students are already battling with Covid. India asked for “flexibility” in the US guidelines to make it easier for Indian students studying there. In their answer, the US side agreed to take a relook at the issue. Detailed implementation guidelines for the F-1 visa are yet to come out, sources said. The India-US foreign office consultations, coming in the middle of a bitter confrontation between India and China, focused a lot on China. US Secretary of State Mike pompeo has indicated the US may also ban Chinese mobile apps, like India. In addition, the Indo-Pacific featured in the talks today. India and US are together in an Indo-Pacific dialogue within the Quad Plus format, as the countries seek to cooperate in a post-Covid situation. India and US also talked extensively on Afghanistan and on cooperating in the UN Security Council, which India joins as a non-permanent member for two years from January 2021. A statement by MEA at the end of the talks said “They agreed on the need to deepen cooperation in the United Nations, especially during India's membership of the United Nations Security Council for the period 2021-2022.” The statement added, “they agreed to further strengthen the bilateral health partnership, including on pharmaceuticals and vaccine development.” The US, in their statement said, “They also agreed that the US-India health partnership, including cooperation on pharmaceutical and vaccine development, will continue to play a critical role in the world’s recovery from Covid-19. “ Listing the topics discussed, the US state department in their statement said, “The discussions included ongoing threats to the rules-based international order, bilateral and multilateral diplomatic cooperation, maritime security, and the global response to the Covid-19 pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/visa-to-students-india-voices-disappointment-us-says-will-review-order/articleshow/76844582.cms||Indrani Bagchi
July 8, 2020||India||Visa to students: India voices ‘disappointment’, US says will review order||NEW DELHI: India has asked the US to reconsider its latest order on foreign students, saying it would seriously inconvenience the 2,00,000-strong Indian student community in US. Strongly raising the issue during consultations on Tuesday between foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and US undersecretary David Hale, India said it was “disappointed” by the order. The US Student and Exchange Visitor Program has issued a direction asking foreign students in US schools and colleges, whose classes have moved online, to return to their own countries. This, Shringla said, would only aggravate the uncertainty students are already battling with Covid. India asked for “flexibility” in the US guidelines to make it easier for Indian students studying there. In their answer, the US side agreed to take a relook at the issue. Detailed implementation guidelines for the F-1 visa are yet to come out, sources said. The India-US foreign office consultations, coming in the middle of a bitter confrontation between India and China, focused a lot on China. US Secretary of State Mike pompeo has indicated the US may also ban Chinese mobile apps, like India. In addition, the Indo-Pacific featured in the talks today. India and US are together in an Indo-Pacific dialogue within the Quad Plus format, as the countries seek to cooperate in a post-Covid situation. India and US also talked extensively on Afghanistan and on cooperating in the UN Security Council, which India joins as a non-permanent member for two years from January 2021. A statement by MEA at the end of the talks said “They agreed on the need to deepen cooperation in the United Nations, especially during India's membership of the United Nations Security Council for the period 2021-2022.” The statement added, “they agreed to further strengthen the bilateral health partnership, including on pharmaceuticals and vaccine development.” The US, in their statement said, “They also agreed that the US-India health partnership, including cooperation on pharmaceutical and vaccine development, will continue to play a critical role in the world’s recovery from Covid-19. “ Listing the topics discussed, the US state department in their statement said, “The discussions included ongoing threats to the rules-based international order, bilateral and multilateral diplomatic cooperation, maritime security, and the global response to the Covid-19 pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/visa-to-students-india-voices-disappointment-us-says-will-review-order/articleshow/76844581.cms||Indrani Bagchi
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mudra loan NPAs up 17% in nine months||AHMEDABAD: Faced with numerous challenges amid a weak economic scenario even before the lockdown, small businesses are struggling to repay their loans. Evidently, the gross non-performing assets for loans extended to entrepreneurs and small businesses as part of Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY) have grown by 17% in merely nine months. According to the latest State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) report, the NPAs for Mudra loans have grown from Rs 450 crore at the end of the first quarter of 2019-20, to Rs 530.3 crore at the end of 2019-20.  Industry players said that small businesses faced a major liquidity crisis due to the demand slowdown that began way before the lockdown. As a result, small businesses, which otherwise thrived on orders and outsourced job work from corporates, suffered major revenue shortfalls. As a consequence, their bad loan burden went up. “Sectors such as textiles, diamonds and automobile were adversely hit due to the economic slowdown. MSMEs are typically service providers to big companies and as globally the demand went down, smaller industries in these sectors were out of business which gave rise to liquidity concerns. For instance, the demand in the automobile sector was down for past two years and the small players were adversely affected which supplied components to the OEMs,” said Chintan Thaker, co-chair, Assocham Gujarat state council. Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY) was launched to encourage entrepreneurship and to help small businesses – which had typically remained outside the ambit of a mainstream bank. While NPAs rose, the gross advances for Mudra loans under Shishu, Kishore and Tarun categories grew 6.7% from Rs 10,954 crore at the end of the first quarter of 2019-20 to Rs 11,669.7 crore at the end 2019-20 on March 31, 2020. Bankers said that while disbursements were in line with targets, several Mudra loan accounts were also under stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mudra-loan-npas-up-17-in-nine-months/articleshow/76843177.cms||Niyati Parikh
July 8, 2020||Varanasi||Vikas Dubey earned epithet of Gabbar Singh of ‘Bikru’||Kanpur: Gangster Vikas Dubey’s hawk-like grip over the rugged hamlet in Kanpur district and the ruthlessness with which he crushed any whiff of challenge not only enforced terror, but also invoked the folklore of fear from Chambal ravines, earning him the epithet of Gabbar Singh of ‘Bikru’. Drawing the ‘Sholay’ parallel and conjuring up its unforgettable villain, Gabbar, was not without reason as Dubey was law unto himself and residents of this predominantly Brahmin village would pay obeisance, not just out of caste compulsion, but also out of dread. “Nobody can dare draw water from the village well without reciting a litany in his name. Any deviation triggers brutal retribution. I was only 10 years old when I was tortured and suspended upside down from the pulley when I forgot to sing paeans before fetching water. At least four others have met the same fate,” said a villager sitting under a tree in the outskirts of Bikru. Terror was unleashed when the few hand pumps in the parched village went dry a few years ago and thirsty villagers began flocking to the well, which was claimed by Dubey and his family members. “Women and children have to queue up in front of his house and plead for water. At times, the don would make us wait for several hours, but none dares to walk towards the well without a nod from the Dubey household,” said another fear-stricken villager.The flamboyant gangster would always be on short fuse and his trademark sarcasm would sent shockwaves in the village as it meant a kangaroo court to deliver instant justice. “Cops at the local police station in Chaubeypur were in his payroll. No cop would dare interfere,” said Pinki Pandey, a resident of Bikru. Once while he was holding a panchayat at the sprawling orchard near his home, bird poop fell on his shoulder. “The don whipped out his gun and went on a shooting spree till the crow and every bird atop the banyan dropped dead on the ground. And then his diabolical scream echoed through the village,” said another villager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vikas-dubey-earned-epithet-of-gabbar-singh-of-bikru/articleshow/76843780.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Attention diversion gang busted, Rs 1 L seized||Hyderabad: Task Force police arrested four members of an attention diversion gang and seized Rs 1 lakh cash and 300 Saudi dirhams from their possession at Manikeshwari Nagar in Secunderabad on Monday. The accused were identified as Rafik, 28, Ruksana Shaik, 29, both from Bulandshahar, Uttar Pradesh, Shaik Atif, 29, Nazmul Sattar Shaik, 24, both from Thane in Maharashtra. Rafik along with his wife Ruksana and others hatched a plan to dupe people on the pretext of exchanging Saudi dirhams with Indian currency. In the last week of June, they purchased Saudi dirhams in Thane and came to Hyderabad and stayed at a rented house in Manikeshwar Nagar. The gang targeted a person luring him saying they got total 12,000 Saudi dirhams from friends working in the oil-rich Gulf country and gave one 50 dirham note to the victim as a sample. According to police, the gang had offered 12,000 dirhams worth about Rs .2.4 lakh in exchange for Rs 1 lakh ( Indian currency). On Saturday, the accused contacted the victim and asked him to come to Afzalgunj. When the victim handed over Rs 1 lakh, the gang diverting his attention handed over fake cash and soap wrapped in a newspaper instead of the dirhams and fled away. Police nabbed the gang from their rented house and seized Rs 1 lakh cash and 300 dirhams from their possession. The offenders were booked. The gang targeted a person luring him saying they got total 12,000 Saudi dirhams from friends working in the oil-rich Gulf country and gave one 50 dirham note to the victim as a sample||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/attention-diversion-gang-busted-rs-1-l-seized/articleshow/76830420.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Many migrants still throng Bengaluru's Palace Grounds||BENGALURU: The migrant worker crisis in Bengaluru continues to fester, with hundreds pouring in daily at Tripura Vasini Gate, Palace Grounds, hoping to find a Shramik train to head back home. Travellers say the BBMP helpline is anything but helpful and train schedules are announced just hours before departure, leaving thousands of workers stranded on the streets since many vacate accommodations and collect wages before leaving. On Tuesday, Zaheer Ahmed, his pregnant wife Madika Kathum and brother Mujibur Rehman, all from Assam, made a dash to Tripura Vasini after learning that a Shramik train to Assam was scheduled to depart KSR Bengaluru city railway station. Aware that seats would be limited, Ahmed sacrificed his place and managed to register his wife and brother in a desperate bid to get them to reach their village in Hailakandi district, Assam. “We didn’t have a clear idea when the train would depart,” the housekeeper, who has lost his job, said. “A volunteer I knew from my numerous previous trips to Palace Grounds, alerted me about the train.” Rosemary Viswanath, the volunteer in question, alerts many migrants about Shramik trains — a task which ought to be done by the government. A member of ‘Bangalore With Migrants’, a collective of citizens which works with the authorities, Viswanath has been contributing to repatriation efforts for nearly three months now. “Nodal officers announce train departures the night before the journey and that too through SMS to one of us volunteers,” Viswanath said. “We make hundreds of calls through the night, alerting workers. What authorities don’t understand is that these people have to collect their wages, settle rents with house owners and then get to Palace Grounds with family in tow.” While some were lucky to get a berth on Tuesday, others like Pradakar Muduli and his wife Sasmitha Muduli, who are from Bhadrak district, Odisha, missed out. A security guard with an IT firm in Koramangala, Muduli was fired from his job in mid-June. “I have no way to pay rent and can’t find another job as most companies are shut,” said Muduli, who plans to try his luck again on Wednesday. The BBMP helpline — 94806 85888 — for those wanting to leave on Shramik trains rarely connects and when it does, it offers no information on train schedules. A recorded reply advises callers to head to Tripura Vasini to find out. With the pandemic spreading, most BBMP staffs are busy elsewhere and only skeletal staff work on repatriation efforts. Volunteers and even some social-minded autorickshaw drivers chip in. Officials insist the migrant crisis is almost over, but, on the ground, hundreds still want to return to their hometowns. On Tuesday, South Western Railway operated one Shramik train to Guwahati. Since May 3, a total of 264 Shramik trains departed Bengaluru, ferrying over 3.8 lakh passengers. There is no official word on when the free train service will cease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/many-migrant-workers-want-to-leave-but-officials-too-busy-to-help/articleshow/76842277.cms||Petlee Peter
July 8, 2020||Kolhapur||35% civic students do not have access to smartphones||Kolhapur: A survey carried out by administrators of civic school board found that over 35% students studying in schools managed by the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) do not have access to smartphones or any other device that can help them watch the video lectures recorded by the teachers. Recently, the KMC released a 10-minute video for the students from Std III to VIII for which the teachers had to toil hard as it is a new experience for them as well. Every day, links or videos are shared with the students and they are expected to watch it and finish the assignment given after the video. The students will be evaluated based on these assignments. Shankar Yadav, chief administrator of the KMC primary school board, said, “There are around 9,500 students in KMC schools and most are from poor family background. We have found after a week-long study that 65% of the students have direct or indirect access to the smartphones, while the rest have nothing. We have made videos for a 10-day and now more videos are being recorded.” He added, “For those who have no access to devices we are going to deploy teachers at their doorstep and take help of volunteers who can approach such students and teach them from the books we have provided. Also, we are tying up with local cable channels to stream the videos. We have found that we can reach out to almost 98% of the students through cable-TV mode. Once the classes resume, those lagging behind will be paid special attention.” The zilla parishad school teachers have also started recording videos. However, the proportion of the students lacking access to smartphones is much more in rural areas. Keeping this in mind, the ZP administrators are planning to launch a “teacher at your doorstep” programme that will help such students. The private schools have also started the sharing recorded videos and live-streaming classes through various mobile applications. However, all the students learning in private schools have access to smartphones or other digital devices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/35-civic-students-do-not-have-access-to-smartphones/articleshow/76841063.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Agra||Aligarh, Mathura police paste 'wanted' posters of Vikas Dubey at public places||Agra: In a bid to seek information from the pubic about dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey, accused of killing eight policemen on Friday, Aligarh and Mathura police have pasted his “wanted” posters at various vantage points at toll plazas, bus stands, railway stations and entry points of the districts. Dubey, the main accused in the Kanpur shootout case, now carries a reward of Rs 2.5 lakh on his head. Aligarh SSP Muniraj G said Dubey’s posters are being pasted at all possible vantage points to make them visible to all residents and travellers. “We have also given mobile numbers of the police officers who can be alerted by the public if they have any information about his whereabouts,” he said. Aligarh police is also preparing a list of history-sheeters and has identified around 150 such people. He said gangs involved in heinous crime are also on the police’s radar. Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover said gangster Dubey’s posters have also been put on temporary standees at Maant toll plaza on Yamuna Expressway and other inter-state borders with mobile numbers of police officers. Also, the Mathura police has identified 23 new history-sheeters and booked 27 criminals under the Gangster Act in a special campaign within a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/aligarh-mathura-police-paste-wanted-posters-of-vikas-dubey-at-public-places/articleshow/76841076.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||It’s a sad day, bemoan city heritage activists||HYDERABAD: Heritage conservation activists have termed the demolition of Saifabad Palace as a “sad day” for the historic city of Hyderabad. INTACH city convenor Anuradha Reddy, who has a personal connect with Saifabad Palace as her late father C Sreeram Bhoopal, Hyderabad Civil Services and later IAS, had his office in Block-G, said it was a sad day as a historic building is being demolished. “Such heritage structures should be recognized and protected. The Saifabad Place or Block-G was once a protected heritage structure listed on the heritage structures list of HMDA’s heritage committee. I don’t know how it got delisted,” she said. Prominent heritage conservation activist and secretary of the Centre for Deccan Studies, Sajjad Shahid, said Saifabad Palace was the first office of the administration. “Old-timers and every responsible citizen should stand up against destruction of the city’s heritage,” he said. “Where is the heritage committee? While giving its judgement on Irrum Manzil, the high court had said that all the 150-odd listed heritage buildings in the city should be protected. Was Saifabad Palace not on the list? If not, why,” he said. UNESCO’s former president VBJ Rao Chelikani said: “It is our misfortune that our heritage is not being preserved. The Saifabad Palace was intentionally allowed to dilapidate. All heritage buildings should be put to use because they don’t degrade if used properly. The revenue from tourists can be used to maintain them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/its-a-sad-day-bemoan-city-heritage-activists/articleshow/76843781.cms||Roushan Ali
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Row over land allotment for Balapur graveyard||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Waqf Board denounced the allegations raised over the performance of the board regarding the allotment of land for Muslim graveyards at Pahadisharif. Addressing a press conference, Mohammed Saleem, chairman TSWB, said that the Board has unanimously resolved to allot the land for Muslim graveyard at Balapur Pahadishareef for free burial of Muslim dead bodies. The Board claimed that ten acres of land was inspected with a purpose to ensure free burial of Muslim dead bodies. “Some unsocial elements try to tarnish my image by making false allegations over land allotment at Balapur. TSWB has allotted land for Muslims welfare as it is a waqf land around 2000 acre attached to Dargah Baba Sharfuddin (RH,’’ said, Saleem, TSWB chairman. Mohammed Saleem alleged that Syed Hamid Hussain Shuttari, president All India Sunni Ulema Board has reportedly encroached a waqf land and sold out to extent of 175 square yrds at Dabeerpura during 2016 by making a sale deed and a complaint had been filed against him. “ I am not bothered about allegations leveled against me and nobody can blackmail me with false claims. A complaint has already been filed against Syed Hamed Hussain Shuttari and others at Balapura Police Station for baseless allegations,’’ said, TSWB chairman. All India Sunni Ulema Board president Syed Hamed Hussain Shuttari told TOI that he was being framed after he allegedly raised Pahadsisharif land issue recently. He clarified that the land was allotted without fencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/row-over-land-allotment-for-balapur-graveyard/articleshow/76830411.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Rajkot||More than 1,000 evacuated in rain-ravaged Jamnagar||RAJKOT: At least 1,038 people in Jamnagar district were evacuated while 76 stranded were rescued by the National Disaster Response Team (NDRF) and other agencies as torrential rain since Sunday left several villages marooned. Water levels swelled menacingly in villages of Jamnagar as incessant downpour forced opening up of the gates of many dams and caused flash floods in the rivers and rivulets. In Jodia, nine people got stranded after water suddenly started increasing in their farm since Monday evening and they were also rescued. In yet another incident, one person died and two others were missing after their SUV got swept away in the turbulent waters of a causeway near Bodighodi village of Padadhari taluka of Rajkot district on Monday night. One body was found. Normal life was completely paralysed in Jamnagar city with water gushing to houses of several residential societies. Rangmati and Nagmati Rivers that flow on the city’s outskirts were overflowing and an entire area -Whohara No Haziro got disconnected. A crematorium was also flooded. The Porbandar-Lalpur-Jamnagar highway was closed because of overflowing Dhadhar river near Lalpur village while several internal roads were damaged. Nagadiya village of Kalyanpur taluka in Devbhumi Dwarka district turned into an island as two rivers Falku and Dhadhi were in spate. In temple town Dwarka, the flag hoisting pipe got damaged due to strong wind and rain. Around 40 cattle, mostly buffaloes, were swept away in flood waters in a village of Padadhari taluka, much to the shock of locals who could do nothing except take a video of the incident on their mobiles. The famed Umiya Mata temple in Sidsar village near Jamjodhpur was also marooned and the water level rose so much that an earth mover got drowned. In Porbandar’s low lying areas, around 140 people were evacuated to safer places while four houses collapsed in Saiyadrajpara village of Una taluka as waves crashed on them due to high tide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/more-than-1000-evacuated-in-rain-ravaged-jamnagar/articleshow/76841116.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Dehradun||Free ration kits distributed to sanitation workers||Dehradun: The Doon Residents’ Welfare Front (DRWF) in collaboration with Doon district administration distributed 100 free ration kits to sanitation workers of the city on Tuesday. Mahesh Bhandari, president of DRWF, said, “The administration has been doing its bit to ensure food safety to everyone during the lockdown. As responsible residents of the city, we are giving ration kits to people who work every day to keep our surroundings clean.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/free-ration-kits-distributed-to-sanitation-workers/articleshow/76840106.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University to take final call on conduct of exams on Wednesday||NEW DELHI: Delhi University has said that open book examinations (OBE) for undergraduate courses that are likely to start from July 10 will have a clause that students who are unable to take them, be it persons with disabilities or others, can appear for the exams physically in September. However, the university on Tuesday told Delhi high court that discussions are on with UGC and other stakeholders and a final decision on conduct of exams will be taken by Wednesday. Earlier, a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad had asked the university to clarify its stand on a plea challenging the conduct of online exams.  “For purposes of clarity and to avoid any ambiguity, it is deemed appropriate to direct Delhi University to file an affidavit clarifying its stand as recorded above and on any other aspect stated before us so that appropriate orders can be passed on the next date,” the bench had said. It is hearing a plea by Prateek Sharma and Diksha Singh seeking directions to the Centre for setting up an effective mechanism for visually impaired and other disabled persons so that educational instructions can be transmitted to them properly and teaching material is provided to them through online mode of teaching during the Covid-19 pandemic. The plea said that universities, schools, colleges and other educational institutions have engaged in online teaching amid Covid-19 outbreak, but no efforts have been made by the government to consider the need of the visually impaired and specially-abled individuals. The high court had earlier asked DU why contempt proceedings not be initiated against it and its officers for trying to mislead the court by withholding information on deferment of the online open book exams. The exams, which were scheduled to start from July 1, have been deferred by another 10 days and are likely to start from July 10. During the hearing, senior advocate Sachin Dutta, appearing for Delhi University, said that in the run-up to the main examinations, the mock exams have commenced on July 4 and will conclude on July 8. Thereafter, the OBE will commence from July 10. He submitted that if, for any reason, the students are not in a position to sit for the OBE examination, all the students, whether in the PWD category or otherwise will be given another chance in September. In reply to a query by the court, DU said, “the final-year UG students appearing for exams in September will be provisionally granted admissions in the postgraduate courses offered by DU subject to the condition that they meet the eligibility norms after the results of the undergraduate course are declared and subject to their appearing for the entrance examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-to-take-final-call-on-conduct-of-exams-today/articleshow/76843218.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Delhi||Two reasons why there is cause for optimism in Delhi’s Covid fight||NEW DELHI: In some good news amid the gloom, the positivity rate of Covid-19 in Delhi came down further to 8.94% on Tuesday with only 2,008 of 22,448 samples testing positive within the past 24 hours. On Monday, it was recorded at 9.93%. A senior Delhi government official said the positivity rate in Delhi had been consistently going down — from 31% in the second week of June to 11% last week (between June 29 to July 5). “This indicates that the infection rate has reduced significantly,” he added. Sharing the weekly status of Covid-19 cases, the authorities stated that the recovery rate in Delhi, which was 71.74% last week, had improved further to 72.17% on Tuesday. It was better than the national rate of 60.7%. “There has been a huge jump in recovery in the last two weeks,” added an official. The latest data shows that 1,02,831 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the capital. Of this, only 25,449 are active cases. As many as 74,217 people have recovered from the disease, while 3,165 have succumbed to the viral infection. On Tuesday, the government said 50 people died in the past 24 hours. Compared with last week, the reduction in mortality rate has been marginal this week, from 3.16% to 3.08%. Health experts said the reduction in positivity rate should be seen as a good sign, but it couldn’t be considered proof of dissipation of the crisis. “More than half the tests being conducted daily include rapid antigen testing. It throws false negatives if the viral load of the patient is very low. Thus, it is possible that we may be missing many cases. Delhi will be considered to be in a more stable position if the daily death rate comes down too,” said an expert. In the last seven days, from July 1 to 7, the state health department has reported 397 deaths. On average, 57 fatalities have been recorded daily. In June, there were 2,269 fatalities. Till June second week, Delhi was testing only about 5,000 samples daily. This has gone up to over 20,000 now. A senior official said Delhi was following a policy of rigorous testing, which had brought down the infection rate. “Delhi has the highest tests per million in the country,” he added. Government sources said that bed occupancy had gone down significantly due to the reduced positivity rate and higher recoveries. Last week, the number of free beds was 9,900. Most patients are currently under home isolation. CWG Village Covid facility to start today A 480-bed Covid facility prepared by Delhi government at Commonwealth Games Village in east Delhi will be inaugurated and start operation on Wednesday. The Covid care centre will be attached to Lok Nayak Hospital. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, CM Arvind Kejriwal and other officials will attend the event through videoconferencing. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, who inspected the facility on Tuesday, said the facility was prepared in six days, for which, Doctors For You, an NGO, has deployed 80 doctors and 150 nurses. The development work started immediately after Delhi Development Authority handed over the sports facility to the east district administration. The badminton and tennis courts have been converted into wards. Arun Kumar Mishra, district magistrate (East), said, initially, the facility would start with some patients and more would be shifted on the basis of need. Watch Two reasons why there is cause for optimism in Delhi’s Covid fight||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-reasons-why-there-is-cause-for-optimism-in-delhis-covid-fight/articleshow/76843232.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Travel agents seek tourism aid||Ahmedabad: Among the worst hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic is the travel and tourism sector. To help revive tourism in Gujarat, Travel Agents’ and Tour Operators’ Association of Gujarat (TAG) on Tuesday, submitted a white paper to the state tourism minister, Jawahar Chawda, seeking relief measures through tourism aid and restructuring package. Travel agents have sought industry status for travel and tourism sector. That apart, they have suggested several measures for reviving tourism in the state. “Rannotsav and Statue of Unity attract tourism in Gujarat and thus, travel agents who help bring in bookings should be incentivised. Tourist-friendly infrastructure including stop overs with proper amenities be developed along the key state highways and national highways leading to tourist destinations,” mentions the representation. Travel agents have also asked for refund of cancellations from state government-owned institutions such as wildlife parks to all without any cancellation charges. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/travel-agents-seek-tourism-aid/articleshow/76843189.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Agra||Father-son held for duping people by posing as IPS officer||Agra: A man, claiming to be a retired senior executive from Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), and his law graduate son, posing as an IPS officer, were arrested by Aligarh police on Monday for allegedly extorting money from people.The police identified the fake cop as Anuj Chawla, 34, who introduced himself to people as an IPS officer posted in Home Ministry, Delhi. He completed his studies from Law College, Dehradun, said the police. Anuj’s father, Rajendra Chawla, 66, who retired from BHEL, was also involved in the scam with him and the duo had been fleecing people for the past five years. They hail from Lucknow. Police recovered a car that had several fake vehicle passes purportedly issued by Home Ministry and UP government in it, and some fake investigation reports of National Investigation Agency (NIA) and a two-way walkie-talkie set.SP (crime) Arvind Kumar said that the vehicle Innova cresta, carrying a logo of deputy inspector general (DIG), was spotted by the police during checking at Bhikampur turn. Due to some suspicious activities, they were questioned by the police and finally they confessed that they were impersonating the cop.Kumar said that the vehicle in which they were travelling in was hired from Lucknow and a DIG star plate was displayed on it. The driver, who drove the car to Aligarh, was told that they were travelling to Aligarh on a secret inspection of Covid-19. Circle officer Bannadevi, Pankaj Srivastava, said that they had come to Aligarh two days back and had stayed in a posh hotel and then had shifted to some local resident’s house. He said that they had fleeced some people by promising to fix marriages of their daughters with the fake IPS officer.Srivastava said that whenever someone questioned them about their backgrounds, they usually told them that his name and details would not be available on google as he was working as a secret officer at Kolkata branch of NIA . An FIR has been registered under various sections including 170 (impersonating a public servant), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of IPC at Banna Devi police station. Police are in the process of collecting information on those who lost their money to the fake DIG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/father-son-held-for-duping-people-by-posing-as-ips-officer/articleshow/76841125.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Agra||SNMC to shift laundry away from city nullah, set up biowaste bins across premises||Agra: The administration of Sarojini Naidu Medical College (SNMC), on Tuesday, woke up to the reality of hospital bed linen being washed and hung out to dry near the city nullah and its biomedical waste being dumped in the open, after TOI highlighted the issue in a report July 7, 2020. SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala said work has begun on shifting the laundry away from the nullah, and that security guards have been directed to ensure biomedical waste is not dumped in the open. Biomedical waste bins will now be placed at three spots, while the open biomedical waste collection centre near the new surgery building will be covered. Contrary to usual practice of cleaning dirty linen in the laundry with disinfecting agents, SNMC patients are being provided linen washed near a deep nullah, which carries the hospital’s as well as the city’s untreated sewage into the river. The situation gets worse during monsoons, as blankets are spread out to dry near the overflowing nullah. According to sources, after being washed, bedsheets used in different wards are dried on a clothesline next to the nullah, as well as on the ground. Stray dogs and monkeys are often seen rolling on them. Last week, TOI had reported that personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and biomedical waste — including syringes, empty saline bottles and discarded bandages — were found dumped in the open near the SNMC morgue. Bags of biomedical waste were also spotted near the emergency building and other departments of the hospital. Family members of patients admitted at SNMC have alleged that they have seen hospital staff regularly throwing biomedical waste out in the open without worrying about the consequences on public health. What’s worse is that stray animals often drag the waste, sometimes tearing and scattering them, adding to the risk of spreading infection. Dr Kala said, “We have planned to shift the laundry away from the drain. A facility will soon be built in an open space near the paediatric ward. The entire area will be covered with tiles and suitable arrangements will be made for the maintenance of sanitation and hygiene. We will pursue the state government for funds to purchase washing machines for cleaning bed linen.” Regarding PPE kits and biomedical waste being dumped in the open, he said, “It has come to my notice that drivers of a private ambulance are dumping PPE kits. Security guards have been directed to ensure no one throws used PPE kits or biomedical waste in the open. We’ll soon set up yellow coloured biowaste bins at three spots in the hospital premises. Their numbers will be increased as per requirement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/snmc-to-shift-laundry-away-from-city-nullah-set-up-biowaste-bins-across-premises/articleshow/76841137.cms||Deepak Lavania
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Police, KMC plan stricter lockdown after case spurt||KOLKATA: The city on Tuesday reported its highest single-day spike in cases with 291 fresh infections, taking its Covid count in Kolkata to 7,680 and the active case tally to 2,552. Kolkata has also recorded a 200-plus single-day case spike since June 30, with July 3 being the only exception. Police and KMC said the case spurt has necessitated stricter lockdown measures. The revised containment zones are likely to increase from 18 earlier to 33 in Kolkata. There were four containment zones in the eastern suburban division — two in Ultadanga and two in Phoolbagan-Kankurgachhi. A revision on Tuesday shot the number of containment zones here to 10. “We have added two zones in Beliaghata and Phoolbagan each and one each in Narkeldanga and Tangra. Similarly, Bhowanipore, which already has over 100 cases, is likely to see a further rise, mostly in the Sarat Bose Road and Chakraberia areas that houses multiple multi-storey buildings. In Gariahat and adjoining Ballygunge, three zones have been reported at Dover Lane, Dover Terrace and Panditiya Lane. At present, the city also has 1,872 isolation units. Incidentally, all the containment zones are presently apartments. At Urbana, 10 people are currently infected with the disease while four have been cured of the infection. “A lift technician was infected recently and he is now admitted to a hospital. The infected residents are mostly under treatment at home. We had tried every means to prevent entry of outsider but several residents had raised objections, which led us to relax the norms. But if there are fresh guidelines from the government to be followed, we will have to abide by them,” said Debjani Mookherjee, a resident and senior vice-president of Urbana residential complex. “Nine people have been affected in our complex so far. We had the last case around 10 days ago. We don’t know if our complex will also come under containment zone now but we will follow whatever government advisory will be there,” said Ashok Baid, a senior association member of Silver Spring Complex on EM Bypass. At Ganapati Villa — a standalone building on Amherst Street, where a family had kept the body of a 71-year-old in a freezer for more than a day to preserve it while waiting for a death certificate — the residents said they were glad with the order. “Our building was not shut even for an hour after the incident. People enter and leave the building at ease and that is scary. We will happily oblige to state orders as we believe it will be beneficial for all the 12 families,” said Raj Gupta, a first-floor resident. KMC officials have made it clear that they would strictly enforce the lockdown. “We will have to engage civic volunteers for delivery of medicines and other essentials to senior citizens in the containment zones. This apart, our doctors will monitor the needs of elderly patients,” said a KMC health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-kmc-plan-stricter-lockdown-after-case-spurt/articleshow/76842487.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 8, 2020||Dehradun||Man held for duping people on pretext of job||Dehradun: A man has been arrested by Dehradun police on Tuesday on the charges of duping people on the pretext of providing them with permanent jobs in Ayurveda University at Harrawala on the outskirts of Dehradun. Acting on a tip-off, the accused, identified as Mrinal Dhuliya, was arrested from Delhi-Sonipat highway. There was a bounty of Rs 2,500 on his head. According to police, members of Unemployment Ayurveda Pharmacist Association filed a complaint against Dhuliya in January 2019 claiming that he took Rs 57 lakh on the pretext of giving them jobs at Ayurveda University. After the accused failed to fulfill his promise and was confronted by the complainants, he gave them cheques worth Rs 87 lakh which got bounced. A case was filed against him under section 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-held-for-duping-people-on-pretext-of-job/articleshow/76840119.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur crosses 1,000-mark with 29 cases||Kolhapur: A total of 29 new Covid-19 cases were reported across Kolhapur on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 1,011. However, the total number of active cases stands at 233. One of the 29 cases was reported from Patil Nagar — a containment zone in Kolhapur city. Meanwhile, five cases were reported from textile town of Ichalkaranji along with two deaths. According to a local health official, the new cases are close contacts of those who were kept in isolation for the last few days. “Some of these contacts include people who attended the cremation of a person who had died of Covid-19 last week. Ichalkaranji has so far reported four deaths and over 80 cases,” he said. 22 cases in Sangli The total number of Covid-19 cases in Sangli district on Tuesday increased to 541 with addition of 22 new patients. According to a health official, one person succumbed to the disease at a private hospital in Miraj. The number of active cases in Sangli currently stands at 250. The hotspots in the district are also on the rise rise. Dudhondi village that has emerged as a new hotspot reported five cases on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-crosses-1000-mark-with-29-cases/articleshow/76841138.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||70 cases in 7 days: Poonthura is Thiruvananthapuram’s biggest Covid cluster||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The coastal circle of Poonthura comprising three wards has become the biggest Covid cluster in the district with over 70 people testing positive for coronavirus within seven days. Family clusters and external ones have surfaced within this chain of transmission, which is threatening to grow further in the next few days. While 25 cases were officially reported on Tuesday, over 60 samples tested positive at Poonthura by evening and all of them have been shifted to hospital. Adding to the concerns, a good percentage of cases has direct link to Kumarichantha market and the capital’s worst fears of market turning into a breeding ground of infection have turned true. Till now, family clusters of infections developed from index cases without known links or sources never spilled over to the next level in the district and authorities have been convinced about containment zones doing the crucial task of breaking the transmission chain . In Poonthura’s case, multiple cases with and without links are emerging within containment zones indicating that chain of transmission has been going unbroken. At present the focus is on tracing infection and isolation, officials said. Fresh clusters of cases are also emerging from areas like Vallakadavu and Aryanad. Sentinel surveillance was done in Aryanad and 100 samples were collected on July 5 of which six cases turned positive. Of the six cases from Aryanad, which include bakery owner, a KSRTC station master, two ASHA workers, a doctor and a woman, symptoms were seen only in the doctor while one woman has been under home quarantine. The authorities are clueless whether there is a common source of infection for these cases but the disparate nature of their vocations adds to the challenging task of establishing the epidemiological link. In some cases, family members of infected persons had recently come from other states and foreign countries. The authorities need to find out whether there was a breach in isolation period or infection spread after the mandatory quarantine period. The district has also started witnessing primary to secondary transmission; another concern for the health team. A woman who was tested positive for Covid-19 at Poonthura was in the secondary contact list of the fish vendor who tested positive on June 30. Till now disease transmission has been mostly confined to high risk contacts; especially immediate family members and in a few cases among primary contacts. The spread of infection from primary to secondary contacts also shows an alarming trend of unbroken chain of transmission. Sample collection in community will continue at Poonthura as number of cases are expected to increase, the officials said. A total of 54 cases were officially declared in the district on Tuesday. Only seven imported cases were reported on Tuesday and rest were categorised as contact cases and those without evident links.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/70-cases-in-7-days-poonthura-is-dists-biggest-covid-cluster/articleshow/76842502.cms||Aswin J Kumar
July 8, 2020||Rajkot||55-year-old kills daughter from second marriage, ends life||Palanpur: A 55-year-old farmer allegedly killed his five-year-old daughter from second marriage before ending his own life in Shyampur village of Modasa taluka in Aravalli district on Tuesday. Police said that the deceased Dipsinh Pamar suspected that his second wife was having an affair. According to Modasa police, Parmar gave his daughter Manisha poisonous substance after dinner on Monday night and he himself consumed the toxic substance. Both were found dead in their house on Tuesday morning. Police inspector of Modasa rural S N Patel said, “Parmar was depressed over his wife, who is about 20 years younger to him, frequently visiting her father’s house in Meghraj taluka. She had been staying with her parents since last two months.” Parmar also suspected of his wife having an affair which led to frequent fights between them, Patel added. Bodies of both, the father and daughter, were handed over to the kin after postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/55-year-old-kills-daughter-from-second-marriage-ends-life/articleshow/76842485.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Efforts on to tackle surge in cases||KOCHI: With coronavirus cases in Ernakulam increasing, the authorities have started taking measures to introduce the third phase of the plan to tackle the Covid-19 surge. The measures to introduce the third phase in Covid fight would kick in when patient inflow to Covid hospitals increase to 225. The patient inflow is expected to rise further to 300-600 during the third phase. As of now, the total number of Covid-19 patients who are undergoing treatment in various Covid treatment facilities, including private hospitals is 213 in the district. “We have started taking measures to start the functioning of a Covid treatment facility at AIMS Community Hall at Njarackal. Infrastructure and manpower required for operating the facility are being provided by Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences, Kochi,” an official with the health department said. “It will be the second most important Covid treatment facility in the district after Government Medical College, Ernakulam. There will be facilities to treat patients who require intensive care as well,” he said. The official also said that they are starting a first-line Covid treatment centre (FLCTC) at Cial. Asymptomatic and patients with mild symptoms will be admitted to the FLCTC at Cial. The facility at PVS Hospital will also be used if there is any surge in the number of Covid patients, officials said.  As of now, 30 ICU beds at Government Medical College, Ernakulam are being used. “An ICU unit with a bed capacity of 40 is ready at the medical college. It will be opened when the need arises. More wards in the medical college also will be used for treating Covid patients. There will also be a need for treating those under quarantine suffering from non-Covid diseases. Such patients will also be admitted in the medical college,” sources said.  District administration has decided to constitute enforcement teams to monitor social distancing in each ward of all the local bodies. Each team would comprise an official from the concerned local body and two volunteers. The team should monitor whether there is adequate break-the-chain facilities at public places. Monitoring whether the public wear masks also is the responsibility of the team members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/efforts-on-to-tackle-surge-in-cases/articleshow/76842490.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Operation demolition catches motorists off guard||HYDERABAD: Diversions on various junctions due to the demolition of the old secretariat building in the early hours of Tuesday threw traffic out of gear in some parts of the city. Traffic was diverted from Telugu Thalli and Khairatabad flyovers apart from other junctions leading towards old secretariat on Tuesday and that caused commuters a lot of hardships. “I have already crossed two diversion signboards and cops at junctions and now there is another diversion at Lakdikapul. I need to reach a clinic near Birla Mandir but have have been going round in circles for the last 40 minutes,” said Hareesh, an MBA graduate. He asked his sister, a pillion rider, to check for another route. Dinesh M, a private employee, on his way towards Barkatpura to meet a relative, had to cover only 4.5 km. “But instead I’ll have to travel 8 to 10 km. There was no public notice about the diversion,” lamented Dinesh. Commuters heading to work seemed the most anxious as they had to find alternative routes. A traffic source said the diversion was imposed suddenly after the demolition started on Monday night. “We are not allowing any vehicles because of the demolition,” said a traffic cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/op-demolition-catches-motorists-off-guard/articleshow/76843787.cms||Aditi Mallick
July 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Water from Peringalkuthu dam released due to heavy inflow||THRISSUR: Water was released from Peringalkuthu dam on Tuesday after the water level reached the maximum height following incessant rain in the catchment area of the reservoir. The shutters of the dam were being kept open and water started flowing out of the reservoir through the spillway gates around 4am on Tuesday after the water level rose above 419.41m-mark, which is the rule level. However, the water level increased further and reached 419.71m in the afternoon. KSEB sources said the water level was likely to reach 420 meters by Wednesday morning if the current level of inflow continues. District collector S Shanawaz said one of the sluice gates of the dam will be opened at 7.30am on Wednesday to keep the water level in the dam between 419m and 420m. The water level in the Chalakkudy river was likely to go up by about three feet when the sluice gate of the dam is opened, the collector added. People staying on the banks of the river have been asked to be vigilant and desist from stepping into the river or carrying out fishing activities. Officials of the revenue, police and local self-government departments have been asked to take steps to avert any untoward incidents when the water level goes up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/water-from-peringalkuthu-dam-released-due-to-heavy-inflow/articleshow/76842500.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Rajkot||Two villagers spend night atop tree||Two persons identified as Himsinh Balwant (25) and Bheembhai (26) spent an entire night on a tree as their village Nathuvadla in Dhrol taluka was flooded. The villagers were asked to shift to safer places after gates of Und-1 dam were opened, but the duo could not leave in time as they were busy collecting their personal belongings. As water level suddenly increased, both climbed up a tree to save themselves from getting swept away. Ultimately , they were rescued by the NDRF team on Tuesday morning,” said H R Kelaiya additional collector Jamnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-villagers-spend-night-atop-tree/articleshow/76841172.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Agra||Two killed, one hurt in accident on Agra-Lucknow e-way||Agra: Two people were killed and one injured in a road accident on Agra-Lucknow expressway on Tuesday morning. The accident took place at around 5am near the 27.5 km milestone under Fatehabad police limits, when a truck loaded with corn hit the rear of another truck ferrying cattle to Firozabad. The deceased were identified as Azad, the driver of the cattle truck and Anil Yadav, the cattle caretaker. Arvind, the driver of the truck carrying corn, was injured. One buffalo and its calf were also killed in the accident. Jagdish Singh, chief security officer of UPEIDA, said, “The driver of the corn-laden truck had fallen asleep on the steering wheel and lost control of his vehicle, hitting the cattle truck, which was parked on the extreme left lane. The impact of the accident was such that both trucks plunged 20 ft down into the road side.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-killed-one-hurt-in-accident-on-agra-lucknow-e-way/articleshow/76841167.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Rajkot||Three arrested for pilfering crude oil in Wankaner||Rajkot: The Morbi special operations group (SOG) busted a crude oil pilfering racket in Wankaner and arrested three persons and seized nearly 27,000 litres crude oil worth Rs 8.26 lakh on Monday night. Acting on a tip-off, SOG sleuths reached the spot and caught the tanker driver and two others red-handed while stealing crude from the IOC’s Salaya-Viramgam-Koyali pipeline. They had been stealing the crude for the last one week, SOG officials said. Officials said the pipeline had been broken and fitted with a valve connected to another pipeline through which the crude was being directly filled into tankers. Tanker driver Mohammed Wasim alias Salman Ahmed Qureshi, Mayur Jadav and Nishant Karlik, all residents of Vadodara were arrested from the spot, said cops, adding that the other two accused, Nishant and Mayur, had reached the spot in their car. During interrogation, the trio said they were working on the directions of Delhi-based Sandeep Gupta and one Akash Desai, a resident of Chandkheda area in Ahmedabad. These two persons had fitted the valve in the pipeline to pilfer crude. A complaint in this regard was lodged by Akil Patel, maintenance head at IOC’s Gauridad pumping station in Rajkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-arrested-for-pilfering-crude-oil-in-wankaner/articleshow/76842495.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Travel curbs cast shadow on re-opening hotels||KOLHAPUR: Hotel owners are worried about not getting any guests if they open doors from Wednesday after three-and-a-half months of closure. There are over 200 hotels in the city with total capacity of around 1,500 beds. Anand Mane, renowned hotelier from the city, said they know that there would not be any guests. “The main tourist attractions such as Mahalaxmi temple, Rankala lake are shut. Inter-district travel is not allowed. Who will come to the hotels? We will end up spending more on the upkeep and than what we earn,” he said. The district administration has issued an order on Tuesday afternoon allowing the hotels to open at 33% of their total capacities. The restaurants and bars in hotels will be open only for the in-house guests. The hoteliers claimed that though the hotels were shut during the lockdown, they spent lot of money on the maintenance. “Every hotelier has received huge electricity bill. Though hotels remained closed, air-conditioners and lights had to be kept running for some time for maintenance,” added Mane. Over 5,000 workers from the hotel sector have left for their hometowns and the hoteliers are also going to face labour shortage. Ujjwal Nageshkar, president of Kolhapur Hoteliers’ Association, said, “The rules of quarantining people arriving from other districts and closing inter-state borders are impediments to our business. However, we have to make city safe so that other sectors open up and ultimately benefit hotel sector,” he said. He added that they would approach the district authorities if the impediments continue to hamper their business even after two weeks of re-opening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/travel-curbs-cast-shadow-on-re-opening-hotels/articleshow/76841182.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: SC grants bail to Unitech promoter as parents infected with coronavirus||NEW DELHI: As both parents of Unitech promoter Sanjay Chandra are infected with the novel coronavirus and his father is in a critical condition, the Supreme Court on Tuesday granted him interim bail for a month, almost three years after he was arrested along with his younger brother for allegedly cheating homebuyers. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah, however, turned down the interim bail plea of his brother Ajay Chandra and directed Sanjay to deposit his passport before the trial court. It also asked him to report to the local police station every Sunday. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the Chandra brothers, informed the bench that their parents — aged 80 and 78 years — were suffering from the Covid-19 infection and pleaded that they be allowed to come out on bail to be with their parents. Agreeing with the contention of Rohatgi, the bench said the interim bail could be granted to only one of the brothers. Rohatgi then proposed that the elder brother be allowed to come out of jail. “We are of the view that a case for grant of interim bail has been made out on humanitarian grounds since both parents of the applicant have tested Covid-positive and having regard to their advanced age. This order is being passed only on the basis of these facts and circumstances,” the bench said while granting relief to Sanjay Chandra. As the real estate group is in financial mess caused by siphoning off of funds, Centre had in January taken over the management on the suggestion of the apex court and appointed Board of Directors to manage the affairs of the company and complete all its housing projects in which more than 30,000 buyers had invested their money. Retired IAS officer Yudvir Singh Malik was appointed as chairman and managing director of the company. Sanjay Chandra, Unitech’s erstwhile managing director, and his brother Ajay have been in jail since August, 2017 for not handing over possession of flats to buyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-grants-bail-to-unitech-promoter-as-parents-infected-with-coronavirus/articleshow/76843806.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
July 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Centre files forgery case against gas-field company||NEW DELHI: The Union petroleum and natural gas ministry has filed an FIR with Delhi Police after a company, which was allotted a small gas field, allegedly tried to dupe it by submitting forged documents. A senior official of Economic Offences Wing confirmed that an investigation had been initiated into this bank fraud case, filed by the ministry on Saturday on behalf of the directorate general of hydrocarbons. The FIR has been filed for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy. Under the Discovered Small Field (DSF) policy to extract oil and natural gas from unmonitised small discoveries, the ministry issued a notice inviting bids in 25 contract areas on August 9, 2018.  Successful bidders were to enter a revenue-sharing contract with the government and the directorate general of hydrocarbons was implementing the policy. An essential requirement was a bank guarantee of the work programme commitment terms, under which “a one-time bank guarantee valid for the development period amounting to $ .15 million and $ .23 million was to be paid for the contract area of land and water, respectively”, the complaint stated. The ministry executed a revenue sharing contract with a firm on March 7, 2019. The firm submitted all required documents and compliances to the ministry for verification and managing the contract. However, on October 22, the company informed the ministry about changing its name and address without showing any reason. On February 14, 2020, the accused firm and its officials submitted a guarantee in the form of a demand draft of Rs 7.2 crore issued by Allahabad Bank, the ministry said. But when the bank was requested to verify genuineness, the branch said it hadn’t issued any such document, the ministry added. Sensing a forgery, the directorate requested the bank to probe the matter and submit another report. On March 13, the bank again confirmed that it had not issued the guarantee and the company was not even its client. The accused firm and its officials are based in Mumbai. “From these circumstances, it was evident that the document was forged and fabricated and legal opinion was sought by the ministry and Delhi Police was approached,” said a senior official. Police will soon ask the accused to join the probe. A team will go to Mumbai to serve summons to the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-files-forgery-case-against-gas-field-company/articleshow/76843248.cms||Raj Shekhar
July 8, 2020||Delhi||One in 4 infected individuals sent to hospital in New Delhi||NEW DELHI: In terms of percentages, 12% of the 2,935 people who tested Covid positive in New Delhi district in the last 23 days needed to go to Covid care centres, while 24% required hospitalisation in the relatively upscale district. At the same time, a significantly high 63.3% proved either asymptomatic or only exhibited mild symptoms of Covid-19 and are recovering in home isolation Data after the testing and management process for Covid cases was revamped on June 14 shows that the district had a positive case rate of just 10.4% in this period. A senior official involved in the disease surveillance in the district revealed that 28,202 individuals tested positive in this period, roughly a tenth of all those tested. Interestingly, of the tests carried out since June 14, the positivity rates returned by RT-PCR tests are much higher than by antigen tests. Figures show that 14,435 RT-PCR tests were carried out compared with 13,767 antigen kit tests. “While around 13.9% of RT-PCR tests proved positive for the coronavirus, the positivity rate with antigen kits is 6.7%. Among the 13,767 rapid antigen tests, 967 were determined to be Covid cases,” a district official said. He added that the lower rate was understandable as antigen kits are being used to survey population in containment zones, while RT-PCT, considered the gold standard for Covid detection, is employed as confirmative tests of infection. New Delhi has 24 containment zones within its jurisdiction, in which 4,209 people currently reside. The district official said all the inhabitants of the containment zones were surveyed. Moreover, Delhi government’s door-to-door survey has also been completed in areas under the South Delhi Municipal Corporation in the district and 15,888 inhabitants of the New Delhi Municipal Council area were also surveyed. It is estimated that around 8.5 lakh people reside in New Delhi district. Another district official disclosed that the Arogya Setu app was being used to trace vulnerable and high-risk individuals. “The chief district medical officers have been instructed to transfer information regarding such groups to the municipal corporations, New Delhi Municipal Council and Delhi Cantonment Board for verification and testing,” the official said. The survey teams comprise corporation officials, since auxiliary nurses and ASHA workers deputed for the survey elsewhere are overburdened with contact tracing and monitoring of home isolation cases in the district. Each team screens 250-300 people every day. “Those who test positive are sent to either a Covid care centre or a hospital, or advised home isolation,” the official said. The deputy commissioners of the municipal corporations, director (coordination) of NDMC and joint CEO of Delhi Cantonment Board have been appointed nodal officers for the screening exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1-in-4-infected-individuals-sent-to-hosp-in-new-delhi/articleshow/76843282.cms||Paras Singh
July 8, 2020||Chennai||Without safety protocol, factories turn tinderboxes||CHENNAI: Violation of maintenance protocols, shortage of staff, outdated technology and overworked units are among the barrage of shortcomings cited as reasons behind the two deadly boiler blasts that took place within a month at the thermal power plant at Neyveli. On May 7, a styrene vapour leak in a chemical factory at Visakhapatnam killed 12 people at a time when industries were gradually resuming operations after the lockdown. Citing the frequent accidents at industrial plants, experts say it’s high time the authorities prioritised safety standards, procedures and practices. The accidents have turned the spotlight on the importance of adhering to industry specific standard operating procedures (SOPs) and safety norms at a time when many factories and industrial units are restarting after prolonged closure. Experts said companies need to adopt and follow stringent pre-start protocols and carry out a process hazard analysis to identify vulnerable areas as a result of the lockdown. In addition, the government should give plants time to wind down safely and allow manpower for essential upkeep during the shutdown. "Shutdown and start-up due to the present lockdown cannot be a reason for accidents, there must have been some negligence in implementing the pre-start up procedures. Many of our enforcement organisations have issued procedures for restarting the plants post lockdown. These are general SOPs. I urge industry associations to ponder over the pre-start up safety review/protocols required for their cluster to avoid accidents," said M Surianarayanan, senior principal scientist and head of cell for industrial safety and risk analysis, CSIR-CLRI. The present closure should not be a new activity as industries routinely conduct shutdown and startups for maintenance. "The difference between the annual turn around and the shutdown due to lockdown is that now only essential maintenance work was being carried out instead of the normal maintenance work. Hence, a thorough safety review is required before starting the plants after the lock down," said Perumal Manoharan, president, Safety Engineers Association. "Governments also should give sufficient time to shut and restart plants in a safe manner. Sufficient manpower should be allowed to work during the lockdown period to ensure upkeep of the machinery, which is more important for process industries and industries where operations are carried out continuously. A sudden lockdown, giving minimum time to stop operations might have been one of the reasons behind some of the recent accidents," he said. According to National Crime Records Bureau data, 582 factory and machine accidents were reported in the country in 2017, it rose to 696 the following year, which accounted for about 0.1% and 0.2% of the total accidental deaths. Tamil Nadu has nearly 165 factories under major accident hazard categories like LPG, fertilizer, petrochemical, distilleries and breweries, iron and steel, military ammunition and industrial explosive units. As for NLC, experts said the immediate requirement is a third-party safety audit to identify vulnerable areas and measures required for safe daily operations. The lack of upgradation of decades old industrial units — NLC plants have been in operation since the 1960s — lead to chances for failures and accidents. However, experts say major accidents mostly follow after several indicators. "There must be a combination of failures that culminates into fires and explosions. Failure to recognise such warnings and bypassing them is the main reason. When there is a change in management, the change should be as per the original equipment manufacturer, just because one spare is not available, we should not hurry to replace it with a locally manufactured one. This will increase the accident vulnerability," said Surianarayanan. Human factor plays a major role in most industrial accidents. Professor R Saravanan, chemical engineering department, Annamalai University, who has conducted research on the contribution of human error behind accidents, said 78% of the industrial accidents are due to human factors. Around 12% are due to unsafe conditions prevailing in the work area and 10% due to natural calamity. "They could be psychological factors that may be due to issues at the workplace or at home. They could also be taking shortcuts. All these could contribute to accidents," he said. One of the ways to prevent accidents due to human error, experts said, is adopting artificial intelligence and Internet of Things to monitor, collect and analyse data. "These digital systems alert on deviations that may happen, like rupture. Right now, they are monitored through control rooms. But in the future, we could bring them to our smartphones," said Saravanan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/without-safety-protocol-factories-turn-tinderboxes/articleshow/76844419.cms||U Tejonmayam
July 8, 2020||Srinagar||PU still to take final call on holding exams||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University (PU) is in a fix on whether to conduct exams or not as a decision eluded even after more than an hour-long meeting of top brass with the vice-chancellor (VC) on Tuesday. Student parties are vociferously demanding that exams be cancelled, when the Centre has announced that they should be held. Sources said officials asked the VC to take the final call. They pointed out if the exams were conducted in September, admissions will take place in October and the session started by December — an unfeasible schedule. Officials said if the admissions are delayed, the university will face a financial crunch as no fee will be deposited. The point that Punjab had already announced cancellation of exams on Saturday too cropped up in the meeting. Colleges affiliated to PU in seven districts of the state have more than two lakh students. A PU spokesperson issued a statement that the authorities went through the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines on exams and admissions and is preparing a plan. A joint delegation of student organisations met officials, demanding the immediate cancellation of the exams. They strongly criticised the “irresponsible” decision of the central government. They complained that if the university wants to hold online tests, how can students living in Ladakh, Kashmir, Srinagar and other regions, where there is no Internet facility, can appear. Students who come from backward and rural areas have neither a laptop nor access to a cyber cafe, they said. Secondly, they said, if PU is thinking of holding exams, students coming from other states will face many difficulties in reaching the centres. Members of NSUI sat on a chain hunger strike at Congress Bhawan, Sector 35, against the decision to conduct the final-year exams as per the UGC guidelines. Panjab University Campus Student Council vice-president Rahul Kumar said conducting exams in this scenario will not be beneficial for students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/pu-still-to-take-final-call-on-holding-exams/articleshow/76844869.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 8, 2020||Jammu||PU still to take final call on holding exams||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University (PU) is in a fix on whether to conduct exams or not as a decision eluded even after more than an hour-long meeting of top brass with the vice-chancellor (VC) on Tuesday. Student parties are vociferously demanding that exams be cancelled, when the Centre has announced that they should be held. Sources said officials asked the VC to take the final call. They pointed out if the exams were conducted in September, admissions will take place in October and the session started by December — an unfeasible schedule. Officials said if the admissions are delayed, the university will face a financial crunch as no fee will be deposited. The point that Punjab had already announced cancellation of exams on Saturday too cropped up in the meeting. Colleges affiliated to PU in seven districts of the state have more than two lakh students. A PU spokesperson issued a statement that the authorities went through the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines on exams and admissions and is preparing a plan. A joint delegation of student organisations met officials, demanding the immediate cancellation of the exams. They strongly criticised the “irresponsible” decision of the central government. They complained that if the university wants to hold online tests, how can students living in Ladakh, Kashmir, Srinagar and other regions, where there is no Internet facility, can appear. Students who come from backward and rural areas have neither a laptop nor access to a cyber cafe, they said. Secondly, they said, if PU is thinking of holding exams, students coming from other states will face many difficulties in reaching the centres. Members of NSUI sat on a chain hunger strike at Congress Bhawan, Sector 35, against the decision to conduct the final-year exams as per the UGC guidelines. Panjab University Campus Student Council vice-president Rahul Kumar said conducting exams in this scenario will not be beneficial for students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/pu-still-to-take-final-call-on-holding-exams/articleshow/76844868.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 8, 2020||Agra||Agra University: Notices issued to 225 BEd colleges||Agra: Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar university administration has issued final notices to 225 self-financed colleges offering Bachelor of Education (BEd) course. These colleges have been asked to fulfill standard teaching-learning norms by July 30 or else their affiliation will not be renewed for the next academic session. Majority of these colleges lack qualified teachers. The notice issued by the varsity registrar to 225 colleges mentions that teachers in these colleges were not appointed as per standard norms. While many teachers on duty were found not approved by the university administration, some of the approved teachers were found associated with several other colleges. University registrar Anjani Kumar said, “These 225 colleges have been asked to fulfill standard teaching–learning norms by July 30. Final notices have been issued to them. If these colleges fail to fulfill the standard norms, their affiliation will not be extended. These colleges will not be allowed to take fresh admissions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-university-notices-issued-to-225-bed-colleges/articleshow/76841224.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Poor internet in home states: PEC students can stay on campus||Chandigarh: Hostellers of Punjab Engineering College (PEC), who face problem of poor internet connectivity in their home states, can stay on the campus for the next academic session. A draft plan on the same was shared by PEC director in a meeting with the board of governing members on Tuesday. Sharing through a presentation, Dheeraj Sanghi, director, PEC, stated that a special committee, which was constituted by the senate to chalk out a plan for the next academic session, conducted a survey. Sources said there are around 70 students, who do not have access to internet facility.  Sources said the institution will draft standard operating procedures (SoP) for staying in hostel and every student has to follow it. Students who will come in hostels will be qurantined in thier rooms for 14 days. One student will get one room. The details of SoPs will be chalked out soon. Another issue which was discussed in the meeting was about the recent NIRF ranking. The board of governors was informed about the recent withdrawals of job offers to students, but the institute has made alternative arrangements by holding another placement drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/poor-internet-in-home-states-pec-students-can-stay-on-campus/articleshow/76842528.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 8, 2020||Ludhiana||No let-up: 42 test positive for Covid-19 in district||Times News Network Ludhiana: Forty-two persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana district on Tuesday, besides three from other districts. The number of positive cases in Ludhiana district is 1,133, while 229 are from outside. The Tuesday’s reports also include an undertrial of Ludhiana Central Jail. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said till now samples of 38,843 suspected patients have been taken. On Tuesday, 806 sample reports were received from GMC, Patiala, of which 32 were positive, including two of patients from other districts, while two samples will be re-tested. Besides, positive reports of 12 persons, including one from outside the district, were received from private hospitals. These positive cases include seven from Industrial Area-A, Vikas Nagar, a 25-year-old undertrial from Ludhiana Central Jail, a Daad village resident, two pregnant women — one from Shivpuri and another from Prem Nagar — a woman from Makkar Colony of Giaspura, a man from Railway Colony (contact of a positive patient), a man from Iqbal Nagar of Tajpur Road, three persons from Bal Singh Nagar, all contacts of a positive patient, and one each from Janakpuri, Naseeb Enclave of Haibowal Kalan and New Shakti Nagar. Some cops also tested positive, including a 50-year-old policeman from Dhandra Road posted in Jalandhar, a 57-year-old inspector from Sangrur posted at Police Lines and a 52-year-old ASI from Moga posted at CIA-1, Sadar police station. A 42-year-old woman accused from New Model Town arrested by Sahnewal police station also tested positive. Other positive patients include a woman from Mundiya Khurd, a bank officer from Khanna, a staff member of a private hospital in Cheema village, two elderly men from Gurdev Nagar and three persons from Hargobind Nagar. Positive cases reported by private hospitals include an ADC, a man from Dashmesh Nagar, two women healthcare workers from Kaunke Kalan of Jagraon and Moga, both work at private hospitals here, an ayurvedic medical officer from Anandpura Mohalla, a 50-year-old man from Gill Avenue of Barewal Road, a private hospital nurse, a New Shivpuri resident, two healthcare workers — one from Bhamia Khurd and another from Kot Mangal Singh — and one each from Phullanwal and Indrapuri of Tajpur Road. Khanna SDM too has caught the virus.The civil surgeon said the number of deaths of outsiders was 27 and those of the district was also 27. Health department officials said 719 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-let-up-42-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-district/articleshow/76841207.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||It’s Baghajatin after Bijoygarh: Markets shut to stop coronavirus spread in Kolkata||KOLKATA: After Bijoygargh bazaar, it was the turn of Baghajatin bazaar, the largest wholesale fish market in south Kolkata, to get a notice from the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) to shut down all activities for three days. The KMC markets department on Monday ordered the closure of the wholesale fish market and the adjacent vegetable market after four traders tested positive for Covid-19. Besides the fish and vegetable segment, all shop owners were asked to keep their shutters down for the next three days. “We will conduct a sanitization drive in the market for three days and we may allow the market to reopen thereafter. We may not allow reopening of the market if we find more positive cases from the area over the next few days,” said a KMC markets department official. Local traders are scared after the cases were reported, TOI found out during a visit on Tuesday. According to a member of the Baghajatin market committee, over 200 traders (both inside and outside the market) have kept their shops closed fearing contamination. “Police and civic authorities have advised us to shut down the market and not the shops that are located outside. But majority of the traders voluntarily closed their shops out of fear,” the committee member said. At the nearby Bijoygarh area , which has witnessed the highest number of Covid cases in the Tollygunge-Jadavpur belt over the past two weeks, wore a deserted look on Tuesday as local residents forced all shops and the market to remain closed. Bijoygargh bazaar was shut down voluntarily by a section of traders after a couple of traders tested positive. However, panic gripped the entire neighbourhood after 30 people from a small area in Bijoygargh tested positive in the last few days. Fear was so palpable that they compelled owners of shops located on the main thoroughfare to down their shutters. Only a handful of medicine and grocery shops were allowed to operate. “We are staying indoors after 30 neighbours tested positive for Covid-19. It is really a matter of concern and we don’t know how to get rid of the deadly virus that has been infecting people rapidly in our neighbourhood. Personally, I want a stricter lockdown in our locality to save ourselves from Covid-19,” said Ratan Das, a Bijoygarh resident. According to a KMC health department official, the sudden spurt in Covid cases in Bijoygarh was keeping the civic body on tenterhooks. “We are fighting a tough battle against the deadly virus in some specific areas in Bijoygargh as the number of cases can’t be contained by any means,” the civic health department official said. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/its-baghajatin-after-bijoygarh-markets-shut-to-stop-virus-spread/articleshow/76842521.cms||Saikat Ray
July 8, 2020||Ludhiana||ADC tests Covid-19 +ve, top brass quarantine themselves||Times News Network Ludhiana: Additional deputy commissioner (general) Amarjeet Singh Bains tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. As he was symptomatic, he got himself tested the day before.The ADC had attended a Covid-19 review meeting with deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and other officials of the district administration at the DC office on Monday evening. After the confirmation of his positive status, the DC quarantined himself and gave his samples for Covid-19 test on Tuesday. Later in the day, the DC tested negative.The other officials who came in his contact are: chief medical officer (CMO) Rajesh Bagga, nodal officer for Covid-19 Sanyam Agarwal, Jagraon ADC Neeru Katyal, Khanna SDM Sandeep Singh, besides the staff of district public relations office. All of them had attended the meeting and have home isolated themselves.CMO Rajesh Bagga said the ADC has contracted the virus. He had symptoms. His contacts were being traced. The ADC said, “I had fever so I got myself admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital late on Monday night. I don’t know the source of infection, as I have been dealing with public in office. Several people come to my office with applications and memorandums.” The DC has asked all officials who came in the ADC’s direct contact to get themselves tested. On Tuesday afternoon, a team of the health department reached the ADC’s office to collect samples of his staff members. The health team has identified 10 of his close contacts, including his wife, two children, gunmen, driver and domestic helps. They too have been home quarantined and their samples taken. Even as the ADC tested positive, there were no checks on visitors at the DC office complex. A TOI team found people roaming inside the complex without a mask. While entering it, many ignored the foot-operated sanitizing machine, with nobody ensuring that the rules were followed.Khanna SDM too catches virusHealth department officials said Khanna SDM Sandeep Singh too tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. He was a close contact of the ADC (general).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/adc-tests-covid-19-ve-top-brass-quarantine-themselves/articleshow/76841187.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Pune||Another man fails to find ICU bed in four hospitals, dies in Pune||PUNE: A 44-year-old man suffering from a food-pipe associated disorder and liver disease died at the state-run Sassoon general hospital early on Tuesday after his aged parents struggled in vain for almost the entire previous day trying to get him admitted to as many as four private hospitals. The parents claimed that the hospitals turned them away citing lack of an intensive care unit (ICU) bed and their inability to pay the deposit amount. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad has assured an inquiry in the case. The man was first taken to a private hospital on Sinhagad Road where he was given basic medical care. However, the hospital said they did not have a spare hospital bed and adequate facilities to treat him. The hospital’s ambulance dropped the man and his parents to another nearby private hospital. Here, the man was given basic medical care and oxygen support in the emergency unit. The parents claimed that the hospital asked them to pay the deposit amount. However, they said that despite assuring to pay up, the staff referred them to yet another private hospital at Katraj and arranged for an ambulance to shift them there with oxygen support. The Katraj hospital, citing lack of a bed and other facilities, referred them to a neighbouring hospital. However, this hospital too expressed inability to admit the man, citing non-availability of an ICU bed and required facilities, the parents alleged. “My son had a fever two days ago and complained of breathlessness at around 9am on July 6. None of the four hospitals we visited admitted him citing non-availability of a bed and facilities or our inability to pay the deposit amount,” said the man’s 81-year-old father Mahadeo Gosavi, a resident of Hingne on Sinhagad road. The man was finally admitted to Sassoon hospital around 9pm. “However, his condition had worsened due to the delayed admission and treatment. He succumbed to complications at 8am on Tuesday,” the father said. The man’s body could not be handed over to the parents on Tuesday as his Covid-19 test report was awaited. The man, who would do welding and fabrication jobs, was the sole bread-winner for the family which includes his wife, eight-year-old son and aged parents. His wife has a temporary job with a healthcare firm. Gaikwad told TOI, “We will carry out an inquiry and also conduct a death audit. We will ask the hospitals to give reasons for not admitting the patient and cross-verify. The doctors who have seen the patient will be asked to attend the inquiry with all relevant information. Action will be taken against the hospital staff if found guilty.” When contacted, the administration of the first hospital said, “The man was a known patient of oesophagus disorder and liver disease and needed ICU treatment. Since we had no available ICU bed, we referred him to a big hospital at Erandwane after stabilizing him.” The second hospital refuted the parents’ allegation that the man was denied admission due to a paucity of funds. “We never delay treatment for want of funds. We have been struggling with a shortage of ICU beds these days. Hence, we arranged for the ambulance after providing medical care and oxygen support to the patient,” the hospital said. The third hospital at Katraj also cited non-availability of ICU beds. “Ours is a very small hospital. Since we didn’t have an ICU bed vacant, we referred him to a neighbouring hospital,” the administration said. The fourth hospital at Dhankawadi said, “We have been running short of ICU beds for the last many days. Hence we could not admit the patient.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/another-man-fails-to-find-icu-bed-in-4-hosps-dies/articleshow/76843789.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali hotelier booked for raping employee||CHANDIGARH: The UT police have booked a hotel owner in Mohali for allegedly raping his employee. The accused is on the run. In her statement, the 21-year-old woman alleged that she worked at a hotel in Mohali and her 26-year-old employer took her to a hotel in Sector 36, Chandigarh, where they had a soft drink and the accused then allegedly raped her. The accused fled from the spot after committing the crime. The woman then informed the police about the incident. The police reached on the spot and took her to a hospital for a medical examination. Her medical reports confirmed rape, following which the police registered a case under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused. The police said the woman has been changing her statements and they are verifying the facts. No arrest has been made in the case so far and efforts are on to nab the hotel owner. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hotelier-booked-for-raping-employee/articleshow/76842542.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Surat||Light showers soak parts of south Guj||SURAT: Even as Saurashtra got drenched with exceptionally heavy rainfall, there was only light showers witnessed in most parts of South Gujarat on Tuesday. In fact, South Gujarat — considered to be a heavy rain region — received less rainfall compared to Saurashtra. According to the state emergency centre data, South Gujarat has so far received just 15.53% of its average annual rainfall whereas Saurashtra has received more than 50% of its average annual rainfall. Jalalpor in Navsari district received 30 mm while Umargam in Valsad district received 15 mm rainfall on Tuesday. According to the state agriculture department, sowing has been completed in 57.38% of the state’s average sowing area. Sowing activity has been slow in South Gujarat region. According to the data, sowing has been completed in 1.68 lakh hectare area in seven districts of South Gujarat. Farmers have been showing tur, cotton, vegetables, fodder, paddy, jowar and soyabean in South Gujarat. “There are a 13 dams in the South Gujarat region and they are filled with 46.44% to its total capacity,” said an official from the irrigation department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/light-showers-soak-parts-of-south-guj/articleshow/76841216.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Centre plans to recast power projects||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Union government has responded positively to Kerala’s long-pending demand for state-specific flexibility in the rollout of centrally-assisted power projects. Union minister of state for power, R K Singh, in a videoconference with the state ministers, said the centre was planning to recast several of the ongoing power projects. The existing terms and conditions for central government-assisted schemes would be reviewed. Kerala had been demanding it since long. The Union minister, said a KSEB statement, has said the central schemes in power sector may be implemented by considering the whole state as a single unit, without insisting compliance to the urban, rural criteria that often prove impractical for Kerala, where the urban-rural divide is not glaring as in most other Indian states. Kerala informed the centre that some of the schemes announced by the centre as part of the ‘Atmanirbhar’ programme for power utilities, were detrimental to the interest of the state and hence requested change in the criteria fixed for providing financial assistance to power utilities. State power minister M M Mani, power secretary Dinesh Arora and KSEB chairman and managing director N S Pillai attended the meeting. KSEB shortlists 8 agencies for setting up EV charging stations Kerala state rlectricity board has shortlisted more than half a dozen companies/consortiums eligible for setting up electric vehicle charging stations in select locations in the state. Among the eight companies/consortiums selected by the board after inviting expression of interest from competent agencies include two Kerala-based consortiums and a Mumbai-based Tata Power Company Ltd. The empaneled bidders are: Bridge Way Motors LLP, Kozhikode and EXICOM Pvt Ltd Gurgaon (consortium), Okaya Power Pvt Ltd, New Delhi, Indus Motor company pvt ltd, Calicut and Delta Electronics India Pvt Ltd, Chennai (Consortium), Trinity Clean tech pvt Ltd, Telangana, Energy Efficiency Services Ltd, New Delhi, Tirex Power company ltd, Ahmedabad, Tata Power Company Ltd, Mumbai and Neel Metal Products Ltd, New Delhi. The board had recently opened an electric charging station in government secretariat compound. As a first step towards readying the state for the smooth rollout of electric vehicles, KSEB would be setting up charging centres at first in six corporation/municipality areas, namely Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Kochi, Thrissur, Kozhikode and Kannur. All these stations would be coming up in KSEB-owned land parcels. “If it was not for the pandemic, the six charging stations should have been up by now. Once the travel restrictions and other difficulties brought about by the pandemic end, the stations would be commissioned without much delay,” said one of the senior officials responsible for the project. In association with the agencies selected, the board plans to set up 64 charging stations in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Kozhikode. Of this, 33 EV charging stations would be coming up in land under government/local bodies and autonomous bodies. Also, 20 would be set up in KSEB land and the rest 11 in private land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/centre-plans-to-recast-power-projects/articleshow/76842556.cms||B S Anilkumar
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Govts made and unmade at this palace||HYDERABAD: The now demolished Saifabad Palace, popularly known as G block in state secretariat, was more than a structure of stone and mortar. All through its 135 years of existence, this imposing heritage and historical site had witnessed the making and fall of governments and major legislations being drafted. It was a beehive of activity, particularly when TDP founder NT Rama Rao was the chief minister. Besides housing the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), it also had the press room, an Unani dispensary, a creche for the children of employees. There was the office of the secretariat employees’ union and the thrift society. The lime mortar palace with its high-rise ceiling provided enough aeration that eliminated the need for air conditioners. Several film personalities including Shammi Kapoor and Sashi Kapoor would visit the G block to meet NT Rama Rao, who himself was a thespian and matinee idol of the Tollywood. The security was quite thin and almost everyone had access to Rama Rao’s office. Some mediapersons would park their vehicles near its entrance without a whimper from security guards. Many important decisions that changed the socio-economic fabric of united AP were taken in the palace. For some time, it served as office of general administration department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govts-made-and-unmade-at-this-palace/articleshow/76843804.cms||Syed Akbar
July 8, 2020||Dehradun||IAF’s MI 17 chopper conducts aerial survey near China border||Uttarkashi: Amid the standoff between India and China near eastern Ladakh, Indian Air Force’s MI 17 helicopter conducted an aerial survey of the strategically important Chinyalisaur airstrip and adjoining areas near the China border in Uttarakhand on Tuesday. Officials said that the two-day survey, which began on Monday morning, was part of the IAF’s routine exercises. The district administration too confirmed the helicopter movement in the area. Ghanshyam Singh, site engineer of Uttar Pradesh Nirman Nigam, said, “The airstrip is now suitable for any emergency operation. While the civil works are over, some technical aspects are yet to be completed.” “In the past too, both defence and civil aviation officials have conducted inspections and deemed the works satisfactory,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iafs-mi-17-chopper-conducts-aerial-survey-near-china-border/articleshow/76840139.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
July 8, 2020||Rajkot||Minor, 29-year-old arrested for raping 14-year-old girl||Rajkot: A minor and a 29-year-old man were arrested by the Rajkot detection of crime branch (DCB) on Tuesday for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl. The accused duo took the girl from Chunarawada area on the pretext of showing her a new house. They allegedly took the girl inside an abandoned house in Sri Ram Society and then sexually assaulted her on Monday evening, police said. Police said the girl knew the minor boy and therefore went with him and another man. When the boy called her, she left the house saying she was going to buy soda. Sources in the B-division police station said that the man identified as Parshottam alias Vicky Solanki and the minor, both residents of Kubaliyapara, were arrested near railway station on Tuesday. When her girl's parents scolded her for returning home so late, she first told them that the duo had forcibly taken her away by stuffing her mouth with a cloth. However, when coaxed into revealing the truth by women cops, she broke down and revealed the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/minor-29-year-old-arrested-for-raping-14-year-old-girl/articleshow/76842539.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||PU still to take final call on holding exams||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University (PU) is in a fix on whether to conduct exams or not as a decision eluded even after more than an hour-long meeting of top brass with the vice-chancellor (VC) on Tuesday. Student parties are vociferously demanding that exams be cancelled, when the Centre has announced that they should be held. Sources said officials asked the VC to take the final call. They pointed out if the exams were conducted in September, admissions will take place in October and the session started by December — an unfeasible schedule. Officials said if the admissions are delayed, the university will face a financial crunch as no fee will be deposited. The point that Punjab had already announced cancellation of exams on Saturday too cropped up in the meeting. Colleges affiliated to PU in seven districts of the state have more than two lakh students. A PU spokesperson issued a statement that the authorities went through the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines on exams and admissions and is preparing a plan. A joint delegation of student organisations met officials, demanding the immediate cancellation of the exams. They strongly criticised the “irresponsible” decision of the central government. They complained that if the university wants to hold online tests, how can students living in Ladakh, Kashmir, Srinagar and other regions, where there is no Internet facility, can appear. Students who come from backward and rural areas have neither a laptop nor access to a cyber cafe, they said. Secondly, they said, if PU is thinking of holding exams, students coming from other states will face many difficulties in reaching the centres. Members of NSUI sat on a chain hunger strike at Congress Bhawan, Sector 35, against the decision to conduct the final-year exams as per the UGC guidelines. Panjab University Campus Student Council vice-president Rahul Kumar said conducting exams in this scenario will not be beneficial for students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-still-to-take-final-call-on-holding-exams/articleshow/76842505.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 30 complaints a day, traffic cops to verify e-challans||NEW DELHI: With scores of complaints regarding speed e-challans being slapped on vehicles not present in the area, the traffic police has launched a reverification procedure to check these challans. On average, the cops have been receiving more than 30 wrong challan complaints through social media daily. The vehicle owners have been asked to email the copies of their challans to an ID created exclusively to address these grievances. While the transport department that maintains the records of vehicles registered in Delhi has been asked to update its database, police will manually match the photographs clicked by the automatic cameras with the vehicle data to cancel or reissue the challans. On average, about 26,000 challans are issued every fortnight for various traffic violations. These are based on photographs that are either clicked by traffic cops or through cameras installed on major roads. The automatic camera-based prosecution system scans the numberplate of a violating vehicle and matches it with the database provided through National Informatics Centre by state governments. A notice is then sent to the mobile number and the address of the vehicle owner available with the vehicle registration details. “We will ensure no one is fined for an offence that is not committed,” said an officer. “Often the registered mobile number does not match with the owner’s. We have requested the transport department to conduct a check,” he added. While traffic cops have not ruled out the possibility of vehicles with fake numberplates plying in the city, they are also not ruling out the possibility of wrong images getting attached with some challans as the procedure is completed with minimum human interaction. During some inquiries, it was also found that violators were using the review facility to delay fine payment, said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/30-complaints-a-day-traffic-cops-to-verify-e-challans/articleshow/76843802.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
July 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Does this look like a sealed zone?||Ludhiana: Tuesday saw hustle and bustle at Kucha Number 5 of Field Gunj, which was among nine micro-containment zones declared on Monday. The Kucha Number 5, which has houses, shops and congested roads, was ordered to be sealed by deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma. On the day, a TOI team captured pictures showing people roaming crowded roads without masks. The area neither looked sealed nor was any official present there to keep a check on violations.The owner of a cosmetic products’ shop said, “After the area was declared a micro-containment zone, some cops visited it on Monday. They were discussing sealing of the area, but no official came on Tuesday to seal it.” When asked if any announcement was made for shopkeepers or residents about precautions to be taken, a grocer said, “I just heard from somewhere that the area has been declared a micro-containment zone, but nobody came to create awareness or issue directions.” Additional deputy commissioner-I Deepak Pareek said, “We will get the area sealed by Wednesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/does-this-look-like-a-sealed-zone/articleshow/76841240.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Dehradun||Yamuntori national highway closed for three days, heavy rain in state||Dehradun: The Yamunotri national highway remained blocked for the third consecutive day on Tuesday. After landslides on Saturday evening triggered by heavy rainfall in Hanumanchatti in Uttarkashi district, a 10-metre stretch of the highway was washed away. According to the state emergency operation center (SEOC), all the routes connecting Char Dham shrines, except Yamunotri highway, are clear. The Rishikesh-Badrinath had been blocked following landslides in Narkota and near Karnaprayag. The Rishikesh-Kedarnath highway was also closed due to a landslide at Sirobagad. However, debris was cleared and traffic movement restored at both highways by Tuesday morning. Meanwhile, several places in the Garhwal and Kumaon regions received moderate to heavy rainfall in past 24 hours. According to the regional meteorological centre, Mussoorie received 60mm rain, while Jakholi in Rudraprayag and Gairsain in Chamoli district each witnessed 50mm rainfall. Nandkesari in Chamoli district received 100mm rain, while Karnaprayag was lashed by 60mm showers. Dharasu in Uttarkashi too received 60mm rainfall. Bikram Singh, director, regional meteorological center, said, “Widespread rain occurred across Uttarakhand in past 24 hours. Heavy rain is likely in Dehradun, Uttarkashi, Pithoragarh and Nainital districts on Tuesday night and Wednesday early morning.” “Rain activity will rise from July 9 across Uttarakhand and heavy to very rain are likely to lash parts of the Himalayan state between July 10 and July 14,” added Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/yamuntori-national-highway-closed-for-three-days-heavy-rain-in-state/articleshow/76840152.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Work from home for Chandigarh teachers soon||CHANDIGARH: A letter from the central government to education secretaries of all states and UTs to keep schools and coaching institutions closed and ask teachers to work from home has made Chandigarh rethink about its decision of asking heads of government schools to call up to 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff to schools for “urgent administrative work”. The letter issued by Anita Karwal, secretary, department of school education and literacy, said, “The ministry of home affairs has issued guidelines on Unlock 2.0, whereby it has been directed that schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31. Online/distance learning shall continue to be permitted. For this purpose, essential teaching/non-teaching staff or research scholars should continue to work from home and as far as possible they should not be called to the schools/colleges/institutions.” In the letter, Karwal requested the education department to ensure compliance and strict implementation the closure of schools and colleges. It was on Monday that following the ministry’s letter on letting college faculty to work from home, the UT education department had reviewed its previous order and asked college principals to let staff work from home and call them only if there is some urgent work. Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director school education, said, “We will see the letter and act according to directions of the higher authorities.” The letter brought a sigh of relief to teachers going to schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/work-from-home-for-city-teachers-soon/articleshow/76842559.cms||Kamini Mehta
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: First Covid-19 death in Tollywood||KOLKATA: Arun Guhathakurta became the first actor in Bengali film industry to have lost his battle with Covid-19. The 75-year-old actor, who had won a National Award for an Assamese film, is survived by his wife and daughter. Born in Barisal on August 14, 1944, Guhathakurta had directed a Bengali film titled ‘Agnisakshi’ and many serials. According to his daughter, Payel, he had suffered a cardiac arrest on July 1. “He had tested positive. My mother, who has also tested positive, is fighting for her life,” she said. Director Buddhadeb Dasgupta, whom Guhathakurta had assisted, said; “We don’t have another assistant director who is so dedicated and well-versed in the technical aspect of cinema. He was an inborn actor.” Director Kaushik Ganguly said: “He will be seen in three of my forthcoming films. Covid has snatched away one of Tollywood’s finest actors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/first-covid-death-in-tollywood/articleshow/76842590.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Woman, son hang themselves in Daba||Times News Network Ludhiana: A mother-son duo allegedly committed suicide at their house in Satguru Nagar, Daba, on Monday night. Krishna Devi, 65, and Manish Kumar, 35, were found hanging from the same ceiling fan with separate dupattas.Police said Manish’s wife had died 10 days ago and since then, he and his mother were upset.Daba police station SHO inspector Pavittar Singh said, “The family had been living in the rented accommodation from the past two years. Manish’s ailing wife had gone to her parents’ house in Panchkula before lockdown. About 10 days ago, she passed away, leaving the two distressed.”On Monday evening, the neighbours grew suspicious when they did not see the woman and her son for long. “Their landlord peeked inside the house through a window and found them hanging. He then called up the police. The neighbours said the family kept to itself. Nobody knew what was Manish’s profession. They said he did not go to work after lockdown,” the SHO added. Additional deputy commissioner of police-II Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said, “Cops have recovered a suicide note from their house in which Manish has accused 14 persons, including his father-in-law, mother-in-law, six brothers-in-law and their wives, of forcing them to take the extreme step. He wrote that after his wife’s death, his in-laws insulted him and his mother in front of everyone. They also slapped Manish. This drove Krishna and Manish to end their lives.”The police have registered a case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC against all 14 accused.Police have called their relatives to record their statements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-son-hang-themselves-in-daba/articleshow/76841255.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Driver runs over 10-year-old boy, throws body in drain||NEW DELHI: A 20-year-old driver was arrested for running over a 10-year old boy and later throwing his body in a drain in Noida to avoid being nabbed for the death of the boy. The incident occurred on Sunday evening, but till late on Tuesday search operations were still under way to recover the body of the child. According to police, Jumman, a resident of Yamuna Khadar in Mayur Vihar, arrived at the police station on Sunday evening with the information that his 10-year old son Gaffar was missing. Jumman is an e-rickshaw driver. The members of Jumman’s family and local residents searched for Gaffar in the areas near his house, but he was nowhere to be found. After a team of police officers began investigations, a youngster informed them that he had seen a man putting a bleeding Gaffar in the car and driving away. “Footage from the CCTV cameras in the area were analysed and the car was identified as a Bolero pick-up van,” said Jasmeet Singh, DCP (East). “Later that night, we were able to arrest the suspect, identified as Madan Lal who is from Bihar and works as a driver in Delhi. We also seized his vehicle.” The DCP disclosed that Gaffar had been playing outside his house when Lal, while reversing the car crushed the boy under the wheels of his car. Instead of taking Gaffar to hospital, however, Lal bundled him into the van and later threw the body in a drain near Sector 14, Noida.” During interrogation, the suspect told the police that he panicked when the boy appeared to be dead and so threw his body in the drain, hoping to avoid getting caught. A police case has been registered. Several teams are searching the drain to recover the body of the 10-year-old. Till Tuesday night, the body had not been found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/driver-runs-over-10-yr-old-boy-throws-body-in-drain/articleshow/76843800.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Friends kill teen, make ransom call||Times News Network Ludhiana: Two teenagers kidnapped their 16-year-old friend of Jassiyan village and thrashed him to death with bricks in Hussainpura village, Salem Tabri. After murdering Preet, the accused made a call to his father using his mobile phone and demanded a ransom of Rs 50,000. Preet’s hosiery worker father Dashrath Lal said his son received a call from a friend on Monday night and left the house, saying he will return in sometime. However, when he did not return, they started searching for him and later lodged a police complaint. Assistant commissioner of police (north) Gurbinder Singh said while the police were searching for Preet, Dashrath Lal received a call from Preet’s mobile for Rs 50,000 ransom on Tuesday afternoon. He said they traced the call and nabbed two teenagers, who turned out to be Preet’s friends. The police recovered the body, following information provided by the accused and were questioning them to know the reason for murder. The police suspect involvement of more people in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/friends-kill-teen-make-ransom-call/articleshow/76841233.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||SpiceJet flight brings back 177 from UAE||Mohali: As part of the Vande Bharat Mission of evacuating Indians stranded in various countries, an evacuation flight from United Arab Emirates (UAE) arrived at Chandigarh International Airport with 177 Indians on Tuesday. With this, a total of 16 flights carrying around 2,300 stranded Indians abroad have arrived in Chandigarh. These include one flight from USA, two each from Ukraine, United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Auckland in New Zealand, three from Kuwait and four from Dubai. The evacuation flight from UAE arrived at 8:59pm. SpiceJet Flight Number SEJ-9302 carrying Indians from UAE landed at Chandigarh International Airport with 177 passengers. This is the third flight connecting with UAE. The previous flight arrived on July 4 and July 6 with 173 and 168 passengers respectively. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all passengers arriving from UAE have been asked to undergo strict institutional quarantine at their respective districts and their passports have also been taken into possession by the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/spicejet-flight-brings-back-177-from-uae/articleshow/76842551.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 strikes health headquarters; West Bengal govt promises normal services||KOLKATA: Covid-19 has now reached the state’s health headquarters with at least about 20 employees at Swasthya Bhawan testing positive in the past couple of days, a majority of them working in the corona control room. But health officials said this will in no way hamper the normal functioning either at Swasthya Bhawan or at the corona control room that gets hundreds of calls from anxious people across the state. According to sources at the health department, 14 employees who were part of the 24X7 Covid control room has tested positive along with four from Swasthya Sathi cell and one from the leprosy unit. This excludes five other staffers who were found positive during the rapid antigen testing on Monday. Officials, however, say that all of them were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms. Most of them have been put on home quarantine. “The entire Swasthya Bhawan — buildings and premises — have undergone thorough disinfection. Also, other employees who had been in close contact with the positive cases have been tested. All departments will continue to function normally,” said a health department official. The corona control room was set up right at the beginning of the pandemic. With three helpline numbers, the control room receives few hundred calls everyday. It answers to queries from anxious callers, who suspect that they might have been infected, calls on how to go about testing, SOS from families who need hospitalisation for a member or from one who has had a Covid-suspected death in the house. On the basis of the calls, ambulances are sent to ferry patients to hospitals or to testing centres. Health officials promised that there will be no compromise with the services. “Some other efficient officials have been deputed to the control room so that the void is filled up. The control room continues to function with all the effectiveness it was working before,” said state health secretary Narayan Swarup Nigam. The Swasthya Sathi cell looks after the health insurance scheme of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-strikes-health-hq-govt-promises-normal-services/articleshow/76842553.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||UT: Online test fails to see 100% attendance||CHANDIGARH: The UT education department has released analysis of the result of social studies test, which was conducted online on Sunday. The test was conducted for classes IX and X. According to the report, the attendance in both the classes was not 100 per cent. It was further shared that in class X, the average score out of 25 was 14 marks, while in class IX, it was 14 marks. In class X, 10,207 students appeared for the test i.e. 76.3% of the total strength. In class IX, 10,490 students out of the total 13,049 appeared for the online test i.e. 80.38%. The report further shared that in both the classes, links were shared as per schedule and the overall response was good. Students and teachers were able to submit their responses without any hassle. The link was closed at 12 noon for class IX students and 10.30am for class X students. The teachers, however, said they were not sure if the result was accurate. A social studies teacher, requesting anonymity, said, “How can we say the result is appropriate? For 25 questions, one-hour time was allotted, whereas not more than 20 minutes is required to do MCQs and students can easily check answers from book or from Google. So are we satisfied with response? I don’t think.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/online-test-fails-to-see-100-attendance/articleshow/76842565.cms||Kamini Mehta
July 8, 2020||Surat||Diamantaires sensitize their workers through social media||SURAT: Forced by the huge rise in number of Covid-19 cases in its units and with the industry being shut for another week till July 14, Surat’s diamond barons have taken the social media route to spread messages of safety among its workers. Urging the polishers not to venture out of their homes when the factories are shut, diamantaires have advised their workers to refrain from visiting their hometowns in Saurashtra to protect themselves and their family from the deadly contagion. Chairman of Shree Ramkrishna Export, Govind Dholakiya posted a video message on Samast Leuva Patel Samaj’s Facebook page on Tuesday. He stated that the diamond industry in Surat has come in the spotlight due to rise in Covid-19 cases among its workers. He said that the virus has not spread from the units, but from the unnecessary movement of workers in public places without taking necessary care. “Don’t even think of visiting your hometowns in Saurashtra or you will put the lives of people in the villages at higher risk in their villages. Coronavirus has not spared old, young, children, doctors, healthcare staff etc and so, there is no reason to believe that you (workers) are safe,” Dholakiya warned. In his message, managing director of Dharmanandan Diamonds, Hitesh Patel, stated that carelessness and gross violation of social distancing norms, wearing of masks, and sanitizing hands have resulted in the increase in Covid-19 cases among the workers and their family members. “If cases continue to rise, the industry overall will have to bear the brunt of our mistakes. It is time to change our lifestyle to deal with the virus” said Patel. President of Surat Diamond Association, Babu Kathiriya said, “We don’t want the industry to shut again after July 14 due to rise in Covid cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamantaires-sensitize-their-workers-through-social-media/articleshow/76841250.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Cops: Pinjra Tod members misusing social media||NEW DELHI: The members of Pinjra Tod group have misused social media to run a campaign in favour of their arrested members and impede justice, Delhi Police told Delhi high court. Explaining why it issued a press release, police have in an affidavit alleged that a woman accused, Devangana Kalitha, arrested in relation to the anti-CAA protests and communal violence in the city, started a ‘media trial’ in her favour to gain sympathy and generate public opinion. It cited “false and misleading information” detailed in the tweets in public domain to argue that it had a direct adverse impact on the law as “social media in the present day has become one of the most powerful tools for dissemination of information, both true and false.” In its reply, police claimed that Kalitha and her group have a huge social media presence through which they had been “vociferously” trying to impede the ongoing investigation against them by trying to gain sympathy and swing public opinion in their favour. Police’s reply was filed in response to a plea by the JNU student Kalitha alleging that the probe agency was selectively leaking certain information regarding allegations and evidence collected against her to the media . The court had earlier passed an interim order restraining the cops from sharing any information related to the case with a third party. Responding to the notice, Delhi Police said, “The petitioner is guilty of peddling a false social media narrative of state-sponsored oppression and subjugation against a particular community, which incited the Delhi riots. After the riots, she is guilty of peddling of a false narrative of a political vendetta, state-sponsored pogrom, persecution and malicious prosecution against the said community.” Police maintained that it issued a press note on June 2 about the case against Kalitha and said it was only to put things in the right perspective to prevent any flare of public sentiments, and to bring out the true facts regarding the offences for which she was arrested. “The said note was necessary in peculiar facts and circumstances that prevailed in the aftermath of the riots and was in discharge of the constitutional obligation of respondent (police) to satisfy the right of the citizen to know about the affairs of the society, and the right of the journalist to ensure an informed society,” said the police’ affidavit filed through advocates Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-pinjra-tod-members-misusing-social-media/articleshow/76843274.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Bareilly||Kanpur aftermath: Several UP dists readying lists of history-sheeters to be ‘caught and jailed’||Agra/Meerut/ Bareilly: Following the directions of Uttar Pradesh police brass in the wake of the horrific Kanpur encounter that claimed lives of eight policemen and left scores injured, police in almost all UP districts are now busy compiling lists of criminals under their jurisdiction with details of their properties to “put them behind the bars and confiscate their illegal assets”. The office of ADG (Agra zone) has prepared a list of 10,100 history-sheeters, dividing them between classes A (9,835) and B (265). According to the UP Police regulations, class A category of history-sheeters are those who are involved in dacoity, cattle theft, cheating, pilferage of railway goods from trains, while class B offenders are habitual and professionals involved in contraband smuggling, forgery, railway theft, wanted criminal, telecommunication cable thief, pickpocketing, among other crimes.According to data available with the ADG office, Agra has the highest number of history-sheeters at 1,919— with 1,856 being in class A and 63 in class B — followed by Mathura — 1,363 in class A and 20 in class B. Similarly, Mainpuri has reported a total of 1,167 history-sheeters, Firozabad (1,500), Aligarh (1,371), Etah (1,086), Hathras (765) and Kasganj (770). In Firozabad, police are searching for 200 history-sheeters, while close to 150 are in jail. According to the ADG (Agra) office, 64 criminals are wanted in cases of murder, robbery, theft and other crimes in eight districts of the Agra zone and all of them are carrying a bounty, with the maximum reward being Rs 50,000 on three criminals. Explaining the concept of history-sheeter, Firozabad superintendent of police (SP) Sachindra Patel said, “The basic idea behind maintaining the history-sheet of an offender is to keep a tab or manual surveillance on him so that he doesn’t get engaged in further criminal acts. Police stations prepare proformas of offenders to know about their crime records, including the nature of crime, number of crimes, accomplices, current status and other details.” Bulandshahar district has, however, listed 1,996 history-sheeters. “In the past two months, police identified 19 criminals and opened their history-sheets. As of now, there are 1,996 history-sheeters in the district,” confirmed SSP Santosh Kumar. DIG (Bareilly range) Rajesh Pandey has, meanwhile, sought lists of history-sheeters with details of their properties from the SSPs of Bareilly, Shahjahanpur, Budaun and Pilibhit districts. “We are, particularly, looking for habitual offenders booked under the Gangsters Act who have made property through illegal means. We are, at the same time, monitoring the status of the investigation into the cases registered against them. If an investigating officer is found to be deliberately delaying the status report in a case, appropriate action will be taken against him.”Top cops in the region, however, maintain that the identification of new criminals and monitoring of older ones is an ongoing process, which is now being expedited. “There are several methods of monitoring criminals, including keeping a tab on their aides who help jailed criminals secure bail, stall an on-going hearing in a court, try to influence witnesses and deliberately delaying trials,” said inspector general (Meerut range) Praveen Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/kanpur-aftermath-several-up-dists-readying-lists-of-history-sheeters-to-be-caught-and-jailed/articleshow/76841237.cms||Arvind Chauhan
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Finally, Chandigarh civic body repairs water pipe leaking for 7 months||CHANDIGARH: A day after TOI highlighted the problems caused by a broken water pipe in the forest area of Sector 25 west, MC officials acted swiftly and repaired the pipe, which had been broken for the past seven months. Two forest guards in the area claimed that they submitted a complaint with MC officials in December 2019 and they promised to send someone but in vain. “This is the first time that some government official came to the spot and repaired it. Earlier too, MC officials used to come to repair a tubewell near the spot. Our only plea to them was to just look at the spot but they ignored us. Now the situation will change here,” said Mukesh, the forest guard. He added that it took MC officials nine hours to repair the pipe on Sunday. “However, it is a relief to us. People had made this place a hotspot. They used to drink liquor here and light bonfires occasionally,” said Mahendra Ram, another forest guard. Gallons of water was wasted here as the pipe spewed water at high pressure for months, creating a water body of sorts. This lured anti-social elements to the spot. The guards said people, mostly youths, come from Sector 25, Khuda Lahora, Dhanas, Dadumajra and even Nayagaon. MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said, “A joint was leaking and it has been solved permanently now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/finally-civic-body-repairs-water-pipe-leaking-for-7-months/articleshow/76842598.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Pune||Collector orders probe into man’s death after futile search for isolated ICU beds in Pune||PUNE: Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram on Tuesday ordered an inquiry into the death of a 68-year-old man at Sassoon general hospital after his relatives failed to find an isolated intensive care unit (ICU) bed in two private hospitals on July 5. The man, a diabetic, had complained of symptoms like breathlessness associated with Covid-19. After the two failed attempts to find a hospital bed, his family members tried to locate an ICU facility for nearly two-and-a-half hours by making calls to three other private hospitals. But their efforts were unsuccessful. He was finally admitted to Sassoon hospital where he died hours later. “A team has been sent to the private hospitals. Its members will prepare and submit a fact-finding report. Necessary action will be initiated on the basis of the report,” Ram told TOI. “The standard operating procedures (SOPs) are in place and the onus is on the hospital first approached to stabilize a patient during emergency. The next step is to shift the patient to a dedicated Covid-19 care facility, depending on the symptoms,” he said. “No hospital can turn a patient away. In case a hospital cannot admit a person, it has to cite the reason. Any violation of the SOPs will attract serious action. Several meetings have been conducted with the hospitals on the SOPs and it’s beyond anyone’s comprehension how a hospital can violate the norms. FIRs can be filed against errant hospitals,” the collector said. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said the death of the man in Sassoon hospital was being examined. “We will take action on the basis of the findings. No hospital can deny treatment to any patient. The SOPs are a must for all hospitals,” he said. (With inputs from Sarang Dastane)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collector-orders-probe-into-mans-death-after-futile-search-for-isolated-icu-beds/articleshow/76843814.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||MC panel plans to enhance income||Chandigarh: The committee constituted by the city mayor to enhance revenue sources of the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) held its meeting on Tuesday. The financial status and sources to enhance the income of the municipal corporation was discussed in detail during the meeting. The committee members asked the officers concerned of the MC to provide details regarding different wings so that the same could be discussed. The members asked the officers concerned to curtail down expenditure on establishment. They have also asked for details on vacant properties in the rural as well urban areas maintained with the estate branch and the building branch. The members also sought the latest status of the 4th Delhi Finance Committee (DFC) report. Besides this, many other revenue generation issues were discussed. The next meeting has been scheduled for July 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-panel-plans-to-enhance-income/articleshow/76842577.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kochi||Concerns raised even as CBSE cuts syllabi by 30%||KOCHI: Even though teachers and students are happy about the Central Board of Secondary Education’s (CBSE) decision to cut the academic syllabi of school students by 30% in order to compensate for the lost academic days due to the pandemic, concerns are still raised by many. Teachers said that the efforts put in by them to teach and the students to learn won’t reduce much as important and difficult topics, crucial for higher studies and competitive exams, are not cut from syllabus. Though the decision is welcomed considering lost academic days, teachers said that the portions won’t be completed by relying on online classes and schools need to be back to normal. They also said that since all chapters of Classes XI and XII have weightage in engineering and medical entrance exams, if government doesn’t decide to avoid these chapters in the exam questions, students will lose marks. “The portions of Classes 10 and 12, which are prioritized in syllabus reduction, are important in board exams, whose results are crucial for the students’ higher studies and admissions. So the decision has not resulted in deletion of entire chapters but only of themes and topics that overlap or are repeated. Moreover, CBSE has said that teachers should ensure students understand these topics, which is least practical considering the availability of time,” said a science teacher in a Kochi-based CBSE school. Though online classes are going on, the portions covered are lesser compared to normal times. The time taken to explain difficult topics and clear doubts is more. “We hope to go back to normal school days by September and if it gets delayed further, completing portions will be challenging,” said Juby Paul, principal, ToC-H Public School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/concerns-raised-even-as-cbse-cuts-syllabi-by-30/articleshow/76842567.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
July 8, 2020||Kochi||Dance party: Kerala police arrest 22, including resort owner||IDUKKI: Santhanpara police arrested 22 persons, including resort owner Thannikkot Roy Kurian, in connection with a dance party that which was held at Jungle Palace resort on June 28 without following Covid-19 restrictions. The arrested persons were released on bail later, said the police. On Monday, police had arrested six persons in connection with the dance party. Earlier, Santhanpara police had registered a case against Kurian, also the owner of Thannikkot metal and granite factory, and 47 others for violating Covid-19 guidelines by organizing the event. Udumbanchola tahsildar Manoj Rajan issued a stop memo to the controversial factory at Chathurangappara near Nedumkandam on Tuesday after a revenue team inspected the quarry. Revenue officials said that the quarry owner had stored minerals and metals at the site without proper papers. “The firm did not apply for a licence from the mining and geology department or panchayat. The NOC for the factory, which was last issued in the name of one Muhammed Iqbal from Nedumkandam, expired in 2017. I will submit a report to Idukki collector and mining and geology department about the large-scale storage of metals and minerals in the crusher without a licence,” said Rajan. However, Udumbanchola panchayat secretary PV Viju said the new factory owner did not submit an application to secure the licence. “To get a licence from the panchayat, firm owner should submit an application with copies of NOC from PCB, mining and geology department and factories and boilers department. After getting application, panchayat committee will issue a licence later,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dance-party-police-arrest-22-including-resort-owner/articleshow/76842604.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Why DTC is operating at a third of its strength||NEW DELHI: A shortage of drivers, coupled with deployment of a large number of buses for ferrying healthcare workers and security personnel, has resulted in public transport buses running in half strength despite the number of commuters increasing by the day. Though the number of buses deployed has started going up, the situation won’t improve until Delhi Metro services resume, said a transport official. The number of buses in Delhi Transport Corporation’s (DTC) fleet is 3,781, but around 1,000 are now deployed for public. “About 40% of DTC’s drivers live in places in Haryana like Gurugram, Rohtak, Bahadurgarh and Rewari, and have been facing commuting problems,” a Delhi government official said. “The situation was worse when the Gurugram border was closed but even now, commuting from outside the capital is difficult. We are making arrangements to tide over this problem,” he added. More than 1,500 DTC buses were also deployed as Special Hire for ferrying healthcare workers from hospitals and security personnel. “A large number of buses were provided to district authorities to transport migrant workers to railway stations. DTC buses also ferried special flight passengers from Terminal 3 of IGI Airport in June,” he said. “DTC buses have made 10,000 trips between May 7 and June 8 just for ferrying migrants,” he pointed out. The district authorities have sent the buses back and the deployment of Special Hire buses are being rationalised to utilise more buses for daily commuters, the official said. The number of Cluster Scheme buses on roads, run by Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System, has increased over the past few weeks. On Tuesday, 2,817 of its 2,831 buses were deployed. “We are increasing the number of trips undertaken by Cluster Scheme buses and also rationalising trips, so that there are more buses on routes with higher demand,” said the official. “However, with only 20 passengers allowed in each bus at any given time to ensure social distancing, there will be a shortage even if the combined DTC and Cluster Scheme fleet of 6,598 buses is deployed.” “The problem will remain till Delhi Metro resume as buses cannot be a substitute for a metro, which is a rapid mass transit system,” the official said. “Even if the capacity is drastically reduced, both services are required for a reliable public transport system for a metropolis like Delhi,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-dtc-is-operating-at-a-third-of-its-strength/articleshow/76843813.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops say no to ‘Kawad Yatra’||Panchkula: The Panchkula police have appealed residents to not take part in Kawad Yatra. The deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Mohit Handa, has asked all the assistant commissioners of police (ACPs) and station house officers (SHOs) to keep a strict vigil in this regard. Transporters have also been asked to not provide any vehicle to people for Kawad Yatra this year, which has been cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic. The DCP held a meeting with all the ACPs and SHOs of the district, asking them to keep a strict vigil on people. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-say-no-to-kawad-yatra/articleshow/76842589.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Mumbai||Shops get two more hours to be open from tomorrow||Mumbai: The state government has allowed non-essential shops and markets to function for two more hours from July 9. Shops can now function from 9am to 7pm, instead of 5pm, but on alternate days. The government had earlier allowed non-essential shops to function regularly from 9am to 9pm , but in a notification on June 29, it was revised till 5pm as people were staying out till late, sometimes violating night curfew. The notification issued by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday said the relaxation will be used by shopkeeper associations to ensure less crowding and social distancing. It added that markets can open all days of the week, unlike earlier, when they had to be shut on Sundays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shops-get-two-more-hours-to-be-open-from-tomorrow/articleshow/76843316.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Surat||Cancel all Ganesha festivities: SCCT||SURAT: Keeping in view the worsening situation of coronavirus infection, the Surat Citizen Council Trust (SCCT) has urged cancellation of this year’s Ganesha Utsav festival in the city. Office-bearers of the association have written a letter to the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), city police commissioner and the Surat Ganesha Utsav Samiti to cancel all public celebrations this time. They have also urged residents to avoid installing Lord Ganesha idols in their residential societies in view of the pandemic spread in the city. President of SCCT, Sharad Kapadia told TOI, “Surat is facing unprecedented situation due to Covid-19 spread, which has even surpassed Ahmedabad now. In such circumstances, it would be disastrous to allow people to gather in huge numbers for the Ganesha Utsav festivities.” Kapadia further said that they have also appealed residents not to install idols in their societies to prevent further spread of the infection. Since the past two years, immersion of idols has also been banned in the Tapi river following a decision taken by the SMC, city police and the district administration in 2018. The SMC has been creating artificial ponds for immersion of small to medium idols, while big idols are immersed in the Arabian sea from Dumas. Every year, about 70,000 Ganesha idols are installed across the city during the 10 days of celebration of Ganesha Utsav festival. Earlier, Ganesha Utsav Samiti president, Anil Biscuitwala, had urged residents to install smaller idols and celebrate with all guidelines to contain spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cancel-all-ganesha-festivities-scct/articleshow/76841277.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Chennai||A gap year could be a bridge, not break||By Jayanthi RameshChennai: Don’t let school get in the way of your education," the anonymous quote rings true especially now when pandemic has created havoc across the globe and schedules have gone for a toss. It is particularly hard for children and those about to graduate from high school or college Some common concerns are: What do I do next? Is it safe to apply abroad? Do I need to give up on my dream college for one closer home? How will I add value to my statement of purpose if I’m under lockdown? The reason these questions stir panic among students is because they are taught to be in a time-bound rat race, and that education is a continuum, transitioning from one level to another to secure a job at the finish. While some students might know what they want to pursue, many are still unsure of what interests them. When the latter is put in a rat race, they tend to settle for any course or college of convenience suggested by parents and peers, only to realise it wasn’t for them. A decision taken hastily at any time is bad, more so in the midst of a global pandemic. What 14 years of school education might not have provided clarity about, one crucial year could. A break year might seem like a deviation from routine, but used efficiently it could be a resource. It can help students with the four ‘R’s of career fulfilment — reflect, recognise, redefine and reinforce. The time can be used to identify one’s strengths, interests and motivations so that any decision can be made with a complete self-awareness. It will put students on the path to they are best suited for. The next question: Is the path adding value to one’s interest? Was enough research, including interactions with experts in the field, done to come to that conclusion? To answer all this, an internship to learn about the field or volunteering in NGOs and understanding social realities of any career is a good place to start.Internships and research experience helps redefine career objectives based on ground reality. For example, if a student wants to become a software developer to secure a high-paying job, but with the knowledge gained during a break year might want to branch out to a different specialisation such as app development. He/she could also realise that a particular degree is insufficient and a new language or skill could be an advantage. Thus, this experience helps broaden the horizon of objectives and goals. On the other hand, if during the gap year, one’s interests remain the same, it is a good reassurance. Students should also concentrate on honing their communication skills and emotional intelligence, learning to cook and managing investments and strive to become independent so that when they are in university, they are prepared. Consider this year not as a break that derails but as a resource for learning, failing and building resilience, thereby making it a strong foundation for one’s character — a bridge to achieve your desired future.(The writer is a trainer for Cambridge AssessmentInternational Examination)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-gap-year-could-be-a-bridge-not-break/articleshow/76844429.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Touch of Versailles Palace for new Telangana secretariat||HYDERABAD: The new integrated, smart and green secretariat complex will come up in about seven lakh square feet built-up area. While the government received nearly 10 designs, the ministers’ committee and senior officials have reportedly zeroed in on three designs. The design by Chennai-based Oscar and Ponni Architects is likely to be finalised by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao soon. “It will be placed before the cabinet for its approval,” sources said. The CMO wanted the new complex’s design to reflect Telangana’s rich Deccan and Kakatiya dynasty cultures, sources said. “Some features of the new integrated complex will also reflect those from the majestic Palace of Versailles in France,” aR&B department official said Officials said the cost of the new secretariat complex has been pegged at Rs 400 crore and another Rs 100 crore for the assembly complex at Errum Manzil. “Green building norms in tune with the National Building Code will be followed strictly in the construction,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/touch-of-versailles-palace-for-new-sectt/articleshow/76843821.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 8, 2020||Delhi||Spa owner held for letting her dog loose on employee in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A woman was arrested for allegedly unleashing her pet dog on her employee who had gone to her residence in Malviya Nagar for her salary. The complainant used to work at a spa owned by the accused, who was booked for attempt to commit culpable homicide, police said. In her complaint, the victim told the cops that on June 11, she had called the accused asking for her salary for the previous month. The accused allegedly told her to visit her residence, but the complainant asked her to transfer through e-payment. Later, the employer called the woman again and asked her to visit her residence for the money. The victim claimed that after she reached the house, the woman said she would pay her salary only if she agreed to sexual favours for her client. When the complainant refused, her employer allegedly unleashed her dog on her. The dog bit on her face and she fell while trying to run away. Later, when she managed to free herself and asked the employer to get her treated, she threatened the woman and forced her out of the house. The victim had to take 15 stitches on her face due to the injuries. She later got an FIR registered at the Malviya Nagar police station with help of the area MLA Somnath Bharti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/spa-owner-held-for-letting-her-dog-loose-on-employee/articleshow/76843303.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Surat||SMC sanitary sub-inspector dies of Covid-19 infection||SURAT: A 48-year-old sanitary sub-inspector at SMIMER Hospital died within 24 hours of testing positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Girish Bhadrka was working with the leprosy department as a sanitary sub-inspector at Khatodra and was a resident of Nandanvan Society in Limbayat zone. He is survived by his wife and two sons— aged 15 years and 16 years. “On Saturday, he was rushed to SMIMER after he complained of breathing problems. He tested positive on Sunday, but his health deteriorated on Monday. Bhadrka was put on ventilator and he died early Tuesday,” said one of Bhadrika’s colleagues. This was the first death of an SMC employee due to Covid-19. Earlier on June 13, 48-year-old Shailesh Bhoyre, a sanitary inspector (SI) posted in the coronavirus hotspot of Maan Darwaja under the Umarwada ward, had died. It was claimed that Bhoyre had passed away due to severe heart attack but his Covid-19 test was not conducted. Surat city mayor Dr Jagdish Patel visited the hospital and consoled the kins and friends of the deceased. “It is very sad that we lost our colleague. We urge the SMC to make special arrangements for Covid-19 treatment of SMC staff,’‘ said a leader of the Surat Sudharai Kamdar (Staff) Mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-sanitary-sub-inspector-dies-of-covid-19-infection/articleshow/76841338.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Delhi||Diesel now at Rs 80.8 per litre in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Diesel price hit a new high at Rs 80.78 a litre in the capital on Tuesday, but petrol price remined unchanged as state-run fuel retailers raised the price of the former by 25 paise after a week's break in daily price revisions.  In Mumbai, petrol is priced at Rs 87.19 but diesel rose to Rs 79.05 a litre from Rs 78.83. Diesel prices have risen in other states too - the quantum varies due to difference in state levies - but have remained much cheaper than petrol. In Delhi, however, the fuel used by transporters and farmers is costlier because of a big increase in the value added tax (VAT).  In the last one month, petrol price has risen by Rs 9.17 a litre and diesel Rs 11.39. The price of diesel was increased 23 times during this period and petrol 21 times. Petrol and diesel prices were last revised on June 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/diesel-now-at-rs-80-8-per-litre-in-delhi/articleshow/76844588.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ludhiana||As rentals fall, landlords press for ‘no relief in case of future lockdown’ clause||Mohit.behl@timesgroup.comLudhiana: In a major setback for the city’s realtors, property rentals have plummeted, in some cases by up to 40% to 50%. A few landlords have also waived rentals for April and May. Besides, cases of defaults on payment of rentals are being reported in the city. There are reports of tenants vacating properties, mostly commercial. Those in the property sector said landlords giving rental concessions to their tenants are also making new agreements with their tenants mentioning reduced rent rates and new terms and conditions which clearly state that there will be no further reduction or waiver in the finalised rentals in case of future calamities like Covid-19.Sahib Chawla, a realtor, said, “The property rental market has suffered a big blow as demand for rental properties, especially commercial and industrial, has fallen significantly since no one is interested in starting new ventures at this time. Moreover, due to businesses remaining shut for months due to lockdown, existing tenants are not in a position to pay rentals. As a result, a large number of tenants are vacating properties. After finding new takers, landlords are forced to drop their rentals.”Chawla said landlords fear that they will not be able to find new tenants at this point of time and are doing their best to retain existing tenants. In some cases, they are even offering 50% reduced rent for the months of April and May, besides offering reduction in future rentals. Another realtor, Gagandeep Singh Dang said, “There is a huge slump in the property rental market as there are no new customers looking for commercial and industrial properties and there is no business, due to which people on rent are defaulting on payments. There has been a huge drop in rentals of commercial and industrial segments. Despite 40% to 50% drop in rentals in posh areas, there are no new clients. This will have a huge impact on income, especially in Ludhiana where many people depend on rentals.”Speaking to TOI on condition of anonymity, a leading realtor said, “I rented out my industrial property to a garment manufacturer five years back. During lockdown, his factory remained closed. After he opened his unit recently, there was neither any labour nor any orders. On compassionate grounds, I reduced rental by almost 30% of what my tenant was paying me previously. Another tenant of mine vacated the shop I rented out as he had no business. I already waived off his rental for the months of March and April and even offered to reduce the rental by 50% but even then he didn't opt to carry on the business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/as-rentals-fall-landlords-press-for-no-relief-in-case-of-future-lockdown-clause/articleshow/76841341.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Kochi||Bulk teak planting draws ire of greens||KOCHI: The move by the Hindustan Machine Tools to plant large number of teak saplings in their wooded campus in Kalamassery with help of forest department has raised the eyebrows of environmentalists in the city with Cochin Natural History Society writing to the central PSU to apply principles of ecological restoration while planting trees and not adopt monoculture. While appreciating the initiative to plant trees in the area where trees were mowed down for Kochi Metro Casting yard, CNHS objected to the unscientific manner in which the planting was being done. In the letter, they pointed out that a large part of the area where tree saplings were now planted became ecologically degraded after natural tree cover was axed. “We are very much concerned that a large area of the land is planted with teak saplings in a monoculture plantation fashion. This is a completely ill thought out move,” the letter said highlighting the fact that teak is a notoriously water guzzling tree species - even more than the eucalyptus and wattle. “We tried to talk to senior officials of both HMT limited and social forestry division, Ernakulam, and expressed our concern over the manner in which the tree planting is being done and especially the decision to plant teak trees in a monoculture plantation mode. The reason expressed by these officials is that it will economically benefit HMT when it’s cut and sold,” said Vishnupriyan Kartha, secretary, CNHS. A senior executive of the PSU said they are not planting only teak. “We are doing this with the assistance of forest department and we are planting fruit sapling as well,” said Balamurugesan S, general manager (technical), HMT. According to CNHS, teak plantation can deplete ground water table in the area, thereby affecting the water security and livelihood of people living nearby.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bulk-teak-planting-draws-ire-of-greens/articleshow/76842619.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Surat||BJP municipal councillor shot at by two in Varachha||Surat: Police booked two unidentified persons on a motorcycle for alleged firing at a BJP municipal councillor and injuring him on Monday. A bullet was recovered from the backside after the victim, Bharat Vaghasiya, municipal councillor from Karanj Magob ward, underwent a surgery to extract it. While initially it was suspected that an airgun was used for the attack, but detailed medical examination revealed that it was a bullet that got stuck in his back. At around 8.30pm on Monday, Vaghasiya was near the Varsha Society when two persons came on a motorcycle and fired from the backside before escaping the spot. Vaghasiya felt a sharp pain, but as the wound was not very big it was suspected that the injury must have been inflicted using some sharp pointed weapon or an airgun pellet. However, later tests revealed that it was a bullet.“The bullet will be sent for forensic ballistic examination to find out the type of weapon used,” said Varachha police officer. Vaghasiya did not suffer much injury and was moving around comfortably for a few hours after the attack and even went to the police station to lodge a complaint. “The complainant did not name anyone on which he has doubt. We are examining CCTV footages of the area and connecting roads to identify the attackers,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bjp-municipal-councillor-shot-at-by-two-in-varachha/articleshow/76841366.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Glorious Saifabad Palace now a pile of rubble||HYDERABAD: The Saifabad Palace, one of the finest examples of the Asaf Jahi architecture and the nerve centre of administration for over a century, has now faded into history. The palace and other buildings on the secretariat premises were demolished on Tuesday for construction of a new building for the Telangana government’s seat of power. Popularly known as the ‘G’ Block, the Saifabad Palace was built in 1885 by Nizam VI, Mir Mahbub Ali Khan, who, however, never lived there reportedly due to a superstitious belief. In 1910, the palace was converted into a government office and since then the Saifabad Palace compound served as the seat of power for the princely state of Hyderabad (till January 25, 1950), the state of Hyderabad (from January 26, 1950 to October 31, 1956), Andhra Pradesh (November 1, 1956 to June 1, 2014) and Telangana (since June 2, 2014). The secretariat compound and its vicinity in Saifabad were steeped in history and heritage, all now lost. There was a bunker for protection during the World War II, and a stone building for the Nizam’s mint, which was later taken over by the electricity department. There was a thermal power station too, one of the oldest in India. The high court of the Nizam’s dominions also functioned for some time in Saifabad after the 1908 Musi flood. One by one, they all fell to the state's axe, the latest being the secretariat along with its Saifabad Palace. The Saifabad Palace may have not hosted its builder, but provided office space to chief ministers right from MK Vellodi (nominated chief minister) in 1950 to B Ramakrishna Rao (first CM of Hyderabad state), Neelam Sanjeeva Reddy (first CM of united AP) to N Chandrababu Naidu, who was the last CM to have worked from ‘G’ Block. Heritage activists rue that while everyone is talking about social distancing in the new normal world, the Telangana government has demolished buildings with large distances between them to construct one super structure. “The secretariat compound was planned scientifically with several blocks to provide sunlight and allow circulation of air. A huge single building will not provide protection against outbreak of diseases like the Covid-19. The demolition of Saifabad Palace is a major blow to the heritage of Hyderabad,” INTACH city convener P Anuradha Reddy said. NT Rama Rao had rechristened the block as ‘Sarvahita’. The building was imposing and magnificent with large windows and a wooden staircase. Scholar Omer Khalidi had described the palace as a European-styled structure featuring grand semi-circular arches, an imposing arched portico, Corinthian columns, a mega gateway and notably high ceilings in its many rooms. “The ornate staircase of the palace is an indication of its former royal ownership,” he wrote in his famous work, A Guide to Architecture in Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/glorious-saifabad-palace-now-a-pile-of-rubble/articleshow/76843828.cms||Syed Akbar
July 8, 2020||Surat||Surat case tally crosses 6k mark, five more succumb||Surat: With 204 fresh Covid-19 infections, Surat city reported highest number of cases in the state for the fifth consecutive day on Tuesday. The number of case in the Diamond city crossed the 6,000-mark with case tally at 6,098. Meanwhile, five patients succumbed to the virus taking the death toll in Diamond city to 235. Covid-19 hotspot Katargam zone continued it streak of reporting highest number of cases in the city. On Tuesday, 40 new cases were detected in Katargam. Of the five deaths, one was from Katargam, one from Central zone, one from Varachha (A) and one patient was from Athwa zone. As many as 139 patients, who recovered from coronavirus infection were discharged from hospitals in Surat city on Tuesday. In Surat district, 41 fresh cases were reported taking the total number of positive cases to 903. Two more patients succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 31 in the district. In Valsad district, 23 fresh cases were reported taking the tally to 262 in Valsad district. Ten more cases were reported from Union territory of Daman and seven cases from Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Bharuch recorded 19 fresh cases on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-case-tally-crosses-6k-mark-five-more-succumb/articleshow/76842634.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Bareilly||Former MLA’s property razed for encroaching graveyard land||Bareilly: Budaun district administration on Tuesday demolished a two-storey building of a former member of the legislative assembly (MLA) for illegally occupying graveyard land and building a structure on it. Police had booked former five-time MLA Ramsewak Singh Patel along with an ex-lekhpal in a land fraud case in December last year.On Tuesday morning, a team of administrative officials and police reached the spot and six JCBs were used to raze down the building situated in the upscale Civil Lines area of Budaun. Officials said that of the total building only the encroached part was razed down.Budaun district magistrate Kumar Prashant told TOI, “In 1989, Patel had got the land of the graveyard transferred under his name illegally with help of the lekhpal. The documents related to transfer of the land have no authorised signatures and the map of the building was illegally passed. An FIR was lodged against Patel and then lekhpal. The matter is under investigation.”“However, the court of the city magistrate had earlier declared the building illegal as it was built on the graveyard land. Patel filed an appeal in the court of district magistrate where he lost and later moved to the divisional commissioner’s court, which, too, retained the order of city magistrate’s court. We had served a notice to Patel three days ago and demolished the illegal part on Tuesday. He had illegally occupied the land measuring around 5,000 square feet,” added DM.Patel, a Bharatiya Janata Party leader now, blamed the administrative officials for demolishing the building due to “political pressure”. He said, “It was a private graveyard and the muttavali of the graveyard had transferred the land to my father. I inherited it from my father. It was private land of a graveyard and not public property. The map of the building was passed. The district administration is harassing me because of political pressure. I have informed senior BJP leaders about the matter.”Ramsewak Singh Patel is a former five-time MLA from Binawar assembly constituency of Budaun from Bharatiya Janashakti Party (BJS) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). He is currently a member of BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/former-mlas-property-razed-for-encroaching-graveyard-land/articleshow/76841391.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Saji Gopinath appointed first VC of digital science varsity||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Saji Gopinath, director of Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management-Kerala (IIITM-K), has been appointed as the first vice chancellor of Kerala University of Digital Science, Innovation and Technology. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, in the capacity as the chancellor of the university, made the appointment here on Tuesday. The state government had recently decided to set up a university for digital science, innovation and technology by elevating the status of IIITM-K. The appointment, said an official statement from the office of the governor, is for a period of four years from the date on which he assumes office. The appointment is as per Section 11 (4) and (5) of the Kerala University of Digital Science, Innovation and Technology Ordinance, 2020. The new university is being set as part of multiple steps and policies being taken by the state government to develop information technology business and digital technology. According to the government, the university would stress on latest technologies like artificial intelligence, data analytics, block chain, cognitive science, internet of things, augmented reality. There will be five schools under the university, namely, school of computing, school of electronics design and automation, school of informatics, school of digital bioscience and school of digital humanities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/saji-gopinath-appointed-1st-vc-of-digital-science-varsity/articleshow/76842639.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Police & prison depts lend a helping hand||Thiruvananthapuram: Bystanders of patients admitted in hospitals are one category of people who have been most affected by the triple lockdown. While those at homes can still purchase grocery and cook food, people at hospitals have been left with no option as restaurants too have stopped functioning.  The police and prison departments have stepped up activities to address this issue by ensuring supply of food at Regional Cancer Centre, Medical College Hospital and General Hospital premises. While the police are supplying free food to bystanders at Regional Cancer Centre, the prison department has increased the production of food in the Poojapura Central Prison under the brand of ‘Freedom Food’ to sell more food packets at Medical College Hospital and General Hospital. Prison DIG (South Zone) S Santhosh said that they have increased the production of food by 35% in view of meeting the increased need. The department has closed down their cafeteria at Poojapura in the wake of triple lockdown. The food that normally sold through the cafeteria too are now being sent to the mobile units that do business at MCH and GH premises, he said. The prison department are selling chapatis, vegetable curry, egg curry and chicken curry thrice a day. Meanwhile, the police department is supplying free food to people at RCC with the help of voluntary service organizations. “A prominent restaurant in the city have lent us there kitchen and staff in this regard. We will provide them raw materials, mostly donated by sponsors and they will cook food for us. Volunteers of Nanma foundation will then deliver the food packets to RCC every noon,” said Inspector General P Vijayan.  Even though the police have been operating a community kitchen in the first phases of nation-wide lockdown, the department has chosen not to resume its operations for the time being as bringing more people at one location for food production may turn detrimental during this triple lockdown. However, if more people are found to be affected by food shortage in the coming days the police may relaunch the community kitchen, the IG said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/police-prison-depts-lend-a-helping-hand/articleshow/76842643.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Residents become sitting ducks as robbers outsmart cops||Ludhiana: Daba police are clueless in Monday’s case of Rs 11.65 lakh loot from the employee of an LPG cylinder supplying agency. Police have footage of the masked robbers on a bike. Inspector Pavittar Singh, station house officer, Daba police station said they don’t have any major clue, except for the footage.This is not new to the city police, which has failed to crack a number of previous robberies. On June 12, four masked men posing as courier delivery boys executed daylight robbery of Rs 7 lakh at the office of an iron trader on Gill Road. The accused struck within a few minutes of a man’s arrival with Rs 5.28 lakh payment. The accused tied up two workers and the man who had come to make the payment at gunpoint. Thereafter, they escaped with the cash in minutes.In another case reported on June 24, six armed robbers barged into the house of Sandeep Jalan, a mobile trader in Hargobind Nagar. Armed with pistols and sharp-edged weapons, the robbers held the family captive and escaped with six smart phones and some cash. Although the losses were not heavy, the accused managed to execute the robbery in a busy area without fear. On January 17, motorcycle-borne miscreants robbed iron scrap dealer Shailesh Tiwari of Rs 9.67 lakh at gun point in Vijay Nagar. The victim had closed the office to go home at 11:45pm when the masked accused drove up. Police have got CCTV footage of the accused, which was not clear enough. The investigation has reached nowhere. Ludhiana police has a large team for investigation of such cases. The team is led by deputy commissioner of police (detective) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, investigation) Dayama Harish Kumar, ADCP (Punjab Bureau of Investigation) Sachin Gupta, two ACPs, investigation Mandeep Singh and Surinder Mohan and two units of CIA. Despite this, major cases of robbery remain unsolved. Unsolved cases November 31, 2019: Yarn trader Kuldeep Singh, 53, of BRS Nagar, was robbed of Rs 80,000 at gunpoint in Sundar Nagar by four masked men November 8, 2019- Four masked men barged into the office of a steel and rolling mill on Gill road, tied up the workers on gunpoint and escaped with Rs 7 Lakh Two major gold robberies solved February 17: Four men robbed 30 Kg gold jewellery at Gill Road’s IIFL Branch by keeping the staff hostage at gunpoint. The Organised Crime and Control Unit (OCCU) managed to arrest five of the six accused January 29: Four armed men barged into the wholesale VK Jewellers, Ghumar Mandi in broad daylight. They held owner Vinay Jain and a worker captive and escaped with 2 kg gold worth Rs 80 lakh. Khanna police arrested first accused Vishnu alias Sam in May. In June, OCCU arrested gangster Tejinder Singh Teja, mastermind of the robbery||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-become-sitting-ducks-as-robbers-outsmart-cops/articleshow/76841349.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Leopardess spotted with a cub at Jhalana||JAIPUR: Conservation efforts at Jhalana reserve forest, where the country’s first Project Leopard was started, are proving to be fruitful with one more leopardess giving birth to a cub. The reserve is becoming a nursery for leopards in the state as five big cats have given birth to cubs here since January. The most recent sighting was of leopardess Nathwaali with a cub captured on the camera of a wildlife photographer. With this, the population of spotted beasts in Jhalana has risen to 22 adults and 10 cubs, according to the forest officials. One cub was killed by a hyena last week near Kali Mata Temple. “This is the sixth sighting of a cub this year. A leopardess called Flaura was sighted with three cubs in the beginning of the year. Three female leopards LK, Mrs Khan and Sharmili gave birth to the cubs subsequently resulting in an increase in the young population. This is the tenth cub born in the park this year,” said forest ranger Janeshwar Chaudhary. After the pictorial evidence, security arrangements have been stepped up in the forest area. The forest officials are monitoring the movements of the new cub. A senior forest official said, “The leopard count has been steadily increasing in this particular forest area, mainly due to efficient monitoring as well as significant efforts to provide a protected environment to the wildlife”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/leopardess-spotted-with-a-cub-at-jhalana/articleshow/76843326.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government extends free ration scheme for card holders till November||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Tuesday extended the free ration scheme for all ration card holders till November this year. The move comes a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of the scheme for over 800 million people covered under the National Food Security Act until November 2020. In Delhi, the scheme is likely to benefit about 71.4 lakh beneficiaries (17.5 lakh households) who have ration cards. The Delhi government, in a press statement, said that the distribution of free ration will begin in a phased manner from Wednesday. “To mitigate the economic hardship caused by the pandemic Covid-19, the Delhi government will continue to provide foodgrains free of cost to the National Food Security (NFS) beneficiaries in the capital,” the statement said. Delhi food and supplies minister Imran Hussain said the distribution of free ration had been successfully done between April and June during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. “In case beneficiaries face any problem in receiving ration free of cost at fair price shops, they may contact officers of the food and supplies department for immediate redressal,” he said. He added that for effective management at fair price shops, the government had deployed civil defence volunteers to ensure social distancing norms and orderly distribution of food grains. Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Manch’s founder-member, Anjali Bhardwaj, however, said by not providing free ration to the poor who did not have ration cards, the government was leaving over 55 lakh people vulnerable. “They are the migrant population who do not have address proof and probably are most needy at this time of crisis. As per the government’s own admission, about 55 lakh people not covered under NFS were given free ration during the lockdown. That means, these 55 lakh people are the poorest of the poor and need government support,” Bhardwaj said. “If ration card holders need free ration, these poor people also need it,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-extends-free-ration-scheme-for-card-holders-till-november/articleshow/76843348.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Surat||CA suicide: Kin seek action against employer||Surat: Family members of the 26-year-old woman Chartered Accountant (CA) submitted a memorandum to city police commissioner office on Tuesday demanding registering of an offence for abetting suicide against the woman’s former employers. Deceased Panchhila Lunagariya, a resident of Simada Naka had ended life by hanging herself at her residence on June 30. Currently police are investigating the case as accidental death and an offence in this regard has been registered in Sarthana police station. The family members, including Chatur Lunagariya, father of the deceased, have alleged that the deceased had quit her job owing to her employer’s harassment. In the memorandum, the kin stated that she committed suicide after she was allegedly threatened of legal actions by the employer and have also submitted emails that the deceased had received from her employer. Lunagariya was employed in a CA firm in Bhatar and used to handle accounts of few of the firm’s clients. “Panchhila was threatened of legal actions through emails. We are unable to unlock her iPhone which must be having more facts. We want thorough police investigation in the case,” said cousin of the deceased, Bhavesh Lunagariya. According to her kin, the deceased had attended a ‘Katha’ at unit of the firm’s client on June 22. As she used to handle the clients’ accounts for many months now, they were in good terms and hence invited her. However, her employer, who had arrived there, took her presence there otherwise and scolded her in front of many people. They stated that her employer must have suspected the deceased of working at their client’s firm without informing her office. “The deceased was served notice after she was found working for the client of the CA firm. Meanwhile, she quit her job and her employer warned her of legal actions. We have recovered the emails from her laptop,” said an officer at Sarthana police station. “Till the time it is not clear why she took the extreme step, we cannot book anyone,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ca-suicide-kin-seek-action-against-employer/articleshow/76841394.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||MP man gets life sentence for murdering father-in-law||KOTA: A 40-year-old man from Madhya Pradesh has been sentenced to life imprisonment for murdering his 55-year-old father-in-law by a court here at Bhawanimandi town of Jhalawar district on Tuesday. The court also imposed a penalty of Rs 10,000 on the convict. The statement of 14-year-old granddaughter of the deceased played a decisive role in his conviction. The verdict was delivered by additional district judge (ADJ) Prabhat Agarawal. Assistant public prosecutor Lokesh Gupta said Bhanwar Singh, a resident of Sitamau police station area of Mandsour district in MP, was found guilty of murdering his father-in-law Jorawar Singh, a resident of Nipaniyajhala village under Gangdhar police station of Jhalawar. Gupta said Bhanwar stabbed his father-in-law to death while he was sleeping on the night of March 29, 2017. A murder case under Section 302 of IPC was lodged against Bhanwar in Gangdhar police station. Bhanwar was not in amicable relationship with his wife Meimkanwar and would frequently subject her to torture and thrashing following which she left his husband’s house in MP and started living with her two children at her father’s house in Nipaniyajhala village, he said. Gupta said on the night of March 29, 2017, the convict secretly entered into his in-laws house killed Jorawar. The granddaughter of the deceased was asleep in the same room and she witnessed the crime. During trial, her statement played a decisive role in his conviction. Statements of at least 17 witnesses were recorded during the trial. The convict was arrested in 2017 and had been in jail under judicial custody since then, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mp-man-gets-life-sentence-for-murdering-father-in-law/articleshow/76843350.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Business||ICICI’s board to approve cap raise||Mumbai: ICICI Bank said its board of directors will meet on July 8 to approve a proposal for raising funds by issue of equity shares and/or other equity-linked securities. The lender said that it is exploring various permissible modes including but not limited to a private placement, preferential issue, qualified institutional placement, a further public offer or any combination of these modes. The capital raising will be subject to the approval of shareholders in a general body meeting. ICICI Bank is the latest in the series of lenders lining up to raise capital from the stock markets which are buoyant following a surge in liquidity. Kotak Mahindra Bank was the first such lender, raising Rs 7,772 crore. IDFC First Bank also raised Rs 2,000 crore, while HDFC Bank has firmed up plans to raise Rs 13,000 crore. Axis Bank too has set the ball rolling for a proposed fundraise of Rs 15,000 crore. Yes Bank is also expected to be one of the large issuers in the first half.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icicis-board-to-approve-cap-raise/articleshow/76822237.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Gajapati sees 56 new cases||Berhampur: Gajapati reported 56 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of infected persons to 518 in the district. The district has, so far, reported one fatality. Among the infected persons, nine are close contacts, 22 are frontline workers and 25 are locals, who were detected during active surveillance. Paralakhemundi reported 16 cases. “All positive persons have been shifted to the Covid hospital at B Sitapur. They all are stable. We are trying to trace the close contacts,” Gajapati collector Anupam Saha said. Gajapati is one of the seven districts in the state where the active cases are more than 100. The district has 155 active cases, while 362 patients have recovered. Binod Patro, additional professor of community medicine at AIIMS Bhubaneswar, said the remote Gajapati district remains vulnerable because of its proximity to the worst-affected Ganjam on one side and Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh on the other. “After inter-state movement was allowed in June, the spurt in cases was not unexpected,” he said. In the wake of return of migrants in May, there was a surge in Covid cases in the district, while in June, most of the positive patients were either the returnees placed under home quarantine or close contacts of the earlier detected patients. In the last few days, many health workers have contracted the virus. The collector said a special health screening drive would be launched in the district, including Paralakhemundi town, to detect symptomatic persons. “There is no need to panic as we have taken strict containment measures to stop the spread of the virus. We have made 21-day institutional quarantine mandatory for the returnees. We are conducting awareness camps and urging people to use masks and maintain social distancing,” Saha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/gajapati-sees-56-new-cases/articleshow/76842635.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Demand for cheap furniture up but buyers seek discounts on past orders||JAIPUR: Demand for low value accent furniture, sofas, workstations has started trickling in, mainly from the US market in the past one month, said exporters in Rajasthan. But what is painful is that they are asked to extend deep discounts on orders placed before the outbreak of the pandemic. Atul Poddar, president of Federation of Rajasthan Handicraft Exporters said that demand for accent furniture has increased in past month by up to 20-30% even as the overall exports account for only around 20%, compared to last year. “The American people are spending most of their time at home, working, living and relaxing as they cannot travel. So they want to have utility furniture for their workstations, new home decor, cushions and inexpensive furniture to create a good ambience. That’s why we have witnessed some spurt in low value items,” said Poddar. But the handicraft industry is nowhere closer to any meaningful revival. Demand from Europe is yet to re-emerge, said others. Moreover, the buying houses or agencies are seizing the opportunity to demand higher discounts even for products they had placed orders for before the pandemic. Sunit Jain, an exporter and vice-president of FORHEX, said, “Firstly, buyers put orders on hold. And now they are asking for discounts up to 50%. Exporters don’t have many options. They cannot keep the products on inventory for long as it entails other costs. Unwillingly, they have to agree to the new rates. We are selling them to recover our cost at least, forget profit.” Though he concurred that there is a small uptick in demand for low value items from the US, demand from European markets is yet to see revival. “We don’t expect reaching the last year levels till March 2011. The inventory needs to be cleared first,” added Jain. Additionally, the payment cycle is getting longer now. Instead of 30 days, buyers are now asking for 90 days. Similarly, Jain said there is no insurance or guarantee that they will have to honour the orders. “People have already lost lots of money after the bankruptcy of Pier 1 Imports, JC Penny and others. In such a situation, our whole payment will be lost. The environment is very uncertain,” added Jain. Rajasthan is a leading exporter of furniture, especially made of wood. Poddar said the demand for high value products like beds, almirahs, and expensive sofas is still not there. The revival of economy which is hinged to end of the pandemic will create demand for these high value products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/demand-for-cheap-furniture-up-but-buyers-seek-discounts-on-past-orders/articleshow/76843338.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||No respite for manual scavengers in Rajasthan despite government announcements||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s announcement on banning the practice of sending sanitation workers in sewerage chambers seems to be just on paper as even after repeated announcements in the past, the practice hasn’t come to an end. According to the data available on the National Safai Karamchari Commission website, from 1993 to July 5, 2019, around 38 people have lost their lives while working in the sewers of the state. Last year, two more workers lost their lives in October. To monitor the violation of norms for sanitation workers, there has to be a Safai Karamchari Commission on state level. However, since the change of power in the state in December 2018, the government is yet to organize the commission again. Conveyor of NGO Safai Karamchari Andolan, Prakash Hadale criticizing the government said, “These declarations have been made many times in the past but nothing has been done on ground level. Though manual scavenging is illegal as per law but the practice is prevalent in the state. Safai Karamchari Commission, which is supposed to monitor such activities, is defunct since assembly elections. Many private bodies are employing sanitation workers to go down in manholes for cleaning but the government has no control over them.” In the case, Safai Karamchari Andolan vs the Government of India on March 27, 2014, the Supreme Court had ordered the government to first identify families of sanitation workers who died while doing sewage work since 1993 and award compensation of Rs 10 lakh for each of such deaths. According to the NGO, this has not been properly implemented in Rajasthan. “We have data where most people have either not been provided with the money or given half of the amount promised. Moreover, in 2020 budget announcement, CM Gehlot allocated Rs 176 crore to purchase equipment for sewage cleaning. It has been implemented in big cities but in districts like Dausa, Sikar and Bharatpur, not a single penny was spent,” said Pawan Nakwal, co-conveyor of Safai Karamchari Andolan. TOI contacted secretary Local Self Government, Bhawani Singh Detha but he did not receive the call. Following the orders of Supreme Court, state government in 2018, conducted a survey and asked people to make self-declaration of manual scavengers. The survey report was not accepted due to technical issue but another survey wasn’t conducted as well. Hence, the government does not have any data about the total number of manual scavengers in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-respite-for-manual-scavengers-in-state-despite-govt-announcements/articleshow/76843344.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
July 8, 2020||Bhopal||Active cases up in MP, reach May-end level||Bhopal: Five weeks into easing of curbs and ‘unlocking’, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the state has steadily increased and reached the levels of May last week. For the first time since May 28 — when there were 3,082 active cases in Madhya Pradesh — the number crossed the 3,000 mark on July 6. On Tuesday, the active cases numbers in the state raced to 3,237. Monday, the number of active cases were 3,088. While in the last two days, active cases figures resemble the status five weeks ago, the fact is that there has been a significant increase in testing capacity leading to detection of more cases. On Tuesday, total 9,741 tests were carried out across different labs in the state, whereas in May, a total of 1.26 lakh tests were conducted. The number of tests increased to 1.97 lakh in June. In July, 61,676 tests were conducted in the just seven districts. The increasing number of active cases have however added to the troubles of administration. Take for example Morena district, which reported close to 500 new cases only in 10 days prompting the district administration to impose severe restrictions to stem the virus spread. On the brighter side, the positivity rate in Madhya Pradesh of 4.4 people or every 100 tested in May came down to 2.7 in June. In July, so far it has only increased to 3.3and is still lower than, that of May. Officials said that the major concern is spread of the disease in newer districts, like Morena and Gwalior districts, where it had nearly been controlled. In Gwalior, the number of active cases had reduced to zero. But with the arrival of migrant workers, number of cases started increasing. Similar was the situation in Morena district, but now even locals are being found positive in these districts, said sources. One more reason attributed to this spike is the impetus of the government to conduct survey and take samples — intensifying the drive to identify patients.  Experts believe that this move may lead to an increase in the number of cases, it will eventually help to contain the spread, added officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/active-cases-up-in-mp-reach-may-end-level/articleshow/76843336.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||174 works by PWD fail quality test, says Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Tuesday said 1,651 works were inspected during the Quality Control Week of the public works department. Out of 5,590 quality tests conducted during this period, 5,325 tests were found to be as per the prescribed criteria. One hundred seventy four works found to be not in conformity with the quality parameters and action is being taken against the officials concerned. Inspections and quality tests across the state will bring positive changes in the quality of construction works of the department, he said. Pilot said the chief engineers have conducted 12 inspections, additional chief engineers 56, superintendent engineers 1,457 and electrical section 126. Quality testing of six construction works of has been conducted by expert lecturers of various engineering colleges. The department’s senior engineers inspected all the quality control laboratories operating at the headquarters, division and district levels, he said. Pilot said action is being taken to upgrade the testing laboratories with latest equipment. On June 26, 32 workshops were organized at the divisional and district level to make the departmental engineers aware of new techniques. A webinar was also organized on June 27 to give information about the latest technology of bitumen and cement concrete road construction, he said. Pilot himself inspected Bassi-Tunga road on the second day of the Quality Control Week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/174-worksby-pwd-fail-quality-test-says-pilot/articleshow/76843355.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Hearing on death sentence of Jaipur blast convicts deferred||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan HC has deferred the hearing on appeal on the death sentence of Jaipur blast convicts till November last week considering the time required to translate the documents. The division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta gave the interim order during the hearing of the death reference of four convicts and the appeal against the acquittal of Shahbaz by the state government. The petition said that separate appeal petition had to be filed by the four death convicts in the case which requires translation into English of about 21,000 pages of documents which is time consuming. It was prayed that as per the Supreme Court directions, all documents related to the case be translated to English. Accepting the plea, the high court deferred the hearing of the case to November last week. Earlier on May 18, the court had directed the counsels of the convicts to put forward their arguments in writing. On September 20 last year, the special NIA court convicted Mohamad Salman, Mohammad Saif, Saifur Rehman and Mohammad Sarwar to death sentence in the May 13, 2008 serial blasts in Jaipur. One accused Shahbaz was acquitted in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hearing-on-death-sentence-of-jaipur-blast-convicts-deferred/articleshow/76843352.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Trichy||Two senior citizens die unnoticed due to lack of focussed care||Trichy: The deaths of a 77-year-old man from KK Nagar and a 60-year-old man from Thillai Nagar in Trichy in the past few days have shed light on unreported or unnoticed Covid-19 cases in the city. While the 77-year-old man was brought dead at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital on July 4, the 60-year-old from Thillai Nagar 7th Cross Street, was found dead inside his house on July 5. In the case of the KK Nagar resident, he was residing along with his wife at their house in Azad Street. Going by the FIR of KK Nagar police, the senior citizen was down with fever for few days. One of their daughters, in her complaint, stated he was taken to a doctor in the area for treatment. On July 4, his wife found him unconscious and he was rushed to MGM in a private ambulance. The doctors declared him brought dead. The Thillai Nagar resident was found dead in his room on the ground floor of the building owned by him. He was settled in Mumbai with his family and had made a visit to Trichy in March this year when the Covid-19 outbreak took place. So he decided to stay back. As per the complaint of a tenant in the building, he failed to wake up on July 5. So, the lock of the house was broken open and he was rushed him to MGM where the doctors declared him dead. The complainant quoted the senior citizen as saying that he took Covid-19 test in the camp held in Gandhipuram in Woraiyur on July 4. The man had consulted a doctor recently for a swelling in his left leg. As per protocol, nasal swabs of the two were lifted and the tests confirmed that both of them were Covid positive. The contacts of both of them are being traced. Inquiry by the health department could not identify the source of infection of both men. The couple of deaths highlighted the need for focussed testing of vulnerable population by the health department. The government doctors said some people tend to ignore their symptoms or get wary of visiting hospitals for treatment. Deputy Director of health service (DDHS), Trichy, Dr A Subramani advised people to take the symptoms such as fever, dry cough, breathing difficulties, loss of taste and smell seriously and visit PHCs in the city or the government hospitals for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-senior-citizens-die-unnoticed-due-to-lack-of-focussed-care/articleshow/76843356.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 8, 2020||Delhi||Finding a plasma donor not an easy task for everyone in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A few days ago, a 63-year-old Covid-19 patient died at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital after battling for life on a ventilator for over two weeks. His family had sent out messages and called up as many people as they could to donate plasma for convalescent plasma therapy. Only a couple of them turned up, but even they were turned away since it wasn’t yet 14 days of their recovery, the time required for antibodies to have properly developed. While Delhi government has highlighted the usefulness of plasma therapy for Covid patients, there are many who failed to beat the coronavirus because no donor stepped forward to help them. The Ganga Ram Hospital patient’s son grieved, “We tried our best, but luck was not in our favour and the two recovered patients who came to donate plasma hadn’t developed the antibodies. We were running against time.” The youth said that each time someone promised to turn up to donate, their hopes lifted. “But none of them came,” he said. “Things may get better once there is a plasma bank in the city. But until then, there isn't any hope for suffering people.” Delhi government finally inaugurated a plasma bank at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in south Delhi on Thursday. In the last week of April, after five critically ill Covid patients recovered after convalescent plasma therapy, Delhi government announced it would work to extend the procedure in all its hospitals. In fact, last week, Satyendar Jain, Delhi’s health minister, recovered after plasma therapy. But many say that for a common man, it’s not quite so easy to find a donor. A 23-year-old youth, who lost his father to the virus, said, “I knew some people who had recovered and tested negative around two weeks ago and asked them to donate their blood. But the refused outright saying that it was unsafe for them to leave their homes.” A schoolgirl recalled a similarly dismal experience about seeing her mother struggling with the infection for 10 days and finally succumbing to the novel coronavirus. “My tweet was lost among the many from people requesting plasma donations,” she said. “One week my mother was fine and the next, she was on a ventilator support. We had heard of how successful this therapy was, and it was the only shot we had in saving her. But we failed. But I feel possible donors also failed us.” However, not everyone who receives donated plasma benefits. On Wednesday, Delhi Police inspector Sanjeev Yadav died of the virus. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, while inaugurating the plasma bank, had noted that convalescent plasma therapy was not a cure-all, but it boosted by 35% the chances of recovery of a patient who wasn’t in a serious condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/finding-a-donor-not-an-easy-task-for-everyone/articleshow/76843354.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Plea challenging shifting of IPL matches disposed of||JAIPUR: A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) against moving IPL matches out of Jaipur was disposed of by the Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday. During the hearing, BCCI informed about postponement of matches due to Covid-19 till further orders. The court then disposed of the petition, giving the petitioner the liberty to approach the court again if the interest is affected in future. Rahul Kanwat and others had filed a PIL in the Rajasthan High Court, saying that two matches of Rajasthan Royals were being shifted outside Jaipur. The shifting of the matches would not only affect the sports interests but the business and hospitality industry will also suffer. During the hearing on Tuesday, BCCI advocate Angad Mirdha produced the information released in April in the court. It was informed that due to Covid-19 pandemic, the matches had been postponed till further orders. The division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Judge Prakash Gupta disposed of the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/plea-challenging-shifting-of-ipl-matches-disposed-of/articleshow/76843360.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Jobless Tamil Nadu pursues MNREGA work||COIMBATORE/CHENNAI: The demand for work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act seems to be surging in Tamil Nadu, reflecting on the lack of employment in the rural hinterland due to the lockdown. In June, 45 lakh people appealed for work under the scheme across the state, which is about nine lakh more than the same period last year. This is the highest demand for work under MGNREGA in the past four years. In some districts, people demanding jobs under the scheme have doubled. For instance in Perambalur, there was demand for work from 64,812 people this June compared to 27,082 during the same period last year. In a few more districts like Tiruvannamalai and Villupuram, the work demand has increased by at least 40%. Though the unemployment rate is coming down down in TN according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, the growing demand for jobs under MGNREGA is a sign of unemployment in rural areas, say experts. “The spike in demand is certainly due to lack of job options. MGNREGA is the only source of employment in many villages,’’ said panchayat raj expert and Gandhigram University professor G Palanithurai. With agriculture yet to pick up pace, lockdowns restricting movement of people outside districts and most of the industries choosing to work with skeletal strength, the reliance on the employment scheme appears to have increased. Villagers who were working in cities have also returned home due to lockdown and have joined the long list of people seeking jobs. “At present, 16 to 17 lakh workers are engaged daily across the state. More workers have been engaged in Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram and Cuddalore districts,’’ director of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K S Palanisamy told TOI. The jobs provided under MGNREGA were fewer than last year, though the demand was higher. This was primarily to maintain physical distancing. Since agriculture too is not yielding desired returns, rural household income is poor,’ said labour economist and MIDS professor M Vijayabaskar. “In TN, it was mostly women who were working under MGNREGA. Now with workers returning to villages from cities, it is possible men will also vie for these jobs,’’ he said.  In a blow to elderly women who depend on the MGNREGA wages, workers above 55 years were refused work in view of the Covid situation. “I was dependent on this work. Now my earnings are running short,” said 55-year old Lakshmi from Dindigul’s Sorakapatti village. Her neighbour Rukmini said they could not cross district borders for work. “Agents from neighbouring districts come to pick us up for farm work, but because of lockdown that is not possible,’’ she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/jobless-tn-pursues-mnrega-work/articleshow/76846099.cms||V Mayilvaganan
July 8, 2020||Kochi||CSL awaits engineers from abroad for vessels’ sea trial||KOCHI: Cochin Shipyard Ltd (CSL) completed the construction of a technology development vessel (TDV) for DRDO and a vessel with 500 passenger capacity for Andaman and Nicobar Islands fighting all the odds. Now, the CSL is awaiting to carry out the sea trial which can be done only in the presence of service and commissioning engineers of various original equipment manufacturer (OEM) firms who are now stationed at different parts of the world. They can fly down only after the international flights resume operations. Immediately after the restrictions as part of the first phase of lockdown was eased, the CSL resumed works using as much manpower as possible for completing the works on these vessels. But the vessels can be delivered only after sea trials. “Three major vessels including are ready for sea trial. We are waiting for service and commissioning engineers to arrive from Norway, Italy, Korea, etc.,” said Cochin Shipyard Ltd CMD Madhu S Nair. The company which had been on complete lockdown since March 20 resumed operations with three shifts and reduced timings from May 6. The CSL is constructing two vessels each with passenger capacity of 500 and 1,200 respectively for Andaman and Nicobar. It is the first vessel with a passenger capacity of 500 that is waiting for sea trials. Other three vessels are in different stages of construction. “Some of the engineers required for the sea trials of the vessel for Andaman and Nicobar have arrived in Kochi from abroad. They are under quarantine,” an official with CSL said. According to the CSL authorities, there are many impediments which stand in the way of completing projects on time. Non-availability of sufficient skilled labourers and deferred supply of raw materials and other machinery by firms in different parts of the country as well as abroad are major hindrances. All efforts are being taken by CSL to overcome these constraints and move ahead. In general, the company expects three-four months of overall impact on projects due to the Covid-19 situation, officials with CSL said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/csl-awaits-engineers-from-abroad-for-vessels-sea-trial/articleshow/76842646.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
July 8, 2020||Chennai||Jobless Tamil Nadu pursues MNREGA work||COIMBATORE/CHENNAI: The demand for work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act seems to be surging in Tamil Nadu, reflecting on the lack of employment in the rural hinterland due to the lockdown. In June, 45 lakh people appealed for work under the scheme across the state, which is about nine lakh more than the same period last year. This is the highest demand for work under MGNREGA in the past four years. In some districts, people demanding jobs under the scheme have doubled. For instance in Perambalur, there was demand for work from 64,812 people this June compared to 27,082 during the same period last year. In a few more districts like Tiruvannamalai and Villupuram, the work demand has increased by at least 40%. Though the unemployment rate is coming down down in TN according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, the growing demand for jobs under MGNREGA is a sign of unemployment in rural areas, say experts. “The spike in demand is certainly due to lack of job options. MGNREGA is the only source of employment in many villages,’’ said panchayat raj expert and Gandhigram University professor G Palanithurai. With agriculture yet to pick up pace, lockdowns restricting movement of people outside districts and most of the industries choosing to work with skeletal strength, the reliance on the employment scheme appears to have increased. Villagers who were working in cities have also returned home due to lockdown and have joined the long list of people seeking jobs. “At present, 16 to 17 lakh workers are engaged daily across the state. More workers have been engaged in Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram and Cuddalore districts,’’ director of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K S Palanisamy told TOI. The jobs provided under MGNREGA were fewer than last year, though the demand was higher. This was primarily to maintain physical distancing. Since agriculture too is not yielding desired returns, rural household income is poor,’ said labour economist and MIDS professor M Vijayabaskar. “In TN, it was mostly women who were working under MGNREGA. Now with workers returning to villages from cities, it is possible men will also vie for these jobs,’’ he said.  In a blow to elderly women who depend on the MGNREGA wages, workers above 55 years were refused work in view of the Covid situation. “I was dependent on this work. Now my earnings are running short,” said 55-year old Lakshmi from Dindigul’s Sorakapatti village. Her neighbour Rukmini said they could not cross district borders for work. “Agents from neighbouring districts come to pick us up for farm work, but because of lockdown that is not possible,’’ she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/jobless-tn-pursues-mnrega-work/articleshow/76844434.cms||V Mayilvaganan
July 8, 2020||Bhopal||2nd Covid death at secretariat, staffers threaten mass leave||Bhopal: Coronavirus claimed a second life at the state secretariat on Tuesday. So far, 14 secreatariat staffers have been found corona positive. Of the total corona-positives found at the secretariat, 13 people, including the two who died, worked in Vallabh Bhawan II. Employees and officials have demanded that the Vallabh Bhawan II building be shut. On Tuesday, the employees’ union submitted a memorandum to the general administration department authorities, threatening that employees and officials working in Vallabh Bhawan II building will go on mass leave from next week if the building is not sealed. The employees also demanded that a fever clinic be opened in the secretariat. They have alleged that the home department employee who was the second casualty was not given proper treatment. Moreover, they stated that the central air-conditioner of the building continues to be used, despite repeated requests to shut it down, and may have led to the spread of virus. The other secretariat employee who died of coronavirus worked in the urban administration and development department which is also in Vallabh Bhawan II building. Employees found corona positive in secretariat so far were from the commercial taxes department, urban administration department, energy department, CM office, health department, finance department, law department and home department. The state secretariat is divided into three interlinked buildings. The old building is called as Vallabh Bhavan 1, while the new buildings are called as Vallabh Bhavan II and Vallabh Bhavan III. Vallabh Bhavan II houses the office of chief secretary and chief minister, apart from the home minister. The energy department office, finance department offices are also in the same building. The secretariat staffers have made their own arrangements to fight corona. The employees’ union has put up pulse oximeters to examine employees at different gates of the secretariat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2nd-covid-death-at-secretariat-staffers-threaten-mass-leave/articleshow/76843357.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Telemedicine facilities rolled out amid lockdown||Thiruvananthapuram: City residents confined to their homes owing to triple lockdown can still consult doctors from their homes on laptops, desktops, mobiles or tablets. Among the systems in place through which people can avail the service of doctors through teleconsultation, one is the e-Sanjeevani Scheme run by the state government. It was launched two weeks ago and has already become the number one government-run telemedicine system in the country, said health minister K K Shailaja on Tuesday. The initiative is being implemented with the cooperation of medical experts of Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Science (IMHANS). One can log on to the website esanjeevaniopd.in/kerala and can generate an OP (Out Patient) ticket online. Besides the services of doctors practising general medicine, service of mental health experts has also been made available through the portal. An online mental health clinic will function from 20am to 12 noon on Tuesday. A mental health clinic for adults will function at the same hours on Wednesdays. Another platform which helps city residents avail telemedicine services is the Nanma Helpdesk, which is operated under the state police. The help-desk is run by volunteers of the charitable organisation, Nanma Foundation. Inspector General P Vijayan said the service is exclusively meant for city residents where the triple lockdown is in force. People can avail the service by contacting the helpdesk number 9539258000. One can either call the number or send a Whatsapp message detailing their problems. “The volunteers at the helpdesk will then help them connect with the required doctors,” the IG said, adding that the police have tied up with doctors who are doing private practice and have volunteered to offer their services. The police and the Nanma volunteers will also buy medicines for people who are unable to go out, such as senior citizens living alone. All they have to do is to share the prescription details with the helpdesk volunteers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/telemedicine-facilities-rolled-out-amid-lockdown/articleshow/76842655.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Bhopal||Corona +ve gas victims to be treated at Chirayu||Bhopal: All Bhopal gas victims, who contract coronavirus, will now be treated at Chirayu Medical College. The director, gas relief, Basant Kurre, issued an order to this effect on Monday. In his brief order, Kurre said that in accordance with directives received from the additional chief secretary, all Covid-19 patients who are gas victims, will be referred to Chirayu Medical College, which has currently been converted into a Covid care centre. The decision comes close on the heels of a letter written on behalf of a group of four NGOs working among gas victims to the chairman, Supreme Court Monitoring Committee, Justice V K Agrawal. They pointed out that gas victims with symptoms of coronavirus infection are being referred to Hamidia Hospital and many of whom have died during treatment. The NGOs, led by Bhopal Group of Information & Action (BGIA), while maintaining that 75% of the Covid-19 deaths in Bhopal have been that of gas victims, said that 60% of them have died at Hamidia Hospital. Stating that recovery rate of 70% in Bhopal is mostly derived from Chirayu hospital, the NGOs asked whether it was not desirable that the gas victims are provided the best facility the city has to offer. The NGOs requested a directive to the gas relief department and Bhopal Memorial Hospital & Research Centre (BMHRC) to refer all gas victims suffering from Covid-19 to Chirayu medical college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/corona-ve-gas-victims-to-be-treated-at-chirayu/articleshow/76843368.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Trichy||Burnt body of 14-yr-old girl: Police rule out sexual assault||TRICHY: The district police has ruled out sexual assault on the 14-year-old girl whose body was found partially burnt near a scrub at Adhavathurpalayam on the outskirts of Trichy, on Tuesday. 11 special police teams have been formed to probe the case. Trichy range DIG Z Annie Vijaya said, “There was no sexual assault on the girl.” The girl had completed her Class 9 in a government school in the area this year. The post-mortem was performed at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial government hospital and handed over to the family. The funeral was held soon after. DIG Annie said that the cause of death was burn injuries, adding that the probe was on to find out whether it was a suicide or murder. “We should be getting the autopsy report by tomorrow,” she said. The 14 year old girl from Othakadai was found dead with her body burnt from waist to face behind a saw mill at Adhavathur Palayam on Monday. The girl who had left to attend nature’s call around 1pm failed to return. The parents and relative found her burnt body in the evening after a search. The Somarasampettai police is investigating the case. Forensic experts recovered an empty one litre bottle used for storing kerosene, a towel and few other evidence from the spot. SP Zia Ul Haque and DIG Annie Vijaya visited the spot. Central zone IG HM Jayaram discussed with the SP and DIG at the Somarasampettai police station on Tuesday. Sources said that the minor girl had internal injury on the left frontal parietal. However, sources said that there was no marks of being beaten up with a weapon. CPI and DYFI held demonstrations in Manapparai and outside MGM alleging the girl was murdered. They also demanded the arrest of the accused. PMK leader Dr S Ramadoss also issued a statement today terming it a murder and demanded action against the perpetrators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/burnt-body-of-14-yr-old-girl-police-rule-out-sexual-assault/articleshow/76843366.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Portals open doorway for twain to meet, make ‘give-&-take’ possible||NEW DELHI: Prashant Saini, a sales manager with a private company, found himself desperately looking for a plasma donor for a Covid-19 patient who had been prescribed plasma convalescent therapy. By the time he cornered a donor, his friend had already found one. But in the private hospital where the patient was being treated, the news that Saini was in touch with a plasma donor spread like wildfire. Hospitals are using antibodies retrieved from the blood plasma of those who have overcome the novel coronavirus infection to help patients fight back the viral symptoms. “A woman called me and said she had got my number from someone in the hospital. She was looking for an O-positive donor. I started getting calls even from government hospitals,” Saini said. Realising the need of a platform for the demand and supply of plasma, the 25-year-old created a website, www.needplasma.in, on June 25 and circulated a WhatsApp number on it. By June 29, 348 patients were registered on the platform. “There isn’t much human interaction on the website. The platform gets in touch with you once you register. For emergency cases, there is the WhatsApp number,” explained Saini, who has roped in friends Naman Ahir, for technology help, and Shubham Sharma, for handling the team and volunteers. “I have no organisational or NGO background and this is a personal effort to help people for free,” he said. Like Saini, Nikhil Jain and Aeshwarya Jain, both 24-year-old students in France, also realised the need for plasma information. In India for a vacation, they started www.plasmaline.in on June 19. “Once donors register on the website, we connect them with patients to facilitate transfusion. We are not involved in the medical aspect, only provide the donor-recipient connection,” said Nikhil. Many portals have emerged in the last fortnight, including www.dhoondh.com, www.plasmadonor.in and www.plasmayoddha.in.They match the requirement of patients with the available donors, and all of them try to ensure that no money is involved in the process. “The donor response has been slow,” said Nikhil Jain. “First, there aren’t many of them out there, and secondly, there is stigma associated with the process. We want to ask doctors to encourage their recovered patients to register with us.” Saini too feels that just registering patients doesn’t justify his vision and the need is to motivate donors. Saini’s strategy is to make people recommend a donor and reward them with a token of appreciation for every donor who steps forward. “We also plan to have solid on-ground volunteers in the near future to solve the donor shortage,” revealed Saini. He is looking at a personalised approach where people will request recovered patients in their neighbourhoods or to donate plasma. On Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp too, many groups that are working to meet the growing demand for plasma for Covid patients. Lucknow resident Balraj Dhillon, 39, started the Covid Connect group on WhatsApp last week, and of the calls from relatives of patients that he gets every day, five to seven are from Delhi-NCR. “The data of Covid-19 patients who have recovered is with the hospitals. So we have to first approach hospitals,” Dhillon said. “The main work is to convince plasma donors. They have to understand how crucial their role is in saving other lives.” The timing is important, Dhillon said, because the donor has to be approached 14 days after recovering, but only up to around 40 days after that, when the antibodies in the plasma are active. He sees a long fight with Covid-19 ahead, and stresses the need of more donors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/portals-open-doorway-for-twain-to-meet-make-give-take-possible/articleshow/76843376.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 8, 2020||Ajmer||RBSE Class XII science results today||AJMER: The Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) will declare the result of Class XII Science at 4pm on Wednesday. Board chairman D P Jalori said minister for primary and secondary education Govind Singh Dotasra will release the results at conference hall of the board office. The result will be available on the RBSE website as well as on different sites. This year 2,39,800 students registered for Class XII science board exams. The exams started in the second week of March but because of lockdown, they were postponed. The pending Class XII board exams were held on June 18 and ended on June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rbse-class-xii-science-results-today/articleshow/76843367.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||Kusum scheme: RRECL awards 722mw solar power to farmers||JAIPUR: Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation Ltd (RRECL) has allotted 722 megawatt to 623 farmers under the Centre’s PM Kusum scheme aimed at generating income for farmers from their unfertile or semi-barren land. Rajasthan is the first state in the country to conduct a successful bidding and allot more capacity than the target given by Ministry of New and Renewable Energy. Under the scheme, farmers can set up plants with capacity ranging from 0.5 to 2 megawatt and the power will be bought by discoms at Rs 3.14 per unit which is much higher than the rates discovered through auctions. As per the scheme, the farmers who do not have no money to invest, can also lease out the land to private developers and receive an annual income. Ajitabh Sharma, chairman of RRECL and principal secretary energy department said, “Farmers having barren or semi-fertile land can get a steady income for 25 years from this scheme. Since the plants would be located within 5 km of a sub-station, the transmission losses would be minimal and cost of power will be cheaper. Rajasthan is the first state in the country to implement the scheme successfully.” Under the scheme, MNRE gives subsidy of 40 paise per unit to the government, effectively bringing down rates for discoms to Rs 2.74 per unit. Besides the benefit from rates, this also promotes decentralized generation which will generate employment at village level. Similarly, it allows the MSMEs in the sector to develop projects as they often fail to qualify for bigger tenders due to higher bidding standards. While the Centre had approved 325 MW under the scheme, the state government had requested for additional capacity. The government does not need to invest heavily on infrastructure for decentralised power plants as the existing sub-stations can be used for feeding and distribution in the same area. Sharma said keeping in view the benefits of decentralized power, RRECL has set a target of 2600 MW in the next three years. “The tenders for next 1878 MW would soon be issued and applications will be invited,” added Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kusum-scheme-rrecl-awards-722mw-solar-power-to-farmers/articleshow/76843363.cms||---
July 8, 2020||Trichy||Work on Anna roundabout complete||Trichy: The work on reducing the size of central island in Anna statue roundabout, situated on Chennai-Trichy-Karur National Highways (NH) near Melachinthamani in the city, has been completed by the state highways department. The diameter of the island was reduced by 50% and this will allow more vehicles to enter the roundabout and improve vehicular movement and reduce traffic. The work which began last month brought down the diameter of the central island from 20m to 10m. This junction was causing frequent bottleneck for vehicles commuting between Srirangam, Karur and Chathiram bus stand. The width of the lanes were increased utilising the space retrieved apart from creating a separate free-left lane towards Melachinthamani road and Butterworth road. Speed breakers have also been installed. “Barricades were put up on the lane between Mainguard water tank and Cauvery bridge to ensure seamless movement of vehicles heading to Srirangam. City buses were cautioned to halt only at the bus stops,” a traffic police officer added. Officials said that a signboard will be established near the resized roundabout to help visitors reach their destinations. The adjoining road connecting Mainguard water tank with Cauvery bridge road has been widened to 15m while the Melachinthamani road connecting Chathiram bus stand with Anna statue roundabout was widened to 12m.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/work-on-anna-roundabout-complete/articleshow/76843369.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 8, 2020||Jaipur||RIICO to set up plug-&-play facilities for entrepreneurs||JAIPUR: In a bid to facilitate entrepreneurs and startups to set up units at minimum investment and at the earliest, RIICO has started working on a couple of plug-and-play facilities. Initially, the state PSU is looking to construct two facilities, one each in Sitapura industrial area and Jagatpura apparel park. Last Saturday, RIICO officials had a meeting with industry representatives in Sitapura industrial zone to seek feedback to refine the project plan. RIICO officials said that the plug-and-play facility in Sitapura will be built on a 4,000sqmtr area where entrepreneurs and startups from gem and jewellery sector will be given space on rent. Similarly, the facility at Jagatpura will be developed over 6,000sqmtr which would be dedicated to apparels and textile. RIICO MD Ashutosh Pednekar said, “Developing plug-and-play facilities was announced in the budget this year by the chief minister. Also, Covid-19 pandemic has increased the relevance of these facilities in the current times. Entrepreneurs and startups would not be required to invest in land and building. They can simply rent a space in the facilities and start their business without losing time. Our focus would be to complete the projects in the current financial year.” One of the industry representatives said keeping in view that certain businesses like apparel are seasonal, the rental lease period should be for six months. “Instead of the proposed one year lease, it should be six months with simple provisions for extension. This would not bind one entrepreneur if the business plans do not work out as per plan. Also, the plug-and-play facility should not be restricted to dedicated sectors alone,” said Hero Ravjani, general secretary of Apparel Park Manufacturers Association. He suggested that these facilities should also provide accommodation for labourers. “Any modern development should be futuristic. Labour is a key component of the industry. Whatever infrastructure we build they should be kept in the mind. Facilities for labourers will increase their participation in the sector. That’s why the plug-and-play facility should have scope for labour accommodation,” added Ravjani. He said that the rent should also be as per the rates prevailing in the area. “At present, rates for rent range between Rs 10-12 per sq ft. Accordingly, the rentals should be priced,” added Ravjani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/riico-to-set-up-plug-play-facilities-for-entrepreneurs/articleshow/76843383.cms||---
