July 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Homestays and resorts in Sakleshpur, Chikkamagaluru to stay shut||‘Resorts and homestays can reopen once the situation improves’ I had personally taken representatives from resorts and homestays for a direct interaction with the chief minister. They had two or three demands, which the CM has assured that he’ll look into. We understand that everyone is going through tough times, especially resort owners, for whom the investment is huge. They can reopen business once the situation improves– CT Ravi, Minister for Tourism, Kannada and Culture, Youth Empowerment and Sports, KarnatakaAfter being in confinement for three months, it’s no surprise that the fresh and cool breeze of the mountains seemed most enticing during Unlock 1.0. Apart from quick getaways to other places, many from Bengaluru headed to the hill towns of Sakleshpur and Chikkamagaluru during this time. This, however, raised concerns among the local people in these places, over vigil and safety amid the pandemic. And eventually, the authorities issued an order instructing homestays and resorts to close operations until further notice. After the long isolation period, we were looking forward to a whiff of fresh air: Tourists The move, quite obviously, has proved to be a dampener for people who were looking forward to spending some time with nature and homestay owners who were planning to host guests after a long, lull period. “After months of staying indoors, we really wanted to spend a weekend at a homestay in Coorg. We had even made the bookings in advance, but the new government order is a complete let down. When other commercial establishments are allowed to reopen, I don’t understand the logic behind closing such private businesses away from the bustle of the city,” rues Soumya Hegde, an IT employee. Meanwhile, when entrepreneur Pooja C and her friends had gone to spend a few days at a friend’s resort in Sakleshpur, they were confronted by local residents during a trekking tour in the neighbouring hills and asked us to vacate. “They forced us to head back, saying that city folks were spreading the virus in their untouched villages. Even a cop instructed us to leave immediately,” she explains. “Instead of the usual travel hotspots, like Mysuru Dharmasthala, we had chosen to spend the weekend at an isolated spot in Chikkamagaluru, but had to cancel plans following the recent notice,” says Chethan Shetty, an engineer. Running empty since March, homestays and resorts take a beating: Entrepreneurs“Months of staying shut has taken a toll on resort owners. We were looking forward to hosting guests after the rules were relaxed,” says Pruthvi, who runs a resort in Sakleshpur, adding, “Many of our staff members were back at work, and we had invested a lot in ensuring that all the hygiene and safety measures are strictly maintained. But just when we were about to start bookings, the authorities issued this notice. Imagine the kind of losses we have incurred.” According to him, as many as 800 people have lost employment following the closure of such enterprises in the Sakleshpur region. Ever since the country entered Unlock 1.0, Chirag Shambhu’s homestay in Sakleshpur has been flooded with booking enquiries. “I had three good weekends with a packed house. Only our regular guests were considered during this time. But given the surge in cases, we decided to voluntarily close the homestay,” he says Similarly, Chanchal Nagesh – a homestay owner in Mallenahalli, Chikkamagaluru – says, “Irrespective of the initial relaxations and the subsequent closing order, I had decided to not open my homestay until the situation improves. But while I can afford to do so, there are many others in the region, whose livelihood depends on their homestays, and these have been running empty since March with no relief in sight.” Positive cases were reported after these enterprises went back to business: Residents Dushyanth Patel, a resident of Mudigere, was perturbed by the number of tourists coming in to Chikkamagaluru. “Our town, which had no Coronavirus cases, recently registered a few patients. Since the locals don’t travel, we have reason to believe that it’s the tourists who have caused the spread of the disease here. On weekends, places like Bababudangiri, have even seen traffic jams. That’s the reason many villagers resorted to force tourists to vacate the place,” he says. “Recently, an entire family in our neighbourhood tested positive. It was later found out that the guests, who had stayed at their homestay, tested positive soon after they had returned to Bengaluru. This led to a panic situation in our village, which was a green zone until recently. Thus, following protests by local people, the district administration announced the closure of all such establishments in Coorg until further notice,” says Sachin Madaiah, a businessman, adding, “Things maybe tough monetarily, but right now, the safety of public health is more important.” Travel industry has come to a standstill Pradeep Kumar, owner of a travel agency, says things are looking grim for the travel industry. “The one or two bookings that we had for Chikkamagaluru and a few other places were cancelled, after the previous weekend saw a whopping 7,000 tourists in Mullayanagiri and Bababudangiri, and the infuriated local people sent them back. It’s a similar case with establishments in Kabini. The travel industry might pick up only next year again,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/homestays-and-resorts-in-sakleshpur-chikkamagaluru-to-stay-shut/articleshow/76859690.cms||Madhu Daithota
July 9, 2020||India||Pakistan's claim Jadhav against review plea a farce: India||India dismissed as a “continuation of a farce” Pakistan’s claim on Wednesday that Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav has refused to file a review petition against his death sentence and only wants to follow up on his mercy petition. India said the claim, yet another instance of concocted narratives, was meant to mask Pakistan’s reticence to implement the ICJ judgment in letter and spirit. The ICJ had last year called upon Pakistan to review and reconsider Jadhav’s sentencing while allowing India consular access. It had upheld India’s contention that Jadhav was not provided benefit of due process of law in violation of Geneva conventions and sentenced by “black” military court. Recalling that Jadhav had been sentenced to death through a farcical trial, India said he had clearly been forced into not filing a review in the case. The Modi government added that India will do its utmost to protect Jadhav and ensure his safe return to India by considering all “appropriate options” even as Pakistan sought to create a “mirage of compliance” with the ICJ judgment. Pakistan said in a statement that it had invited India to file a review and reconsideration petition after Jadhav’s “refusal to do so”. Islamabad also claimed Jadhav only wanted to follow up on his mercy petition. Pakistan had on May 20 this year passed an ordinance to allow for the high court to review the sentence awarded to Jadhav by the military court. “India sought unimpeded access to Jadhav to discuss his remedies under the ordinance. In a brazen attempt to scuttle even the inadequate remedy under the ordinance, Pakistan has obviously coerced him to forego his rights to seek an implementation of the judgement of the ICJ,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. The alleged decision would be akin to Jadhav accepting the death sentence. Pakistan also said earlier in the day that it is ready to give India consular access for the second time and offered Jadhav a meeting with his family and his wife and mother who had met him. The meeting was a difficult experience for the family as they were subjected to heckling in Pakistan and found Jadhav under extreme stress and unable to say anything beyond parroting ISI lines. While Pakistan had granted India consular access once, India had said that the manner in which it was given, in the presence of Pakistani officials, was not in keeping with the spirit of the ICJ judgment. The government said the Pakistan ordinance itself was a “U-turn” from Islamabad’s position all along that their laws provided for effective review and reconsideration. “Now, after almost a year, they have made a U-turn and issued an ordinance to ostensibly provide for some sort of review. We have already expressed our serious concerns at the content of the ordinance and how it violates the ICJ judgment,” said the official, adding that Pakistan was only seeking to create an illusion of remedy. The government said Pakistan continued to deny India free and unimpeded access to Jadhav and also not allowed him, as asked for by India, a lawyer from outside Pakistan. Since Jadhav’s sentencing, the government recalled, Pakistan had refused to hand over any relevant document, including FIR, evidence, court order to India. “Clearly, Pakistan is attempting to create a mirage of compliance with the ICJ judgement,” said the official. The government recalled how ICJ had already held that Pakistan was in egregious violation of international law and that India had been pursuing through diplomatic channels full and effective implementation of the judgment. Earlier in the day, ddressing a press conference in Islamabad, Director General (South Asia & SAARC) Zahid Hafeez Chaudhry and Additional Attorney General Ahmed Irfan said that that the government had promulgated an ordinance on May 20 to provide an opportunity to Jadhav to file a review petition against his sentence and conviction. “A petition for review and reconsideration can be filed by Kulbhushan Jadhav, his legally authorized representative or a consular officer of the Indian High Commission at Islamabad High Court,” the AAG said. Chaudhry said Pakistan had repeatedly written to the Indian High Commission inviting it to initiate the process of review and reconsideration of the sentence and conviction of Jadhav. He asked Indian authorities to follow the due legal course and cooperate with the courts in Pakistan to give effect to the judgment of the ICJ. Responding to a question, Hafeez said that Pakistan has offered second consular access to India. “We have offered a meeting of Kulbhushan Jadhav with his wife and father,” he said. Jadhav, according to Pakistan, was arrested on March 3, 2016 from Balochistan’s Mashkhel area. New Delhi, however, said he was a retired Indian Navy officer who was abducted from Iran. Watch Pakistan's claim Jadhav against review plea a farce: India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistans-claim-jadhav-against-review-plea-a-farce-india/articleshow/76863349.cms||Sachin Parashar
July 9, 2020||Varanasi||Unlocking Diaries: Apparel shops ensure safety measures in post-lockdown world||As the country gets used to the new normal most apparel brands in Varanasi are resuming operations following stringent guidelines of social distancing and regular sanitization. Mandatory masks and thermal screening Abhishek Mishra, Store Manager, Planet Fashion, says, “We are allowing only five people in our store and only those wearing masks can walk in. We do not allow people to touch apparels .Only after the customer has finalized the product, we allow them to try on garments. In case after billing ,the customer has a change of mind, then we put the tried garment for four days quarantine.” Stores are also carrying out thermal checks at the entrance. Digital mode of payments Najmuddin Kazmi, Store Manager of United Colours of Benetton says, “We advise our customers to use a digital mode of payment. In addition, clothes and common areas such as trial rooms and cash counters are being regularly disinfected.” "We are encouraging contact less payment mode. There is a considerable increase in people using the QR code for payment,” says Dhawal Prakash, owner The Raymond Shop. (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam; Location courtesy: Uniqlo, CyberHub, Delhi)Protective gear for staffFor luxury brands, having personal attendants for their clientele is a must. So, they are ensuring the staff is wearing protective gear. Shivaji Mishra, Store Manager of Spiker, says, “The brand has distributed protective gear among our employees, and are conducting regular sanitisation and temperature checks.” Disinfecting trial roomsThough using trial rooms is not allowed as per government guidelines, stores are preparing for the time when these will be allowed. Najmuddin Kazmi, Store Manager of United Colours of Benetton says, “We are insisting that customers don’t use trial rooms. However, the exchanged clothes are kept in a ‘quarantine cloth box’ for about 24 hours before being steam ironed and put back on the shelves.” Clothes sanitized-ironed after trialMaintaining necessary safety protocols, Dhawal Prakash, says, “After every trail we keep a register of clothes tried by the customer. Then we keep them in a quarantine box for 72 hours after which we pass them though a steam test that completely disinfects the clothes. Only then we put the articles on display again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/unlocking-diaries-apparel-shops-ensure-safety-measures-in-post-lockdown-world/articleshow/76861261.cms||Meera Vohra
July 9, 2020||Gurgaon||NCR's off-roading tracks reopen with safety measures in place||Off-roading is among the first sports to have made a comeback in NCR post lockdown. Apart from providing great natural terrain, the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road is home to some off-roading tracks popular with NCR’s off-roading and autocross community. Now, with the tracks reopening, the off-roading scene in the city has begun, too. Gaurav, a Delhi-based off-roading enthusiast, says, "Not everyone into off-roading can afford to maintain a vehicle, which is why these places are good. One can go there over the weekend for some practice. It's better than heading out to the Aravallis by yourself right now." However, the question of safety remains as COVID-19 cases in NCR continue to rise. Track owners assure that they have taken all precautions to make sure their customers feel safe. Santosh Bishnoi, who runs Ansh Adventure Zone, an off-road track for kids, says, "We have started activities for families and kids recently. We are providing masks and gloves for all participants, and anyone entering the premises has to sanitise their hands." The tracks are reopening with safety and hygiene measures in place Sanitisation and cleanliness is tough in a sport like off-roading but track operators say they are ensuring that highest cleanliness standards are maintained. Vikramjeet Sharma from Off Road Adventure Zone says, "We are sanitising our vehicles every morning and evening, and have gloves, disposable head and face covers for guests. People can use the vehicles without fearing infection." The vehicles are sanitised twice daily, and safety gear such as face covers and gloves are given to all participantsOff-roading enthusiasts in NCR welcome this development, advocating a gradual return to their old routines, albeit with precautions. Aman Jubbal, a Gurgaon-based autocross and off-roading enthusiast, says, "With the measures these places have taken, it feels safe. We have to start going out a little while taking precautions."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ncrs-off-roading-tracks-reopen-with-safety-measures-in-place/articleshow/76859901.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
July 9, 2020||Kanpur||Unlocking Diaries: Kanpur ladies’ earn quick bucks with their yummy dishes||Something that started with a time pass during lockdown seems to be taking a commercial shape to earn some moolah. Ladies in Kanpur, who impressed their family members with sumptuous dishes during that time, are now using their culinary skills to make some fast bucks by preparing food on order. Jhalak Verma’s bakery items are a sell-out (BCCL)Take for example the case of homemaker Riya Kharbanda, who brushed up her cookery skills during lockdown. She is now preparing food for city folk on orders. “Almost every day during the lockdown I was making some new dish for my family, who loved whatever I cooked. It was my husband Abhishek who suggested that I should start taking orders for food. The idea appealed to me and we both prepared a menu card and posted it online,” says Riya, who adds, “I was surprised with the response. I am doing a decent business these days. Be it Indian or continental, I get orders for every sort of dish.” An order being prepared by Sanchita (BCCL) Same is the case with homemaker Sanjana Bajaj who’s making utmost use of her cooking expertise. “I have always been fond of cooking. Before lockdown, I used to often host lunch and dinner parties. It was during the lockdown that I thought of starting delivery of food made by me. I put a menu online and started getting orders almost immediately. People are still wary of going and eating in restaurants, so they prefer to have food cooked by people like us, which is safe and hygienic as well as tasty!” Sanjana Bajaj’s vegetarian food is a big hit (BCCL)Another home cook gaining ground is Tazeen Saif who too is treating city folk to some mouth-watering non-veg dishes. “People are still not sure about ordering food from restaurants. So, it is a good time to cash in on this. My menu for online orders comprises an array of non-vegetarian dishes. What brings magic to our recipes is the experience and all these age-old recipes that I am trying out these days,” shares Tazeen. Lockdown came as a golden opportunity for Jhalak Verma too to earn some quick bucks. “I have pursued a professional baking course and with the unlock beginning, I decided to start online bookings for cakes, cookies and other bakery items. Now, I am flooded with orders. I ensure proper cleanliness and sanitization even while cooking at home,” she says. Riya Kharbanda preparing an order (BCCL)Having ample time at hand, primary class teacher Sanchita Sarkar, also fond of cooking, decided to utilise her time constructively. And that led to her taking orders for home cooked food. “People would rather have ghar ka khana nowadays that at an restaurant. So seeing this as an opportunity, I decided to cook food on order. First I started with the delivery of food in my society and after getting good reviews, I then started taking online orders,” shares Sanchita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/unlocking-diaries-kanpur-ladies-earn-quick-bucks-with-their-yummy-dishes/articleshow/76861008.cms||Sumit Jha
July 9, 2020||India||India-China LAC row: Slight reduction in PLA troops at Pangong Tso||NEW DELHI: There has been a slight further reduction in the number of Chinese troops in the Pangong Tso area of eastern Ladakh but no discernible pullback, as in Galwan Valley and Gogra-Hot Springs, where ‘buffer zones’ have been created to prevent clashes between rival troops in the high-altitude region. The initial withdrawal of Chinese soldiers from ‘Finger-4’ to ‘Finger-5’ area on the north bank of Pangong Tso, if and when it happens, will signal the completion of Phase-I of the de-escalation plan. The PLA has pulled down some tents, moved back a few vehicles and slightly reduced its troops at Finger-4 but not vacated the area yet. The troop confrontation at the lake (at an altitude of 13,900 feet), in fact, is proving to be the toughest to resolve with over 3,000 PLA soldiers occupying the 8-km stretch from Finger-4 to 8 since early-May,” said a source. According to security sources aware of the situation, there was a meeting between local authorities in Ladakh. The discussions were attended by the Ladakh administration, Army and ITBP officers. The problematic issue, which India rejects, is the Chinese expectation that Indian troops also pull back in equal measure. This means India will move back further from the LAC as it sees it while China only retreats from an area it has intruded upon. This could be a bargaining tactic but may prolong the process. With India’s perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) running north to south at Finger-8, it wants PLA troops to pull back eastwards to their post at Finger-8 and permanent bases at Sirijap-I and II further beyond. India has a post between Finger-2 and 3, along with an administrative base between Finger-3 and 4. But China, after building numerous fortifications and taking the heights from Finger-4 to 8, is claiming territory right up to Finger-2, from where it can threaten two crucial Indian roads. “PLA had agreed to pull back from Finger-4 to 5 under Phase-I. Negotiations between local commanders are underway. The corps commanders may meet again to discuss Pangong Tso,” the source said. But there is progress in creation of so-called buffer zones at the other confrontation sites, with officials describing them as “temporary arrangements” to reduce the possibility of a clash without any permanent loss of territory or patrolling rights for India to allay concerns. The first buffer zone was created at ‘Patrolling Point-14 (PP-14)’ in Galwan Valley, the site of the violent clashes on June 15, with the rival troops moving back 1.5 km each on Monday, as reported by TOI. On Wednesday, a similar no-patrolling zone came up at PP-15 in the Hot Springs area, with the rival troops pulling back about 2 km each. The third zone at PP-17A at Gogra will take final shape by Thursday evening. These are just the “initial steps” in what will be a longdrawn de-escalation process. The eventual de-induction of rival troops massed along the LAC will extend to September-October even if there are no more flare-ups, as was earlier reported by TOI. It’s only after “stabilisation” of the buffer zones at the different friction points, with physical verification as well as satellite surveillance, that the corps commanders are likely to meet again to decide the timelines and modalities for the next phase. “Meanwhile, we will closely watch each other to build trust that was shattered by the June 15 clashes after the PLA went back on the earlier agreement to vacate PP-14,” another source said. Watch India-China LAC standoff: Slight reduction in PLA troops at Pangong Tso||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-china-lac-row-slight-reduction-in-pla-troops-at-pangong-tso/articleshow/76864070.cms||Rajat Pandit
July 9, 2020||Business||Air travel pact soon with US, France, Germany||NEW DELHI: A “special arrangement” aerial connectivity could roll out between India and the US, France and Germany within a week. Airlines of both sides will be allowed to operate flights and carry passengers in and out of India who are eligible to do so under the home ministry rules, said people in the know. It is reliably learnt that talks with US, France and Germany are at a very advanced stage and announcements could come within a week. Separately, India is in discussion with UAE also to facilitate the travel of people from here. India had recently spoken of creating travel corridors with US, UK, France and Germany to facilitate travel during the pandemic and till schedule flights are resumed. With the Gulf, arrangements are being to operate charter flights to allow both way travel of eligible people. At the moment airlines like Lufthansa, Air France and United are allowed to operate repatriation flights mainly to fly eligible people out of India. But under the special arrangement, travellers — as per the MHA travel eligibility order — will be able to fly both in and out of India on airlines of India and Germany, France and America. For instance, Lufthansa website says “as per the approval given by the Director General of Civil Aviation, only the following persons shall be allowed to travel on the special repatriation fights: All German and EU nationals/residents; all other foreign nationals transiting through a Lufthansa hub… and Indian nationals holding US green cards or Canadian permanent residence status are only permitted on this special repatriation flight if he/she is a spouse of US/Canadian national.” Once this arrangement is made with other countries, their airlines will also reciprocally carry traffic in and out of India as per MHA directives. People in the know say announcements to the effect with some countries could start coming this week itself. Scheduled international passenger flights were suspended on March 22 and are for now not allowed till the month-end except on certain routes that the government may specifically allow. Air India has been operating repatriation flights under Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) since May 6, primarily to bring back Indians stranded abroad and has flown back thousands of people so far. AI had been flying people on VBM flights out of India to certain countries like US, Germany, UK and France (till recently) who were allowing incoming traffic. VBM is now the world’s largest repatriation exercise with private Indian airlines also participating. In recent weeks, US, France and Germany have asked India to allow their airlines to operate flights like AI’s VBM. France has stopped allowing people to fly on VBM flights to Paris and US has said unless the issue is resolved, AI will need permission to operate the VBM flights to the country from later this month. The special arrangement being made will allow people to travel between India and countries like US, Germany and France. The MHA currently allows certain categories of foreign nationals, including overseas citizens of India (OCI) cardholders, to enter India. These include foreign nationals married to Indian citizens; foreign national student with one parent being an OCI card holder or an Indian citizen; minor children who have OCI cards and whose parents are Indian citizens and OCI card holders who need to come here due to family emergencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/air-travel-pact-soon-with-us-france-germany/articleshow/76864168.cms||Saurabh Sinha
July 9, 2020||India||Redefine a day’s work for rural job scheme: Centre||NEW DELHI: With certain states registering enormously high performance under MGNREGS amid a countrywide spike in demand, the Centre wants them to scientifically fix afresh the daily output that qualifies for a day’s wage under the scheme. It is learnt that the Union rural development ministry has written to states to carry out fresh “time motion study” —which determines the task that constitutes a day’s work called the “schedule of rates”. The Centre believes required output of work (tasks) in some states is much easier than it ought to be. Like in digging the earth, some have 30 cubic feet/day as the output fixed for daily wage, while others have as high as 78 or 90 cft. Well-placed sources said the “easy tasks” are the reason why certain states are logging astronomically high turnover in MGNREGS in terms of days of work, known as persondays. Though high demand under the scheme was anticipated post-lockdown, many states are outperforming even by those high expectations. Sources said Telangana and Andhra are among such states. As reported by TOI, Telangana is on course to overhaul its MGNREGS performance of 2019-20 (10.7 crore persondays) in just 80-odd days this year since the scheme resumed on April 20 after the lockdown. It has already done 10.3 crore persondays till July 6. In 2017, an internal study of the RD ministry — Nagesh Singh committee — had pointed to the anomaly in “schedule of rates”. The ministry had decided to form a “committee of engineers” to work out the template for states to carry out the “time motion study”. A worker’s output is expected to vary across states according to the nature of terrain — it is easier to dig on moist soil than on hard ground. But even after factoring in these variables, the ministry found that difference in “schedule of rates” was “unreasonable”. As per the work schedule under MGNREGS, a day entails seven hours of work and an hour’s rest. Besides Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat are touching a high mark under the scheme this year— having generated 65% of persondays created in 2019-20. Andhra is around 62% of 2019-20 and UP is touching 49%. Odisha, too, has generated 43% of persondays year-on-year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/redefine-a-days-work-for-rural-job-scheme-centre/articleshow/76864208.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
July 9, 2020||India||Covid: TN & Delhi ramp up testing; Rajasthan, Bengal still in slow lane||NEW DELHI: Some states have significantly increased coronavirus tests, with Tamil Nadu having conducted 4 lakh tests, the highest, in just 14 days, between June 19 and July 2. In absolute terms, Andhra Pradesh takes second spot, testing more than 3 lakh samples, while Maharashtra and UP did 2.85 lakh and 2.5 lakh tests respectively. In percentage terms, Delhi has scaled up its battle against the virus with a 199% increase in testing — from 79,600 tests conducted during June 5-18 to 2.38 lakh between June 19-July 2. Covid testing in TN has increased by 70%, Andhra Pradesh 60%, Karnataka and Assam 50% each, and 46% each recorded in Maharashtra and UP. The lowest percentage-wise increase in testing Covid samples has been recorded by Rajasthan and West Bengal at 7% each for tests conducted during the two fortnights compared in the TOI study. The jump in testing numbers, and its positive effect in identifying confirmed cases, have been possible largely by adding up new testing centres which have gone up from one in Pune in the beginning to more than 1,100 countrywide at present. The top ten states that have been testing the highest samples —more than a lakh every fortnight — are Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, UP, Delhi, Rajasthan, Assam, Karnataka, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh. The highest positivity rates, or confirmed cases per 100 tests, have also been recorded by some of these states. Though Telangana has emerged as the top state with highest positivity rate of 25% in the last fortnight, Maharashtra with 22% and Delhi with 16% are among other highly-affected states. Delhi during the June 5-18 period had climbed to a positivity rate of 30%. Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Haryana and West Bengal are the other states with high positivity rates. Across India, the testing figures have increased substantially with more than 2 lakh tests now being conducted daily over the last 14 days. So far, more than one crore samples have already been tested across the country. With more than 7.5 lakh confirmed cases, India is at No. 3 in the world, just behind US and Brazil, in total number of coronavirus cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-tn-delhi-ramp-up-testing-rajasthan-bengal-still-in-slow-lane/articleshow/76864280.cms||Pradeep Thakur
July 9, 2020||India||Govt seeks Covid drug’s stock info to curb overcharging||NEW DELHI: The health ministry has asked the three companies — Hetero, Cipla and Mylan — making generic versions of Covid-19 drug Remdesivir in India to regularly give details of production, stocks and sales in the wake of complaints of shortage-driven blackmarketing and overcharging. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) that regulates availability and quality of medicines sold here has also asked states to instruct their enforcement officers to keep a strict vigil on supply and sale of the drug, officials said. Remdesivir, an antiviral drug, is allowed under emergency use authorisation and can be considered for treatment of Covid-19 patients with moderate disease (those on oxygen). The warning comes after social media platform Local-Circles in a letter to the health ministry said many citizens on its platform have flagged the issue of alleged blackmarketing of Remdesivir. “The MRP of Remdesivir marketed by Hetero Healthcare Limited is Rs 5,400 but consumers have reported it being sold at a price of anywhere between Rs 15,000 to 60,000,” LocalCircles said. Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) V G Somani, in communication to states, said his office has received a letter raising concerns that unscrupulous persons were indulging in blackmarketing and over-pricing of the drug. “Action taken in the matter may be intimated to this office at the earliest,” Somani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-seeks-covid-drugs-stock-info-to-curb-overcharging/articleshow/76864315.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 9, 2020||India||Rajnath to inaugurate 6 J&K bridges today||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh is slated to inaugurate six bridges constructed by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in J&K through video-conferencing on Thursday. These bridges, which cost around Rs 45 crore, are located in Akhnoor and Jammu sectors of J&K. The inauguration comes after Singh reviewed the performance of BRO at a meeting on Tuesday. Singh was told during the review meeting that BRO executed 30% more work in 2019-20 as compared to the previous fiscal. The minister reviewed the “state of forward connectivity to border areas” and emphasised the need to boost ongoing infrastructure projects without long delays. “BRO has worked incessantly even during the restrictions imposed due to Covid-19 without affecting the progress of various projects,” a defence ministry official said. Singh directed BRO to further expedite construction of strategic roads, bridges and tunnels in areas bordering China and Pakistan. The BRO cleared all strategic passes and roads for traffic about one month before their average yearly opening dates despite unprecedented snowfall this year. This “snow clearance work” on 149 roads, totalling 3,965 km, in J&K, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh ensured rapid and early movement of troops and logistics to forward areas, officials said. Having inducted latest equipment and machines, the BRO has also successfully carried out trials for indigenously produced modular bridges in collaboration with defence shipyard Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers Limited. “This will revolutionise bridge laying capabilities in forward areas,” an official said. These will be under the ‘Make in India” initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajnath-to-inaugurate-6-jk-bridges-today/articleshow/76864429.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Patna||Road construction work comes to a standstill in Sitamarhi district||PATNA: Tension along the India-Nepal border in Sitamarhi district is escalating following objections raised by Nepal’s Armed Police Force (APF) over construction of a road from Indian side between Bhitha Mor and ‘no man’s land’ in the district. Authoritative sources said the APF personnel asked the workers to stop immediately on Tuesday, prompting the latter to inform the senior officials of the construction company. They were also warned of dire consequences for defying the diktats, if any. As a result, the construction work came to a standstill. Senior officials of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and the district administration talked to their counterparts in Nepal and tried to resume the construction work, but in vain. The APF officials, on the other hand, claimed that the road was being built on the 20-metre land, which falls under their territory, a charge rubbished by the Indian side. The deputy commandant of the SSB, Navin Kumar, said they were in constant touch with the senior officials in Nepal to sort out the issue. “Dono desho ke adhikarion ke beech baat cheet chal rahi hai (Talks are on between the officials of the two nations),” he said, adding that the work would resume soon. Sitamarhi district magistrate Abhilasha Kumari Sharma along with superintendent of police (SP) Anil Kumar visited the construction site and enquired about the allegations. The SP later told mediapersons in Sitamarhi that efforts were on to reach a solution through dialogue. “Protocol ke hisab se kaam ho raha hai (Guidelines are being followed properly),” he added. The station house officer (SHO) of Bhitha Mor police outpost Rajesh Kumar said police were keeping a close watch on the situation. “The workers were agitated over the objections raised by the APF of Nepal, but the SSB officials pacified them,” he told this newspaper over phone. Sources claimed that senior officials of Sitamarhi also talked to Shankar Sahi, the mayor of Jaleshwar in Nepal, who assured the former of prompt action to resolve the crisis. The fresh development came barely a fortnight after similar objections were raised by the APF on repair work of an embankment under Dhaka block in East Champaran district as part of anti-erosion work during floods. The work started after the intervention of senior officials of the Union government. On June 12, an Indian national was killed and two others were injured when the APF personnel opened fire on a mob inside Nepal following a dispute over implementation of Covid-19 lockdown norms. “The relationship between the two neighbouring countries got strained after a new map of Nepal was approved by the Parliament of that country last month,” a senior SSB official said in Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/road-construction-work-comes-to-a-standstill-in-sitamarhi-district/articleshow/76861418.cms||Ramashankar
July 9, 2020||Patna||Road widening work exempted from construction ban||GAYA: The ongoing road widening work of the GB Road has been exempted from the ban on all construction activity in the containment zone. The 2 km stretch between the head post office and Nai Godam was earlier notified as a containment zone as more than two dozen people from the area including nine police personnel deputed at the Kotwali police station had tested corona positive. Normal activity in the containment zone will remain suspended at least for four weeks provided new cases are not detected. The district administration, while notifying GB Road, the most important commercial centre of the city as containment zone, also imposed a ban on construction activity in the area. According to district magistrate Abhishek Singh, the road widening work has been exempted from the construction ban. The DM, on Tuesday inspected the containment zone. Some shops dealing in non-essential items were found opened. The DM ordered registration of criminal case against the shopowners found violating the restrictions imposed in the containment zone. When contacted municipal commissioner Sawan Kumar said that a two shift work plan is under consideration to speed up the road widening work. “Earlier, the job was being done in a single shift during night. The arrangement to do the work during night was made as the business area registered heavy foot fall during day time. Now that the area has been sealed and business activity has been suspended, civil work could be done in day time as well,” said the municipal commissioner. Asked about the irritants in the execution of the Rs six crore road widening job, the municipal commissioner said that the South Bihar Power Distribution Company limited (SBPDCL) was reluctant to execute the underground cabling job as it would necessitate long period of shutdowns which may lead to public protest. Laying of underground cables and relocation of transformers was part of road widening project as it would enhance the traffic absorption capacity of the road. Meanwhile, Kaushalendra Pratap Singh, former president, Central Bihar Chamber of Commerce, has demanded fast tracking of the scheme to shift the wholesale grain and vegetable market to the Baazar Samiti complex in Chandauti, the southwest outskirts of Gaya town. Real benefit of road widening would be availed only if the wholesale market is relocated, said Singh. Kotwali police station, which was, a few days back, temporary relocated to the Gurudwara Road police outpost, on Wednesday resumed functioning from its original premises. According to SSP Rajiv Mishra, the police station was relocated to get the premises thoroughly sanitised as nine cops deputed at the police station, earlier tested covid positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/road-widening-work-exempted-from-construction-ban/articleshow/76861745.cms||Abdul Qadir
July 9, 2020||Patna||LS College teacher is new Magadh University registrar||GAYA: With the appointment of Vijay Kumar, associate professor, department of History, LS College, Muzaffarpur, as the new registrar of Magadh University, Bodh Gaya, decks have been cleared for payment of salary and arrears payable to nearly 1700 university employees including 500 teachers working in the PG departments, 19 constituent and one government-funded minority college. The university had been functioning without a regular registrar for nearly four months. The post of registrar fell vacant on March 19, following the resignation of Prof SNP Deen from the post. Stop gap registrar Radhe Kant was given limited financial powers for salary payment. Prasad died of electrocution. Besides the salary for the month of June, arrears for the difference between the sixth and seventh pay commission for the period period between April 2019 - February 2020 is also payable to the employees. The fund has already been released by the government and the payment could not be due to non-availability of a regular registrar. The university, meanwhile awaits for the go ahead from the Raj Bhavan for the introduction of PG course in defence and strategic studies. According to the VC Prof Rajendra Prasad, he was keen on introducing the PG course in defence and strategic studies from the academic session 2020-21. “The course could be introduced under the choice-based credit system,” said the VC. The study will also strengthen the disaster management programme in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ls-college-teacher-is-new-magadh-university-registrar/articleshow/76861650.cms||Abdul Qadir
July 9, 2020||Patna||Theft bid in retd teacher’s house||PATNA: At least three unidentified criminals made an attempt to commit loot in the house of retired B D College teacher Kumod Verma at Kalyani Nagar under Phulwarisharif police station Tuesday night. The miscreants entered his premises by scaling the boundary wall around 1.30 in the night and tried to remove the window grill, but failed. These criminals then broke open the backside door with the help of sharp weapons to enter the house. However, the family members woke up hearing the unusual noise and shouted for help from the rooftop. The criminals fled away under the cover of darkness, leaving behind their slippers. Verma, who is also a journalist, said while pictures of the criminals and their activities were captured in the CCTV cameras, two others were also detected as suspects waiting outside the house. An FIR was lodged with Phulwarisharif police station in this connection. Phulwari SHO S Rehman asked sub-inspector K N Singh to visit the place and investigate the matter thoroughly. Singh saw the video footage in which the thieves are visible. Meanwhile, the residents of Kalyani Nagar and Mitra Mandal Colony demanded intensive police patrolling in the area as half a dozen cases of snatching and theft were reported from this locality in the past one month. Recently, a woman was robbed of her belongings by the armed criminals at Saket Vihar, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/theft-bid-in-retd-teachers-house/articleshow/76861708.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid lab at Udupi dist hosp ready for sample testing||Udupi: The district hospital here is all set to operationalise its own Covid-19 lab. With the report on the results submitted by the lab to the ‘test’ samples that Nimhans sent it being awaited, the lab is expected to start full-fledged testing of samples on its own steam from either Thursday or Friday. The government lab will vastly reduce the dependence of district authorities on private medical college labs or those in adjoining districts for test results. The laboratory was formally inaugurated on Wednesday. Deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha told TOI that it will start functioning within the next 48 hours. At present, samples from Udupi are being tested at KMC Hospital, Manipal, Yenepoya Medical College and Hospital, Deralakatte and Fr Muller Medical College and Hospital, Mangaluru, he said. Will help meet testing target: DC “We have a target of testing around 600 samples each day and with the lab at KMC hospital and the new laboratory, we will meet our needs,” Jagadeesha said. The laboratories put together will clear the backlog of 2,627 samples before the weekend, he added. The new laboratory is equipped with state-of-the-art equipment worth Rs 1 crore and Rs 45 lakh has been spent on the physical infrastructure, Jagadeesha said, adding a microbiologist and eight lab technicians have been appointed. District surgeon Dr Madhusoodana Nayak said the microbiologist and lab technicians have been trained at NIMHANS. “We have tested five samples that Nimhans sent us and sent our report. If our report tallies with that of Nimhans, we will get the go ahead to test samples locally,” he said. The fully air-conditioned lab can test 96 samples in one testing cycle and reports can be expected in four to six hours at the most, he said. The lab can test 300 samples per day, he said adding the entire process from the time samples are received to the time the reports are uploaded as per ICMR guidelines, is done online. The cost for testing of each sample including test kit and other personal safety equipment is around Rs 1,600, Dr Nayak said. DC Jagadeesha has sanctioned funds for this project under the district disaster relief fund available at his disposal, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-lab-at-udupi-dist-hosp-ready-for-sample-testing/articleshow/76861767.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 9, 2020||Business||Instagram sees spike in downloads||Bengaluru: Little over a week after the TikTok ban, Facebook-owned Instagram has seen its daily downloads growth in the last 8 days surpass May and June numbers, according to data shared with TOI by SensorTower. The development comes even as the company launched its short video feature ‘Reels’ in India on Wednesday. Instagram saw almost 3.4 lakh average downloads daily from June 29 until July 6, totalling 27 lakh downloads since the ban. Its daily download average was 2.9 lakh in June, while the same for May was just above 3 lakh, totalling 89 lakh and 92 lakh downloads in June and May respectively. While the ban on 59 Chinese apps continues, these metrics could change further. Instagram is now testing ‘Reels’ in India — a 15 second short-video feature within the platform, similar to TikTok. Ajit Mohan, Facebook India head, said one-third of posts on Instagram in India are already videos, and Reels would open up a new opportunity for both — the platform and its users. Reels is also being tested in markets like Brazil, France and Germany. With Reels, Instagram would be able to widen the arena of influencers and acquire new users. “We have seen interest in short-form videos for a while now. Short-form videos of less than 15 seconds are about 45% of all videos posted on feed. We have seen fairly intense growth of Instagram over the last several years and over the last few months in the context of the virus outbreak,” he said. The company did not disclose its total India user base. According to Mohan, this is also an indication of the importance the Facebook group attaches for India, the largest market for Facebook and WhatsApp. Among the banned apps, TikTok was the largest app in terms of users, which stood at about 200 million registered users and 120 million monthly active users. Several local startups like Roposo, Mitron, Chingari and Trell have seen downloads in millions and are trying to fill the void.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/instagram-sees-spike-in-downloads/articleshow/76862188.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gandhinagar to add 3 wards||Ahmedabad: After being declared the state’s smallest municipal corporation in 2011, Gujarat’s capital city Gandhinagar will add three more wards. That will take the total number of wards to 11 in the coming months. Each ward will have four councillors. The government announced the formation of three new wards on Wednesday. They will be fully functional once local body elections are held after delimitation. Interestingly, when the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation was established in 2011, there were 11 wards with each ward consisting of three councillors. But in 2016 the total number of wards was reduced to eight, with each ward consisting of four councillors. The GMC has always staged a close political contest between the Congress and the BJP with a difference of just a single seat deciding who remains in power. This time there will be 44 councillors with the GMC area expanding into portions of 18 villages and the Pethapur municipality. GMC officials said that the civic body will cater to a population of more than 5.5 lakh, with each of municipal ward having a population of about 27,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gandhinagar-to-add-3-wards/articleshow/76862660.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman veggie vendor quarrels with cops, tension in Bapunagar||Ahmedabad: Vegetable vendors in Lalbhadur Shastri Road area near Bhidbhanjan Hanuman Road of Bapunagar became agitated on Wednesday evening, when a woman vendor quarrelled with cops and alleged she was beaten.The cops were asking handcart pullers to maintain social distancing and were telling them to move away and not obstruct the road . Inspector N K Vyas of Bapunagar police station said, “We had gone to clear the road after receiving a complaint from local residents that social distancing was not being maintained and traffic was being blocked.”DCP, Zone-5, Ravi Teja said earlier there used to be a vegetable market at the place, but due to Covid-19 the market has been moved to another place.“On Wednesday evening, when the cops went there, they saw the vegetable vendors and asked them to move. However, a woman vendor protested causing tension. Vyas said he had beaten no one at the place. We are registering a case against the woman under Section 283 for creating obstruction on the road. The inspector of Bapunagar police station has also taken statements of other traders to prove the woman was not beaten,” the DCP added.Local sources said the woman has gone to Shardaben Hospital for treatment. However, when asked, Teja denied that the woman was hurt and said the truth will be revealed during her treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-veggie-vendor-quarrels-with-cops-tension-in-bapunagar/articleshow/76862790.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man threatens ex-wife, demands money||Ahmedabad: A 37-year-old woman from the Chandlodia area of the city on Wednesday filed a complaint with Sola police alleging that her ex-husband was subjecting her to obscene messages and calls and was demanded money from her. As she refused to give him the money, he created a ruckus at her house.In her FIR with Sola police, Shilpa Patel, who works for a private company on CG Road, stated that she had married Dharmesh Patel, a resident of Mandal, on March 29, 2013. As the couple were unhappy in the marriage, they separated on April 20, 2019 and they began living in Ahmedabad and Mandal, respectively. She alleged that her husband often made unwelcome calls to her, sent her obscene messages and made obscene demands through video calls. On Wednesday morning, when she was alone at home, Dharmesh barged in and demanded money from her. As she refused, he roughed her up and began shouting at her. Hearing the commotion, her neighbours gathered at her house after which she called the police control room. She filed a complaint for criminal trespassing, use of abusive words and criminal intimidation against Dharmesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-threatens-ex-wife-demands-money/articleshow/76862713.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hubballi||Discrepancy over Covid figures between JSW, dist admin||Ballari: JSW Steel Vijaynagar Works, Ballari, has intensified its measures to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus in its plant, as per the directions issued by the district administration. According to a district administration report, JSW reported 510 positive cases till Tuesday evening. However, the JSW management has refuted this figure, and said that only 427 cases were reported at the plant till Wednesday. The first positive case was reported at the plant on June 4, when one of its employees had contracted the virus from his mother, who had travelled to Tamil Nadu. Since then, the number of cases have increased to 510, as per the district administration report. Ballari additional deputy commissioner Manjunath P S said that as the number of cases are still increasing at the Jindal site, they have asked the Jindal management to implement the measures suggested by the government as per the SOP, to curb the spread of the virus at their plant. We are frequently overseeing the measures taken by Jindal to contain the spread of the virus. We have sealed all the entry points to the area. He also informed that Jindal has reported more than 500 cases so far, and that the results of many employees are still awaited. We will keep monitoring the situation, and if necessary, we will further intensify the containment of the area, he said. Manjunath Prabhu, JSW, senior vice-president, said that the government has given a wrong report about the number of cases reported from the Jindal plant. He stood by the figure of 427, and said that the government should correct their figure immediately. He pointed out that they have taken all the measures suggested by the government. “We have reduced our staff, and only 40% of our employees are engaged in emergency works now. We have sealed all the entry points to our plant.” “We have collaborated with Syngen company which is a part of Biocon, to conduct Covid tests in their private lab. We have conducted more than 1,000 tests, and the reports will go to the government directly. We are subjecting all suspected employees to the test, and providing them timely treatment,” he added. “Of the 427 positive cases, more than 300 patients have recovered and are back home. There are only 120 to 125 active cases at our site now,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/discrepancy-over-covid-figures-between-jsw-dist-admin/articleshow/76862583.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lion numbers outside forest areas grew by 97% in 5 years||Ahmedabad: According to the Gujarat forest department’s Poonam Avalokan enumeration of lions that was carried out in June, lion numbers outside protected forest areas grew by 97% since 2015, while there was a 3.1% decline inside protected areas. The lion population inside protected areas went from 356 to 345, and outside went from 167 to 329 in five years.The total population has been pegged at 674, a 28.87% increase, the highest for any five-year period so far. The increase was 27% in the 2015 count, when the total population was 523. An analysis of the Poonam Avalokan numbers by the forest department revealed that lion numbers registered a 38% drop in the Sutrapada, Kodinar, Una and Veraval coastal belt, likely to due to increased industrial activity. These animals may have moved south-eastwards, towards Rajula, Jafrabad and Nagashree, where foresters found a 232% increase. Foresters said the the enumeration found 674 lions, at 294 locations in four districts: Bhavnagar, Amreli, Junagadh and Gir Somnath. While there have been lion sightings in Botad, Surendranagar and Rajkot districts, none were documented during the avalokan. The enumeration revealed that the population density in the Asiatic lion landscape is 3.03 lions/100sq km, with a density of 1.65 in non-forest areas compared to 15.2 in forest areas (including the National Park, wildlife sanctuaries, reserved forests, protected forests and unclassified forests). A senior researcher who asked not to be named said the high density in forest areas implies that the carrying capacity of these areas are now saturated, and lions are moving out of these areas. He said the carrying capacity of Gir sanctuary is not more than 270 to 280 lions. He added that the need of the hour is to have more protected areas and sanctuaries in the region. Former Gujarat forest officer and lion expert H S Singh said, “The population in the sanctuary had been saturated for the last 15 years and there is no scope for an increase in population within the sanctuary. Growth has been witnessed outside the sanctuary only.” He further said that a decrease of 10-odd lions in forest areas is not significant because on that particular day some lions may not have been sighted or may have moved outside the sanctuary. On the decline in the Sutrapada, Kodinar, Una and Veraval belt, he said this coastal belt has seen a lot of human pressure and developments the lion population here would see a decline. Towards Rajula, Jafrabad and Bhavnagar, there is plenty of food and cattle available and hence the lion population is shifting along the coast towards Bhavnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lion-numbers-outside-forest-areas-grew-by-97-in-5-years/articleshow/76862551.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
July 9, 2020||Pune||FDA initiates kitchen probe following complaints||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Wednesday commenced inspection of the kitchens of a caterer, who supplies meals to Covid centres, following complaints about poor food quality at two quarantine facilities. The same caterer was fined for not submitting medical fitness certificates of his staffers, earlier last month. Assistant commissioner S B Naragude of FDA Pune told TOI, “Our staff members visited the quarantine centres on Wednesday but found no issues with the food that was served. The proprietor prepares the food at their central kitchen in Baner, which too will be checked.” “We learnt about the food quality issues from various sources but did not receive an official complaint. In such cases, citizens should lodge a complaint on toll-free number 1800 222 365 or send an e-mail to fdapune2019@gmail.com,” he said. An official from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, on the condition of anonymity, said, “We cannot rule out the possibility of sabotage by a rival contractor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fda-initiates-kitchen-probe-following-complaints/articleshow/76863395.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Builder accuses flat buyer of harassment||Ahmedabad: A developer from Kalol in Gandhinagar district, who floated a housing scheme in 2016 in the Paldi area, on Tuesday filed a complaint with Paldi police alleging that one of his buyers, who was aggrieved at size of the flat he had bought, was constantly harassed him by damaging his properties. Sunil Chandwani, 53, a resident of Kalol, states that he began construction of apartments in the Paldi area in 2014. The accused, Praveen Jadhav, approached him in 2019 to buy a two-bedroom flat in the scheme. After a while, Jadhav approached him and sought a three-bedroom flat saying that he has family. As Chandwani had finalized the deals for all the flats, he told Jadhav that he would be unable to allot him a 3BHK flat. This did not go down well with Jadhav who began abusing and threatening Chandwani. Chandwani alleged in the FIR that Jadhav had broken a CCTV camera worth Rs 4,000 installed in the apartments and stolen another camera, worth Rs 25,000. Apart from this, he continued to do damage to the building. On Tuesday, he called Chandwani and told that his flush was not working and asked him to repair it immediately. After a while, he called him again and said that the lift was not working. When Chandwani called a lift technician, he found that someone had cut wires of the lift. After this, Chandwani approached Paldi police and filed a complaint for causing damage and criminal intimidation against Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/builder-accuses-flat-buyer-of-harassment/articleshow/76862807.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Kolkata||Work from home to make a comeback to Kolkata Covid pockets||KOLKATA: Professionals living in and around the containment zones, where strict lockdown measures are likely to be implemented from Thursday, spent a major part of Wednesday figuring out their work arrangements for the next two weeks. “I was shocked to see that at present, there are around a dozen active Covid cases in my neighbourhood. The moment I got the list, I called up my seniors and informed them about it. They advised me to continue to work from home for the time being. On my part, I stocked some daily essentials on my way back from office and, for the next few days, I will try to ensure that not a single member of my family heads out unless there is an emergency,” said a mid-level executive of a private firm who lives on Bhuban Mohan Roy Road in Behala. Residents of neighbourhoods near containment zones, too, maintained they were taking precautions and would stop going to office from Thursday. “Multiple buildings in our neighbourhood have been marked as containment zones. Our house doesn’t feature on the list, but I am maintaining caution and have informed my office that I will be working from home,” said Abhijit Das, who works with an insurance firm. Since the fresh containment notification was issued on Tuesday, there had been speculation about which areas would come under the new containment zones. Several fake and old lists started being shared on social media, leading to rumour-mongering, fear and confusion among professionals and businessmen. But after the final list was uploaded on the government website, most heaved a sigh of relief. “I was in two minds whether to open my shop on Thursday. Fresh stock was to be delivered on Friday, but I have asked them to defer it till next week. Even though my shop’s address doesn’t feature on the list, I will wait for a couple of days before resuming full-fledged business,” said Satyendra Singh, a grocery shop owner in Janbazar. The order issued by the state on Tuesday said strict lockdown will be imposed on all offices, non-essential activities, congregations, transportation and markets, and industrial or trading activities, inside containment zones. It added that residents of containment zones may be exempted and prohibited from attending government and private offices and appealed that their ingress and egress be strictly regulated. Chairperson, KMC board of administrators, Firhad Hakim, however, said, “Movement will be restricted only in specific addresses mentioned as containment units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wfh-to-make-a-comeback-to-city-covid-pockets/articleshow/76862457.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 9, 2020||Kolkata||High-rises make up more than half of new containment list in Kolkata||KOLKATA: More than 50% of the 25 containment zones identified by the state, where fresh lockdown measures will be implemented from Thursday evening, are high-rise complexes and standalone buildings. While the list features six residential complexes in Alipore, Bhowanipore and Kankurgachhi, there are multiple standalone buildings in pockets of Bhowanipore, Kasba, Phoolbagan and Behala. Residents of high-rises of these areas, and also across the city, on Wednesday geared up to put on fresh guards from Thursday. “Barricades have been set up outside our building for the past few days and there is complete restriction of residents’ movement. Everyone is locked inside homes and we are allowed to go till the main entrance to collect daily essentials,” said Ashwini Sanganaria, a resident of Satyam Towers on Alipore Road, which has been notified as a containment zone. The list features five other complexes — 5B, Judges Court Road (Alipore), 19A, Sarat Bose Road (Bhowanipore), P12, CIT scheme VII M (Kankurgachhi), 55A, Dr Sarat Banerjee Road (Bhowanipore) and 1, Belvedere Road (Alipore). Residents of complexes which were struck off the containment zone list heaved a sigh of relief, but said they will continue to enforce some measures to ensure the infection remains in check on their premises. “Our apartment was under a containment zone earlier, but we are relieved that we do not feature on Wednesday’s list. Although our entrance is still barricaded, we hope they will be removed soon. But even after the barricades are removed, we will continue to follow the containment strictures and none of the residents will move out unless it is an emergency,” said Bharat Shah, a senior resident of Sindu Apartment on Sarat Bose Road in Bhowanipore. Shah added there are no active cases at their complex any more, although a total of nine persons in three families had been infected over three months. Residents of complexes where there are multiple active Covid cases said they were aware that if they did not check the situation immediately, their apartments could come under containment zones in the next few days. “At present, nine residents are suffering from the disease and an elevator technician has recently been admitted to a private hospital after testing positive. We were afraid our complex would become a containment zone again, but, thankfully, we do not feature on the list this time. However, we are maintaining all necessary sanitization and safety protocols and are trying to restrict the entry of outsiders as much as possible,” said Debjani Mukherjee of Urbana residential complex off EM Bypass. Meanwhile, speaking to reporters on Wednesday, chairperson of KMC board of administrators Firhad Hakim said even though several high-rises and standalone buildings are being tagged as containment zones, residents — apart from those under quarantine — can go to markets. “But I appeal to everyone to not leave their homes as much as possible. In case they have to come out, they should wear masks and apply sanitizer. They should also sanitize the elevators at regular intervals,” Hakim said. He also appealed to residents of the high-rises to extend support to healthcare workers when they visit their premises. “We are initiating a high-rise microplanning, which will require our officials to visit the complexes. We appeal to the residents for coordination with the officials and workers,” Hakim added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-rises-make-up-more-than-half-of-new-containment-list/articleshow/76862421.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 9, 2020||Patna||Patna: Ward councillor shot at in Khagaul||PATNA: Unidentified bike-borne men shot at a ward councillor, Deepak Paswan, in Chanakya Puri locality under the Khagaul police station area in Patna on Wednesday. “The incident took place at 9am when Deepak, the councillor of ward number 7 in Khagaul, was supervising sanitization work at Chanakya Puri. Four men reached the spot on bikes, of whom two walked up to Deepak and suddenly opened fire. He received a gunshot injury on the left side of his chest,” Khagaul police station SHO Mukesh Kumar Mukesh said, adding that the victim was rushed to a private hospital on Bailey Road where his condition was stated to be stable. Those involved in sanitization work told police that they realized something had happened only after hearing the gunshots. The locals also claimed that they had heard two gunshots. “Deepak alleged that he was shot at due to a political rivalry with one Teni Paswan, a resident of Khagaul police station area,” Mukesh said, adding that both Deepak and Teni were accused in few criminal cases. As of now, police are waiting for a written complaint to register an FIR in connection with the case. “CCTV camera footages of the locality are also being checked to trace the attackers,” the SHO said. Youth killed: Unidentified criminals killed a youth, Pankaj Kumar Gupta (32), in front of Bazaar Samiti under the Barh police station area in Patna district at 5am on Wednesday. “Pankaj had gone to buy milk when he was shot in the head at close range. However, no one saw the incident happening and the reason behind the murder is still unknown,” SP (rural) Kantesh Kumar Mishra said, adding that his family members had lodged an FIR against unknown persons. The slain youth worked with the power grid in Barh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ward-councillor-shot-at-in-khagaul/articleshow/76861575.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: RJD may broaden base of Mahagathbandhan||PATNA: The Mahagathbandhan in Bihar may seem to be in disarray due to delay in giving it a final shape, but RJD is working overnight and doing strategic planning to broaden its base. It is ready to take calculated risk in the state assembly election due in October-November. As RJD chief Lalu Prasad is in jail, his son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is at the helm and he is confident of being in the driver’s seat of the Mahagathbandhan. He is hardly bothered about any small party like Hindustani Awam Morcha (S) led by Jitan Ram Manjhi jumping ship. RJD is trying to shed its image of a Muslim-Yadav (MY) party and trying hard to woo the upper castes, who are considered the main vote bank of BJP-JD(U) combine, led by CM Nitish Kumar. Since neither Congress, the second major constituent, nor the smaller parties like RLSP led by Upendra Kushwaha or Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) of Mukesh Sahni has many choices left, they have to toe the line of RJD in seat-sharing unless taking the risk of contesting the coming election with a third combination. RJD insiders said the party will contest no less than 150 out of the 243 assembly seats and may leave around 60 for Congress, 3 for Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), 10 to the Left parties if they join the alliance, and 20 seats for RLSP and VIP. Referring to the reported ultimatum of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi during his videoconference with party’s state leaders to settle the seat-sharing issue with RJD at the earliest or chart out its own course of action, a senior leader, preferring anonymity, said it was just to boost the morale of his party workers in Bihar. When contacted, Bihar Congress president Madan Mohan Jha said the party would like to contest as many seats as possible above the 41 it had contested in 2015. “Seat-sharing will not be an obstacle. We will sort it out with RJD. But, we would like to contest a major chunk of the 101 seats the JD(U) as the Mahagathbandhan partner had contested last time,” Jha told TOI on Wednesday. When asked about the possible entry of Left parties in the Mahagathbandhan, Jha said it was for the party central leadership to decide. But state CPI is willing to contest in alliance and a senior RJD leader said his party had already accommodated CPI(ML) in the 2019 LOk Sabha election and would welcome them if they did not demand more seats. CPI state secretary Satya Narayan Singh said, “The Left parties and the Mahagathbandhan partners must fight unitedly to defeat the NDA (BJP, JDU and LJP) in state polls. Our young leader Kanhaiya Kumar has also expressed willingness and made it clear that he is not willing to be a CM face. Senior Congress leaders in Delhi also want a combined fight against the NDA. But RJD is keeping its cards close to its chest.” RLSP state president Bhudeo Choudhary, who had a meeting with his RJD counterpart Jagadananad Singh on July 5, said there was no confusion about the partners to contest the assembly polls. “The meeting was very positive and the seat-sharing issue will be no problem. We don’t want to contest for the sake of contesting, but to defeat the NDA,” he told TOI. Regarding Manjhi, a senior party leader said he would take a decision on July 10, but in all likelihood, HAM(S) is unlikely to continue with the Mahagathbandhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-may-broaden-base-of-mahagathbandhan/articleshow/76862351.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
July 9, 2020||Business||Government won’t merge 3 PSU insurers, to infuse Rs 10,000 crore||MUMBAI: The government has called off the merger of the three public sector non-life insurers — National Insurance, Oriental Insurance and United India Insurance — and has announced an additional capital infusion of Rs 9,950 crore. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a Rs 12,450-crore equity infusion into the non-life companies, which includes the Rs 2,500 crore already invested in FY20. “The process of the merger has been ceased so far in view of the current scenario and, instead, the focus shall be on their profitable growth,” the government said in a statement. Of the Rs 9,950-crore infusion, Rs 3,475 crore will be released immediately, while the balance Rs 6,475 crore will come in one or more tranches. To enable the capital infusion, the Cabinet approved an increase in the authorised share capital of National Insurance to Rs 7,500 crore and that of United India and OICL to Rs 5,000 crore respectively to give effect to the capital infusion. The proposal for a merger of the three state-owned insurers was announced by former finance minister Arun Jaitley in his Budget speech in February 2018 and confirmed by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman as recently as July 2019. The Union Budget in 2019 also had enabling provisions for the merger and, prior to that in January, the boards of the non-life companies had approved the merger proposal. According to industry sources, a merger was expected to be very disruptive, given that each of the public sector insurers was on a different information technology platform. Also, the merger process was seen as capital-intensive and the three non-life companies, until recently, were not well placed in terms of solvency margins. Industry sources said that the government wanted the focus to be on improving the delivery and coverage of health and agriculture insurance. To ensure that the capital is effectively used, the government has issued guidelines in the form of key performance indicators in the form of productivity and underwriting margins to improve business efficiency and profitable growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-wont-merge-3-psu-insurers-to-infuse-rs-10k-cr/articleshow/76862162.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Kolkata||Full-shutdown rumours trigger panic buying in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Rumours of a blanket lockdown led to panic buying on Wednesday as long queues returned to grocery shops across the city. No one wanted to take any chance and tried to buy enough essentials to see them through a few days, even before they knew whether their residences were in containment zones. “After nearly three months, we found a queue in front of our shop. In just an hour, half of our stock was sold out. We sold nearly 5,000kg of rice in just two hours. People are scared. No logic or past experience — complete availability of essentials throughout the lockdown — seemed to deter customers,” said Anil Patra, a rice trader in Behala. “I don’t want to take any risk. If my neighbourhood is included in the list of containment zones, what will I do? We don’t know if mobile vendors will be allowed in or if the markets would remain open,” said Debabrata Ghosh, a resident of Prem Chand Boral Street who reached College Street market at 8am. Some vendors who had not anticipated such a rush ran out of stock within a couple of hours. “Those who normally purchase two varieties of vegetables went for four to five today. They also increased the quantity they purchased. I had sold out all vegetables by 9.30am,” said Afzal Molla, vegetable vendor outside College Street market. Market committees tried to calm the buyers’ nerves by saying the government won’t shut down supply of essentials and markets would remain open. “We are expecting a similar situation on Thursday morning, too, because people are panicking. They want to stock up their pantry for any eventuality,” said Arijit Gayen, a member of the Maniktala Traders’ Welfare Association. With sudden surge in demand, some retailers have also jacked up prices of edibles. “The mustard oil, which I used to buy at Rs 120 per litre rose to Rs 135 on Wednesday. Even dal and spices appeared costlier. Since we do not track the prices of these items on a daily basis, it is always difficult to say whether there is spike in price,” said Alok Moitra, a Parnashree resident. “We tried to keep track of the retail prices of essentials at markets. A section of traders, though minuscule in size, indulge in dishonest practices and take advantage of the situation. In some places, the market association has identified them. We hope a strong step is taken against such people,” said a member of the Market Task Force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/full-shutdown-rumours-trigger-panic-buying/articleshow/76862431.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 9, 2020||Business||Gaana offers short videos platform ‘HotShots’||NEW DELHI: Short videos are the new buzzword on social media, with the number of content creators and consumption skyrocketing. To cater to the ever-growing appetite of Indians for entertaining short videos, the country’s largest music streaming platform, Gaana, has launched HotShots — a platform that allows Indian content enthusiasts intuitive, seamless and snappy tools to create and share short viral videos and stories with a more than 150-million strong audience base. Gaana HotShots offers emerging and established influencers an opportunity to migrate to a robust Indian platform and build their own success stories. With the best-in-class product experience and a host of ‘HotShot Challenges’ in the performing arts like music, comedy and dance by HotShot influencers, celebs and international artists, the app would offer both the scale and the infrastructure to reach a massive audience that thrives on digital entertainment. “At Gaana, we have always emphasised on placing the power of digital content creation into the hands of emerging talent. We had launched Gaana Vertical Video platform last year to allow our celebrities/singers to connect with our audience through short videos,” said Prashan Agarwal, CEO, Gaana. “Today, we are building upon that expertise by unveiling the ultimate short video creation and consumption platform ‘Gaana HotShots’. Our home-grown entertainment super app is ready to serve as the country’s go-to destination for entertainment across music, podcasts, short viral videos and buzz, offering aspiring Indians the power to become influencers in their own right with Gaana’s world-class live streaming & short video capabilities.” At launch, Gaana HotShots will offer content from influencers like Riyaz Ali, Avneet Kaur, Jannat Zubair Rehmani, Awez Darbar & Nagma Mirajkar and singers like Neha Kakkar, Darshan Raval, Tony Kakkar, Jass Manak, Parmish Verma, Maninder Bhuttar, Sunanda Sharma, Mankirt Aulakh, Karan Aujla, Kulwinder Billa, Gurlez Akhtar, Satbir Aujla, R Nait, Sukhe Muzical, Nikk and Guri among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gaana-offers-short-videos-platform-hotshots/articleshow/76862210.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Patna||72-hour lockdown ends in Madhubani district||PATNA: The curbs imposed in Madhubani district for 72 hours were lifted on Wednesday. More than 500 samples were collected from the town during the lockdown. With rise in number of Covid-19 cases, Madhubani was the first district in Bihar to impose lockdown amid Unlock 2.0 that began on July 1. This decision was taken at a meeting under the chairmanship of chief secretary Deepak Kumar and is now being implemented in other districts of the state. District magistrate (DM) Nilesh Ramchandra Deore said the lockdown was imposed for 72 hours from Sunday till Tuesday. “Since people remained in their houses, it was easy for us to collect their samples. Besides, proper sanitization of the infected areas could be done easily,” he added. Now, the district administration will focus on organizing a drive to create awareness about the importance of using masks. Asked if the lockdown had helped reduce Covid-19 cases, Deore replied, “We have reopened today and it is too early to say anything. But this lockdown was beneficial.” He also appreciated the contribution of the common people in making the lockdown successful. According to the data shared by the state health department, of the 553 Covid-19 cases in Madhubani, 431 people have recovered and two have died. There are 120 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/72-hour-lockdown-ends-in-madhubani-district/articleshow/76861875.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 9, 2020||Mysuru||Water level at reservoirs across Karnataka rise as monsoon intensifies||Madikeri/Mysuru: Kodagu deputy commissioner Annies K Joy and superintendent of police Kshama Mishra on Wednesday visited Bhagamandala and inspected water level in Cauvery river at the Sangam and the spot of landslides near Talacauvery. Cherangala village near Talacauvery witnessed landslides on Tuesday following continuous rainfall in the region. While no damage was caused to life, the main road from Cherangala to Talacauvery was blocked and the same was cleared on Tuesday night by the NDRF team. The DC instructed the officials to issue notices to four families residing in the area to shift to a safer place. Only light vehicles will be allowed to Talacauvery. Meanwhile, the DC ordered home guards, police, NDRF and fire department teams to be ready to tackle emergencies. At the Sangam in Bhagamandala, a boat and a raft will be made available for people to shift. Talacauvery has received 100 inches of rainfall so far. Water level at the KRS dam touched 100ft with inflow increasing drastically due to heavy rainfall across Kodagu district. Inflow in other major rivers of malnad region including Tunga, Bhadra, and Sharavati also increased. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Center (KSNDMC) data, Kairagunda in Hosanagara taluk and Saluru grama panchayath in Thirthahalli in Shivamogga received the highest rainfall of 124mm and 127mm respectively on Wednesday. Agrahara in Tirthahalli received 98mm rainfall. Compared to the same period in 2019, inflow of water was more in all the reservoirs on Wednesday: Linganamakki (31,460 cusecs), Supa (23,878 cusecs), Bhadra ( 12,759 cusecs), Kabini (11,324 cusecs), Hemavati (10,782 cusecs), and KRS dam 8,972 cusecs. Water level at the KRS dam was 100.3ft. It was 83.65ft on July 8 last year. Bhadra river is flowing at a danger level and Hebbale bridge, which connects Horanadu, is on the verge of submerging. Water level at Bhadra reservoir at Lakkavalli in Shivamogga is 128.40ft. The maximum storage capacity of the reservoir is 186ft. Tunga reservoir in Gajanur is filled to the brim and outflow is 23,560 cusecs. Water level at Linganamakki is 1761,25ft. The maximum capacity of the reservoir is 1819ft. Heavy rain likely As per KSNDMC forecast, modeate to heavy rain is likely over coastal and adjoining parts of malnad districts. Scattered to moderate rain and at a few places heavy rain is likely over south interior districts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/water-level-at-reservoirs-across-karnataka-rise-as-monsoon-intensifies/articleshow/76861241.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Mysuru||Television actor and fitness trainer ends life||Mandya: Sushil Kumar, an actor, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan in his friend’s house in Induvalu village, on the outskirts of Mandya, on Wednesday. The body of Sushil Kumar, a resident of VV Nagar in Mandya city, was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his friend Viswanath’s house. He is said to have committed suicide around two days back, and neighbours who sensed a foul odour emanating from the house, informed the police, and victim’s friend Viswanath. The police broke open the door and found the decomposed body of the victim. Viswhanath told the police that he had handed over the key of his empty house to Sushil Kumar three days ago. After he handed over the key, he did not receive any phone call from his friend. After he was alerted by his neighbours, that a foul smell was emanating from his house, and a two-wheeler which was parked outside the house, was not being attended to by anyone, he rushed to the spot. Sushil Kumar’s parents too were unaware that their son was at Vishwanath’s house. The parents informed the police that their son, who happened to be a gym instructor working in Bengaluru, may have committed suicide as he was dejected after he lost his means of earning a livelihood due to the lockdown. He returned to Mandya after the lockdown was imposed nationwide. Thereafter, he did not return to Bengaluru, even after the lockdown was lifted, as the gym where he was working was closed, and he did not get any opportunity in movies and Kannada serials. The deceased acted in ‘Kamarottu Checkpost’ and ‘Salaga’. He had also acted in Kannada serial ‘Anthapura’. A senior police officer said that prime facie Sushil Kumar may have ended his life as he was depressed over losing his means of earning a livelihood, and not getting any opportunities in Kannada films. “We have not yet found any suicide note. Though it seems like the victim committed suicide, we must investigate this incident from every angle,” the officer said. A case has been registered in the Mandya Rural police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/television-actor-and-fitness-trainer-ends-life/articleshow/76860569.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Vadodara||BCA to organize its 79th AGM online||Vadodara: The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) has decided to organize its 79th annual general meeting (AGM) online on July 23. The management has drawn up plans to ensure that the members are able to air their views and interact with the office bearers during the meet. The decision was taken by the BCA apex council on Wednesday after some members objected to holding the AGM amid during Covid-19 pandemic. “Considering the health and safety concerns of the members, it has been decided to hold the AGM online. We will send a copy of resolution and web-link to all the members by courier. Every individual member can join the AGM through the link. The AGM will start at 9 am on July 23 followed by BCA president Pranav Amin’s and apex council’s address,” said Satyajitsinh Gaekwad, chairman, BCA press and publicity committee. On agenda is passing of two resolutions including approving accounts of 2016-17, 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 and appointment of statutory auditors for 2019-20. “Members can visit five designated venues between 10 am and 4 pm with their biometric cards or any government identity card. Only 15 persons will be allowed in the designated area at a time. We have taken the decision to organize the AGM to ensure that we get Rs 120 crore grants that are due to be taken from the BCCI since years,” Gaekwad added. Three BCA members had recently objected to organizing the AGM citing old age of nearly 50% of the association members who would be exposed to the risk of Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bca-to-organize-its-79th-agm-online/articleshow/76861034.cms||Tushar Tere
July 9, 2020||Patna||3 of a family commit suicide in Vaishali||PATNA: Three members of a family allegedly committed suicide at Mangurahi village under the Mahua police station area in Vaishali district on Tuesday night. According to police, one Chandeshwar Rai (50) along with his wife, Lalpari Devi (45), and their daughter, Nutan Kumari (22), killed themselves by consuming poisonous pills. The couple reportedly quarrelled over the stay of their married daughter with them after being deserted by her husband, a resident of Bhadwas village in Vaishali district. He is stated to be a person with learning difficulties. “The couple’s two sons had abandoned them and shifted somewhere else. This disturbed Chandeshwar, his wife and their daughter, who decided to take the extreme step,” an investigating officer claimed. The SHO of Mahua police station, Krishna Kant Jha, said, “A police team has been sent to the village to ascertain the reason behind the incident. Prima facie it appears to be a case of suicide.” Sub-inspector Sunil Kumar told this newspaper that the bodies of the deceased had been disposed of at the village before the police team reached there on Wednesday. “Further investigation is on,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-of-a-family-commit-suicide-in-vaishali/articleshow/76861398.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Parents get Montessori tips to help kids with e-classes||KOLKATA: City schools are collaborating with parents of three- and four-year-olds for online nursery sessions that have recently started. The parents are asked to be more involved during classes to hand-hold the tiny tots during online sessions. The La Martiniere Schools on Wednesday began their nursery section by sending parents recorded videos. Modern High School is reaching out to nursery students with the help of recreational videos sent to parents and St Augustine’s Day School, Barrackpore and Shyamnagar, launched a “parent engagement programme” on Monday and had parents come to the schools to learn Montessori techniques. “For the first quarter, we didn’t even start nursery. When we did, in June-end, we sent videos with instructions so that parents could sit down with the children at their convenient time and do the fun lessons,” said Devi Kar, director, Modern High School. Rupkatha Sarkar, principal, La Martiniere for Girls, said, “Our online learning for nursery will be an orientation for parents to guide their children to play at home with engaging activities that develop the motor and cognitive skills.” St Augustine’s Barrakpore and Shymnagar did a survey where parents reported various challenges the younger kids were facing. “They are too small and get restless while sitting at the laptop or mobile phone,” said Jhuma Biswas, principal, St Augustine’s Barrackpore. Counsellor of the school’s Shyamnagar branch Sucharita Ghosh said, “The little ones are used to seeing a teacher in front. So we are familiarizing parents on Montessori techniques.” Shayani Das, an IT professional, was apprehensive about enrolling her son, almost three years old, for online nursery classes. “I didn’t want him spending three hours with headphones on,” she said. But nursery is only a transition from the “known to unknown” that contributes to the foundation of the child. “These video chats are given in a developmentally appropriate manner and can help a child with social, emotional and cognitive development,” said Baruna Chatterjee, a Montessori trainer. “When they watch TV, it is a one-way communication. But if a teacher is on the screen, asking them to sing or dance, it becomes a two-way communication,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/parents-get-montessori-tips-to-help-kids-with-e-classes/articleshow/76862486.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly election on schedule, says CEO||PATNA: Amid demands of some political leaders to defer the state assembly polls due to surge in the Covid-19 cases in Bihar, the state chief electoral officer (CEO), H R Srinivasa, on Wednesday reiterated that the elections would be held on schedule. The CEO said the process of imparting training to the personnel concerned has already started and the EVMs and the VVPAT have reached the respective districts for election purposes. The master trainers were also imparted required training on Wednesday, he added. “The training of returning officers (ROs) will commence on Thursday. Things are moving as per schedule and hope to complete the process on time. In 2015, the schedule of the assembly polls was announced on September 9. Compared to the previous election, we have sufficient time for the upcoming polls,” he said. When asked about the demand of some political parties to defer the election in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the CEO said some individuals had approached the commission with such demands earlier. “But we have not received any such demand from any registered political party so far,” he clarified. The CEO said the Election Commission (EC) of India has already been apprised of the demands of the individuals to defer the state assembly polls in the wake of rising number of positive Covid-19 cases in the state. “It’s up to the EC to take a final call on the matter,” Srinivasa said. He, however, clarified that prior to the assembly polls, the biennial election to the state legislative council seats from graduate and teachers constituencies is also to be conducted. The request of the state government for the election for the vacant seats was immediately sent to the EC, which is yet to issue any directive,” he pointed out. Replying to a query, the CEO said the main political parties have already started campaigning for the forthcoming election using digital platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-assembly-election-on-schedule-says-ceo/articleshow/76861453.cms||Ramashankar
July 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Four-day lockdown in Bhagalpur from Thursday||BHAGALPUR: With sharp increase in number of Covid-19 cases, Bhagalpur district magistrate Pranav Kumar has issued orders for four-day lockdown from Thursday, barring essential services. The step has been initiated in the backdrop of violation of norms issued by the central and state governments by the common people. In a high-level meeting held with the district and police officials on Tuesday evening, the DM ordered to restrict public activities in areas falling under the Bhagalpur Municipal Corporation (BMC), Sultanganj Nagar Parishad, Nagar panchayat of Kahalgaon and Naugachia from 6.00 am of July 9 to July 13. According to health department statistics, the total number of corona patients rose to 666, while the number of patients cured are 437 and five deaths have been reported so far in the district. Meanwhile on July 8, the number of new cases reported are 50. At present there are 138 containment zones in the district. The DM also directed the heads of all the government offices to ensure working with minimum number of office personnel or staff. Essential services like government offices, banks, ATMs, medicine shops, kirana shops, milk booths, fruit shops etc have been exempted from the lockdown, whereas four wheelers and two wheelers can be used only if they have the required permission from the district authorities. Meanwhile, the Eastern Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries (EBCCI) has also decided to close the business establishments by 5 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/four-day-lockdown-in-bhagalpur-from-today/articleshow/76861813.cms||Kumar Rajesh
July 9, 2020||Business||Government asks e-tailers to disclose ‘country of origin’ from next month||NEW DELHI: The government has proposed that new products being sold on e-commerce platforms should display the country of origin from next month, while allowing marketplaces to ask sellers to make the disclosures for all products from October. In a meeting with industry representatives on Wednesday, the department for promotion of industry and internal trade did not specify a deadline as e-commerce players suggested that it will take a while for all the existing goods on the marketplace to reflect the country of origin. For e-commerce companies, the bigger issue is to reflect the change in existing products than new ones. “Some of them (e-commerce firms) proposed that it should be done in a graded manner without any penalty. For new listings, platforms can provide the technology and guidance to sellers but changing the same for hundreds of millions of products would take time and current priority is to boost sales,” a person aware of the matter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-asks-e-tailers-to-disclose-country-of-origin-from-next-month/articleshow/76862358.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Techie hurt in Wakad mishap dies of injuries||PUNE: A 44-year-old software engineer, Rajeev Dube, who sustained severe injuries after his car fell off a bridge in Wakad on July 1, succumbed to his injuries during treatment on Sunday. Dube’s wife, Varsha Kalelkar, lodged an FIR on Tuesday against the unidentified driver who had dashed their car in an attempt to overtake. Due to the impact their car crashed into the railings and fell about 40ft and landed on the bank of Mutha river. The complainant escaped with minor injuries. Sub-inspector Ravindra Bhavari of the Hinjewadi police told TOI, “Dube had sustained severe head and chest injuries and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Wakad. He succumbed to the injuries on July 5 (Sunday).”  He said it was not possible for the complainant to identify which vehicle had dashed their car. “Unfortunately, there are no CCTV cameras on the bridge,” Bhavari said. He said the police have started collecting CCTV footage from the establishments located near the bridge to trace the vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-hurt-in-wakad-mishap-dies-of-injuries/articleshow/76863399.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Historysheeter accused of 38 two-wheeler thefts held||AHMEDABAD: City crime branch sleuths on Tuesday detained a 41-year-old resident of New CG Road, Tushar Patel alias Bhuriyo, for alleged vehicle theft. He was detained while riding a stolen scooter. Twelve other stolen scooters were recovered after questioning him. He was sent for a pre-arrest Covid test. Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, B V Gohil, said Patel had allegedly stolen two-wheelers from the Sola, Shahibaug, Airport, Gujarat University, Adalaj, Sardarnagar, Satellite, Naranpura, Krishnanagar, Vastrapur, Naroda and Ghatlodia areas. Inspector J N Chavda said Patel has been stealing two-wheelers since 2004 and had been caught earlier. “He is unmarried and unemployed. He would use the stolen vehicles till the fuel ran out and then abandon them at secluded places. He also sold some of them,” added Chavda. According to crime branch sources he has stolen about 38 two-wheelers since 2004 and has been detained thrice under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities (PASA) Act and sent to Jamnagar, Surat and Vadodara jails.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-behind-38-two-wheelers-thefts-held/articleshow/76862756.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Patna||Heavy rainfall, lightning likely in 18 districts of Bihar: IMD||PATNA: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday cautioned the people living in the 18 districts of the state bordering Nepal and those further south against going out in the open for the next 72 hours, as the area falling in Nepal and north Bihar would witness heavy to very heavy rainfall, along with thunderstorm and lightning. The IMD forecast said while thunder and lightning could jeopardize life, the areas falling in lower north Bihar would also witness waterlogging and disruption of transport and power, besides increase in the water level of the rivers. The major rivers that are expected to cause flood-like situation are Gandak, Burhi Gandak, Bagmati, Kamla Balan, Kosi and Mahananda originating in Nepal where heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected over the next six days from Thursday. According to one forecast collected and collated by the state water resources department (WRD), the catchment areas of Gandak, Burhi Gandak, Bagmati, Kamla and Kosi rivers would register rainfall in the range of 35mm to 138mm on Thursday and Friday. Further, while the momentum would continue with increased amount of rainfall from July 11 to July 14, Bagmati river alone is slated to receive rainfall of 254mm on July 13 and 263.5mm on July 14 in its Nepal catchment areas. The impact would be felt most in 18 districts, as forecast by IMD on Wednesday. The districts concerned are West Champaran, East Champaran, Gopalganj, Siwan, Sheohar, Sitamarhi, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Samastipur, Saran, Madhubani, Supaul, Araria, Saharsa, Madhepura, Purnia, Kishanganj and Katihar. Apprehending the grim situation that unfold in the next one week, CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday had cautioned the DMs concerned and the teams of national disaster response force (NDRF) and state disaster response force (SDRF) already deployed in the 13 districts, as well as disaster management department and WRD, to remain on high alert and be preparedness to tackle the flood situation. Already, the level of water in the rivers has started increasing on Wednesday. The discharge of water through the barrage across Kosi at Barahkshetra in Nepal increased from 1.03 lakh cusecs in the morning to 1.07 lakh cusecs in the afternoon. Similarly, the flow of water through Birpur barrage south of Barahkshetra had increased to 1.35 lakh cusecs by the afternoon. The water discharge through Valmiki Nagar barrage across the Gandak has been fluctuating, but began to show an increasing trend at 99,000 cusecs measured at 2pm. The heavy to very heavy rainfall expected in Nepal and in Bihar over the next one week is expected to worsen the situation in the lower reaches of the rivers flowing through north Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/heavy-rainfall-lightning-likely-in-18-districts-of-bihar-imd/articleshow/76861516.cms||Abhay Singh
July 9, 2020||Kolkata||ED Narada notice to 11 netas; Sovan not on list||Kolkata: The Enforcement Directorate has sent notices to 11 of the Narada accused politicians, asking for their bank and investment details, with former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee — who quit the Trinamool last year — being one notable exception. The central investigating agency has asked for the “list of bank accounts and postal accounts”, details of all investments, income-tax returns since 2013 and election expenditure for the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. The 11 will not have to go to the agency’s office but can e-mail the relevant details by July 31. “Some of the accused persons had said that they accepted political donations. We will have to see whether the amounts have actually gone into their accounts,” an ED official said. Chatterjee’s friend, Baisakhi Banerjee, said the former mayor had already submitted the documents. “It seems the ED does not need anything more. Sovan-da and I were questioned last year and we cooperated fully,” she said. Some of the other leaders said they were yet to get the ED notice and some said they had given the ED the necessary information some time back. State panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee said he was yet to receive any ED notice. “Why now? It has been seven years since the investigation started. They should have wrapped it up. It cannot be stretched indefinitely,” Mukherjee said. Trinamool leader and former Bengal minister Madan Mitra said he submitted all the documents in 2017. “Nothing was pending as far as I know,” he said. Trinamool-turned-BJP leader Mukul Roy said he was yet to get any notice. “I have come to know about this from the media. There is nothing wrong if the agencies are trying to trace the money trail and it is natural for them to ask for bank details,” Roy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ed-narada-notice-to-11-netas-sovan-not-on-list/articleshow/76856343.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 9, 2020||Patna||Inmates of Gaya quarantine centre allege poor facilities||PATNA: The people quarantined at the staff quarters of Magadh University in Bodh Gaya on Wednesday alleged that they were being provided poor quality of food and accommodation by the district administration. There are 171 people from different parts of Bihar and have come from Dubai by a chartered flight on Tuesday. One Aquib Javed from Nawada said there was no need to quarantine them as they had been thoroughly screened at the airport before boarding the flight. “The quality of food was very poor last night. We had requested to provide something better at least to those who are diabetic, but the person concerned refused. We also staged a protest after we saw dogs eating bread in the morning,” Aquib said over the phone. Sonu Singh from Siwan said the kind of food being served would definitely make them ill. “Dogs were licking the utensils left in the open. The rice served last night was of very poor quality. There was a loud protest in the morning. We have been given a bedsheet, one set of plate-glass and a ‘gamcha’, but not a cot. We are forced to sleep on the ground with insects all around. The washroom is also very dirty and stinks,” he told TOI. When contacted, Bodh Gaya nagar panchayat executive officer and nodal officer of accommodation at quarantine centres, Shashi Bhushan Prasad, said they were running three centres at Nigama Monastery, Model High School and staff quarters of MU. “We are providing the best possible facilities to those who are coming from abroad. They are offered to go to the paid quarantine centres made in some of the hotels. Those, who don’t have money to pay, are provided free accommodation and meals three times per day. The government has fixed Rs 38.5 per plate rate. No one can provide better meals in such a small amount,” he said. Regarding accommodation, he said since the quarters were not in use so the washrooms might be a bit dirty. But the PHED and other departments had been taking care of every need of people at the quarantine centres. “We have received till July 7 altogether 10,460 people from Bihar and Jharkhand coming from abroad since May 18 when the first flight under the Vande Bharat Mission from London landed at Gaya airport. We also arrange route-wise government buses for them after seven days of quarantine to reach their respective blocks if they do not have a private vehicle or means of transportation,” Shashi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/inmates-of-gaya-quarantine-centre-allege-poor-facilities/articleshow/76862015.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
July 9, 2020||Patna||Patna district under lockdown again, from Friday to July 16||PATNA: The Patna district administration has reinforced the lockdown for seven days from July 10 to 16 after the highest number of 235 Covid-19 infected cases in a single day were reported on Wednesday. Patna DM Kumar Ravi, in his order, stated that there was an alarming surge in Covid-19 positive cases in the district in the last three weeks and the positivity rate had also been high. Patna district has reported 1351 Covid cases so far, the highest compared to other districts in the state. The DM’s order stated that the district administration examined the matter in detail and was convinced for the lockdown throughout the district as it was also urgent to contain the spread of Covid-19 further. A senior official said coronavirus cases have been registered from almost every locality of the state capital and even rural areas of Patna. There were total 86 containment zones in the state till Wednesday evening. Only necessary movement will be allowed in Patna from Friday till July 16. Shops selling essential commodities, all health related services and offices providing essential services will, however, remain open. Religious places will remain shut in this period, with no exceptions and no public gathering. All the central and state government offices will remain closed, except few exceptions. “All the central and state government offices will remain shut, with few exceptions. Even all the commercial establishments will now be closed, barring those which are providing essential goods. This will be implemented throughout the district,” Ravi told TOI. He said public transport will be allowed in this lockdown period. However, private vehicles will be limited to essential works only. A per the DM’s order, shops dealing in ration, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk products and animal fodder will remain open. But fruits, vegetables, meat or fish shops will be allowed to open between 6am and 10am and from 4pm to 7pm only. Ravi has stressed on the need of home delivery to avoid public movement. “All kinds of e-commerce and home delivery are allowed,” he said. Exceptions in central government and its autonomous bodies include defence, central armed police forces, treasury, public utilities (petroleum, CNG, LPG, PNG), disaster management, power generation and transmission units, post offices, National Informatics Centre and early warning agencies. Similarly, exceptions in the offices of state/union territory and their autonomous bodies include police, home guards, civil defence, fire and emergency services, disaster management and prisons departments. Offices of district administration and those providing electricity, water and sanitation will remain open. In the case of municipal bodies, only staff required for essential services will have to come. Even offices dealing with election-related work have been allowed to remain open. Instruction has been given to call minimum number of employees to offices with preference for work from home. There will be no hindrance in medical services, be it manufacturing or distribution in private or public sector. Transportation of medical personnel is also allowed. Even hospitality services will be allowed and those who have weddings scheduled in this lockdown period will have to inform the police station concerned. “They have to follow the lockdown and Covid-19 guidelines,” said Ravi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-district-under-lockdown-again-from-friday-to-july-16/articleshow/76861792.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 9, 2020||Hubballi||Villagers fear return of natives from Bengaluru||Hubballi: More than the disease itself, the fear that Covid-19 inspires in the minds of the public is proving to be more difficult to live with. In North Karnataka, residents, who would otherwise wait expectantly for the return of friends and relatives from Bengaluru, are now growing increasingly apprehensive about the prospect. Indeed, in Yadgir district, the fear of Covid-19 has created a chasm between two childhood friends, one of whom works in Bengaluru. Usually, the visit of the one working in Bengaluru was a cause for celebration for the other, who never missed an opportunity to meet his friend. However, the friend who stayed put in Yadgir is now shunning the man who has returned home from Bengaluru. This is merely an indication of the dread that villagers seem to have of people returning from the state capital. Subhas Koti, a family counsellor in Gajendragad in Gadag district, said that the misapprehension among people in the rural areas about people returning from Bengaluru was only natural given the prevalent Covid situation. “These people are being isolated in their native soil. Even their relatives are shunning them. Friends are actually willing to wait a fortnight before meeting them,” Koti said. A resident in Vidyanagar in Hubballi told TOI that when she found that her neighbour who had returned from Bengaluru had a fever, she dialled the district helpline. “They arrived within two hours after I placed the call and took to the district Covid hospital. He subsequently tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Why is the Dharwad district administration not being very watchful?” she asked. A central government officer in Hubballi, whose daughter is a doctor at a Covid hospital in Bengaluru, is in a fix as to whether or not he should invite her home. “Very painfully, I told her to stay in Bengaluru since I did not want to jeopardise the safety of the community,” he added. ‘Need for community initiatives’ It is a very delicate issue. TV channels have created an atmosphere of fear, while political decisions too have been rather volatile, owing to which misconceptions have taken refuge among the people. What we need are community initiatives in order to preserve humanitarian values. Citizens should, by themselves, step forward and adopt a scientific approach to disabuse people of such notions. -Captain Anand CS | Life Coach, Dharwad BOX B’lore-returned groom tests +ve TNN Hubballi: A youth, who returned from Bengaluru to Yadgiri district for his wedding scheduled for July 13, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. According to officials, the youth hails from Shahapur taluk. Taluk administration officials said the youth had arrived from Bengaluru on June 29. “As a precautionary measure, his throat swab was collected and sent for testing. The test results have arrived and he is positive,” they added. The youth was suffering from cold when he returned from Bengaluru. “He was working in the city and had returned for his marriage. He was involved in marriage preparations too. After the test results came positive, the wedding was temporarily postponed,” said his kin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/villagers-fear-return-of-natives-from-bengaluru/articleshow/76862408.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 9, 2020||Patna||VCs to decide exam modalities with priority to pupils’ health||PATNA: The seven-member committee of vice-chancellors constituted by governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan to suggest ways for ensuring smooth conduct of examinations has reportedly authorized the universities to decide the modalities as per their own requirements and convenience, according top priority to the health concerns of students. At a meeting arranged via videoconference on Wednesday, the committee members discussed in detail all aspects related to the conduct of examinations under the existing circumstances and in the light of the latest UGC guidelines. The UGC has announced recently that no examination should be planned before the last week of September. It had earlier announced that the universities should hold only the final year examinations of different courses with due precautions and all preventive measures and that the students of intermediary batches and semesters should be promoted to the next class on the basis of their internal assessment. According to sources, the committee members could not arrive at consensus on the mode of examination. While some VCs reportedly suggested holding examinations of shorter duration with less number of questions to be answered, others favoured the idea of holding objective-type test on OMR sheets to ensure the timely conduct of examinations and publication of results. Some VCs pleaded for holding examinations as per existing rules and regulations. Ultimately, the committee resolved that the universities would be free to hold examinations in whatever mode they wanted, but they would have to approach the chancellor for his assent to the transitory regulations if they want to make any departure from the existing exam regulations. The meeting was coordinated by committee convener and Munger University VC Ranjit Kumar Verma and attended among others by the VCs of Patna, Patliputra, Magadh, BRA Bihar, Purnea, Veer Kunwar Singh and Aryabhatta Knowledge University (as an special invitee). The resolutions of the committee would now be placed before the chancellor for his approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vcs-to-decide-exam-modalities-with-priority-to-pupils-health/articleshow/76861622.cms||B K Mishra
July 9, 2020||Agra||6 labourers sleeping on pavement crushed to death by a truck in Agra||Agra: Six labourers sleeping on the pavement on national highway-2 were crushed to death and one critically injured after a speeding truck ran over them in Agra city. The accident took place around 2:15 am opposite of Synergy Hospital near Gurudawar Guru Ka Taal.The truck driver attempted to flee but he and his helper were caught after a brief chase by the Cheeta mobile team and Sikandra police. The accused driver has been identified as Munesh and his aide as Sintu.Till the time this report was filed, police identified two of the deceased. Police said an FIR has been lodged against the driver and his helper under IPC sections 279 (rash driving on public pathway), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others)Arvind Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Sikandra, said, “The truck was heading towards Gurugram to take delivery of motor-bikes for a Mainpuri based auto showroom. Munesh lost control of the truck while negotiating a curve and the vehicle climbed the pavement on which the group of labourers was sleeping. Five of them died on the spot and one died during treatment in SN Medical College.”“We have identified two of the deceased -- including Subhas Sharma of Lohamandi and Sunil of Shahganj. The critically injured victim has been identified as Nitin Sharma of Jagdispura,” the SHO added.According to sources, a total of nine labourers were sleeping on the pavement, but two of them were lucky to have escaped unhurt. One Santosh Chaudhary had gone to relieve himself near the railway track while the other, identified as Sonu, was sleeping a few feet away from the spot where the other were sleeping. Sonu said, “I woke up as there was a loud crashing sound, and saw crushed bodies soaked in blood on the pavement.”Another eyewitness, Surender, a rage picker who was heading home with his friend Kale in their rickshaw, said, “The truck was speeding and climbed onto the pavement at the curve. Heads of two victims got separated from their bodies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/6-labourers-sleeping-on-pavement-crushed-to-death-by-a-truck-in-agra/articleshow/76861402.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Patna||Congress teams to visit every constituency||PATNA: Ahead of assembly election in Bihar, senior Congress leaders again said they would not compromise with the number of seats in the Mahagathbandhan. The party has also given a task to its leaders to visit the constituencies and properly assess the party’s strength and submit a confidential report to the central leadership. The team comprising one member of the election committee and two of the campaign committee will visit a district and two blocks in a day. They will interact with the local party workers, shortlist strong candidates and also analyse the image of sitting MLAs of other parties and find out their grip on the seats. They will also study local issues of the constituency concerned. While interacting with the members of Bihar Pradesh Election Committee, Congress legislature party leader Sadanand Singh said taking lessons from the last parliamentary election, they should go for seat-sharing with alliance partners only when given proper number of seats. State campaign committee chairman Akhilesh Singh also echoed the same demand. Sources said Congress’s state incharge Shaktisinh Gohil has assured them that no compromise would be made in seat-sharing this time. These discussions were done in two separate meetings of the party’s state election committee and campaign committee held at Sadaquat Ashram on Wednesday in the presence of Gohil, who is in Patna on a three-day visit. While the election committee’s meeting was chaired by state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha, Akhilesh presided over the one of the campaign committee. State Congress media incharge HK Verma said the party members paid tribute to Galwan martyrs before starting their meetings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-teams-to-visit-every-constituency/articleshow/76862366.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Questions linger over Sivasankar successors||Thiruvananthapuram: M Sivasankar’s removal from the posts of principal secretary of the IT department and secretary to the CM has only succeeded in giving rise to questions over the appointment of his successors. Government sources point out that Muhammed Y Safirulla, named to the high-stakes IT department, is an officer of the 2010 batch who has not attained the required seniority to be appointed to the post. Interestingly, he is not even part of the cadre at present and is on a sabbatical. “Appointing an officer in anticipation that he will rejoin service is unheard of. It is learnt that Safirulla was handpicked as he had earlier worked as IT Mission director under M Sivasankar,” a top official said. Officers are handed independent charge only after they attain the rank of secretaries or special secretaries. An officer attains the rank of a special secretary after completing 12 years in service, and the rank of a secretary after 16 years. Safirulla currently enjoys the rank of additional secretary. The order says that till Safirulla returns to the cadre, the charge would be held by Sanjay M Kaul, who is currently secretary of finance (resources) and ports and is also chairman and MD of Kerala Finance Corporation. Interestingly, the order goes on to say that he will report to additional chief secretary (finance) Rajesh Kumar Singh. But, nowhere does it explain how Singh, who has not been handed charge of IT department, can be the reporting authority. Through another order, Mir Mohammed Ali, of the 2011 batch, was given full additional charge of secretary to CM. “Both officers have spent less than a decade in the state and have not worked even a single day in the secretariat. Be it a calculated move or a decision taken without giving any thought, it is unfair to burden them with such risky assignments, that too when the government is already in a soup over mismanagement,” another bureaucrat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/questions-linger-over-sivasankar-successors/articleshow/76862673.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC irked by use of habeas plea to extort money from groom’s family||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court expressed “strong displeasure” at an effort to extort money from the family of a boy by pressuring them through a habeas corpus petition for custody of the girl who intends to marry the boy.According to case details, the girl left her house for her boyfriend on June 15, the day she turned 18. The couple could not marry because the boy was still not of marriageable age, and had to wait till July 3, when he turned 21. They had scheduled their wedding for July 6 at Jetalsar village in Mehsana.In the last week of June, the girl’s brother filed a habeas corpus petition alleging that the boy and his family members had illegally detained the girl. When the court called all the parties, they appeared through video conferencing from a Kadi court. The girl told the court that she would marry her boyfriend four days later. When the court inquired with the boy, he expressed surprise at the petition and told the court that as his family belong to the Dalit community, the girl’s family and community leaders had asked his parents to pay a substantial amount to settle the issue and grant permission for the marriage. He told the court that while part of the sum was already paid, the rest was to be paid on June 15. He further said that he did not understand why the HC was approached to stop the marriage.On hearing this, Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria said, “Here also unfortunately, we notice the issue of caste and deep down, caste leaders who had gathered ostensibly to settle the dispute, quantified the amount by way of compensation.”The HC dismissed the habeas corpus petition by expressing “strong displeasure for such attempt made by the petitioner even without disclosing these unacceptable facts to his learned advocate as a means to get their remaining sum before the marriage takes place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-irked-by-use-of-habeas-plea-to-extort-money-from-grooms-family/articleshow/76862681.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hubballi||Guest flees with hotel manager’s laptop||Dharwad: A complaint was lodged against an unidentified man who ran a bill of Rs 12,000 at a hotel near the University of Agricultural Sciences in Dharwad and fled without clearing the amount. According to the complaint, the man stayed at the hotel for three days and without clearing his dues, fled with the hotel manager’s laptop. The hotel owner said a man claiming to be company executive Vincent John called the hotel and booked a deluxe suit. He occupied the suit on July 3. During his three-day stay at the hotel, he ordered food and drinks, while also befriending the hotel manager. He allegedly sought the manager’s permission to use the latter’s laptop for work and he obliged. On July 5 (Sunday), before going out, the man allegedly asked the manager to arrange for drinks and dinner at the banquet hall later in the evening for a meeting. After the man failed to turn up, the hotel staff checked his room and found that his luggage and the hotel manager’s laptop were missing. “His movements have been recorded on the CCTV. He has fled without paying Rs 12,000 towards the hotel bill. We have lodged a complaint with the police,” said Rajesh, the owner of the hotel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/guest-flees-with-hotel-managers-laptop/articleshow/76860734.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt to form 5-member panel for forest tribal rights||Gandhinagar: The state cabinet, chaired by chief minister Vijay Rupani, decided on Wednesday to constitute a five-member commission to decide rightful beneficiaries of Rabari, Bharwad and Charan castes residing in areas of Gir, Barda, and Aalech forests.Providing information about this decision, tribal development minister Ganpatsinh Vasava said that the five-member commission will include a retired HC judge, two retired district court judges, a retired forest department official and a retired additional collector. The minister added, “The decision will protect the constitutional rights of rightful tribals and prevent wrongful persons from taking benefits of the tribal population”. He said the government is determined to protect the rights of tribals in the state. Vasava further stated that to resolve the long pending issue pertaining to the Scheduled Tribes Certificate for tribals living in the areas of Gir, Barda and Aalech forests, the CM had held a meeting in with leaders of Rabari, Charan, and Bharwad communities on Tuesday, July 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-to-form-5-member-panel-for-forest-tribal-rights/articleshow/76862665.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab nears 7k as 158 more found infected, 3 succumb to coronavirus||Chandigarh: Punjab inched closer to the 7,000 mark on Wednesday as it recorded 158 fresh cases of Covid-19, including three deaths. The overall tally of the state rose to 6,907 cases and the number of fatalities to 178. Also, 274 people were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of people who have recovered from the virus in the state to 4,828. Majority of the cases were contacts of positive cases and patients co-infected with influenza like illness (ILI). In 11 cases, the source of infection was outside of Punjab. Jalandhar got the highest number of cases, 72. Of them, 54 patients were contacts of positive cases and history of 14 could not be traced. Also, 17 cases were from Faridkot, 12 from Ludhiana and 11 from Amritsar, nine each from Gurdaspur and Ferozepur, six from Mohali, five each from Sangrur and Bathinda, three from Kapurthala, two each from Mansa and Pathankot, and one from Ropar. Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Gurdaspur reported a death each. Patients in Faridkot include seven anganwari workers and a policeman. Though the state bulletin on Covid-19 said nine people tested positive in Ferozepur, district officials said the figure was 10. (Inputs from Bathinda and Ferozepur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-nears-7k-as-158-more-found-infected-3-succumb-to-coronavirus/articleshow/76863396.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two, including minor attack man who beat their mother||Ahmedabad: To retaliate against their mother being beaten, a minor and his elder brother Adil Shaikh attacked one Umesh Bharwad of Krishnanagar. Bharwad, a man acquitted in the Naroda Patiya massacre case (2002 riots) had called the woman to a guesthouse during lockdown and beat her up for not paying instalments on a Rs 1.5 lakh loan she had supposedly taken from Bharwad said ACP G division, A M Desai. “The woman, Aktari Shaikh of Krishnanagar, had to be hospitalized with injuries on her legs,” said a police official. Desai said she had lodged a complaint against Bharwad and his accomplice on June 13 with Krishnanagar police. On June 30, the woman’s sons attacked Bharwad with an iron pipe. “They came on a black scooter to his home. Bharwad was first taken to Civil Hospital and from there he was shifted to a private hospital,” a police official said. Aktari’s children were rounded up by police on Wednesday. “They have been sent for Covid-19 test. The minor will be dealt with under law for juveniles while the other one will be arrested after the test reports arrive,” Desai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-including-minor-attack-man-who-beat-their-mother/articleshow/76862705.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC grants bail to man held for filming Asiatic lions||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has granted conditional bail to one of the accused persons involved in videography of Asiatic lions in the Veraval forest range in January this year.The person released on bail was Hala Naeem Mohmad Soyab, a resident of Veraval. He was the third person who has got bail in this incident of filming the lions on January 22. The forest department booked him along with two others under Sections 2(16), 2(17), 2(20), 2(31), 2(36), 2(37), 9, 39, 50, 51 and 52 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, for causing disturbance to wild animals, chasing them in a vehicle and filming them.A sessions court in Veraval had denied bail to Soyab, which compelled him to approached the high court last month. He submitted that he was innocent and that the lions had strayed into the revenue area and filming them in revenue areas cannot be an offence. He was not involved in any hunting activity and it was not such a serious offence. On Monday, Justice A C Joshi ordered to release Soyab on bail on his furnishing Rs 15,000 bail bond and by imposing various other conditions including surrendering his passport.Meanwhile, another person, Ilyas Hoth, who was arrested on charges of teasing a lioness during an illegal lion show, has not been granted bail by the high court even a year after his arrest. The viral footage of the lion show had created a controversy last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-grants-bail-to-man-held-for-filming-asiatic-lions/articleshow/76862625.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Business||TVS Srichakra director P Vijayaraghavan passes away||Chennai: The TVS Group lost a senior executive on Wednesday when director P Vijayaraghavan passed away due to heart failure. He was 72. A group veteran Vijayaraghavan served in senior management positions for over five decades and played a "pre-eminent role in the growth of TVS Srichakra right from its founding, where he continued to be actively involved till his passing, as a director on the board," said a company statement. He and as an active member of several industry bodies, he played a pivotal role in the growth of the sector in India. TVS Srichakra is part of $8 billion TVS group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tvs-srichakra-director-p-vijayaraghavan-passes-away/articleshow/76862295.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 48% of 294 lion locations outside forest areas||AHMEDABAD: A forest department analysis shows that the lion population of 674 is spread across 294 locations, 52.04% of which lie in forested areas. The remaining 47.96% (141) of the locations are in non-forested areas. The analysis was accessed by TOI on Tuesday. It reveals that there are seven satellite populations of lions in the Gir Sanctuary. Data suggests that Bhavnagar coast is a recently established satellite population zone. The data for the analysis was gathered during Poonam Avlokan (roughly translated, ‘estimation during full moon’) on June 5 and 6. Forest officials said it has emerged after the exercise that the adult male to adult female ratio is 1:1.61. They said that the adult female to cub ratio is 1:0.53. This is the first time that lactating lionesses have been counted. Lionesses with cubs younger than one year old were considered. Of the 260 adult females, 23% were recorded to be lactating. Shyamal Tikedar, Gujarat’s principal chief conservator of forests, said that all the lion locations have been mapped. The detailed analysis was prepared by Dr Mohan Ram, the deputy conservator of forests, along with chief conservators D T Vasavada, S K Srivastava, and A M Parmar. Other officials involved in the analysis include deputy conservators Sandeep Kumar, Raj Sandeep, and Anshuman Singh. The population density of lions in non-forested areas is 1.65 per 100 sq km as compared to 15.20 per 100 sq km in forested areas. The officials said that at present, 48% of the lions are outside the sanctuary areas; the figure was around 40% in 2015. The officials further said that the density of lions is the highest in Gir-Somnath district (5.75 lions per 100 sq km). In Junagadh it is 3.30, in Amreli it is 3.28, and in Bhavnagar it is 1.23. The lion population is steadily rising in Bhavnagar. The officials said they are concerned that lions outnumber lionesses in Bhavnagar district and coast. The adult male to adult female ratio in Bhavnagar district and coast is 2:1. Also, the number of cubs is just 5 each in the district and on the coast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/48-of-294-lion-locations-outside-forest-areas/articleshow/76862586.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
July 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Virtual friend’s gift bait costs woman Rs 43.35 lakh||PUNE: A ‘UK-based’ virtual friend fleeced a 51-year-old Katraj resident of Rs 43.35 lakh between January and May after promising to send her expensive gifts like a gold wrist watch, gold chain, bracelet, and smart phone. The person got the complainant to transfer money in a phased manner, citing parcel charges, taxes, handling fees, etc. The woman, who is an executive with a private company, used all her savings and raised a loan to transfer the funds over 39 transactions between March 9 and May 25. She transferred various amounts during the period to six accounts in two public sector and one private sector bank, the police said. The fraudsters had also allegedly sent her a mail that appeared to be from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), stating that Rs28.88 crore would be transferred to her bank account once she was through with making all the money transfers to secure the gifts that never came, police said. In January, the woman struck a friendship with the suspect, who identified himself as Willy Tony, on a social media site. After the initial exchange of chats, they shared each other’s phone numbers and started conversing over long hours. In the course of the discussion, Tony told the woman that he had won a big contract in USA and would like to give her expensive gifts to celebrate the moment. He convinced the woman to say yes to accepting his gifts or he would be unhappy with her. He further asked the woman to pay for the courier. Later, she started receiving calls from a woman, who called herself Jenny, an executive of an international courier firm. Jenny asked her to transfer money into six bank accounts. After making all the transfers, the woman realized that her virtual friend and the courier executive had stopped taking her calls. Tony had also deleted his account on the social media website. Inspector Santosh Barge of the Pune cyber police told TOI, “The woman initially reported the matter to us on May 26 and lodged an FIR on Tuesday after we conducted an initial verification of her complaint.” Barge said, “The complainant’s husband is a managerial level employee with another private company. She exhausted all her savings and borrowed money from her friends to pay the suspects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/virtual-friends-gift-bait-costs-woman-rs-43-35l/articleshow/76863391.cms||Gitesh Shelke
July 9, 2020||Patna||Centre allots 364 additional ventilators to Bihar||PATNA: The Centre has dispatched another lot of 364 ventilators to Bihar in the wake of recent surge in Covid-19 positive cases across the state. “The fresh lot of ventilators will reach the state in the next two to three days,” Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey told TOI over phone on Wednesday after holding a meeting with officials in Delhi to review the status of supply of medical equipment to different states. “Bihar has been sanctioned altogether 500 ventilators, of which the first lot of 100 ventilators was sent almost a month ago. With the second lot, 464 ventilators have been allotted to the state. Besides, the Centre has also allotted altogether 6.77 lakh N-95 masks, 4.7 lakh PPE kits and 29 lakh tablets of hydroxychloroquine to the Bihar government till date,” Pankaj Mishra, media adviser to Choubey said. Apart from all this, the AIIMS-Patna has been allotted another 30 ventilators for being a government public medical college. During the review meeting, Choubey asked the officials concerned to remain in touch with the health department officials of Bihar and ensure regular supply of necessary medicines and equipment after reviewing the situation in the state. Earlier in the day, the minister spoke to several peoples’ representatives and local leaders of Bhagalpur, his constituency Buxar, Patna and Muzaffarpur and took stock of the Covid-19 scenario in their areas. Mishra said, “Altogether 21,000 ventilators have been dispatched to different states as per their requirements so far. Of these, 500 have been sanctioned for Bihar. If required, more ventilators will be sent.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/centre-allots-364-additional-ventilators-to-bihar/articleshow/76861966.cms||Madan Kumar
July 9, 2020||Business||Govt, industry quarrel over GST on hand sanitisers||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: Multiple goods and services tax (GST) rates have now become a bone of contention between hand sanitiser manufacturers and the government. Last month, the Central Economic Intelligence Bureau alerted GST authorities about manufacturers of alcohol-based hand sanitisers paying 12% GST by “wrongly classifying” them as “medicaments” (under tariff heading 3004) instead of disinfectants (under tariff heading 3808), which attract an 18% levy. In a letter to principal commissioners, the director general of GST Intelligence has alleged that this has led to “substantial evasion” of tax. Authorities have analysed data for 62 manufacturers and have asked field offices to verify if other producers, including distilleries and sugar mills, have also “mis-classified” the product that is being used across households and offices. The missive has given GST inspectors and officers a reason to conduct “surprise visits”, armed with search warrants, industry bodies have complained. The Association of Indian Medical Device Industry has petitioned finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to stop the inspections, arguing that it is causing harassment. It has argued that hand sanitisers are classified as “drugs” as manufacturers obtain a drug manufacturing licence. Besides, it said, the product is used by medical professionals to sanitise their skin before a surgery and for cleaning wounds and has pharmaceutically active ingredients that have both therapeutic and prophylactic value. The trade body has also argued against its classification as either a cosmetic or a disinfectant. Further, the association has pointed to the commerce and industry ministry’s notification of June, which had put alcohol-based hand sanitisers under tariff heading 3004 to argue its case. Hand sanitiser is the latest product where there is a GST dispute due to classification of product into two different tax slabs. Government officials, who are seeking a merger of the 12% and 18% slabs into one, with a combined levy of 16-17%, have said that the move will end these disputes. In a large number of countries, there is just one or two rates, but the GST Council opted for multiple rates — ranging from 5% to 28%, with compensation cess added in case of sin and luxury goods such as cars, soft drinks and tobacco — arguing that a single rate was not feasible and two rates would result in either a revenue loss for the government or heavy burden on some consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-industry-quarrel-over-gst-on-hand-sanitisers/articleshow/76862277.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
July 9, 2020||Business||Green shoots emerge in ad world||MUMBAI: The advertising industry, which has been directly impacted by the ‘new normal’, is showing signs of a gradual improvement, if new businesses bagged recently is anything to go by. After the sudden drop in growth in April this year due to the Covid-19-led lockdown, some of the leading advertising agencies have witnessed a slow recovery in subsequent months. Dentsu Aegis Network APAC CEO and India chairman Ashish Bhasin said business has improved month-on-month since May. “The business was down by almost 65% in April as compared to the same month last year. There has been a gradual improvement every month. In May, the fall was 50% and this improved further to a 35-40% drop in June. Everybody is learning to adapt to the new normal and this has ensured regular pitches coming our way. If the monsoon is good, around Diwali there is hope that we could return to normalcy. What’s clear is that the improvement is gradual, and not a V-shaped recovery as was earlier envisaged.” On an average, the advertising industry clocks 40% of its annual business during the festive seasons between August and year-end. Wunderman Thompson South Asia chairman & group CEO Tarun Rai said, “Luckily for us, and for our clients, the second half of the year is more important in terms of sales. I do believe that the festival season will see a pretty sharp recovery. The signs are positive for most categories. We are encouraging our clients not to pull back spending in these months.” “While the crisis has affected everyone, the difference between the smarter companies and others will be the ‘bounce-back velocity’ of their brands coming out of the crisis. What brands do now, and for the next couple of months, will decide which brands have a greater ‘bounce-back velocity’. And this, in turn, will translate into capturing a bigger market share,” said Rai. Considering that Wunderman Thompson has clients in almost every category, Rai said the firm is hedged. “We do see the beginnings of a recovery in June. The government has decided that the economy needs to be opened up and we will have to learn to live and work with the virus for a few months more. The recovery is evident as we are engaged with our clients to make sure they capture the pent-up demand, and the month of June has seen us busy in the production of new work that is now going on air,” said Rai. Grey Group India chairman & group CEO Anusha Shetty said, “Our internal data mining suggests that in any bad phase, whether it was the World War or the Great Depression, there’s a willingness to fight back and usually one emerges stronger. We’ve termed it the 90-day recovery plan, wherein we plan and innovate so that when the recovery begins, we are ready to execute the plans. We are helping clients grow and, in the process, we have won businesses and pitches.” Grey Group bagged seven brand accounts during the Covid phase. Agencies assisted their clients in ideating and creating fresh strategies, even as consumer demand got impacted and industries halted their production at factories. “When the lockdown was first announced, nobody imagined it would last so long. The tone changed to safety of people. In two-three weeks, when we realised it will play out much longer, we were back on track with chalking out training calendars, making pitches and driving value for clients. This was a time for revisiting campaigns and architecting great plans for companies who were equally keen on working with us on these projects. To some companies, which were staring at a zero-demand situation, we proactively asked them how we could help them in this phase. For those who were not active on e-commerce, we helped them quickly migrate to that platform,” said Shetty. Bhasin said Covid has hastened the digital penetration into rural India, and advertising agencies have to gear up to be able to handle this demand generation from rural India by offering differentiated and localised solutions in each market. “Rural demand will be the backbone of the economic recovery even in industries. With 50% of our population dependent on agriculture, we believe most industries are refocusing their strategies to bolster rural presence. The more rural presence a business attains, the more important it is for us to offer comprehensive and integrated solutions in advertising,” he said. The period has delivered fresh learnings as well for advertising firms. “The one thing this period has taught me is how seamlessly we can work from home as well. I never thought our industry could work remotely. I have realised that remote working is not only possible but can also be extremely productive if done right,” said Shetty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/green-shoots-emerge-in-ad-world/articleshow/76862103.cms||Namrata Singh
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||EXAMS PUT TO TEST||Hanging over students’ heads for months, the spectre of examinations now is almost as daunting as the virus itself. Uncertainty regarding the pandemic still looms large, and UGC’s September-end deadline for final year exams has only added to the trouble for varsity administrators. Panellists at this month’s TOI Debate mull over the options at hand, trying to gauge the repercussions of various possible actions on students’ careers and mental health "A Mumbai University examination department staffer tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Everyone in the department has now been quarantined for 14 days. If the exams are conducted despite this, will the entire system not collapse?" This poser by former vice-chancellor Rajan Welukar at once encapsulates the gravity of the issue, as also its inherent complexity. The panel delved deep into the logistical challenges of conducting exams, brainstorming a variety of approaches. National Law University-Nagpur vice-chancellor Vijender Kumar suggests a blended online and offline format, while being mindful that memory-based exams are not the only solution. "Final year students have a lot of practical components in their curriculum. Educators should seek their opinions on the mode of exam and come up with a format that is skill-based," Kumar said. "Students should be given multiple opportunities to express themselves, basis which the evaluation can be done. We may end up spending a little more than usual in such a scheme, for which the statutory bodies need to support us," he added. Before coming to a decision on how to hold the exams, remarked Welukar, the universities' preparedness needed to be gauged. "The diversity within a university must be taken into account. Universities with 1000-plus students often have colleges where the infrastructure is not adequate even for 'normal' conditions, let alone post-corona," he explained. "Conducting only final semester exams and cancelling all intermediate exams is not logical. Every semester is vital, and the subjects studied there must be accorded equal importance," Welukar added. Sanskrit University vice-chancellor Shrinivasa Varakhedi responded to this by saying educationists insisted the final year exams be conducted, as they supposedly gave "more weightage to core studies". Welukar used a cricket analogy to posit that consistency mattered most. "If one batsman has scores of 0,0 and 150 in three innings, and another 49,50 and 51 in the same number of innings, we will select the second," he said. "The same holds true for final semester evaluations too. Employers look at consistency and skill-match, which is why students get placed even before appearing for final year examinations," he added. In consonance with Welukar, LAD college associate professor and HoD (English department) Ruta Dharmadhikari pointed out that marks were often not congruent with students' ability. "Over the years, assessment procedures have declined abysmally. Exams should not be the be-all and end-all for students, and the sole focus on final semester exams is a trifle unwieldy," Dharmadhikari stated. The fresh UGC guidelines, however, leave institutions with no choice but to conduct final year exams. If so, it is imperative that they be held as soon as possible, said Prachi Agrawal, a final year BA-LLB student at Dr Ambedkar Law College. "September end will be too late for students who have to start working after college, and could lead to financial crunch as parents of many of them have lost their jobs," she stated. There were three ways to conduct the exams, as per her. "The first is the pen-paper approach, which is not feasible as outstation students may have to be quarantined, for which they are unlikely to get accommodations. The next option is online mode, which also might not work out for want of easy access to computers and laptops," she said. "The third alternative is open-book exams, which the students can write from the convenience of their homes. There are concerns that candidates may cheat, but that can be offset by analytical questions, as exemplified by Delhi University," Agrawal added. SFS College vice-principal Fr Praveen D’Souza underscored the predicament of students. "Concentration level of students has gone down. Many of them have lost touch with their subjects. Notwithstanding the rare few who wish to improve their percentage, a majority of the students just want to get out of this trauma of waiting for exams," he said. Varakhedi corroborated D'Souza's assertion, stating that when given the choice, 98 per cent of the students surveyed from his university opted for no exams. "Final year students were ready to give the exam till May, but now it is too late. They are too stressed to appear for them now," Dharmadhikari chimed in. Mehandi Sheikh, a first year student at Hislop college, wondered when and why the motto of education changed from imparting knowledge to rote learning. "Why are memory-based exams so indispensable, even in this time of crisis? We should be thinking of practical ideas to give students the chance to showcase their skills. Instead, we are still beholden to an old pedagogy handed down by foreign masters when they ruled our country," Sheikh rued. Kumar was all for the heralding of this 'new normal' in education. "The unprecedented circumstances call for devising of unique, innovative evaluation methods. In law, for instance, if students have participated in moot court competitions and mock trials, what stops us from considering those written documents as research papers," he asked. Kumar added that leveraging e-libraries for advanced learning is of the essence. "Unless you make library resources available to the students and teachers through remote access, it will be difficult to uphold academic standards in the future," he said. Cognisant of the extremely uncertain future, the panel considered the feasibility of treating the corona-affected academic year of 2020 as a 'gap year'. The downtime may serve as an opportunity to take a step back and reflect on other aspects of life, the panellists pondered. "My daughter really wants a sabbatical year. In that age, there are so many things one feels like doing. We should let them explore," Varakhedi said. D'Souza did not see the need for blocking an entire year in this pursuit. "Some time can be devoted everyday to look within — that itself can work as a sabbatical. Live your life as a gift," he said. Welukar summed it up on a philosophical note. "This is the second zeroeth year of sorts, the first being 1945 after the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Like in all other disciplines, introspection is due on what we have achieved in education in the last 75 years, and where we went wrong." (All views expressed by the panellists were in a personal capacity, and not as representatives of any institution)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/exams-put-to-test/articleshow/76863408.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Patna||Bhojpur traders may keep shops closed for 10 days from Friday||ARA: The traders’ association of Bhojpur district has given a call for keeping their business establishments closed for 10 days from July 10 to July 19. “Keeping in view of the increase in Covid-19 cases in Bhojpur district, we have given a call to all the businessmen of the district to voluntarily close their shops for 10 days. As responsible citizens, it is our duty to help the administration in its fight against the deadly virus. It may help in breaking the chain of the corona infection. The jewellers’ association has also extended its support and most of the garment shopowners are also supporting the call,” Bhojpur Vyavsayi Sangh president Prem Pankaj said on Wednesday. However, shops selling medicines and essential commodities have been exempted. Except urgent work, public entry to the Bhojpur collectorate has been prohibited for one week in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the district In a press release on Tuesday evening, Bhojpur district public relations officer (DPRO)) incharge Rashmi Choudhary said in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases, the entry of the common people to the premises of the Bhojpur collectorate will be prohibited for one week. The heads of different departments functioning at the collectorate have been asked to put up a notice in this regard outside their respective offices. Later, Bhojpur district magistrate (DM) Roshan Kushwaha clarified that entry can be permitted for urgent works and after taking due permission from the authorities concerned. It may be mentioned here that 18 employees posted at the Bhojpur collectorate and the DM’s residence in Ara tested positive for the Covid-19 on Tuesday. The Bhojpur DM has issued a directive to all the heads of different departments running at the Bhojpur Collectorate to prepare a roster of the subordinate employees and work with minimum staff — strength.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhojpur-traders-may-keep-shops-closed-for-10-days-from-friday/articleshow/76861682.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Business||Monthly SIP flows dip below Rs 8,000-crore mark after 18 months||MUMBAI: Small investors have started feeling the pinch of declining cash flows due to Covid-related issues like salary cuts, job losses, furloughs and delay in credits of wages. This is showing up in their shrinking contributions to systematic investment plans (SIPs) in mutual fund (MF) schemes. Consider this: Since December 2018, investors were contributing Rs 8,000-crore-plus every month. But in June this year, total monthly mutual fund SIP flows fell below that mark for the first time in 18 months to Rs 7,927 crore, according to data released by fund industry trade body Amfi. In addition to declining cash flows, some fund houses had offered an ‘SIP pause’ facility to their investors — allowing them to stop SIPs for two-three months — which also contributed to the fall in total monthly values. Industry players feel the trend should reverse by October. “With monthly SIP contribution at Rs 7,927 crore, investors may have opted for the pause facility and we should see SIP contribution surging in Q4 of 2020,” said Amfi chief executive N S Venkatesh. The fund industry’s June data also showed that the number of new SIPs registered had gone up. Combined with the fall in monthly SIP values, this indicates lower average contributions for new entrants. On an aggregate basis, the fund industry’s total assets under management (AUM) crossed the Rs 25-lakh-crore mark again after remaining below that level since April, just when the Covid-19 pandemic started. According to Venkatesh, reducing interest rates and a gradual unlocking of economic activity with an expected return to normalcy have led to renewed buoyancy in the markets. This, in turn, attracted investors to MF schemes. Amfi data also showed that total monthly flows into equity funds slid sharply to Rs 241 crore in June, compared to Rs 5,257 crore in May — a drop of 95%. The main saviour was a Rs 587-crore net inflow into equity-linked savings schemes (ELSS). The high inflows through this route were because of the government’s decision to allow investors to use tax-saving instruments under Section 80c of the I-T Act to save taxes till July 31, instead of March 31 for fiscal 2020. On the debt side, investor interest is showing some uptick after Franklin Templeton MF’s decision in late April to close six debt funds, which had deterred a large number of investors from investing in this segment. Although liquid funds showed a sharp fall of Rs 44,226 crore in total assets managed by these schemes, industry players attributed this to mid-month withdrawals by corporates to meet their advance tax payment obligations. This is observed every quarter. With low-duration and corporate bond funds witnessing strong investments, net inflows into debt funds for June was at Rs 2,862 crore, Amfi data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/monthly-sip-flows-dip-below-rs-8k-cr-mark-after-18-months/articleshow/76862291.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Patna||Websites of many Bihar universities replete with spelling howlers||PATNA: If one visits the websites of different universities in Bihar, it becomes evident that language teaching has taken a back seat in educational institutes. Even the opening pages of the sites contain messages replete with howlers. The website of  Bhupendra Narayan Mandal University in Madhepura describes Mandal, after whom the university is named, as “grass root label social worker” and states that the university is “known for adding glory to the educational atmosphere of this district and it’s surrounding”. As depicted on its website, Jai Prakash University in Chhapra was established to “serve the needs of higher and quality education for the people of Saran commisionary”. Another university of north Bihar figures as “ Purnea University, Purnia” on its website. It states that the university “is formed to cater to the needs of higher education” and “committed to be a world-class excellence in education”. While the word ‘academic calendar’ is spelt as “academic calender” on Lalit Narayan Mithila University’s site, the vice-chancellor’s message on the website of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University reads, “My heartiest congratulations to all the Department of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University, Muzaffarpur and its dedicated faculty, staff and students. I wish all of them a huge success in their endeavour”. Similarly, the website of  Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU) states that it is “a public university sprawled within 264 acres of lush green campus”. These are only few examples to show how casually the websites are being taken so far as the language of the content is concerned. And that too, at a time when the websites of all the universities are being looked into by hundreds and thousands of students and faculty members every day for downloading e-content prepared and uploaded by subject teachers. Needless to say, the content displayed on the websites must have passed through all the senior officials and academics of the universities concerned. “The VCs, pro-VCs, deans of faculties and heads of postgraduate departments are supposed to be highly qualified and should possess the basic understanding of language,” said Sahitya Akademi winner and retired Patna University professor of English, Arun Kamal. Expressing his grave concern over the deteriorating standard of language teaching in schools and colleges in recent decades, Kamal pointed out that many teachers could not write correct English or Hindi owing to their poor knowledge of language. That’s why, in a recent advertisement issued by the registrar of Munger University, the term ‘Career Advancement Scheme’ was spelt as ‘Carrier Advancement Scheme’. He suggested that each university should have a team of academics well-versed in English or Hindi to monitor the language of the content being uploaded to the websites. Sometime back this newspaper had highlighted how the pro-VC of a state university had misspelt even common words while disposing of the office files. He had spelt the word ‘backlog’ as ‘back lock’, ‘constituted’ as ‘constitued’, and ‘registrar’ as ‘registar’. Similarly, ‘suggestion’ was written as ‘suggesein’, ‘opinion’ as ‘opinian’ and ‘governor’as ‘governer’. Former BPSC member Shiv Jatan Thakur recalled how, in 2004, the-then governor of Bihar, M Rama Jois, had asked TMBU to cancel the second class degree of Tribhuvan University (Nepal) English teacher Amar Nath Tiwary for writing a petition “full of grammatical errors”. “The present governor must ensure the selection of only well-qualified academics as the VCs and pro-VCs of different universities in future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/websites-of-many-universities-replete-with-spelling-howlers/articleshow/76861556.cms||B K Mishra
July 9, 2020||Business||Gold ETFs lose shine as rates skyrocket||CHENNAI: Inflows into Gold ETFs dropped to Rs 494 crore in June, after seeing net inflows every month this year except March, as historic high gold prices force investors to believe there is limited head room for increase in yellow metal’s price. Gold ETFs are like mutual funds, which hold gold as the underlying asset, and offer returns similar to the precious metal. “Gold ETF is always seen as a risk haven, so with the equity market regaining confidence and people thinking gold prices have hit the maximum, leading to lower net inflows in June 2020. With much liquidity in the system, equity will gain as gold has already reached the peak of Rs 50,000/10gm. Gold ETFs will continue to see inflows in coming months, but not substantial inflows. On the other hand, many continue to believe there is still scope for it to get up in coming months, so they paused their investments for now,” Amfi CEO N S Venkatesh said. Gold ETFs are like mutual funds, which hold gold as the underlying asset, and offer returns similar to the precious metal. “ With much liquidity in the system, equity will gain as gold has already reached the peak of Rs 50,000/10gm. Gold ETFs will continue to see inflows in coming months, but not substantial inflows,” Amfi CEO N S Venkatesh said The number of folios added every month declined to 31,369 in June, as compared to 33,611 folios in May 2020. Kotak Mahindra AMC chief investment officer (debt) & head (products) Lakshmi Iyer said, “The inflows are predominantly from retail, HNI, family offices, asset allocators, entity and individual, and this trend may continue in the coming months However, one can safely assume that numbers might be comparatively low as the prices have and demand in India is quite elastic to gold prices. However, there is no doubt that there is better understanding among investors on ‘paper form of gold’ is not a bad idea.” Fund mobilisation under Gold ETF decreased by Rs 336 crore in June, 2020. The net assets under management (AUM) stood at Rs 10,857 crore as of June 2020, with an average net AUM for the month at Rs 10,375 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-etfs-lose-shine-as-rates-skyrocket/articleshow/76862271.cms||Mamtha Asokan
July 9, 2020||Business||Banks to raise nearly Rs 80,000 crore in equity capital||MUMBAI: ICICI Bank’s board on Wednesday approved a proposal to raise Rs 15,000 crore through issue of fresh equity. This has taken the tally of completed and proposed equity issuances by banks this year to nearly Rs 80,000 crore. Banks are taking advantage of the buoyancy in the capital market, making it the largest fund-raise from the markets in any year. The bulk of the capital is being raised by private banks who have already crystallised their plans, while public sector lenders like State Bank of India (SBI) and Punjab National Bank (PNB) have also said that they will tap the market. One positive aspect of the supportive capital market is that banks are likely to raise most of the additional funds requirement on account of the Covid-19 forecast by rating agencies. Earlier this month, Fitch Ratings forecast that Indian banks will require $15 billion (Rs 1.13 lakh crore) in a moderate stress scenario. In June, ICRA had said that public sector banks will need between Rs 45,000 crore and Rs 82,500 crore in additional capital as slippages increase by 5%. The rating agency placed the capital requirement by private banks between Rs 25,000 crore and Rs 48,300 crore. Private lenders Kotak Mahindra Bank and IDFC First Bank were the first off the block to raise funds. Kotak Bank mobilised Rs 7,442 crore in May, which helped it meet the RBI directive on dilution of promoter stake. IDFC First Bank raised Rs 2,000 crore last month. Axis Bank and Yes Bank have board approvals in place to raise Rs 15,000 crore and Yes Bank has also firmed up plans for a public offer, in which SBI said on Wednesday it will invest up to Rs 1,760 crore. In the public sector, SBI has an enabling provision from its board to raise Rs 20,000 crore and PNB’s board will meet on Thursday to approve a capital-raise. Besides pure equity, banks are also looking at raising funds by issuing quasi-equity bonds, which qualify for the purpose of capital adequacy. HDFC Bank has obtained approval to raise Rs 50,000 crore by way of additional tier-1 bonds. Bank of Baroda and Indian Bank are also looking at raising Rs 2,000 crore and Rs 5,000 crore by way of quasi-equity. Besides issuing equity, banks have been improving their capital position by selling stakes in insurance subsidiaries. The insurance business has been relatively less impacted by the Covid-19 crisis in the financial sector. In June, ICICI Bank raised over Rs 3,000 crore selling a stake in its insurance arms. It sold a 1.5% stake in ICICI Prudential Life Insurance for Rs 840 crore, bringing down its stake to 51.4%. It also divested 3.96% in its general insurance arm for nearly Rs 2,250 crore. In the public sector, SBI sold 2.1% stake of its stake its subsidiary SBI Life Insurance for Rs 1,522 crore. Other banks are also lining up to sell stake in their insurance arms. IDBI has obtained board permission to sell part of its stake to its JV partners — Belgian insurer Ageas and Federal Bank. Ageas will buy 23% stake, while Federal Bank will buy 4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-to-raise-nearly-rs-80k-crore-in-equity-capital/articleshow/76862250.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 9, 2020||Patna||Courts in Patna to be shut till Friday||PATNA: The physical functioning of Patna civil court along with subdivisional courts in Danapur and Patna City would now remain shut till Friday. Only very urgent matters would be taken up for hearing via videoconferencing by the judges from their residences. Courts are scheduled to remain closed on July 11 as it is second Saturday. Patan civil court public prosecutor Vijay Sinha said orders for keeping the physical functioning of the civil court and two sub-divisional courts shut were issued by district and sessions judge Rudra Prakash Mishra on Tuesday. The courts were closed on July 1 after a special public prosecutor was found infected with Covid-19. Later, another staff at Danapur subdivisional court had also tested positive. However, in the backdrop of lockdown enforced in Patna from July 10 to 16, Patna high court is expected to take further decision on administrative side of the functioning of all courts in the district for the said time period. Civil court in Kishanganj is expected to reopen on Thursday while civil court at Biharsharif in Nalanda will remain closed till further orders. Subdivisional court at Dalsinghsarai in Samastipur is also closed. It is expected to reopen for physical working on Monday. All these courts are presently taking up only urgent matters for hearing by videoconferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/courts-in-patna-to-be-shut-till-friday/articleshow/76861941.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 9, 2020||Business||TVS Group set to announce restructuring of holding company||CHENNAI: The $8 billion TVS group, among the largest auto parts makers in the country, may be close to finalising a family settlement in shareholding structure of the holding company TV Sundram Iyengar & Sons (TVSIS), as discussions within the members to simplify the interlocking ownership patterns have reached a finality. While there is no dispute within the family and the settlement is completely amicable, the idea is to hammer out a structure that will prevent potential future disputes among next gen family members regarding management and ownership of group companies. TVSIS has stakes in multiple group companies, owned by third generation, all cousins. The senior most, Suresh Krishna, chairman of Sundram Fasteners is the chairman of the holding company. These discussions have been going on for around 4-5 years. A TVSIS spokesman refused to comment on the matter. It is learnt that JM Financial is handling the settlement. The contours of the settlement is not immediately known. The restructuring will allow each family within the group to separate their share in group companies and own them independently. The idea is to simplify the holdings on the basis of the ownership in group companies. For example, TVSIS holds stake in the older lot of companies like Sundram Fasteners, Sundaram Clayton, Lucas TVS, Wheels India among others. Take Sundaram Clayton, controlled by Venu Srinivasan. TVSIS holds nearly 19% stake while another group company Southern Roadways owns nearly 15% stake. Sundaram Clayton for its part owns 57.4% in TVS Motor, the group’s only B2C business. Similarly TVSIS owns just over 25% in Sundram Fasteners, (controlled by Suresh Krishna), while Southern Railways owns just over 24%. In Wheels India, controlled by Ram Santhanam and his brother Viji Santhanam, the TVSIS stake is 20.4% while Southern Railways owns just over 9%. Other companies including TVS Tyres and India Nippon Electricals are run by third generation family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tvs-group-set-to-announce-restructuring-of-holding-company/articleshow/76862320.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
July 9, 2020||Agra||Inter-caste couple shot at in Mainpuri||Agra: An inter-caste couple, who got married two years ago, was shot at by unidentified assailants in Mainpuri on Tuesday night. The woman died on Wednesday morning while her husband is battling for life at Saifai hospital. According to police, the incident took place around 8:30pm on Tuesday when the young couple was returning home after buying some medicines. The woman was identified as Jyoti Misra, 23, and her husband as Rohit Yadav, 25. Additional SP MK Singh told TOI that the couple was rushed to the district hospital from where they were referred to Saifai medical college. On Wednesday morning, Jyoti succumbed to her injuries. Rohit’s relative has lodged an FIR against six people, including four identified ones, under sections 302 and 307 of IPC and the police are inquiring into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/inter-caste-couple-shot-at-in-mainpuri/articleshow/76861422.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Goa||GFP slams govt for excluding oppn||Panaji: Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai on Wednesday slammed chief minister Pramod Sawant for keeping opposition MLAs out of the meetings called to discuss the Covid-19 situation. Terming it as a move to keep the opposition in the dark, Sardesai questioned the Plan B in discussion, this while Covid-19 cases in the state are on the rise. Sawant and deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar have chaired meetings with BJP MLAs in North and South Goa to discuss strategy to monitor and contain the spread of coronavirus. Congress and GFP MLAs, including opposition leader Digambar Kamat, have been left out of the meetings. “The pettiness of excluding opposition MLAs from discussions on a crisis that affects public health smacks of growing insecurity and self-doubt that’s plaguing BJP, whose MLAs have nothing to offer but their inherent ignorance and natural impotence,” Sardesai said. The former deputy chief minister asked if the ‘plan B’ had even been discussed at these meetings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-slams-govt-for-excluding-oppn/articleshow/76863983.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Pune||Bereft of opportunities during lockdown, bouncers struggle to make ends meet||PUNE: The Covid-triggered disruption in the hospitality industry has rendered many bouncers jobless, with many forced to take up odd jobs like that of security guard, rental drivers or even porters to make ends meet. The situation has become such now that the bouncers, who have to maintain their bodies to their job requirements, are now unable to spend Rs300-500 on their daily nutritional needs. Sachin Shinde, a member of SS Security and Bouncer Company, said, “We are doing whatever work we can get. In the current scenario, there are requirements for workers in industrial units to load and unload goods. Most of us are working as daily wage workers doing these jobs to earn something. Some of us are working as security guards, while those who know how to drive are working as temporary rental drivers in place of those who have returned to their hometowns.” Kashinath Dhangar from Gold Security and Bouncer Services said the years of hard work put in to build their bodies had gone to waste. “Women bouncers are now being called for jobs either as sales girls or as security guards. However, even this requirement is very less and temporary.” Amita Kadam, who started Swamini Lady Bouncers and Security Services four years ago, said the lockdown has had a huge impact on the sustenance of women bouncers. “Women are not getting any work. Some requirements are coming from hospitals, offices and schools but this demand is very less and the vast majority is without work. We are training the women who are working as salespersons to keep the work area safe by dispensing sanitizer to people while entering, ensuring that they wear masks and wipe the counters repeatedly,” Kadam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bereft-of-opportunities-during-lockdown-bouncers-struggle-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/76863406.cms||Ardhra Nair
July 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Sangrur civil surgeon in ICU, is short of breath||PATIALA: Sangrur civil surgeon Dr Raj Kumar has been admitted to the Covid-19 ICU of Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala on Tuesday evening, after he complained of “severe breathlessness”, said Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra. His Tru NAT test was positive three days ago, after which he had been quarantined at home. On Tuesday, he complained of breathlessness, after which he was rushed to hospital. Dr Malhotra said the report of RT-PCR test was awaited, but symptoms needed immediate attention. “He has been admitted to the ICU ward,” he said. Doctors attending said his condition was stable and they would go in for plasma therapy if needed. Doctors said the civil surgeon had been conducting a number of meetings with health staff. Tests run on staffers of Sangrur health department have so far been negative and only Malhotra has shown symptoms associated with Covid-19. Barnala civil surgeon Dr Gurvinder Singh has been given the additional charge of Sangrur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sangrur-civil-surgeon-in-icu-is-short-of-breath/articleshow/76863402.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Agra||Elderly Covid +ve patient dies in Agra, 40 infected in Meerut||Agra: A hospital staffer and an ASHA worker were among at least 40 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in west UP's "corona hotspot" Meerut on Wednesday. The high number of cases took the district tally to 1,295, including one found in Kanpur, according to Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer (CMO). In Agra district, a 68-year-old man died under treatment at the SN Medical College on Wednesday. The resident of Shahganj locality was a patient of diabetes and suffering from hypertension with coronary artery disease. The Covid-19 patient died due to co-morbid conditions. So far, 91 Covid-19 patients have died in the district. Also, at least 17 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra, till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 1,341. Four Covid-19 patients were also discharged on Wednesday. Of the 1,341 cases, 81.3 % have been declared "cured and discharged", and 159 are still active. Moreover, Bareilly reported 12 fresh cases on Wednesday. Of these, two are policemen. Total cases in Bareilly rose to 475, including 272 active ones and 17 deaths. In Budaun, seven positive cases were reported with the tally of active cases now 52. Budaun CMO Dr Yashpal Singh said, "With suspected cases reported at the district women hospital, the OPD will remain suspended on Thursday and only emergency will be functional."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/elderly-covid-ve-patient-dies-in-agra-40-infected-in-meerut/articleshow/76861463.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: In 4 days, 2,432 people booked for defying curbs||PUNE: Pune city police said on Wednesday that they have taken action against 2,432 people for violating rules set in place to prevent the spread of Covid-19. A total of 778 people were penalised for not wearing masks while walking or riding two-wheelers. Police also took action against 901 people for breaking the 9pm night curfew. On the roads of the city, authorities said 336 motorists were penalised for driving their vehicles without valid reasons and some 107 vehicles were found with three or more occupants in them. Some 262 vehicles have been seized. Officials stern action has also been taken against 45 shop-owners for staying open late in the night. Finally, three shopkeepers were fined for violating social distancing norms by allowing more than 5 people inside their shops at the same time. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham said, “In the last four days, Pune police have taken strong action against people for various violations. I urge all Punekars to take precautions. Stringent enforcement of the lockdown will continue.” Deputy commissioner of police (crime), Bachchan Singh, said personnel from local police stations and the crime branch were involved in the action against rule violators between July 3 and July 7. In some instances, besides fines, police have also booked cases against violators under the provisions of IPC section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and other sections of the Motor Vehicle Act. District authorities, including the collector, have also warned that lockdowns would be imposed in areas where people have been seen ignoring Covid-19 lockdown rules. Police authorities said lockdown relaxations can only continue if citizens follow all state government guidelines on mandatory mask use, social distancing protocols and gathering in public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-4-days-2432-people-booked-for-defying-curbs/articleshow/76863413.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Pune||ZP collects fine of Rs 4.89 lakh from over 1,500 rule breakers||PUNE: The Pune Zilla Parishad has collected fine amount of Rs 4.89 lakh from 1519 villagers in 89 grampanchayats across 13 tehsils in the last one week. The maximum cases were reported from Junnar (343) tehsil followed by Daund (279) and Baramati (239). The ZP has issued an order in this regard to all grampanchayats directing them to fine Rs 500 for not wearing mask and spitting at public place in their limits in the last week. However, the district has 1407 grampanchayats and most of them are yet to implement the order in their limits. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of the ZP, said, "The drive will be intensified in coming days in the district. Our endeavour is to promote mask wearing practice omg villagers for their own precaution. They go to various markets and bazaar for their works in nearby towns. If they follow social distancing norms properly it will enhance their safety. We have again asked grampanchayats to implement the order effectively in their limits." The action was taken by those grampanchayats which are densely populated, said the ZP officials. "Carrying out action at grampanchayat level is a challenging task as many villagers may oppose it. We have also asked them to create awareness among villagers through social media platforms," said another senior official from the ZP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-collects-fine-of-rs-4-89l-from-over-1-5k-rule-breakers/articleshow/76863416.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Vijayawada||My government is committed to your upliftment, CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy tells farmers||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy interacted with farmers through video link from his Tadepalli camp office on the occasion of the birth anniversary of his father and late chief minister YS Rajasekhara Reddy, on Wednesday. The occasion was celebrated as ‘Rythu Dinotsavam’ (Farmers’ Day) with ruling party leaders and officials interacting with farmers across the state. Addressing farmers, Jagan reiterated his government’s commitment to the welfare of farming and agriculture sector. “Several schemes have been launched to boost the sector. A crop stabilisation fund with a corpus of Rs 3,000 crore has been created to ensure that farmers are paid remunerative price for their products,” he said. “The Rythu Bharosa aid of Rs 13,500 would help them make investments in crops, the Rythu Bharosa Kendras in the villages would ensure supply of quality seeds, pesticides and fertilisers, and the agriculture secretary posted at village secretariats would guide farmers in cropping pattern and sale of output. E-cropping has been introduced to help farmers find better market for their produce,” the CM added. He urged farmers to make use of toll-free number 1907 to solve their issues. In the evening, Jagan laid the foundation stone for a 125-feet statue of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar through live programme from his Tadepalli camp office. The statue will come up at the sprawling Swaraj Maidan in Vijayawada. The government has also decided to clear buildings and other structures located on around nine acres of the ground. These include a polytechnic college for women, office of water resources department, residence of a district judge, besides a rythu bazaar. Once the structures are cleared, around 20 acres would be at the disposal of the government for development of the area into a park, which would be renamed as Dr Ambedkar Swaraj Maidan. All traditional activities being held at Swaraj Maidan now would be allowed even after the completion of the project. Orders have already been issued transferring the ground from water resources to social welfare department, which will prepare a detailed project report (DP) for the project. AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) will execute the project once the DPR is ready. The government has also given financial clearance to social welfare department to draw funds for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/my-govt-is-committed-to-your-upliftment-cm-tells-farmers/articleshow/76861515.cms||Gopi Dara
July 9, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Underground drainage work to resume in Guntur||GUNTUR: The state government has decided to resume under-ground drainage (UGD) work in the city that has been on the hold for the past one year. The government directed contractor of the Rs 1,000 crore UGD project, Shapoorji and Pallonji group, to submit a blueprint for revival of the project by the weekend and ready teams to start work by the end of July. The high-level probe committee appointed by the government found that the previous government had finalised the bids at 10%-15% higher than the actual cost of the project. It has to be seen whether the state government would cut down additional cost from final bills to be paid to the contractor or allow it to continue the work with the agreed terms and conditions. Sources said it was not easy to cut the tender cost based on the findings of an official committee as the previous government had signed an agreement with the contractor firm. Instead, the government could have cancelled the tenders and gone for the bidding afresh if at all it did not want to pay surplus costs, sources said. The project was launched in 2016 and planned to be completed by 2019. However, the previous government exerted maximum pressure to complete the project by December 2018, before the general elections. However, it could not do so due to technical issues. After the TDP lost the 2019 elections, the work was stopped. Sources said that the contractor could first start the construction of sewage treatment plants (STPs) which were left in the middle. It is, however, unlikely that pipelines would be laid in the next months keeping in view of the disruption due to rains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/underground-drainage-work-to-resume-in-guntur/articleshow/76861485.cms||Samdani MN
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Veggie vendor held for e-harassing woman||AHMEDABAD: Sleuths of the cybercrime police station on Wednesday arrested a 22-year-old resident of Ghatlodia, Nikhil Kalyanji, for allegedly creating fake Facebook and Instagram IDs of a woman from Dariapur and posting lewd pictures and comments on them. Police officials said they have sent the accused for a pre-arrest Covid-19 test. Investigators seized his mobile phone, which was used to allegedly create the fake accounts. Deputy commissioner of police, cybercrime police station, Rajdeepsinh Jhala, said the accused has has studied till SYBCom and sells vegetables on a handcart in Ghatlodia. “During his interrogation, it emerged that he had met the complainant once with his friend and from that day send messages to her on WhatsApp. As she declined to be friends with him, he got angry,” added DCP Jhala. Cyber cell sources said he then made fake Facebook and Instagram IDs of the woman and took pictures of her and her friends from her original ID. “He then posted these pictures along with lewd images and comments on the fake IDs to get even,” a cybercrime official said. Apart from creating the fake accounts, the accused used to send her lewd messages through a virtual number, which cannot be recognised. Through technical analysis, investigators managed to home in on him and rounded up the accused. “A virtual phone number, or direct inward dialing (DID), is a number that is not tied to a specific phone device or line and allows the user to redirect and route calls from one number to another number, IP address, or device. Virtual phone lines can also be referred to as online numbers,” said Jhala. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/veggie-vendor-held-for-e-harassing-woman/articleshow/76862699.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||2 more judges from Punjab, 11 officials of Nuh court test +ve||Chandigarh: Two judges, including one district and session judge, and 11 other officials of subordinate courts in Punjab and Haryana have been tested Covid-19 positive. Also, 11 officials working in subordinate courts in the Nuh district of Haryana have also been found Covid-19 positive. Sources in the HC administration confirmed that district and sessions judge Bathinda and one judicial magistrate posted at Jalandhar have been tested positive. The district and session judge Bathinda has been referred to PGIMER Chandigarh for treatment. On Tuesday, the HC administration had claimed that around 500 judicial officers, their family members and staff members in the state of Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh had to be quarantined because of some accused produced in the subordinate courts have been found to be corona positive. It was also claimed by the administration that two additional district and sessions’ judges in the state of Haryana have also tested positive for Covid-19 and are under treatment at present. The HC administration had claimed that increase in the functioning of the courts has led to outbreak of Covid-19 in various subordinate courts and the offices of the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-more-judges-from-punjab-11-officials-of-nuh-court-test-ve/articleshow/76863428.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Vijayawada||AP engineer association writes to Dharmadhikari||VIJAYAWADA: The dispute over division of employees of power utilities of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana is far from over even though the one-man committee headed by Justice D Dharmadhikari gave its final report. The Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board Assistant Executive Engineers’ Association (APSEBAEEA) on Wednesday wrote a letter to Justice Dharmadhikari seeking his intervention as the power utilities of both the states have not given posting orders to the employees allocated to them. The association alleged that the respective power utilities did not take any action to give posting orders although the report of the committee is binding on them and the inaction amounts to contempt of court. According to the final report of the one-man committee, 536 employees are to be posted at Andhra Pradesh power utilities and 544 employees are to be taken aboard by the Telangana power utilities. Although the modified lists, prepared by the respective sub-committees, were submitted and the employees have been given relieving letters along with service records, the power utilities are reluctant to give posting orders, the association said. It further alleged that the action of power utilities appears that by not giving posting orders they are trying to let the employees retire. Besides, although they are getting salary, long-pending promotions and other benefits are being denied by their employers, the association said. They requested Justice Dharmadhikari to intervene in the matter for one last time as he did by moving an application before the Supreme Court when the salaries were not being paid to the employees earlier. They wanted him to move a similar application before the apex court seeking direction the power utilities to implement the recommendations of one-man committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-engg-assn-writes-to-dharmadhikari/articleshow/76861549.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||Barely 20% colleges want central system||LUCKNOW: Less than 20% of the colleges associated with Lucknow University have opted for admissions under the university’s newly introduced centralised admission system. As many as 35 colleges out of 176 had applied for the system by Wednesday, the last day for the application. None of the four government and 20 government-aided colleges applied for admitting students under the university’s system. The colleges which have sent their assent for the system are private ones which have applied mainly for conducting admissions for professional courses like BBA and BCom (Hons). The city’s top colleges such as National PG College, Jai Narain PG College, Isabella Thoburn College, Avadh Girls Degree College and Lucknow Christian College have already refused the new process, saying their admission process had already begun or that they had their own system to maintain their brand. “LU has given the freedom to colleges to decide whether they want to go for centralised admission or not. The university will conduct the admission process of those which have applied under the centralised system,” said LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava. On July 2, LU had sent a notification to all colleges informing them that for the first time the university will conduct centralised admissions. Under the new plan, along with admitting its own students, LU would also conduct admissions of colleges affilaited to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/barely-20-colleges-want-central-system/articleshow/76863839.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Pune||Drop in new project launches, sales pick up||PUNE: Construction of new homes declined since March this year, but overall sales have begun to pick up since mid-May, according to reports. This has resulted in reducing the demand-supply gap, thereby keeping the prices largely stable and even moderately high. With customers now looking at a prolonged work from home arrangement, housing sector is getting a fresh look-in, said realtors and brokers. According to a half-yearly report released by Gera Developments on Wednesday, new project launches fell by 60% between January and June 2020. Much of this fall happened after the nation was forced into a total lockdown to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic from March end. "About 60% of our workers left after the lockdown. Some have started to return and we expect more to return throughout July. We should be back on track in a few months," said Rohit Gera, managing director, Gera Developments. The report added that replacement ratio (new supply added divided by new apartments sold in a given period) fell to a six-year low of 0.55. A number greater than 1 indicates supply is more than the demand. According to the survey, average prices rose by 2.52% on a per square feet basis and sales off take fell by just 16% over the last six months compared to January-June 2019. Data from state registration department attests to a pick-up in sales activity. While month-on-month conveyance deeds fell sharply by nearly 100% and 80% in April and May this year, respectively, the fall was a more tepid at 30% in June this year. It has improved further in the first week of July. Realtors hope that with registrations being allowed to be done from developer’s offices, the need for bigger space as more employees execute office tasks from home and lower interest rates will boost property uptake from now on. "Pune added approximately 750 units (in only one project) in Q2 2020 compared to 7,800 units in Q1 2020, a drop of 90%. As for housing sales, Pune witnessed absorption of nearly 2,160 units in Q2 2020," said Prashant Thakur, director & head, research, Anarock Property Consultants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drop-in-new-project-launches-sales-pick-up/articleshow/76863433.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||Cleric writes to UP CM seeking re-opening of goat markets ahead of Bakrid||LUCKNOW: As the festival of Bakrid draws near, imam of Aishbagh Eidgah Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali on Wednesday wrote to chief minister Yogi Adityanath requesting the state government to allow goat markets to open at pre-designated spots across the state. He also sought permission that based on the capacity of religious places, 50% devotees be allowed to visit at one time. Terming sacrifice on the festival as the duty of a Muslim, he said that all safety protocols including sanitization of these areas would be followed and masks and physical distancing will be made compulsory. The cleric also said that cattle farmers rear animals legalised for slaughtering and sacrifice and the festival of Bakrid was their bread and butter. He also sought assurance that there should be no hindrance in the transportation of animals by such cattle farmers across districts. “Not more than five people should be present at the site of sacrifice and all should be at a distance from one another. Muslims will follow rules in Bakrid as they did in Ramzan and Eid,” said Maulana Khalid. The permission for Eid namaz with 50% capacity of the mosque or Eidgah can be given, if all steps are taken to check the risk of transmission of infection,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cleric-writes-to-cm-seeking-re-opening-of-goat-markets-ahead-of-bakrid/articleshow/76863872.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Pune||Active Covid cases exceed 2,000 in PCMC jurisdiction||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The number of active Covid-19 cases breached the 2,000 mark in Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits on Wednesday in view of the rising infection in the municipal limits in the last few weeks. Till Wednesday evening, there were 2,170 active patients in the Pune Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits, while the total number of positive patients had reached up to 5,500. According to the live dashboard data of PCMC, as many as 289 new cases were reported and 102 patients were discharged on Wednesday. A civic official said the cases would increase with each passing day due to the ease in the lockdown norms. Over 1,000 cases have already been recorded in the first week of July and the increase in swab collection and testing would only push the cases up further. The availability of the rapid antigen test will also help in revealing more positive cases in the days to come. “We are estimating a little over 10,000 cases by the end of this month and the mapping of more Covid care centres to accommodate new patients is under way,” the civic official said. He said since most of the cases were asymptomatic, these patients had reduced power to infect others and if they exercised proper precautions, community transmission could be prevented. “Home quarantine is one of the solutions and we have already appealed to the citizens to brace themselves for home quarantine in case they are asymptomatic patients,”he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/active-ncov-cases-exceed-2k-in-pcmc-jurisdiction/articleshow/76863420.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Agra||AMC identifies 72 dilapidated buildings in Agra, issues notices for renovation or demolition||Agra: Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) has identified 72 dilapidated buildings in the city that are over 100 years old, and issued notices to their owners and caretakers, asking them to carry out necessary repair work, warning them that the buildings can collapse during heavy monsoon rains or high winds, leading to loss of life and property. The administration has also issued letters to all city police stations, asking SHOs to ensure suitable compliance on notices issued to residents of such buildings in their areas, and asked engineers to ensure residents vacate those buildings that are in very poor condition. The city has 100 wards across four zones, with the most number of dilapidated buildings in Chatta zone, followed by Loha Mandi, Taj Ganj and Hari Parvat zones. In the notices, issued under Section 33(1) of the UP Municipal Corporation Act, AMC has asked owners of dilapidated buildings to pull down damaged portion of the building in case it cannot be renovated. Sharing area-wise list ofdilapidated buildings, AMC administration has asked SHOs of police stations to check if owners are urgently following up as per notices issued to them. Additional municipal commissioner K B Singh said, “We’ve identified 72 dilapidated buildings in four city zones that are unsuitable for living and can collapse during the monsoons. To prevent a major accident, we’ve issued notices to owners of these buildings. We have also asked area police to ensure they get the renovation done quickly, failing which, they should pull down the damage part of the buildings. The survey to identify buildings in poor condition is continuing in different parts of the city. More notices are likely to be issued soon.” According to Section 331 of UP Municipal Corporations Act, 1959, if any structure is in a ruinous condition or is likely to fall and is dangerous to occupants, the municipal commissioner may, by written notice, require the owner or occupier to pull down, secure, remove or repair such structures to prevent any danger. In case of non-compliance, the corporation has the right to order demolition of the dilapidated structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amc-identifies-72-dilapidated-buildings-in-agra-issues-notices-for-renovation-or-demolition/articleshow/76861512.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chennai||Ban on insolvency proceedings is illegal, financier tells court||Chennai: A city-based financier has moved the Madras high court challenging the ordinance amending the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, thereby banning applications for corporate insolvency during the Covid-19 lockdown. There cannot be a complete ban on moving such applications against defaulting corporates and that it would go against the very object of the code, he said. Admitting the plea, the first bench of Chief Justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the additional solicitor-general of India R Sankaranarayanan to get instructions from the authorities concerned in six weeks. Earlier, Sankaranarayanan objected to the petition being moved as a PIL. “The amendment has been brought through the ordinance only in view of the pandemic and it is only for a temporary period specified in the amendment,” he said. He added that the IBC is not a legislation for recovery of money for which the petitioner or any aggrieved person can move an appropriate suit in a civil court. Making it clear that the restrictionis only temporary, the ASG sought the court to grant him time to file a counter to the plea after getting due instruction from the authorities concerned. According to the petitioner, M Gagan Bothra of Sowcarpet, the ordinance passed by the Centre dated June 5 amending IBC is unconstitutional, ultra vires and against the principles and the reason which lead to the enforcement of the code. Claiming that there cannot be a complete ban against filing such applications under Sections 7 & 9 of the Code, the petitioner said, such a move is against the right of litigants approaching the IBC and only encourages defaulters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ban-on-insolvency-proceedings-is-illegal-financier-tells-court/articleshow/76862711.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD hits out at FIRs after protests||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has condemned FIRs against its leaders and workers for staging protests, against rising fuel prices while demanding that the cases be withdrawn. SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema described the police action as shameful and said the Congress government was trying to create an Emergency-like situation in the name of coronavirus and double standards were being adopted for parties undemocratically. Cheema said during curfew, Congress state president Sunil Jakhar and cabinet ministers were exempted to do whatever they liked . But for other parties, cases have been registered under different sections for staging protests. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-hits-out-at-firs-after-protests/articleshow/76863435.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Pune||Drastic decline in vehicle registrations in June, RTO pins hopes on festivals||PUNE: The Pune regional transport office (RTO) registered 383 two-wheelers this June as against 10,747 in the same month last year, showing a decline of 96% in the wake of the Covid-19 spread and resultant restrictions. RTO officials said even registration of cars had come down by 50% this June as against the same month last year. “Registration of new vehicles seems to be improving since registrations started from May 18 but the pace is very slow,” an RTO official said. The official said though there was an improvement in the registration of autorickshaws, the numbers were still 70% less this June than the same month last year when it comes to other vehicles. The registration numbers of Pimpri Chinchwad RTO were not available. Another RTO official said they were hoping for the things to improve during the upcoming festive season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drastic-decline-in-vehicle-registrations-in-june-rto-pins-hopes-on-festivals/articleshow/76863438.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Jaganmohan Reddy pays tribute to YSR on his 71st birth anniversary, releases book by mother||TIRUPATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy attended the 71st birth anniversary celebrations of his father, YS Rajasekhar Reddy, at Idupulapaya in Kadapa district on Wednesday. Accompanied by his mother YS Vijayamma, sister YS Sharmila and other family members, the CM paid rich tributes to YSR. “He was a leader of the masses. His thoughts always revolved around measures for uplifting the downtrodden and farmers,” Jagan said. He also released a book penned by his mother, which details the political journey of the leader from the perspective of a wife. “By virtue of her close association with him, she has presented YSR in a refreshingly new perspective as a beloved husband, a loving father and a revered leader,” Jagan said. Later, the CM went to IIIT campus at RK Valley where he unveiled a statue of YSR. He also inaugurated and laid foundation stones for various development works. The CM inaugurated state-of-the-art classrooms and a computer centre in the new academic block of IIIT campus. Rs 150 crore was sanctioned by the government for construction of the new academic block and computer centre. He also laid the foundation stone of a new auditorium block, which will come up at a cost of Rs 40 crore, before returning to Vijayawada in the afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-pays-tribute-to-ysr-on-his-71st-birth-anniv-releases-book-by-mother/articleshow/76861564.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||#SayNoToUGCGuidelines: Students on social media||Nagpur: Two days after UGC’s revised guidelines to the universities for conducting final year examinations, the students’ community in the country has flooded social media against the apex body’s decision. On Twitter, they launched campaigns titled #SayNoToUGCGuidelines, #StudentsLivesMatters and #CancelFinalYearExams. These were trending with many uploading innovative memes having Bollywood actors protesting. The campaigns evoked an overwhelming response from parents, citizens and educators who blamed the government, ministry of human resources development (MHRD) and apex education bodies for “playing with the students lives” and “putting them at risk of Covid-19 infection”. HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal too came under fire from students who dared the government to open Parliament first. According to the aggrieved students, with India becoming the third-most Covid-affected country pandemic after the United States and Brazil, the UGC’s move would put lives of lakhs of students at stake. In Maharashtra alone, there are about 9 lakh students who are in final year. “With daily spikes in the cases, the government is putting the life of all of us in risk. Who will pay for their hospitalization charges or will it take the responsibility in case a student dies? We’re not puppets for experimenting. If you conduct a survey, a majority of them would say a clear ‘no’ for exams and would happily agree for average marks, even if they score less,” NSUI activist Ajit Singh, who is also a MA final year student, told TOI. Questioning the UGC’s decision, Singh said ideally the exams should have been conducted from April to June when the cases were less. “Now with cases multiplying everyday, how can they ensure safety if exams were held in September,” he asked. While expressing their anger on the social media, the students said the mental stress caused by such actions was unimaginable and shows incompetence of the government. “ Even online exams aren’t possible as website crashes often. And what about outstation students, how they will arrive here for exams? Also many of us use the public transportation through which the deadly virus can be contracted,” they said. Nagpur University pro-vice chancellor SR Chaudhary said they were waiting for Maharashtra government’s directives on the UGC’s guidelines on the exams. “Any decision would be finalized only after our Academic Council clears it. We had finalized the draft for awarding average marks to even final year students after the state’s decision based on their previous and current performance, but now we will wait,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/saynotougcguidelines-students-on-social-media/articleshow/76862714.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 97 new Covid-19 cases take tally above 1,700||LUCKNOW: There was no let-up in the Covid-19 surge on Wednesday. Nearly 100 more patients were added in the 24 hours till the evening, pole-vaulting the city’s tally beyond 1,700 since the outbreak on March 11. The fresh cases included eight employees of the 102 ambulance service call centre in Aashiana, three hospital workers of Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS), three staffers of the office of DIG prisons on Jail Road and six staff members of Mandi Parishad. As the infection spread to newer areas, authorities converted 47 more localities into containment zones, while removing eight from the list as no cases were reported from there in the past 10 days. The city now has 246 containment zones with at least one positive case each. “Most of the new cases were contacts of those who have tested positive earlier,” said chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal. The eight employees of the 102 service found infected were among those whose samples were taken for testing after cases started trickling in from June 29. With this, total 97 staffers in the GVK EMRI-run two call centres operating 102 and 108 ambulances services respectively have tested positive. At present, services of both the numbers are being run from the 108 centre. At RMLIMS, two staff nurses and a sweeper tested positive. One of the nurses and the sweeper worked in the operation theatre of the gastroenterology department following which the unit was shut for sanitization. The other nurse and her son lived in the institute’s nursing hostel and were neighbours of another employee who was diagnosed with Covid-19 earlier. The six employees of Mandi Parishad were staffers who were tested after one of their colleagues who was posted in Saitapur wholesale vegetable market died due to Covid-19 on Monday. The DIG prisons had tested positive on Sunday following which sampling of all the staff members in his office was done. Of them, reports of three have now come positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/97-more-covid-casestake-tally-to-cross-1700/articleshow/76863816.cms||Yusra Husain
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath orders 3-day sanitation drive to curb coronavirus spread across UP||LUCKNOW: To check the spread of Covid-19 and other communicable diseases, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to launch a three-day sanitation drive in all 75 districts of the state from Friday. The CM said special nodal officers should be appointed for each district and besides carrying out the campaign to ensure health, sanitation and availability of clean drinking water, the teams should also assess the level of sanitation under all local bodies and panchayats. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said, “The CM has laid emphasis on the role of sanitation for prevention of communicable diseases and has asked the departments to carry out a special sanitation drive. Urban development, rural development and panchayati raj departments, and various other organisations, will implement the programme.” During the three-day drive, spraying of anti-larval chemicals and fogging will be done. “The CM has asked officials to ensure piped water schemes should be implemented properly and laid special emphasis on cleaning of water tanks. He said community toilets should be built in rural areas on priority,” Awasthi added. A month-long communicable diseases prevention programme, along with ‘Dastak’ campaign, is currently being implemented in the state to educate people about prevention and management of diseases. During the review of Unlock-2.0 on Wednesday, the chief minister discussed the issue of Covid-19 infection in the Police Lines. He said if infections were reported from a police line, strict steps should be taken to prevent further spread of the disease. The CM warned if any laxity was found, the official concerned should be taken to task. Yogi said since people from police force had to step out for work, strict protocol should be followed in allowing them back into their barracks or the place where they are staying so that police force could be kept free of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-orders-3-day-sanitation-drive-to-curb-corona-spread-across-state/articleshow/76863935.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||ACB traps Ajni PSI taking bribe||Nagpur: The sleuths of anti-corruption bureau on Wednesday caught a police sub-inspector Rajeshsingh Thakur posted at Ajni police station for demanding and accepting Rs1 lakh bribe. Police said the complainant had entered into a land deal with one Nitin Narnavre and signed a purchase agreement on September 9, 2019. However, the land was encroached by a scrap dealer Gopalsingh Rajput. Narnavre and Rajput had a heated argument over possession of the land and the matter reached Ajni police station. Police booked the complainant under various sections of IPC. To get the encroachment from his land removed, PSI Thakur demanded Rs3 lakh bribe from the complainant who then lodged a complaint with ACB SP Rashmi Nandedkar. Similarly PI Yogita Chafle laid a trap and caught Rajeshsingh Thakur while demanding and accepting Rs1 lakh from the complainant. Further probe is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/acb-traps-ajni-psi-taking-bribe/articleshow/76862725.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Pune||Dattawadi & Ganeshmala localities register sporadic spike in infections||PUNE: The densely populated Dattawadi and Ganeshmala areas along Sinhagad Road have reported a surge in Covid-19 cases in the past week, prompting the civic body to intensify its containment measures and increase collection of swab samples of people with symptoms associated with the virus. On Wednesday, the case count in Dattawadi stood at 41 as against 29 in Ganeshmala. Both the areas together had 30 cases on June 30. The two localities have so far reported four casualties. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has now taken up rigorous contact tracing and door-to-door survey to identify the high-risk residents with co-morbidities to arrest the spread of the virus. PMC officials said violation of the social distancing norms has been a major concern in the two areas because of the population density, narrow roads and lack of open spaces. “Both areas have a mix of residential and commercial establishments. This is leading to more footfall within the localities and also on the internal roads. We are monitoring the situation and have ramped up contact tracing and collection of swabs. Residents are told to avoid gathering at chowks or shops. New cases have emerged in a sporadic manner,” a senior PMC official said. The official added that the teams deployed in the area were constantly appealing to the residents to come forward if they developed symptoms such as cough and cold. An ambulance has been deployed to intensify he health check-ups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dattawadi-ganeshmala-localities-register-sporadic-spike-in-infections/articleshow/76863451.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||Power supply in UP to get 660 MW boost||LUCKNOW: In another bid to augment power supply, the state cabinet approved the revised cost of over Rs 6,011 crore for setting up a 660 MW unit in the Harduaganj thermal power plant in Aligarh. The unit is expected to start production from December this year. Earlier, the cost of the project was estimated to be Rs 5,500 crore, which has been revised upwards because of rise in Goods and Service Tax (GST), increase in the cost of rail services and stricter rules in adhering to environmental clearance norms, said senior officials. The cabinet also approved the proposal for change in loan and share capital ratio for the project. Earlier, the loan and share capital components were in the ratio of 80:20, which has now been changed to 70:30. The change implies that the state government would be taking less loan and will use its own capital resources. As per the new investment arrangement, now 30% of the total cost of project amounting to Rs 1,803 crore would be borne by the state government in the form of share capital while remaining 70% (Rs 4,208 crore) would be in the form of loans. The 660 MW unit in Harduaganj happens to be a super critical one and would therefore help the state government in meeting the power requirements. The approval of revised estimate for Harduaganj power plant is BJP government’s attempt to boost power generation infrastructure to meet the rising demand for power as it gears up for the 2022 assembly elections. The state cabinet also gave its nod to revised estimate for refurbishment and maintenance of 110 MW unit from Rs 392 crore to Rs 457 crores. Eighty percent of the increase in cost would be met by funds from Power Finance Corporation (PFC), while the rest 20% would be met by state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/power-supply-in-up-to-get-660-mw-boost/articleshow/76863800.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||NSUI protests over UGC call on exams||Kurukshetra: The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) held a protest outside Gate 3 of Kurukshetra University (KU) here on Wednesday. NSUI Haryana unit chief Divyanshu Budhiraha said they protested against orders of the University Grants Commission (UGC) of holding terminal exams of the higher education courses. The protesters held placards while demanding rollback of the decision issued by UGC and warned the Haryana government of astatewide agitation if it changed its decision of not holding the terminal exams in Haryana. NSUI workers raised slogans against the Haryana government, ABVP, and the Union minister of human resources and development Ramesh Pokhriyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nsui-protests-over-ugc-call-on-exams/articleshow/76863447.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Cong MP: Find innovative solution||Amritsar: In a letter to the University Grants Commission (UGC) chairman D P Singh, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa said the commission should find an innovative solution for exit exams of the final year students such as the one announced for intermediate semester students. The MP wrote a letter to UGC chief after it released guidelines regarding exit-examination for final semester students wherein the expert committee headed by R C Kuhad had recommended that final year examinations must be compulsorily held, by 30 September. “These guidelines were released despite the recommendation of revisiting the guidelines announced by the UGC on April 2 that also made exit-examinations compulsory. The only difference in the new guidelines is the extension of time for these exams, from July to September,” he pointed out. The MP said UGC should also note that the number of Covid-19 cases in India had crossed seven lakhs, just four days after crossing the six lakhs mark, adding that the infection in India had been increasing in its reach in the last few weeks, rather than slowing down. He said he found it unbelievable that this was the only solution that the UGC could come out with despite the expert committee looking into this issue since April. “Our education system must be flexible. The government has been raising awareness on the importance of mental health and safety of all Indians. Therefore, I urge you to reconsider these guidelines,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-mp-find-innovative-solution/articleshow/76863456.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chennai||HC seeks reports on PPE supply, norms to handle Covid-19 deaths||Chennai: Two key issues of the unfolding Covid-19 crisis – the supply of personal protective kits (PPEs) to healthcare professionals and guidelines for the handling of bodies of victims – are under judicial scanner, as the Madras high court has asked the government to submit detailed reports. Two different division benches issued the interim directions to the government, when separate PILs came up for further hearing before them on Wednesday. The first bench of Chief Justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy set 10-day ultimatum for Tamil Nadu government to respond as to the manner and the frequency of distribution of such kits to doctors and other frontline healthcare professionals. The report shall also indicate the number of doctors and other paramedical staff employed for Covid-19 work and the proportionate availability of PPE kits to such staff, the judges said. Hearing the PIL filed by S Jimraj Milton, the judges asked the petitioner-advocate to specify instances of deficiency in hospitals and give relevant details to enable the court to assess the allegations. A fishing and roving inquiry will not serve any purpose, the bench said and adjourned the plea to July 27 for further hearing. It was Milton’s case that due to inadequate supply of PPE kits, frontline health workers had been facing risk of infection and fatalities. Committees that have to be constituted under the Disaster Management Act to coordinate Covid-19 work have not been established yet, he added. Additional advocate-general S R Rajagopal, however, countered the allegations and said the government was providing 15,000 PPE kits to 21 of its hospitals on a daily basis, and that there are no complaints of inadequate supply. In a related development, hearing a suo motu plea initiated by the court after the funeral of Covid-19 victim and city neurosurgeon Dr Simon Hercules, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha directed the state government to file a report as to availability of any recognised guideline to handle such dead bodies. When the plea came up for hearing, senior advocate Ravi Kumar Paul submitted that it is time the state came up with guidelines for handling and burial of Covid-19 victims. To this, government pleader V Jayaprakash Narayan submitted that ICMR had already issued a guideline and the Tamil Nadu government passed a GO for implementation of the same. Recording the same, the bench adjourned the plea to July 20 for the state to file the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-seeks-reports-on-ppe-supply-norms-to-handle-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/76862723.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Goa||Bhembre refuses govt award, cites injustice to Konkani lang||MARGAO: Konkani litterateur Uday Bhembre has refused to accept the Ravindra Kelekar Bhasha Puraskar award announced by the state government on Monday. Bhembre said that his refusal was in protest of the government’s “faulty” policy over medium of instruction (MoI) in primary schools. Bhembre said that when Bhartiya Bhasha Suraksha Manch (BBSM) was launched, he along with several others, had returned their awards to protest the government’s MoI policy. Bhembre said he had returned two awards – one given by the state’s art and culture department and the other being the Goa Konkani Akademi’s Bhasha Seva Puraskar. “The MoI policy formulated by the Digambar Kamat-led Congress government was continued by Manohar Parrikar when BJP came to power and later by Laxmikant Parsekar and now by Pramod Sawant,” he said. “Sawant has gone a step ahead. While Parrikar had acknowledged that he had deceived us as he had no other alternative, he had stated that it was his personal view that primary education should be in a child’s mother tongue. Therefore, he had declared some incentives for Konkani/Marathi medium schools.” Pointing out that the CM recently announced discontinuation of this scheme, Bhembre said Sawant has made “the already faulty policy even more problematic”. Besides, he expressed his displeasure over the lack of courtesy shown by the government in not intimating him about the award, and that he learnt it only through newspapers. He further lashed out at the government for injustice meted out to Konkani. “This government has no (official) language policy. The Directorate of Official Language is dysfunctional, education policy is in a mess, resulting in injustice towards Konkani language from all fronts. And therefore, I refuse to accept the award.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bhembre-refuses-govt-award-cites-injustice-to-konkani-lang/articleshow/76843467.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Vadodara||Over 2,000 discharged, 709 hospitalised; 67 test positive||Vadodara: The number of Covid-19 discharged patients crossing the 2,000 mark brought some relief amidst the steady rise in the number of cases in the city and district. On Wednesday, 28 persons were discharged taking the total number of discharged patients to 2,019. Those who have been discharged include seven from the government hospitals, 15 from private hospitals and six from home isolation. As many as 67 new Covid-19 cases were detected since Tuesday evening. This is equal to those reported on the previous day. The number is the highest spike that has been reported in the city and district since the pandemic began. The number of admitted Covid-19 patients also reached 709. These include 32 on ventilators or breathing with the help of BiPAP machines. The patients under treatment also include 128 on oxygen while the condition of the remaining 549 is stable. The north zone of the city registered the highest number with 15 new cases added. This was followed by the south zone where 12 fresh cases were reported. The east and the west zone registered 11 and 10 new cases. Seventeen tested positive from the rural areas of the district outside the city limits. These include persons from Padra, Undera, Samiyala, Fertilizernagar, Savli and Dabhoi. Two persons from Bharuch and Dhulia also tested positive for Covid-19 in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/over-2000-discharged-709-hospitalised-67-test-positive/articleshow/76861083.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Goa||‘CM relaxed SOPs for his favourites’||Colva: Former tourism minister Francisco Xavier ‘Mickky’ Pacheco on Wednesday blamed the BJP government, particularly chief minister Pramod Sawant, for the sharp increase in Covid-19 cases in Goa. He also opposed the double-tracking of the South Western Railways line and came down heavily on the town and country planning department for trying to convert lakhs of square metres of land into settlement areas. Pacheco told reporters that Sawant was solely responsible for the steep spike in by allowing trains to halt in Goa and also permitting interstate buses and other vehicles, thereby facilitating the entry of migrants.  “SOPs adopted by the government are like the stock market. They are relaxed whenever the CM or his colleagues seek to do so for their favourites. The CM’s immaturity can be determined by his statement that he allowed opening of hotels under pressure,” Pacheco said. He also threatened to start a mass movement with his supporters from Nuvem and Benaulim to stop double-tracking of the SWR line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-relaxed-sops-for-his-favourites/articleshow/76863995.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Sidhu: Dist panels for containment||Chandigarh: The Punjab government constituted technical committees headed by civil surgeon to take the immediate decisions at district level regarding the Covid-19. Health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said Punjab has recovery rate of 70% and only 2020 cases are active. According to him, it has been observed that there was a need to give more powers to district authorities so immediate action can be taken. The government thus decided to constitute district-level committees, he added. The minister said instructions have been issued to all civil surgeons to submit the action taken report as well as major sources of spread in specific areas. Districts where there are no containment zones, have been asked to table report of every case so that it could be contained in specific area by taking the concrete steps. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sidhu-dist-panels-for-containment/articleshow/76863461.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Allahabad||Covid-19 breaches 31,000 as UP crosses 10 lakh testings mark||LUCKNOW: The novel coronavirus tally for Uttar Pradesh crossed the 31,000 mark on Wednesday with 1,196 new cases in the past 24 hours even as Covid testing in the state scaled a new high. While over 34,000 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, the total number of samples tested, so far, crossed the 10 lakh mark. According to an information, districts in the Meerut division, including Ghaziabad (165), Gautam Budh Nagar (81), Meerut (76), Bulandshaher (33), Hapur (26) and Baghpat (25) accounted for nearly 34% (406) of the total cases reported. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad stated that 18 persons lost their lives on account of the pandemic infection in the past 24 hours. With this, the total Covid-19 toll in UP reached 845. According to an official bulletin, six deaths were reported in Kanpur Nagar, while two each were reported in Mathura and Jhansi. Meerut, Lucknow, Hapur, Sambhal, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Amroha and Farrukhabad saw one death each. He said that 706 persons were discharged taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 20,331. “This leaves the state with 9,980 active infections,” said Prasad. He further said that the testing for Covid-19 touched a new benchmark. “As many as 34,084 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, while the cumulative testing figure reached 10,03,280,” he said, adding that the target of 35,000 tests per day will meet soon. Referring to the ongoing door-to door screening in all divisions of the state, Prasad said, so far, teams involved in this task have visited over 84.12 lakh houses and talked to over 4.29 crore people. “These surveillance teams are noting down details of Covid-19 symptoms, besides preparing a list of those with comorbidities. The 10-day campaign began in the Meerut division on July 2 and other divisions of the state on July 5,” he said. Prasad said that the Covid helpdesks set up in the state have proved to be useful for identifying people with symptoms. “Till now, a network of 34,314 helpdesks has been set up in the state which has identified 14,647 people with Covid-19 symptoms. Now their samples will be sent for testing,” Prasad added. The other districts with double digit entries included Lucknow (97), Barabanki (66), Kanpur (57), Jhansi (50), Mirzapur (36), Bareilly (30), Fatehpur (27), Agra (25), Ballia (22), Aligarh (19), Azamgarh (19), Mathura (18), Gorakhpur (18), Deoria (18), Unnao (18), Sant Kabir Nagar (17), Moradabad (15), Kannauj (13), Farrukhabad (13), Jaunpur (10), Bijnore (10), Muzaffarnagar (10) and Etawah (10).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-breaches-31k-as-up-crosses-10l-testings-mark/articleshow/76867756.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||PG courses at AIIMS Ngp set for August beginning||Nagpur: The prestigious All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Nagpur is set to cross yet another major milestone when it starts postgraduation (PG) courses from August 2020. This will be a major development for medical education as well as public health scenario of Vidarbha. “AIIMS Nagpur has got 16 PG seats — 2 each for anatomy, biochemistry, community medicine, forensic medicine and toxicology, microbiology, pathology, pharmacology and physiology subjects,” confirmed Maj Gen (Dr) Vibha Dutta, director of the premier institute. “Counselling for admissions for these 16 seats has already started at AIIMS New Delhi,” she said. Candidates joining MD/MS degree courses are called junior residents (JRs) in the clinical disciplines. Having resident doctors is considered as a major milestone for a medical college. This also strengthens the health manpower of the hospital. AIIMS Nagpur is already treating Covid-19 patients in a dedicated ward. Total 222 Covid-19 patients were admitted till date and 176 of them have been discharged. Surgeries are also being conducted here. Outpatient department (OPD) is also functioning to the full capacity. AIIMS Nagpur took in its first batch of 50 MBBS students in 2018. Seat intake was increased to 100 in 2019. Next academic step for the institute will be introduction of super speciality services such as gastroenterology, cardiology, neurology, neurosurgery, oncology etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pg-courses-at-aiims-ngp-set-for-august-beginning/articleshow/76862775.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 9, 2020||Kanpur||Covid-19 breaches 31,000 as UP crosses 10 lakh testings mark||LUCKNOW: The novel coronavirus tally for Uttar Pradesh crossed the 31,000 mark on Wednesday with 1,196 new cases in the past 24 hours even as Covid testing in the state scaled a new high. While over 34,000 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, the total number of samples tested, so far, crossed the 10 lakh mark. According to an information, districts in the Meerut division, including Ghaziabad (165), Gautam Budh Nagar (81), Meerut (76), Bulandshaher (33), Hapur (26) and Baghpat (25) accounted for nearly 34% (406) of the total cases reported. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad stated that 18 persons lost their lives on account of the pandemic infection in the past 24 hours. With this, the total Covid-19 toll in UP reached 845. According to an official bulletin, six deaths were reported in Kanpur Nagar, while two each were reported in Mathura and Jhansi. Meerut, Lucknow, Hapur, Sambhal, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Amroha and Farrukhabad saw one death each. He said that 706 persons were discharged taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 20,331. “This leaves the state with 9,980 active infections,” said Prasad. He further said that the testing for Covid-19 touched a new benchmark. “As many as 34,084 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, while the cumulative testing figure reached 10,03,280,” he said, adding that the target of 35,000 tests per day will meet soon. Referring to the ongoing door-to door screening in all divisions of the state, Prasad said, so far, teams involved in this task have visited over 84.12 lakh houses and talked to over 4.29 crore people. “These surveillance teams are noting down details of Covid-19 symptoms, besides preparing a list of those with comorbidities. The 10-day campaign began in the Meerut division on July 2 and other divisions of the state on July 5,” he said. Prasad said that the Covid helpdesks set up in the state have proved to be useful for identifying people with symptoms. “Till now, a network of 34,314 helpdesks has been set up in the state which has identified 14,647 people with Covid-19 symptoms. Now their samples will be sent for testing,” Prasad added. The other districts with double digit entries included Lucknow (97), Barabanki (66), Kanpur (57), Jhansi (50), Mirzapur (36), Bareilly (30), Fatehpur (27), Agra (25), Ballia (22), Aligarh (19), Azamgarh (19), Mathura (18), Gorakhpur (18), Deoria (18), Unnao (18), Sant Kabir Nagar (17), Moradabad (15), Kannauj (13), Farrukhabad (13), Jaunpur (10), Bijnore (10), Muzaffarnagar (10) and Etawah (10).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-breaches-31k-as-up-crosses-10l-testings-mark/articleshow/76867755.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 breaches 31,000 as UP crosses 10 lakh testings mark||LUCKNOW: The novel coronavirus tally for Uttar Pradesh crossed the 31,000 mark on Wednesday with 1,196 new cases in the past 24 hours even as Covid testing in the state scaled a new high. While over 34,000 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, the total number of samples tested, so far, crossed the 10 lakh mark. According to an information, districts in the Meerut division, including Ghaziabad (165), Gautam Budh Nagar (81), Meerut (76), Bulandshaher (33), Hapur (26) and Baghpat (25) accounted for nearly 34% (406) of the total cases reported. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad stated that 18 persons lost their lives on account of the pandemic infection in the past 24 hours. With this, the total Covid-19 toll in UP reached 845. According to an official bulletin, six deaths were reported in Kanpur Nagar, while two each were reported in Mathura and Jhansi. Meerut, Lucknow, Hapur, Sambhal, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Amroha and Farrukhabad saw one death each. He said that 706 persons were discharged taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 20,331. “This leaves the state with 9,980 active infections,” said Prasad. He further said that the testing for Covid-19 touched a new benchmark. “As many as 34,084 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, while the cumulative testing figure reached 10,03,280,” he said, adding that the target of 35,000 tests per day will meet soon. Referring to the ongoing door-to door screening in all divisions of the state, Prasad said, so far, teams involved in this task have visited over 84.12 lakh houses and talked to over 4.29 crore people. “These surveillance teams are noting down details of Covid-19 symptoms, besides preparing a list of those with comorbidities. The 10-day campaign began in the Meerut division on July 2 and other divisions of the state on July 5,” he said. Prasad said that the Covid helpdesks set up in the state have proved to be useful for identifying people with symptoms. “Till now, a network of 34,314 helpdesks has been set up in the state which has identified 14,647 people with Covid-19 symptoms. Now their samples will be sent for testing,” Prasad added. The other districts with double digit entries included Lucknow (97), Barabanki (66), Kanpur (57), Jhansi (50), Mirzapur (36), Bareilly (30), Fatehpur (27), Agra (25), Ballia (22), Aligarh (19), Azamgarh (19), Mathura (18), Gorakhpur (18), Deoria (18), Unnao (18), Sant Kabir Nagar (17), Moradabad (15), Kannauj (13), Farrukhabad (13), Jaunpur (10), Bijnore (10), Muzaffarnagar (10) and Etawah (10).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-breaches-31k-as-up-crosses-10l-testings-mark/articleshow/76863959.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 9, 2020||Varanasi||Covid-19 breaches 31,000 as UP crosses 10 lakh testings mark||LUCKNOW: The novel coronavirus tally for Uttar Pradesh crossed the 31,000 mark on Wednesday with 1,196 new cases in the past 24 hours even as Covid testing in the state scaled a new high. While over 34,000 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, the total number of samples tested, so far, crossed the 10 lakh mark. According to an information, districts in the Meerut division, including Ghaziabad (165), Gautam Budh Nagar (81), Meerut (76), Bulandshaher (33), Hapur (26) and Baghpat (25) accounted for nearly 34% (406) of the total cases reported. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad stated that 18 persons lost their lives on account of the pandemic infection in the past 24 hours. With this, the total Covid-19 toll in UP reached 845. According to an official bulletin, six deaths were reported in Kanpur Nagar, while two each were reported in Mathura and Jhansi. Meerut, Lucknow, Hapur, Sambhal, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Amroha and Farrukhabad saw one death each. He said that 706 persons were discharged taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 20,331. “This leaves the state with 9,980 active infections,” said Prasad. He further said that the testing for Covid-19 touched a new benchmark. “As many as 34,084 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, while the cumulative testing figure reached 10,03,280,” he said, adding that the target of 35,000 tests per day will meet soon. Referring to the ongoing door-to door screening in all divisions of the state, Prasad said, so far, teams involved in this task have visited over 84.12 lakh houses and talked to over 4.29 crore people. “These surveillance teams are noting down details of Covid-19 symptoms, besides preparing a list of those with comorbidities. The 10-day campaign began in the Meerut division on July 2 and other divisions of the state on July 5,” he said. Prasad said that the Covid helpdesks set up in the state have proved to be useful for identifying people with symptoms. “Till now, a network of 34,314 helpdesks has been set up in the state which has identified 14,647 people with Covid-19 symptoms. Now their samples will be sent for testing,” Prasad added. The other districts with double digit entries included Lucknow (97), Barabanki (66), Kanpur (57), Jhansi (50), Mirzapur (36), Bareilly (30), Fatehpur (27), Agra (25), Ballia (22), Aligarh (19), Azamgarh (19), Mathura (18), Gorakhpur (18), Deoria (18), Unnao (18), Sant Kabir Nagar (17), Moradabad (15), Kannauj (13), Farrukhabad (13), Jaunpur (10), Bijnore (10), Muzaffarnagar (10) and Etawah (10).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-breaches-31k-as-up-crosses-10l-testings-mark/articleshow/76867754.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 9, 2020||Pune||Pune metropolitan region’s cured count beyond 20,000-mark||PUNE: The discharged tally in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) breached 20,000-mark on Wednesday as the region added 1,618 Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day tally, in 24 hours. With this, PMR’s case count has risen 32,596 so far. Besides, 25 more patients succumbed to the contagion in PMR, taking the death toll to 944. Of the new cases, 1,083 were recorded in the Pune municipal limits, 301 in PCMC areas and 234 in the rural and Cantonment parts. PMC health officials said 587 patients were discharged in PMC limits after they were declared cured on Wednesday, taking the discharged tally to 14,998. Over 3,500 people have been discharged in the PCMC limits so far. With this, the discharged tally in PMR stands at 20,485. “As many as 401 critical patients are being treated at various hospitals, of whom 79 are on ventilator support. The tally of active Covid-19 cases in PMC limits is 8,400,” a civic health official said. Among the deaths reported on Wednesday, six patients succumbed at the Sassoon General Hospital. These included a 60-year-old man from Mangalwar Peth, a 59-year-old man from Vishrantwadi, a 70-year-old man from the Kausarbaug area, a 22-year-old man from the Parvati area, a 50-year-old man from Katraj and a 55-year-old woman from Ahmednagar. Two patients died at Naidu hospital. The patients who died at private hospitals included a 58-year-old man from Budhwar Peth, a 72-year-old man from Kasba Peth, a 59-year-old man from the Tilak Road area, a 54-year-old man from the Kasba Peth area, an 83-year-old man from the Benkar vasti area, a 70-year-old man Hadapsar, a 57-year-old man from Shukrawar Peth, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-cured-count-beyond-20k-mark/articleshow/76863458.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Untraceable Covid-19 patients a new challenge for Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s health department faces a new challenge in battling Covid-19 — of people who give the wrong address or conceal their identity when their sample is being taken and later test positive for the virus. As a result, hundreds of patients have been untraceable. This is largely happening in NCR districts and has sent the health department and district administrations in a tizzy. There is a mismatch of 1600 such patents in Faridabad district alone and Gurgaon too has a good number of such patients, confirmed an official. Also, patients from other districts and residents of Haryana travelling by air too have been untraceable. “In some cases, persons had given wrong addresses and wrong contact details. Civil surgeons had shared this information with local administration as well as police for further action,’’ said director general of health services Dr S B Kamboj. He said they had now taken several measures to prevent such lapses. “Laboratories have been directed to ensure correct contact details and crosscheck everything by making a verification call and taking Aadhaar details of the person,’’ said Kamboj. Faridabad DC Yash Pal Yadav too admitted to the threat caused by people who were giving wrong details “During the probe, we had found that besides misrepresentation of facts, there had been incidents where reports were uploaded late and the person had moved moved to another place. We have held meetings with laboratories. Some labs have been served showcause notices,” said Faridabad DC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/untraceable-covid-patients-a-new-challenge-for-haryana/articleshow/76863465.cms||Manvir Saini
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: No warning at mayor’s house||HISAR: The health department has been dilly-dallying over pasting a quarantine poster outside the house of Hisar mayor Gautam Sardana, who had tested positive for Covid-19 and then negative in two subsequent tests. The department has also not declared the locality where the mayor lives as a containment zone. The mayor said he was staying alone in a farmhouse in Sector 9-11 and had shared the address with the health department. Sardana said the health department could paste the poster where he was staying at present.On July 1, Hisar MP Brijendra Singh conducted a public hearing at his Police Lines residence in the city. When his health deteriorated, he went to Delhi and home-quarantined there. He gave his sample for investigation on July 3 and shared a video message, informing his supporters about it. After this, on July 4, when he tested positive for Covid-19, he again issued a video message and advised all people, who came in contact with him, to get tested.After this, Hisar mayor Sardana and former minister Hari Singh Saini gave their samples for testing. As a report of a private lab reported Sardana to be negative for Covid-19, the health department got him tested again at Agroha medical college and the National Research Centre for Equines (NRCE) lab. Results of tests by both labs were negative and the health department declared the mayor did not have Covid-19. Ramesh Poonia, in-charge of home quarantine in Hisar, said an official of the health department had forbidden him to paste the poster outside the mayor’s residence. Man Singh Verma, who made the containment zone plan, said he had made the plan but later, when Sardana tested negative, it was refused. Hisar civil surgeon Dr Ratna Bharti did not pick up the phone or answer text messages. Hisar DC Priyanka Soni said even after a person tests negative, a poster of home quarantine or home isolation should be pasted outside theirresidence. Soni said she would speak to health department. Sardana said, “I have not forbidden anyone. Rules should be followed. I have spoken to civil surgeon too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-warning-at-mayors-house/articleshow/76863469.cms||Kumar Mukesh
July 9, 2020||Faridabad||Kanpur killers will repent for their act: ADG||LUCKNOW/FARIDABAD: After the arrest of three aides of gangster Vikas Dubey in Faridabad and the encounter of his close aide Amar Dubey in Hamirpur, UP police on Wednesday said those who ambushed cops in Bikru village of Kanpur would repent for their act for the rest of their lives. A team of UP STF had on Tuesday arrested three aides of Vikas Dubey – Kartikeya, Ankur and Shravan – after raiding a hotel in Faridabad in search of the gangster. Kartikeya confessed that he opened fire at the police party and disclosed that they stayed in Shivli area of Kanpur for two days after the ambush. During interrogation, Kartikeya told cops that Vikas and his aides stayed in Shivli area of Kanpur for 48 hours after the carnage. UP STF has taken the remand of Kartikeya while the other two accused, Ankur and his father Shravan, have been sent to jail. Additional director general, law and order, Prashant Kumar said, “Vikas’s aide Kartikeya will be brought to UP for questioning. Two 9 mm pistols and 40 cartridges of Bithoor station officer Kaushalendra Pratap Singh and slain station officer of Shivrajpur Mahesh Yadav were recovered from the possession of arrested men.” “We will probe how the accused got access to police weapons. Teams have also been formed to trace AK-47 and Insas rifles looted from the cops on the fateful night,” he said. He added that action against perpetrators of the crime would be so stringent that they would repent their act. According to police, Vikas Dubey had taken shelter at the house of his maternal aunt in Faridabad and fled after he got a whiff of police movement. Dubey was allegedly holed up in Faridabad’s Indra Complex Colony for three days. A joint team of policemen from UP’s special task force, which has been given the job of finding Dubey, and Faridabad’s crime branch raided the house late on Tuesday and arrested Kartikey, Ankur Kumar and his father Shravan, to whom the house belongs. But Dubey, who had hours before the raid surfaced on the CCTV footage of a nearby hotel, had already bolted from the Indra Complex hideout. Amid speculation that he would try to surrender in court, police in Noida and Greater Noida, were put on high alert through Wednesday. Haryana Police also set up a special task force to help UP Police track down Dubey, who has dodged electronic surveillance by not carrying a cellphone. The gangster was last seen on CCTV cameras of a hotel near Badkal Chowk that he visited on Tuesday evening, purportedly after getting wind of STF’s imminent arrival in Faridabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/kanpur-killers-will-repent-for-their-act-adg/articleshow/76865750.cms||Bagish Jha
July 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Infection spurt in localities in vicinity of sealed areas||PUNE: Localities in the non-containment zones closer to the sealed area are recording about 60% of the total Covid-19 cases in Pune municipal limits now as against 15-20% cases during the lockdown phase. The latest PMC data stated that around 600 to 700 cases were recorded in the municipal areas in the first week of July. Out of these, 400 to 450 cases were from outside the containment zones. “The situation in areas with high positive cases has changed during the last few days. Awareness about physical distancing and other measures to reduce the virus spread appears to have worked in densely populated slums pockets. The trend of recording more cases in slums has changed,” PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad told TOI. He said the housing societies and bungalows adjacent to the slum pockets were recording a rise in positive cases now. “Resultantly, 15 locations were removed from the list of micro-containment zones during the reorganisation of the areas on July 1. The deleted spots are mostly from the densely populated areas. At the start of the lockdown period, these areas recorded high number of cases,” Gaikwad said. PMC officials said a key reason for the rapid rise in cases was the opening up of business activities (see box). The other important reason behind the rising cases is the increased numbers of testing. The PMC is conducting around 3,000 tests per day now as an average 700 tests in March. “We have started rapid antigen tests in the city now. More positive cases may emerge now because of these tests. The containment zones will be changed on the basis of the number of positive cases,” Gaikwad said. The daily Covid tally has been on the rise in the PMC limits since the first week of June. The municipal limits were recording an average of 200 cases per day then, which went up to 400 during mid-June and to 600 at the end of June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/infection-spurt-in-localities-in-vicinity-of-sealed-areas/articleshow/76863471.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur killers will repent for their act: ADG||LUCKNOW/FARIDABAD: After the arrest of three aides of gangster Vikas Dubey in Faridabad and the encounter of his close aide Amar Dubey in Hamirpur, UP police on Wednesday said those who ambushed cops in Bikru village of Kanpur would repent for their act for the rest of their lives. A team of UP STF had on Tuesday arrested three aides of Vikas Dubey – Kartikeya, Ankur and Shravan – after raiding a hotel in Faridabad in search of the gangster. Kartikeya confessed that he opened fire at the police party and disclosed that they stayed in Shivli area of Kanpur for two days after the ambush. During interrogation, Kartikeya told cops that Vikas and his aides stayed in Shivli area of Kanpur for 48 hours after the carnage. UP STF has taken the remand of Kartikeya while the other two accused, Ankur and his father Shravan, have been sent to jail. Additional director general, law and order, Prashant Kumar said, “Vikas’s aide Kartikeya will be brought to UP for questioning. Two 9 mm pistols and 40 cartridges of Bithoor station officer Kaushalendra Pratap Singh and slain station officer of Shivrajpur Mahesh Yadav were recovered from the possession of arrested men.” “We will probe how the accused got access to police weapons. Teams have also been formed to trace AK-47 and Insas rifles looted from the cops on the fateful night,” he said. He added that action against perpetrators of the crime would be so stringent that they would repent their act. According to police, Vikas Dubey had taken shelter at the house of his maternal aunt in Faridabad and fled after he got a whiff of police movement. Dubey was allegedly holed up in Faridabad’s Indra Complex Colony for three days. A joint team of policemen from UP’s special task force, which has been given the job of finding Dubey, and Faridabad’s crime branch raided the house late on Tuesday and arrested Kartikey, Ankur Kumar and his father Shravan, to whom the house belongs. But Dubey, who had hours before the raid surfaced on the CCTV footage of a nearby hotel, had already bolted from the Indra Complex hideout. Amid speculation that he would try to surrender in court, police in Noida and Greater Noida, were put on high alert through Wednesday. Haryana Police also set up a special task force to help UP Police track down Dubey, who has dodged electronic surveillance by not carrying a cellphone. The gangster was last seen on CCTV cameras of a hotel near Badkal Chowk that he visited on Tuesday evening, purportedly after getting wind of STF’s imminent arrival in Faridabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kanpur-killers-will-repent-for-their-act-adg/articleshow/76863892.cms||Bagish Jha
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||Kiosk at Nagpur railway station to sell Covid-19 safety gear||Nagpur: In a bid to beat coronavirus, the Nagpur division of Central Railway has decided to launch Covid-19 preventive kiosks at eight railway stations. A kiosk was opened on platform number 2/3 of Nagpur station on Wednesday within 24 hours of the agreement. Senior divisional commercial manager (Sr DCM) Krishnath Patil said these kiosks will be set up as part of the non-fare revenue activity. Pune-based Medicare Solutions will set up the kiosks. This is Central Railway’s fifth innovative project to take precautions against Covid-19. “We have identified seven more stations including Ajni, Wardha, Ballarshah, Sewagram, Dhamangaon, Betul and Chandrapur. Central Railway will earn Rs4 lakh annual fee from the party,” said Patil. Patil informed that the firm will sell Covid-19 gears like face masks and shields, sanitizers, gloves, bedrolls, PPE kits etc at competitive prices. Bedroll will be available for Rs100-200. The kiosks will also check body temperature and oxygen level free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kiosk-at-nagpur-railway-station-to-sell-covid-19-safety-gear/articleshow/76862816.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Pune||Barricades block business on Pune Cantonment road||PUNE: A stretch of R S Kedari Road between Hazrat Babajan Dargah and Bhopala chowk that connects to MG Road in Camp, remains barricaded on both ends even after the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) removed the stretch from its list of containment areas. PCB chief executive officer (CEO) Amit Kumar has put the onus of the removal of the barricades on the Pune police who are waiting as the stretch is close to hotspots like Bhimpura. Local residents and businessmen, mostly garment shop owners, find themselves in a bind owing to the barricades. Kumar said the road stretch was part of the containment areas declared in May and the authorities had extended the containment measures till June 30. Later, on July 5, the road stretch was removed from the list, he said. The CEO told TOI, “We have reduced the number of containment/micro containment zones after taking an overall review of the number of positive cases in the cantonment limits. Bhimpura lanes 5, 13 and 20 around the Kedari Road have been declared as containment zones because of the increase in number of positive cases. Business activities can commence on the road, but P1, P2 system must be followed by the shop owners and others for parking vehicles.” Senior inspector Chandrakant Bhosale of the Cantonment police told TOI, “We have sealed the entry and exit points of Bhimpura because it is a containment zone by installing barricades at Babajan Dargah Chowk, Bhopala Chowk and Kohinoor Chowk to deter people staying here from entering non- containment zones and vice versa to prevent the spread of Covid-19 virus. The stretch between Bhopala Chowk and Quraish masjid in Bhimpura has been severely affected because of the increase in the number of positive cases.” He said they have not received an official intimation from the PCB about Kedari Road being declared a non-containment zone.” Rupesh Dake, president of Kedari Road Association, said, “The economic situation in Camp area will boom if the barricades are removed from buffer zones like Kedari Road. The association will appeal to the Pune police to remove the barricades.” Businessman Zoeb Jawadwala said, “We have opened our shops but there is no business because customers are facing hardships in reaching here with vehicles because the roads have been barricaded.” Local resident Shekhar Gujar said, “ Residents raised the issue with the PCB officials. We have sought intervention of our elected representatives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/barricades-block-business-on-pune-cantonment-road/articleshow/76863493.cms||Asseem Shaikh
July 9, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: More markets closed in Ernakulam||KOCHI: With the closure of markets in Aluva, Chambakkara, Varapuzha and extension of lockdown in Ernakulam market to contain the spread of Covid-19, city residents may face shortage in fish supply in the coming days. Also, prices of vegetables and fruits too may go up, say traders. However, an official at the district administration said there will not be any shortage of essentials or price hike as Maradu market will be open for business. Moreover, we have been monitoring the prices, he added. “We don’t want a Thiruvananthapuram-like situation in Ernakulam. That’s why we closed the markets. Varapuzha and Chambakkara are fish markets. Besides, traders have already started multi-level mechanisms to sell their products. There will not be any shortage of essentials as retail shops will continue functioning,” said the official. The Ernakulam market was closed on July 1 and the lockdown was extended for one more week after a relative of one of the employees, who died of Covid-19, was tested positive on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the district has already started feeling the pinch of lockdown at Ernakulam market. Retailers said price of vegetables has increased following the closure of the market and rise in transportation cost. “There is a 10% hike in vegetable price due to closure of Ernakulam market. Moreover, vehicles coming from other states carrying essential commodities have been taking longer routes to reach the destination as they have to avoid containment zones on the way. This has increased transportation cost,” said a retail vegetable vendor in Kacheripady. Many wholesale vegetable traders in Ernakulam market have started selling essentials to their regular retail customers from godowns and open places after hiring the space on lease. “With the closure of markets near the city, there will be shortage of essentials in the coming days. Traders in the district will have to purchase essentials from nearby districts. This may result in price hike. As many as 25 loads of vegetables reach the market per day besides grocery, fruits and four to five loads of plantains. We understand the lockdown measures are to contain the spread of Covid. But this is not a permanent solution. Instead of implementing lockdown, the administration should make arrangements to open shops with time regulation and strict social distancing norms. They should allow us to open shops at least four days a week as many people make a living out of these markets,” said C J George, Ernakulam market stall owners’ association president. While horticorp officials said they would buy vegetables from traders of nearby districts and transport it to Ernakulam for sales at their outlets. “A final decision on this is yet to be taken. If any contingency is arising, we will transport vegetables either from Thrissur or Alappuzha, where vegetables from other states also arrive,” said a senior official. Meanwhile, as more number of cases were emerging from Aluva region, the administration has declared 13 wards in the municipality as containment zones. All wards under Chellanam panchayat, one each under Edathala, Kadungalloor panchayats and Maradu municipality have been declared as containment zones. Police too have stepped up vigil across the district as the number of containment zones have crossed 30. More personnel have been deployed in these areas. The district, on Wednesday, reported 16 new Covid-19 cases, including nine through contacts. While 13 recovered from the disease, 215 are under treatment. A total of 13,351 people are under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/more-markets-closed-in-ernakulam/articleshow/76862792.cms||T C Sreemol
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||DGGI raids liquor producers, recovers GST liability of Rs 3.10 crore||Nagpur: The Directorate General of Goods and Services Tax Intelligence’s (DGGI) zonal unit here launched a major crackdown on two big players of the liquor sector in Maharashtra regarding massive evasion of GST. The unit working under the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs conducted raids on Pernod Ricard India in Nashik and Radico NV Distilleries Maharashtra in Aurangabad in last week of June and first week of July. As per DGGI’s press release, the misclassification was accepted by the taxpayers and the entire GST liability of Rs 3.10 crore was paid by them after the raids. “While alcoholic liquor for human consumption is not liable to GST, a number of products which emerge during the manufacturing process are liable for it. One of these products is Wet Distillers Grains with Soluble (WDGS or DGS) supplied for manufacture of animal feed, which is liable to GST @ 5%. However, both the manufacturers were supplying this product at nil rate of GST by misclassifying,” the DGGI mentioned. All Covid-19 related precautions were taken during the searches by the officers, the DGGI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dggi-raids-liquor-producers-recovers-gst-liability-of-rs-3-10-crore/articleshow/76862809.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 9, 2020||Pune||Passengers too few, cab operators count losses on Pune-Mumbai route||PUNE: Private cab companies operating between the city and Mumbai are having a difficult time with few or no passengers. People needing to travel between Pune and Mumbai, or to any other city, only have the option of private cabs. But those in the business said the number of passengers has reduced drastically. Most of the cab companies are operating on the Pune-Mumbai route only. They said technicalities in getting e-passes and fear among passengers to travel were affecting business. More than 25,000 cabs of big and small private companies operate in Pune and provide vehicles for trips between Pune and Mumbai. But less than 5,000 cabs are currently operating and is there is little business. “The average fare between Pune and Mumbai for a sedan is Rs4,200 and Rs5,000, including toll. Since the cabs have to return empty from Mumbai, the return fare is also charged. Cab companies are charging anything between Rs3,000 and Rs3,500 for the trip at present and do not charge the return fare. Once the situation improves, the Pune-Mumbai fare will increase by at least Rs1,500,” said Guru Katti, president of the Swarajya Vahan Chalak Sanghatna. Azhar Sayyad, owner of city-based Allied Car Rental, told TOI that the demand for cabs dropped by almost 80% in the past months. “We are getting very few customers. Moreover, any cab booked for Mumbai has to return empty. The conditions are such that we don’t have money to pay the EMIs of many of our vehicles. We have had to slash the fares between Pune and Mumbai by almost 40-50%,” Sayyad said. A representative of Mumbai-Pune Cool Cab said four months ago they used to get 25 to 30 bookings a day. “It’s now down to 2 to 3 a day, or even zero. We had to slash the fares as to attract business,” she said. Rohidas Bansode, owner of Pooja Tours and Travels, said he has shut business for the time being. “I am afraid of the virus. And with practically no business now, there is no point running it. Four-five months ago, my cabs used to get customers for Mumbai, Solapur, Nashik among other cities,” he said. “I had an important family function to attend last month in Mumbai, but decided to skip it” Hadapsar resident Nitin Dhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/passengers-too-few-cab-operators-count-losses-on-pune-mum-route/articleshow/76863480.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 9, 2020||Pune||Jail constable attacks fellow staffer, booked||PUNE: A Yerawada jail constable was booked on Tuesday on the charge of brutally attacking and fracturing the right hand of his colleague for stopping him at the check-post outside the employee quarters on Monday night. Prison superintendent UT Pawar said, “The constable was to maintain register of people residing in the quarters.” Pawar said, “Constable Rajendra Khairnar was manning the check-post when he stopped a car driven by constable Premnath Wadikar and sought reasons for coming late. Wadikar picked up a dispute with him over the issue and twisted Khairnar’s hand, resulting in its fracture. After seeking medical treatment, he registered complaint against his colleague.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jail-constable-attacks-fellow-staffer-booked/articleshow/76863511.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Pune||Four women abuse minor neighbour in Pune||PUNE: A 17-year-old on Tuesday lodged an FIR with the Pimpri police against four women, including her aunt, for abusing her over her pet dog barking. The incident occurred in Morwadi in Pimpri on Monday evening. Assistant inspector SA Chavan of Pimpri police said the minor lives in a housing complex in Pimpri with her mother, who is bedridden. Her father doesn’t stay in Pimpri Chinchwad. “Her three maternal uncles live in the same complex,” Chavan said.  The women in the complex, including one of her aunts, went to her home to talk to her because of her dog’s constant barking. “The girl said the women were forcing her to open the door and telling her to abandon the dog. They also threatened to beat the girl,” Chavan said. The girl called a social worker and the police were summoned as well. “We also called the meeting of residents and requested them to solve the matter on their own,” Chavan said. On Tuesday, the girl approached the police and lodged a complaint. “Our probe is on,” Chavan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-women-abuse-minor-neighbour/articleshow/76863506.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Madurai||Charge-sheet against man with low IQ set aside||Madurai: The Madras high on Tuesday set aside the charge-sheet filed against a 31-year-old man, who participated in a protest in Madurai in 2018, on the ground that he is intellectually challenged. The court further observed that the implication of the man in a criminal case can only be characterized as most unfortunate and that the police will have to be duly sensitized. The court was hearing a plea filed by the man who sought to quash the charge-sheet filed against him by the Thilagar Thidal police before the Madurai judicial magistrate (JM) II court. Police had registered a case against the petitioner and 27 others for the offence under sections 143, 188 and 341 of the IPC for staging a protest against the police firing by the Tuticorin police on anti-Sterlite protestors, at West Veli Street-RMS Road junction at Madurai on May 22, 2018. Justice B Pugalendhi observed that the allegation against the petitioner is that he is a member of an organization named Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam and participated in a protest along with the other accused and raised slogans against the government. The judge said that in order to attract an offence under Section 143 of IPC, the person must have participated in an unlawful assembly with certain ill motives when the prohibitory orders were in existence. The petitioner who has an overall IQ of 79 has borderline intellectual capacity and behavioural problems and he was in a continuous treatment for his ailment, the judge said. He further observed that his predecessor, justice G R Swaminathan who held the portfolio then, after interacting with the petitioner in chambers had also concluded that the petitioner had low IQ. The judge also observed that as per Section 84 of IPC, nothing is an offence, which is done by a person who, at the time of doing it, by reason of unsoundness of mind, is incapable of knowing the nature of act, or that he is doing what is either wrong or contrary to law. Observing that the petitioner is entitled for relief under Section 84, the judge set aside the charge-sheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/charge-sheet-against-man-with-low-iq-set-aside/articleshow/76863512.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE done, now all eyes on NTA syllabus reduction||NAGPUR: Following reduction of syllabus for CBSE, coaching industry and JEE/NEET 2021 aspirants are now hoping to hear a similar news soon. The Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had on Tuesday announced that 30% of the syllabus will be reduced for CBSE’s Std IX-XII students. Though he hasn’t mentioned anything related the big ticket competitive exams, sources in the department claim some decision is likely to be taken “soon”. Both exams are conducted by National Testing Agency (NTA) and coaching institutes say it’s high time they communicate with students. Panini Telang, a coaching institute owner said even teachers need that clarity as online classes are in full swing. “Today even though I am teaching a topic, there is absolutely no clarity on whether or not it will be included in JEE. Students too are in a quandary,” said Telang. Sameer Phale, another coaching institute owner, said after CBSE’s announcement, students have naturally being asking questions. “We are all interested in what NTA has decided. It’s important to get clarity on which topics will be included and which dropped,” said Phale. Yogesh Sharma, another coaching institute owner, said the reduction of course must be aligned with CBSE. “Students prepare completely using CBSE as curriculum as their benchmark. I sincerely hope that the reduction from NTA’s syllabus is exactly the same as that will help students to prepare in a better way. Also, government must not drag on this confusion any longer,” said Sharma. Social media is also abuzz since Tuesday night with many students tweeting about their demand to cut the syllabus. Many students are questioning why the government has not even mentioned about JEE and NEET. The only reference minister Pokhriyal made to these two exams was last week when he announced postponement of the exam dates. These exams, in which collectively around 25 lakh students appear, are now scheduled for September. TOI reached out to NTA’s director general Vineet Joshi for a comment, but till the time of filing the report there was no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbse-done-now-all-eyes-on-nta-syllabus-reduction/articleshow/76863474.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Four of five-member gang arrested, nine sensational robberies solved||LUDHIANA: The police on Wednesday claimed to have solved nine sensational robberies, with the arrest of four of a five-member gang. Most of these loots were executed between November 2019 and June 2020. Three pistols with live cartridges, sharp-edged weapons, Rs 40,000, five motorcycles and a scooter were recovered from gang kingpin Sanjeev Chopra, 38; his associates Sunny Kumar, 35, of Charan Colony in Manakwal village; Amandeep Singh, 33, also of Manakwal village; and Mukesh Kumar, 32, of Preet Nagar, near Barnala Fatak, Sangrur. The fifth gang member, Guddu Jaiswal of Lucknow, is at large. Addressing an online press conference, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said, “They have confessed to their involvement in nine robberies, including one committed in 2018. Sanjeev is a gangster, who has several criminal cases against him.” About their modus operandi, he said, “They would wear helmets, gloves and separate clothes to execute a crime. From jackets, shoes, to shirts, they would change everything before striking to leave no clue.” On Tuesday, the police received information that the gang was planning another robbery near Quality Chowk, Kidwai Nagar. Cops conducted a raid and arrested the accused.  “During interrogation, they revealed that Sanjeev was sent to 10 years in jail in a murder and dacoity case in 2005. He had jumped parole in 2014. A case of possessing illegal weapons was also registered against him at Mohinder Park police station in New Delhi on September 5, 2019. It is being checked if his gang members also had a criminal background,” he added. Before striking, Sanjeev did a recce. “He used to go to different banks and keep a track of those who came frequently which cash. He would then follow them to collect their details. The gang used to gather near Railway Quarters to change their clothes to conceal their identities. After executing robberies, they would come at the same place and share the loot. They would then leave the city and get shelter in different districts,” the police commissioner said. The four were produced before a court that sent them in five-day police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-of-5-member-gang-arrested9-sensational-robberies-solved/articleshow/76862834.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Goa||Goa hits a new single-day high with 136 Covid-19 positives||PANAJI: The state’s confirmed Covid-19 count shot past the 2,000 mark on Wednesday after yet another single-day high of 136 new infections. With 51 persons being declared cured and discharged, the state’s active Covid tally stood at 824. Mapusa saw two new cases, a day after a security guard of a pharmaceutical company, who also worked as a part-time vendor, tested positive. MLA Joshua D’Souza said that over 300 samples from Khorlim were sent for testing. “Some have been received, and they’re all negative,” he said. “The remaining reports are expected on Thursday.” Another pharma company employee, a resident of Verla-Canca near Mapusa, also tested positive on Wednesday. She voluntarily got herself tested after some of her colleagues had tested positive. After she tested positive, her family was also tested, and while her mother-in-law tested positive, the rest returned negative. A health officer said her contacts are being traced. Meanwhile, new cases reported over the past few weeks have indicated local transmission in the Vasco area, with Sada, Baina, New Vaddem, Zuarinagar and Khariawado as hotspots. These areas account for 229 of the state’s 824 active cases. Mangor Hill, also in the vicinity, saw 18 new cases on Wednesday even as cases linked to the state’s first containment zone jumped by by 44. The day also saw cases reported from new locations like Carambolim, Chinchinim, Nerul, Cumbharjua and Benaulim. Moti Dongor, a densely-populated slum area in Margao, has 14 cases as of Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-hits-a-new-single-day-high-with-136-covid-positives/articleshow/76863519.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||CBSE syllabus crunch draws academics’ ire||HYDERABAD: Central Board of Secondary Education’s decision to snip chapters on ‘Democratic Rights’, ‘Secularism’, ‘Nationalism’, ‘Federalism’, ‘Citizenship’, ‘Popular Struggles and Movements’, ‘Food Security in India’ and other important issues in its bid to reduce academic burden on students from Class 9 to Class 12, came in for sharp criticism from academics and activists. They said by deleting fundamental topics the country seems to be preparing young minds for dictatorship rather than democracy. Academics from several universities in the state questioned the rationale behind deleting these topics from political science and social science. “It is shocking to see National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) doing away with topics such as democratic rights, federalism, citizenship, nationalism, secularism, among others,” Prof G Haragopal, who is currently teaching at National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru, said, adding “it looks like the country is taking steps towards feudalism”. He said these topics teach students “the values of our Constitution” and the only way one does something like this is to “stop giving required knowledge to students so that they won’t question anything”. Terming the deletion of these topics as wrong, the academics said that the decision to remove such crucial topics needs to be questioned. “No one is against reducing syllabus as it is a necessity now. But, what’s beyond one’s understanding is how did they zero in on these topics. The NCERT could have instead retained these topics, at least introduction, by doing away in-depth analysis of other topics,” K Laxminarayana, an economics professor at University of Hyderabad and organising secretary, Save Education Committee, Telangana, said. They said there needs to be a wider debate and deep discussion on which topics to be removed by involving textbook writers and subject experts.“Instead, they could have taught students 100% syllabus, but conduct exams based on 70% of the portion. Even then, such important topics should not be removed and should be part of the syllabus,” said V Balakista Reddy, registrar, NALSAR University. He said the rationale behind choosing topics would most likely be questioned in courts. The teachers also said that there was a need for NCERT and CBSE to rethink their decision and take up the exercise again. “They can’t ignore basic concepts, especially when they are going to be continued in higher classes. Removing the link, say in class 9, will make it hard to understand the subject in higher classes. They need to reconsider their decision,” D Ravinder, principal, Arts College, Osmania University, said, adding the deleted topics were clearly reflecting the ideology of those involved in the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbse-syllabus-crunch-draws-academics-ire/articleshow/76862840.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
July 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Fresh rain, old tale, but is anyone listening?||Ludhiana: Civic body’s monsoon preparedness claim went down the drain with Wednesday’s rainfall. Waterlogging witnessed across the city forced commuters to wade through roads with their vehicles. The rain started on Tuesday night and picked up pace through Wednesday. The sewer staff was engaged in opening manhole lids near Clock Tower so that water could drain out. The officials claimed that staff was deployed in many parts of the city. A commuter, Raj Kumar, said, “The civic authorities have failed to find a solution to the problem of waterlogging in Old City areas. There was so much stagnant water at Damoria Bridge that it was difficult to drive. This happens every year, but officials do not care.”Another commuter, Gurdeep Singh, who travelled from Chandigarh Road in the morning, said, “It is a punishment to travel through Chandigarh Road in rainy season. So much water gets accumulated on the stretch that crossing it is a difficult task. The city will become smart only when authorities tackle such problems.”Former Congress councillor Parminder Mehta said, “This is the condition of the city after medium rainfall. What will happen if there is incessant rain? The rain has exposed the cleaning done by the civic officials. Our sewerage system could not take the load of rainwater. I appeal to the MC commissioner to pay attention to the problem.” A Naughara Mohalla resident and businessman Tribhuvan Thapar said, “The old drain near cremation ground of Gaushala Road was not cleaned properly. It led to waterlogging. In many areas, people have not made arrangements for the drainage of rainwater from their houses, so even that flows to the streets, further adding to the load on sewerage system.”He asserted that the city would not get rid of waterlogging unless the authorities plan a storm sewerage system. Sarabha Nagar’s Col Harjap Singh (retd) said, “Sewerage system in the Feroze Gandhi market choked and we had to get it cleared. Similar was the condition at Bhai Wala Chowk. The reason is illegal dhabas that throw everything in the sewerage system. The civic body should also check such practices and illegal establishments.”Worst-affected areas These included Chandigarh Road, Transport Nagar, Shivaji Nagar, Ferozepur Road, Hambran Road, Panj Peeran Road, Damoria Bridge, Gill Road, Dashmesh Nagar, Haibowal, Chander Nagar, Transport Nagar, Dholewal Chowk, Lodhi Club underpass, Clock Tower Road, railway station, Lakkar Bridge, Old Court Road, Pahwa Hospital Chowk and Bharat Nagar Chowk. Ferozepur Road, NH Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and mayor Balkar Sandhu visited Ferozepur Road and the national highway and asked the NHAI officials to get the drains cleaned so that there was no waterlogging. Traffic jams were witnessed at Ferozepur Road.Buddha Nullah fullDue to continuous rainfall, the Buddha Nullah flowed to its brim and the water had high velocity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fresh-rain-old-tale-but-is-anyone-listening/articleshow/76862837.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Goa||Moves afoot to lift Curtorim lockdown||Margao: Two weeks after a Curtorim ward was declared as a containment zone, moves are afoot to open the area as no fresh cases have been detected in the locality in the last few days. Health department officials said that if none tests positive in another round of testing that will be conducted shortly, the South Goa district administration is likely to open the containment zone. Dr Vallabh Nadkarni, health officer of the Curtorim primary health centre said that the exercise of throat swab collection of the residents will be conducted on Thursday. “At least one family member of each household will be tested,” Nadkarni said. The containment zone consists of nearly 50 houses. Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco said he spoke to the South Goa collector on Wednesday urging him to open the containment zone. “I was told that the SOPs governing opening the containment zone mandate another round of testing before it is opened. I therefore later also visited the houses in the containment zone persuading them to undertake the test,” Laurenco said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/moves-afoot-to-lift-curtorim-lockdown/articleshow/76864041.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||Illegal basement found at Vikas Dubey's Indralok house||LUCKNOW: An unauthorised basement was found in the residence of gangster Vikas Dubey at Indralok colony in Krishnanagar by a team of Lucknow Development Authority during an inspection on Wednesday. The team pasted a notice on the house directing family members to produce duly approved layout map at the LDA's office on Thursday. The LDA swung into action on Sunday, two days after the gangster and his henchmen brutally killed eight cops after laying an ambush in Kanpur. An LDA team visited theIndralok house of the gangster here to inquire about its documents. However, only a housekeeper was present there who feigned ignorance about documents and location of the family members. LDA officials came to know that the house was constructed in 1990 and is in the name of Vikas’s wife Richa Dubey. They then directed employees to look for documents of the house in LDA's records. After two days of search, documents were traced on Tuesday following which an inspection was carried out again on Wednesday. LDA executive engineer Kamaljeet Singh said that the team in the second inspection discovered a basement which was not mentioned in the layout map in the LDA records. As the basement was locked, the team could not inspect it. Similarly, a washroom next to the entrance gate was also not on the map, he said. “Since owner of the house and family members were not present, a notice was pasted on a wall of the residence directing the owner to produce a certified copy of the layout map at LDA’s office by Thursday,” he added. LDA VC Shiwa Kant Dwivedi said, "I have got the inspection report and now waiting for the house owner or any member of the family to come with the layout map and other documents. If they fail to do so, LDA will initiate legal proceedings which may include sealing the house or razing the property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unauthorised-basementat-dubey-indralok-house/articleshow/76863904.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat custodial death: Six accused cops go missing after FIR||VADODARA: Six policemen accused of torturing to death a 62-year-old bedsheets seller from Ahmedabad have gone missing after an FIR was lodged against them on Monday night. The city police have formed four teams to track down the accused cops identified as police inspector, Dharmendrasinh Gohil, PSI Dasrath Rabari and LRD jawans - Pankaj Mavjibhai, Yogendrasinh Jeelansinh, Rajesh Savjibhai and Hitesh Shambhubhai. Gohil and Rabari got transferred to Ahmedabad some days ago. The LRD jawans, who were staying in the police lines with their families, have locked their homes and disappeared. All the four jawans were suspended on Wednesday. City police commissioner Anupam Singh Gahlaut said he has written to the Ahmedabad police to act against Gohil and Rabari. There is no trace of the victim Sheikh Babu Nishar’s body even as he died after being allegedly tortured in Fatehgunj police station on December 10 last year. However, in the FIR, police have invoked section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and not section 302 (murder), disappearance of evidence, destruction of evidence and giving false information. “All the accused cops have been maintaining that they are innocent. During inquiry too, they said that they have no idea about the whereabouts of the victim. If they refuse permission for narco tests, it will go against them,” Gahlaut told TOI. Investigators claim to have made efforts to trace Nishar and a team of cops even visited his native Hyderabad to get some clues. On December 10, 2019, Nishar had come to the city and parted with his son-in-law Ibrahim Khan Pathan outside Vadodara central bus depot. They were to meet again within few hours but Nishar never turned up. The family searched him for a month and then filed a missing persons complaint at Sayajigunj police station. FIR states that he was tied to the chair with a belt, thrashed and a pen was pierced between his fingers even as he kept wailing that he was innocent. Nishar’s family had approached the Gujarat high court that ordered the city police to probe into his disappearance and submit a report. During the probe, it was revealed through CCTV footage and eye-witness accounts that Nishar did enter Fatehgunj police station but there was no evidence of him leaving the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/custodial-death-six-accused-cops-go-missing-after-fir/articleshow/76861122.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ludhiana||54-yr-old Covid-19 +ve patient from Lohara dies||TNNLudhiana: A 54-year-old Covid-19 positive man from Daba, Lohara, breathed his last at Mohandai Oswal Hospital on Wednesday. Health department officials said the patient had respiratory problems. Forty-eight persons from Ludhiana district, including Jagraon additional deputy commissioner, and five from outside tested positive for the disease on the day. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said with this, death toll from Ludhiana district rose to 28 and of outsiders stood at 27. He said till now, 1,181 patients from Ludhiana district and 234 from outside have tested positive. The civil surgeon said till now samples of 39,737 suspected patients have been taken. Of the 719 samples sent for testing on Tuesday, reports of 619 came as negative and of 98 were pending while two samples of Khanna residents tested positive.Health department officials said of the rest 373 pending samples, reports of 333 came as negative, 37 tested positive and three samples would be re-tested. They added that of these, 35 patients were from Ludhiana district and one each was from Sangrur and Uttar Pradesh. Of the cases from Ludhiana, eight were from Bhamiyan village, five from Khanna, four from Cheema Chowk, two each from Toka Mohalla and Dehlon, one each from Jamalpur, Tajpur, Janakpuri, Muradpura, Sahnewal, Alamgir, EWS Colony, Janta Nagar, Bajra Maliganj, Shakti Nagar, Sheikh Kutub and New Model Town.They added that of the 14 positive reports received from private hospitals and laboratory, 11 cases were from Ludhiana, and one each from Jalandhar, Mansa and Ferozepur. They said of the 11 cases from Ludhiana, three were from Dev Nagar near Rishi Nagar, one each from Khanna, Walipur Kalan, Mall Road, Purani Madhopuri, Daba Lohara, New Kundanpuri, Guru Govind Nagar near SPS Hospital and Bawa Colony. Jagraon civil hospital SMO Dr Sukhjiwan Kakkar said, “The ADC’s sample was collected at DMCH and her report came as positive on Wednesday morning. Around 27 of her contacts have been traced and their samples taken.”Health department officials said as around 15 contacts were from her office, so the office has been closed for three days. It would be sanitized.The officials said 889 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing on Wednesday. The positives include…The persons who tested positive include 48-year-old woman ADC of Jagraon, father-son doctor duo from Khanna, two pregnant women from Muradpur and Khanna and a healthcare worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/54-yr-old-covid-19-ve-patient-from-lohara-dies/articleshow/76862830.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||Two end life over loss of livelihood||Nagpur: A 27-year-old vegetable vendor and a jobless driver committed suicide in two separate incidents in the city, police said on Wednesday. In the first case, the vegetable vendor was said to be facing financial crisis due to increase in competition in Jaripatka area. With the imposition of lockdown, many jobless people started selling vegetables to earn a livelihood. This increased competition for the deceased Amit Gondane. On Tuesday, Gondane took the extreme step by hanging himself from the ceiling fan. Gondane’s younger brother Suchit informed the police. Jaripatka police are probing further. In another incident, 47-year-old Santosh Murle, a resident of Sakkardara, used to work with Kanak Resources Management Ltd. As the NMC terminated Kanak’s contract of door-to-door garbage lifting work, Murle lost his job. Despite assurances to get appointed in one of the two new agencies, he was not inducted. He remained jobless and had exhausted all his savings. A dejected Murle on July 7 committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling of his house in New Bidipeth, Sakkardara. On the basis of information by his 21-year-old son Prajwal, the Sakkardara police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-end-life-over-loss-of-livelihood/articleshow/76862835.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shopkeeper bites woman’s cheek, held||Ahmedabad: A 30-year-old woman lodged a complaint at Nikol police station on Tuesday alleging that a shopkeeper, Mukesh Prajapati, grabbed both her hands and bit her on the cheek. Police sources said they registered an offence under Section 354 C and 324 of the IPC against the accused and detained him. He was sent for a pre-arrest Covid test. In her FIR, the woman said she has a four-year-old child and her husband is a diamond artisan. She said that about 15 days ago she bought a tiffin box from Dharaj Novelty Store but her husband told her to get it changed as it was too small. “About eight days ago, she went back to the shop and asked the shopkeeper, Prajapati, to change it but he said he did not have bigger tiffin boxes. She bought a set of fridge bottles and went to her scooter to get her purse,” said a police official. “According to the FIR, when she returned, Prajapati grabbed her by her hands and bit her on the cheek. She slapped him and ran back out. She then told her husband what had happened and they approached us with a complaint,” said a senior Nikol police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shopkeeper-bites-womans-cheek-held/articleshow/76862843.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Meerut||Delhi man tries to run over 2 cops in Meerut, booked for attempt to murder||MEERUT: A Delhi resident, who was driving a car in an inebriated condition, knocked down two policemen when asked to stop and sped away from a check-post in Meerut. The two policemen, a sub-inspector (SI) and a constable, were rushed to a hospital while the accused was nabbed after a high-speed chase on Tuesday night. SI Shyoraj Singh has sustained fractures. Amit Sehgal, a resident of Delhi’s Jagatpuri, was charged with attempt to murder under section 307 of IPC. The case was filed at Meerut’s Partapur police station. Station house officer (SHO) of Partapur, Anand Prakash Mishra, said, “Amid the high-alert after the Kanpur incident, policemen were checking vehicles in Partapur when they saw Amit Sehgal’s approaching car. They signaled him to stop, but he didn’t. He hit the two policemen and sped away.” “Soon after the incident, an alert was sounded. Sehgal was arrested at another check-post,” the SHO added. Sehgal is a resident of New Govindpura area of Delhi’s Jagatpuri, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/delhi-man-tries-to-run-over-2-cops-in-meerut-booked-for-attempt-to-murder/articleshow/76861757.cms||Piyush Rai
July 9, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Residents complain of shortage of supplies||KOCHI: People residing in containment zones in the city complain of shortage of supplies. As the major markets in the city remain closed, the shopkeepers in the containment zones face difficulty in replenishing stock. George P Korah of Panampilly Nagar Residents Welfare Association said that residents have to make multiple visits to nearby shops to check out availability of various products. “There is nobody to do home delivery. A good number of people living in Kairali apartment are senior citizens, and they cannot come down and take delivery at gate. It is even more difficult for them to go out to shops multiple times and check out availability,” he said. He also said that police have placed barricades in such a way that they are unable to go to other shops in the nearby regions. Shops function with limited number of employees. Those coming from areas outside the containment zone are denied entry to these places. “The supermarket which is kept open in the region has ran out of fruits,” said Abhay Kumar, a resident of Panampilly Nagar. He also said that even police personnel posted in the containment zones do not have clarity on what and who should be allowed in the restricted areas. Hima Jacob, a resident of Chakkaraparambu division, said that while supplies like egg, milk and milk products were not available at the two shops in the locality on Monday, they were able to buy these products the next day evening. “We depend on the two shops for supplies,” she said. Meanwhile, it is being pointed out that while milk trucks were allowed in the containment zones, other vehicles were finding it difficult to enter the restricted areas. Kochi corporation councillor M B Muralidharan said that the regulations are being implemented in a very stringent manner. “I represent Vennala division. The neighbouring Chakkaraparambu division is a containment zone. Supermarkets and other big stores in the region are not open. The small shops depend on the stock they already have. Since the restrictions are imposed for seven days it wouldn’t be difficult for small traders to manage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/residents-complain-of-shortage-of-supplies/articleshow/76862827.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
July 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Rapped for coming to work drunk, man kills co-worker||Times News Network Ludhiana: A 25-year-old factory employee killed his co-worker in Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, near SPS Hospital, on Tuesday night after the latter scolded him for reporting to work in an inebriated condition.The deceased has been identified as Devendra Singh, alias Bachan, 47, and the accused as Ajay Kumar Paswan, 25. The duo hails from Uttar Pradesh.Devendra was Ajay’s senior at a sewing machine factory. The two lived on the first floor of the unit. Division 6 police station SHO inspector Amarjeet Singh said, “Around 12.30pm, Ajay called up the police control room, saying his co-worker had been killed. When police reached there, Ajay said two men had come to meet Devendra. They were sitting with Devendra in his room and he was in another room playing games on his cellphone. Late night when he was going to the washroom, he saw Devendra lying dead on the floor. He then called up the police.” “The cops scanned all CCTVs installed in the factory, but saw nobody going to or coming out of their rooms. Suspecting Ajay’s role, police questioned him and he confessed to have committed the murder,” the inspector added.Ajay told police that on Sunday, he consumed liquor and went to work. “On finding out he was drunk, Devendra scolded him and asked him not to come to work in an inebriated condition. Feeling insulted, Ajay decided to take revenge. As an argument ensued on the issue on Tuesday night, Ajay hit Devendra with a blunt weapon on his face. He then strangulated him to death,” the inspector said. Minutes later when he realized what he had done and that he could get caught, he fabricated a story and called up the police. A case has been registered against Ajay under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.The police have apprised Devendra’s kin in Uttar Pradesh of the incident. He is survived by his wife and three daughters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rapped-for-coming-to-work-drunk-man-kills-co-worker/articleshow/76862841.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Meerut||UP’s government hospitals paying interning doctors just Rs 7,500/month, in Meerut 140 of them go on strike||MEERUT: At least 140 medical graduates interning at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College in Meerut went on a strike against “paltry” Rs 7,500 a month salary, which they claimed was less than what an unskilled labourer earns. The strike started on Tuesday and continued on Wednesday also. “We work for over 12 hours a day. Even then, we get a meager Rs 7,500 which translates into Rs 250 a day. It is even lesser than what an unskilled labourer gets. How does the government expect the doctors to work 12 hours a day on such a pay?” asked an MBBS intern on the condition of anonymity. On Wednesday, Meerut’s chief development officer and some other senior officials reached the medical college to convince the interns to call off their strike. “The matter of the low stipend of internship was raised three years ago. In November last year, the matter was raised again and protests were held. A recommendation from the medical colleges of UP has been sent to the state authorities. However, the matter is still pending,” said another intern on the condition of anonymity. As a measure to get the interns back to work, Dr SK Garg, principal of LLRM issued an order saying that action will be taken against those who do not join duty during the pandemic. “Other states have stipend as high as Rs 30,000. But, in UP, it remains to be among the lowest in the country,” said another intern. Due to the pandemic, the interns have planned to join work from Thursday. But they will go on protest again if the stipend is not increased in the next 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ups-govt-hospitals-paying-interning-docs-just-rs-7500/month-in-meerut-140-of-them-go-on-strike/articleshow/76861762.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 9, 2020||Goa||Crack down on all parties: Goa CM Pramod Sawant to cops||PANAJI: CM Pramod Sawant on Wednesday directed police to crack down on the party scene in the state and said specific instructions have been given to stop all kind of parties—both indoor and outdoor, reports Murari Shetye. “We have given instructions to all police inspectors to stop all parties that are being held in homes as well as outdoors,” Sawant, who also holds the home portfolio, said. The CM’s directive comes after videos went viral of BJP MLA Glen Ticlo attending a birthday party and one on the beach belt of Morjim organised by a Russian, which was attended largely by foreigners. Both the parties violated all norms—face masks or social distancing—which the state government has enforced in the state. On Sunday, Ticlo is seen attending a party at Calangute, while Goa police arrested the Russian national for organising a party at Morjim, who was later released on bail. Sawant had said he would look into allegations of Ticlo attending the party at Calangute. With public pressure mounting on Sawant to take action against blatant violation of norms and his inefficiency in cracking down on parties happening in the state, he asked police to take action. Opposition has also been targeting the government for failing to take action against the parties being organised in the state on various occasions, may it be birthdays, anniversaries at home or parties in restaurants and isolated locations by foreigners. While Sawant continues to appeal to people to maintain social distancing and to wear face mask, locals and foreigners continue to party by flouting all rules. Sources said people are holding parties at farm houses, cottages and luxury villas at isolated places so that they can enjoy without coming to the notice of the authorities. Even small parties like birthdays and anniversaries are being organised at houses and around 30 people attend such parties. Sources said this is not the first such party involving foreigners since the lockdown began. They said that in Ashvem, some foreign nationals had organised a party in a stone quarry. Another was held in Arambol, from where police seized some musical instruments. In April, foreigners planned rave parties in the jungles of Pernem’s coastal belt, but the attempt was foiled by Paliem and Arambol locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/crack-down-on-all-parties-cm-to-cops/articleshow/76863521.cms||Murari Shetye
July 9, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: 2 khaki 'moles' held for tipping off don & fleeing encounter site||KANPUR: After Chaubeypur police station was cleansed of 68 rogue cops, who stood mute witness to the bloodbath at Bikru village on covert orders from their boss, the two sub-inspectors, who fled the encounter site on the fateful night, Vinay Tiwari and K K Sharma were arrested on Wednesday. All 68 policemen were sent to the lines on Tuesday. The arrests followed damning evidence that these policemen were on the payroll of gangster Vikas Dubey and had tipped him off about the midnight raid. “Station house officer Vinay Tiwari and beat in-charge K K Sharma, who were suspended after the encounter, were arrested on charges of fleeing the encounter site and putting lives of cops at risk,” said senior superintendent of police (Kanpur) Dinesh Kumar Prabhu. “SHO Vinay Tiwari and sub-inspector K K Sharma were taken into custody and interrogated for several hours by STF personnel aftere their allegiance to gangster Dubey was established during preliminary investigations,” said an STF official. To recall, the slain DSP Devendra Mishra had shot off a missive to then SSP, Kanpur, Anant Deo, exposing Tiwari’s nexus with gangster Vikas Dubey. The letter went viral on social media on Monday. In the letter, Mishra sought action against Tiwari, but Anant Deo allegedly ignored the complaint. The letter was recovered from the DSP’s suitcase during scrutiny of documents after his death allegedly by his elder daughter, Vaishnavi. Soon after the letter blew up on the face of the UP Police brass, Anant Deo, who was DIG, STF, was shunted out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-mole-cops-of-chaubeypur-thana-arrested-for-fleeing-encounter-site-tipping-off-don-about-raid/articleshow/76863919.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 9, 2020||Meerut||Sexually harassed & beaten, say 10 kids from northeast rescued from UP ashram||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Ten young boys who were allegedly sexually harassed, thrashed and forced to work as labourers have been rescued from an ashram in Muzaffarnagar’s Shukrataal area. The children aged between seven and 16 hail from the states of Tripura, Mizoram and Assam and were sent to the district hospital for a medical examination. The minors were rescued by a team of state child care helpline and police on Tuesday after a tip-off. According to child helpline members, the children were brought to the ashram to provide them education but they were being made to cook food and look after animals in the premises. Kamlesh Verma, president of Muzaffarnagar child welfare committee, which recorded the statements of rescued children, told TOI, “They have made allegations of sexual harassment against the ashram’s manager. We have conducted counselling and sent them for medical examination. Further action will be taken on the basis of medical reports.” A counsellor who spoke to children told TOI on condition of anonymity that they have made serious allegations against the ashram’s management. “They said the manager forced them to drink liquor and sexually harassed them. They were beaten up and made to do menial jobs.” Deputy superintendent of police (Bhopa), Rajesh Kumar Trivedi, said a police complaint was yet to be filed in the matter. "We will take action on the basis of the complaint." All calls to the ashram went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sexually-harassed-beaten-say-10-kids-from-northeast-rescued-from-up-ashram/articleshow/76861764.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 9, 2020||India||Extension of EPF support, free LPG refills get Cabinet approval||NEW DELHI: The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved extension of Employees’ Provident Fund support for small businesses and workers earning up to Rs 15,000 till August. The decision has been taken to facilitate a higher take-home salary for employees and help employers make the statutory contribution, the government said. Union minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters that extension of the benefit will provide relief to nearly 3.7 lakh establishments and 72.2 lakh employees. The Centre has estimated total expenditure of Rs 4,860 crore for this. It will pay both the 12% employees’ share and the 12% employers’ share under EPF. The Centre also allowed 7.4 crore poor women to avail of three free LPG cylinders till September. Earlier, it had allowed them to get this quota between April and June. “PM Uday Yojana has emerged as an important pillar of India’s fight against Covid-19. The decision to extend time limit for availing free LPG cylinders under PMGKY will benefit poor mothers and sisters who have yet not been able to consume the three refills allotted to PMUY beneficiaries,” oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said. The Cabinet also approved extension of distribution of free grains and pulses under PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna till November to nearly 81 crore beneficiaries and 1kg chana (gram) to each of the 20 crore families under National Food Security Act. The food ministry said extending free ration to migrants without ration cards, which was being given under Atmanirbhar Bharat, was under consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/extension-of-epf-support-free-lpg-refills-get-cabinet-approval/articleshow/76864539.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Goa||As cases double per day, Goa emerges as hotspot for coronavirus||PANAJI: Goa is fast emerging as one of the Covid-19 hotspots as new cases detected per day has been doubling over the last fortnight. Data released by the Centre shows that against the national average of 558 cases for every 10 lakh people, Goa has 1,236 cases. In the past one week itself, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 5% every day, while the 7-day average growth rate for the country is 3.5%. Consider this: On June 23, Goa had detected 45 new Covid cases that doubled to 90 fresh cases on July 7. As on Wednesday morning, Goa’s total caseload stood at 1,903. The doubling of fresh positive cases over the fortnight is attributed to a higher testing rate. On June 11, there were 214 positive cases detected for every 10 lakh individuals. But almost a month later, it has jumped to 1,236 cases for every 10 lakh. If one looks at the number of positive cases detected for every 100 tests conducted in Goa, one finds that the positivity rate jumped from 0.2% during the May 19-June 1 period to 3.6% during June 19-July 2. But as on July 7, it slightly dipped to 2.5% against the national positivity rate of 6.7%. The WHO guidelines mandate a 14-day period helps measure the progress in Covid-19 control and a positivity rate above 5% can be categorised as a red zone. A high positivity rate also indicates that testing is not keeping pace with the spread of the virus and only those most likely to be Covid-19 positive are being detected. On the bright side, Goa has a significantly higher testing rate with 79,864 tests conducted till Wednesday. This means that for 10 lakh people, 51,860 people were tested. Pan-India, that figure is 7,588 per 10 lakh. At 60.75%, Goa’s recovery rate is also on par with the national average.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-cases-double-per-day-goa-emerges-as-hotspot-for-virus/articleshow/76863525.cms||Newton Sequeira
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||Slain DSP’s letter authentic, but did not reach SSP’s office: Probe||LUCKNOW: To cap the controversy surrounding DSP Mishra’s missive to then Kanpur SSP, Anant Deo, accusing station officer, Chaubeypur, Vinay Tiwari, of shielding gangster Vikas Dubey, the DGP headquarters had assigned the probe to IG, Lucknow range Laxmi Singh on Monday. On Wednesday, sources privy to the probe confirmed to TOI that the slain DSP’s letter was indeed typed on a computer of CO Bilhaur office by a lady constable, but it was not received at SSP Kanpur Nagar office. The report also says the DSP’s daughter made the letter viral after her father’s death. The report was submitted to the DGP. IG Laxmi Singh had left for Kanpur on Tuesday along with a five-member team and forensic experts, who seized laptops and documents from the office of Bilhaur circle officer for tests. Singh personally checked files and scrutinized documents in the office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/slain-dsps-letter-authentic-but-did-not-reach-ssps-office-probe/articleshow/76863926.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Kochi||Symptomatic people visiting hospitals a cause for concern in Kerala||KOCHI: Health department’s repeated appeals requesting people with symptoms of Covid-19 to avoid visiting hospitals directly continue to fall on deaf ears in Ernakulam district. The thoughtless attitude has been invariably affecting the functioning of hospitals as health staff in many hospitals have been forced to undergo quarantine when they come in contact with patients who are tested positive later. People with symptoms such as fever, cough, throat pain, breathing difficulties and loss of smell have been advised to call health workers in their respective areas instead of visiting hospitals directly. Five health staff in Indira Gandhi Cooperative hospital went on quarantine after they came in contact with a Kadavanthra native who was tested positive later. As many as 15 staff of a private hospital in Aluva are on quarantine after a patient turned up requiring emergency attention of the medical team. "The patient came with fever, requiring the attention of medical team. Besides, he had no travel history or contact with people in quarantine. After giving him necessary medication, we sent him to medical college for Covid test as we were suspicious of his symptoms. When he was tested positive, 15 staff of our hospital staff were sent on quarantine. Currently, a second layer medical team is on duty. Most of the cases being reported in Ernakulam for the past one week were contact cases,” said an official at a private hospital in Aluva, where more contact cases have emerged lately. A couple from Paingottoor visited many hospitals in Aluva as their fever didn’t subsidize. They were later tested positive. As a result, 20 staff of a private hospital in Karothukuzhy have been quarantined. Hospitals carry out screening before allowing patients inside. But those who come for other treatment also have been tested positive in the district putting a huge burden on the health system. A patient who came for cardiology treatment at Ernakulam general hospital has been tested positive for Covid. So 58 health staff have been sent on quarantine. Health officials fear this will cripple the system when more patients approach hospitals, which function in three layers in view of the situation. "Many hospitals now function with a second layer of a medical team. The system will collapse if similar situations, where people with symptoms come to hospitals directly and expose health staff to infection, continues," said a health official. However, senior district health officials said staff wearing PPE kit need not to go on quarantine as they are fully protected from any possible infection. “Those who come under high risk contact need to go on quarantine. Others wearing PPE need not undergo quarantine. The government has already issued an order in this regard to avoid confusion on sending more health staff to quarantine. But it is necessary to create awareness among people that they have to approach health workers instead of visiting hospitals directly,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/symptomatic-people-visiting-hospitals-a-cause-for-concern/articleshow/76862847.cms||T C Sreemol
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Schools teach digital hygiene to combat online abuse||HYDERABAD: From using tools to having ad free online content to sharing information through safer platforms, digital hygiene has become an integral part of school curriculum, especially for students between class 9 and 12. Online hygiene programmes have been inculcated as a key module in the curriculum. “We are sharing online videos through SafeTube, a free tool that enables teachers to share YouTube videos with students without any distractions or offensive comments. Apart from this, we have also taught practices to safely use social media,” said Seetha Murthy, principal of Silver Oaks. Growing internet access and use pose risk of online abuse, phishing, bullying, misinformation, internet addiction etc. As part of digital hygiene learning, school managements are teaching students various tools with which they can safely communicate and identify misinformation, report and reduce its spread. “We use Google suite on school domain. The admin console reports for spam over use of traffic monitored. We have informed all users to remove unsecured apps/sites,” said Skand Bali, principal, Hyderabad Public School, Begumpet. In August, the CBSE is set to train students on digital safety and well-being. Facebook and CBSE will provide a joint e-certificate upon completion of the session. “Since online classes demand more time on the internet, we have been constantly building important conversations with students and parents on mental health, online safety and online etiquette,” said Iffat Ibrahim, principal, Chirec International School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-teach-digital-hygiene-to-combat-online-abuse/articleshow/76862854.cms||Preeti Biswas
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt to appeal against single judge school fee payment order||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government will file a Letters Patent Appeal (LPA) in the Punjab and Haryana high court this week against the decision of a single judge in the matter of payment of school fee during the lockdown period. The issue came up for discussion informally during the cabinet meeting on Wednesday, after which chief minister Amarinder Singh said that the LPA should be filed before the HC this week, advocate general Atul Nanda said later. On June 30, a single judge of the HC had ruled that all schools were entitled to collect tuition fee, irrespective of offering online classes during the lockdown. In her ruling, Justice Nirmaljit Kaur had said that schools will continue to endeavour and impart online/ distance learning so that education is not adversely impacted due to the present or future lockdowns imposed due to the pandemic. While the court is set to hear appeals against the rulings on July 13, the Punjab government has decided to move the court for hearing by a division bench in the interest of all the concerned parties, including parents, teachers, staff as well as the school administrators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-appeal-against-single-judge-school-fee-payment-order/articleshow/76863539.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Goa||HRD index gives Goa 10/10 for midday meals||PANAJI: For the second consecutive year, Goa has received a perfect score of 10 out of 10 from the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) on the performance grading index (PGI) for its mid-day meal scheme. The state served midday meals to children from Classs I to VIII for all the 152 school days set as a target by the ministry, and covered between 94-98% of the approved student numbers. The PGI was introduced in 2018-19 to gauge states’ delivery under the scheme. The recent annual review of the scheme’s implementation in Goa for the academic year 2019-20 noted that “85,386 children (98%) at primary and 54,477 children (94%) at upper primary” availed of the mid-day meal on an average. Central government officials appreciated Goa’s initiative of transferring funds online to cooks and helpers of self-help groups and parent-teacher associations serving the meals in over 1,460 schools. “The joint secretary appreciated the state government’s good practices/initiatives viz additional contribution in cooking cost (Rs 1.63 for primary and Rs 0.55 for upper primary) per child per day,” stated the minutes of the meeting, where education secretary Neela Mohanan represented Goa government. Mohanan was, however, told that Goa should conduct a social audit in 2020-21 as recommended by the HRD, as it promotes a sense of ownership of the scheme among the community. “Social audit is collective monitoring of a scheme by people’s active involvement. It brings about transparency and accountability in government schemes. It strengthens decentralised governance. The state has not conducted the social audit in either of the two districts,” it was noted at the project approval board meeting. Goa’s implementation of the interactive voice response system (IVRS) from 2017 was also praised. The system is used to take live feedback from schools on the quality and quantity of the midday meal served on the day. The state was, however, told that presently only 55% schools are providing this data through the IVRS and that this figure needed to be improved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hrd-index-gives-goa-10/10-for-midday-meals/articleshow/76863534.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 9, 2020||Goa||Santa Cruz shootout was fallout of gang war: Goa cops||PANAJI: Goa police said on Wednesday that the Santa Cruz shootout last month was a fallout of a rivalry between two gangs — Boom Boom, led by Imran Bepari, and Bang Bang, led by Zenito Cardozo — trying to establish their supremacy over each other. Police said that Cardozo is the prime conspirator behind the attack. These claims were made by Old Goa police in a reply filed before the principal district and sessions court, Panaji, to oppose an anticipatory bail application filed by Cardozo. “The interrogation of accused persons, namely Sunny D’Souza and Francis Hadar, was carried out on June 23,” Old Goa PSI Chetan Saulekar said. “It was revealed that the incident was a fallout between the Boom Boom and Bang Bang gangs, operated by Bepari and Cardozo respectively.” Saulekar also said that it was revealed that Cardozo was the prime conspirator. He also said that on Saturday, an offence was registered against Cardozo and four others under the IPC in a case pertaining to them threatening a person to convince his parents and family members to sign a land sale agreement.  Saulekar said that Cardozo and another person abducted the complainant, Gaurav Naik, from his residence, and threatened him with dire consequences. Cardozo, in his application, said that the police stand has been that the incident had its roots in gang rivalries. The police had alleged that two men from different gangs had their eyes on the same woman and would regularly issue threats to each other, before things got out of hand on the weekend the shootout occured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/st-cruz-shootout-was-fallout-of-gang-war-cops/articleshow/76863537.cms||Murari Shetye
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||Vacant teaching posts, empty coffers fetch Lucknow University poor grades||LUCKNOW: Once a sought-after educational institution in the country, Lucknow University has been struggling on various fronts for the past few decades. A ray of hope, though, has emerged with governor and chancellor Anandiben Patel taking personal interest in LU’s revival and directing the state government to help the 100-year-old institution to tide over the crisis. In a four-part series, TOI digs into the issues that have restricted the university from making a mark at the national level. Lucknow University’s anthropology department is the third oldest in the country where acclaimed academics such as DN Majumdar, Gopal Sharan, and KS Mathur once taught. But that was in the past. Now, the department is in a sad state: functioning with only two permanent faculties — a professor and an assistant professor—despite eight vacancies. Likewise, six out of 43 departments in the century-old university are operating with single or no faculty. These departments are geography, home science, journalism and mass communication, Sanskrit, Urdu and Jyotirvigyan. In fact, one-third of the total teaching posts out of 517 are lying vacant in key departments like chemistry, physics, mathematics and commerce. In the absence of permanent faculties, LU has engaged about 200 guest lecturers for various departments. The crisis may deepen further as many teachers in departments like chemistry and physics are due to retire next year. In fact, four teachers of the zoology department will retire in the next session. At present, the teacher-student ratio in LU is 1:39 against the 1:20 laid down by the University Grants Commission. In some departments, this ratio is above 1:60. LU has about 75 vacancies for assistant professors, 60 for associate professors and 37 for professors. “These vacancies came up in the past decade but appointments could not be done. The fear of not scoring well due to shortage of teachers has been a major hurdle for LU to apply to National Assessment and Accreditation Council and National Institutional Ranking Framework,” said a professor. NAAC grading is based on seven parameters with total 1,000 marks, of which faculty strength is a key factor, particularly in teaching-learning, evaluation and research and innovations and extension. Fund shortage is another factor that has restricted LU from recruiting teachers. “At present, LU’s annual revenue is Rs 137 crore and expenditure Rs 250 crore. If all the appointments are done, paying salaries would be difficult,” said a retired professor. Teacher shortage has also driven away many meritorious students away. “I don’t want to leave Lucknow in the times of coronavirus for higher studies but have no other option. I would have preferred LU had its teaching strength, infrastructure and placement been up to the mark,” said Abhishek Singh. “Candidates applying for postgraduate and PhD prefer other institutes because faculty crunch in LU hinders guidance,” said MA student Ritika Khanna. LU teachers, too, are worried. “The university lost maximum marks in 2014 NAAC grading because of huge vacancies in teaching posts and promotions pending for decades. Even if timely promotion is done, it will motivate faculty to deliver 200%,” said LU Teachers’ Association member Vineet Kumar Verma. Vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai told TOI that due to financial crunch, they have not been able to fill all permanent posts. Hence, LU decided to appoint teachers on contract basis for both self-finance and regular courses. “The guest faculty system will be scrapped and money thus saved will be paid to full-time contractual teachers. A special cell has been created to expedite the process of recruitment and promotions,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vacant-teaching-posts-empty-coffers-fetch-lu-poor-grades/articleshow/76863929.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Farmer’s son logs 99.40%, wants to become doctor||JAIPUR: Amit Kumar Sharma from Gunsinsar village in Bikaner scored 99.40% in the Board of Secondary Education, Rajasthan class XII science board exam declared on Wednesday. Born and raised in his village, the son of a farmer had scored 97% in class X board exam and studied on full scholarship at Prince School, Palwas Road, Sikar. Living in hostel and away from his family did not distract him from working hard to get the desired result. “I am youngest among four brothers in my family and everyone encouraged me to work hard for the exams. While classes were going on, I used to revise everything taught in school after coming back. After my pre-boards, I started studying 10-12 hours a day to score this percentage. There is no short cut to hard work and it always pays back,” said Amit. He scored 100 in physics, biology and English, 99 in chemistry and 98 in Hindi. In total, Amit scored 497 marks out of 500. “After I completed revision of my syllabus, I solved last year’s question papers. I even took advice of my class teachers and was always in the company of good students. While preparing, small breaks are important to freshen up your mind. Do not fear, this is just another exam and just work hard,” said Amit. Dreaming of becoming a doctor and get admission in AIIMS Delhi, Amit has started preparing for the future. “I have started taking coaching classes and will give my NEET exam next year. I am from a village and it is a great achievement for me and my parents,” said Amit. Watch Rajasthan: Farmer’s son logs 99.40%, wants to become doctor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-son-logs-99-40-wants-to-become-doctor/articleshow/76863529.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Sanganer airport to handle international flights by December||JAIPUR: Here is good news for air passengers travelling abroad and within the country. After renovation, Sanganer airport by December would be ready to handle international flights while Terminal 2 would be confined for domestic operations. Even though the civil and other infrastructural works at the airport got a little delayed due to lockdown, authorities said that it would be operational after the completion by December this year. This has been done to decongest Terminal 2 of and utilise the Sanganer airport for handling international flights. “Earlier, it was planned to be operational by July. However, due to lockdown the work got affected. Now we are expecting for its completion by September and will try to operate from the Sanganer airport from December,” said Jaideep Singh Balhara, director, Airports Authority of India (AAI), Jaipur. Sources said the civil work at the Sanganer airport is in progress and the airport is going to get a facelift. “Sanganer airport, which had an area of 5,000 square metres will have an area of 11,750 square metres and 10 check-in counters, eight immigration counters each for arrival and departure, divyang-friendly, two boarding gates and other passenger amenities. “The use of two airports for separate flights will also enable us to handle more flights,” said a senior officer of civil engineering wing of the Jaipur airport. Authorities said that though due to Covid-19 the international flights may operate late, but the bifurcation of the two airports is a long-term plan for decongestion. The AAI officials are also in touch with the Jaipur Development Authority to plan the expansion of the road in front of the Sanganer airport. “The width of the road needs to be increased and we are in touch with JDA and other departments so that international tourists coming to the city get smooth traffic,” said an officer. Also, it has been ensured that the newly constructed building will get a heritage look.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sanganer-airport-to-handle-international-flights-by-december/articleshow/76863533.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Cabinet nod to 2 industrial parks on panchayat land||Chandigarh: The Punjab cabinet on Wednesday approved the setting up of a modern industrial park and integrated manufacturing cluster over an area of 2,000 acres on government and panchayati land near Mattewara (Ludhiana) and Rajpura (Patiala) respectively, at a total cost of Rs 3,200 crore. The projects will be set up at a cost of Rs 1,600 crore each over an area of 1,000 acres each. The industrial parks will cater to the needs of prospective entrepreneurs interested in setting up their ventures expeditiously.The panchayat land for the said projects would be purchased by the housing and urban development department for development as mixed land use.The proposal for the Mattewara project has been prepared by the industries department, and land belonging to government departments would be taken over by the housing and urban development department under optimum utilization of vacant government lands (OUVGL) scheme. The project site had been under consideration for some time. Since the housing department can raise finance and execute the project of such scale, the land was transferred to it.At Mattewara, out of 955.6 acres, 207.07 acres belonged to animal husbandry department, 285.1 acres to rehabilitation department (potato seed farm), and 416.1 acres to gram panchayat, Sekhowal, 27.1 acres to gram panchayat, Salempur (potato seed farm) and 20.3 acres to gram panchayat, Sailklan.The Integrated Manufacturing Cluster (IMC) near Rajpura will be developed with the assistance of National Industrial Corridor Development Corporation on 1,000 acres of government and panchayat land at Mattewara. Of 1,102 acres of panchayat land, 492 acres belonged to Sehra village, 202 to Sehri, 183 to Aakri, 177 to Pabra and 48 to Takhtu Majra.A spokesperson said the two projects would be instrumental in accelerating the pace of industrialisation and creating enormous employment potential to ensure the state’s economic progress.In December 2019, the cabinet had approved the creation of land banks in rural areas to boost industrial development in the state. For this, it was decided to give in-principle approval to amend the Punjab Village Common Land (Regulation) Rules, 1964.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cabinet-nod-to-2-industrial-parks-on-panchayat-land/articleshow/76863547.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Be ready to pay more fines for traffic violations||Jaipur: The state government has decided to increase the penalty amount on drivers who have been grossly negligent in compliance of road safety rules in the state.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, after discussing the matter with transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, on Wednesday approved the proposal for fixing the fine under the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act 2019 effective from September 1 last year.Giving priority to road safety, Gehlot said for the offences of serious nature responsible for road accidents had to be fined as per the amount proposed by the Government of India. But keeping in mind the interests of the common man as well as the low income and middle class, it has prescribed minimum penalty amount for offences of less serious nature.The CM said that protecting lives is paramount for the state government. Therefore, with a view to ensure compliance of road safety rules and to reduce accidents, a strict approach has been taken towards driving related crimes.He has appealed to the public to comply with all the rules related to road safety while driving to protect lives. Gehlot has also instructed the officers to take strict action against those who violate the rules of road safety and negligence in driving so that road accidents could be brought to a minimum level.According to the proposal approved by the transport department to the amendment in the Motor Vehicles Act 2019, if the driver refuses to stop or weigh vehicles and overloading the goods will invite a maximum penalty of Rs 40,000 and minimum Rs 20,000.For driving offences of less serious nature, the fine ranges from Rs 100 to Rs 1,000 such as jumping red light, defying road signs, breaking parking rules, unauthorized sirens or lights, no wiper, black films etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/be-ready-to-pay-more-fines-for-traffic-violations/articleshow/76863549.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Australia-born child with Indian grandparents not off customs: Punjab and Haryana high court||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that if a child born to Indian parents in Australia is living in the custody of his grandparents in India, it cannot be said the child has been removed from the native land or divorced from the social customs and contacts to which one had been accustomed. Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi of the HC passed these orders while dismissing a habeas corpus petition filed by a Kurukshetra woman, now an Australian citizen, alleging that her in-laws had forcibly taken her son into their custody. In this case, the couple was married in December 2009 at Panchkula. The husband belongs to Ambala, while the woman is from Kurukshetra. At the time of the couple’s marriage, the husband was residing in Australia. In July 2010, the wife also joined him in Australia and a son was born to them in March 2011. As per the wife’s plea before HC, her husband used to harass her for dowry and when they came to India on September 11, 2009, along with their son, her husband forcibly took away her son with the help of his family members to Ambala. According to the wife, apprehending danger to her life, she returned to Australia the next day. After two days, her husband too returned to Australia and got the school-leaving certificate of their son from his school in Australia. In response to her habeas corpus petition, the police visited Ambala and recorded the statements of the minor boy, his grandmother and other family members. As per police report, the boy was happily living with his grandmother and other family members in the joint family and studying in an Ambala-based school. While seeking the custody of her son, the petitioner submitted that her son was born in Australia, has spent his childhood there, has Australian friends and likes to study and live in Australia. "He was getting education in Australia which was better as compared to India. He never lived in India and has no social circle here. My husband did not care for the ordinary comfort, contentment, health, education, intellectual development and favourable surroundings of the child in Australia and abandoned him in India...," she had argued. The husband alleged that his wife was having an extra-marital affair and even tried to commit suicide in Australia after her break up with that person. HC, however, refused to go into this issue and made it clear that the boy would continue to live with his grandmother but she (mother) can remain in touch with him through video-conferencing. While asking the wife to approach the local court in Ambala to decide her custody claim, the HC directed the local court to decide the matter within six months. The HC observed that the boy was born and brought up in Australia but in view of the fact that both his parents are Indian it cannot be said that he has removed from its native land to foreign country where his native language is not spoken.... "Education of the boy (name withheld) cannot be said to have been completely interrupted and he cannot be said to have been subjected to a foreign system of education inferior to that of the education system of Australia. Prima facie, it cannot be said that the boy was disturbed psychologically,”observed the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-oz-born-child-with-indian-grandparents-not-off-customs/articleshow/76863540.cms||Ajay Sura
July 9, 2020||Goa||Goa to start plasma therapy next week: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: CM Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that plasma therapy for critically ill Covid patients will start next week. “We should be able to start plasma therapy next week. The machine for deriving plasma from recovered Covid patients has been ordered and will be delivered in three days,” Sawant told reporters post his meeting with health minister Vishwajit Rane. GMC will collect plasma from those who have recovered, Rane said. Dean of the Goa Medical College (GMC), S M Bandekar, has been directed to appoint special technicians required to operate the machine as well as a doctor with a degree in transfusion medicine, on contract basis, on priority, the chief minister said. Two weeks after they have recovered, willing persons will be called to donate their plasma, Sawant said. So far, 1,156 patients have recovered and eight have died. As of Wednesday, there were 106 symptomatic patients admitted at the Covid-ESI hospital, Margao. “We have all the infrastructure ready to store plasma. I have spoken to patients from Delhi who have recovered after undergoing the plasma therapy to understand their experience,” Rane said. The health minister also stated that all measures outlined in the latest Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s clinical management protocol for Covid-19 protocol, including Remdesivir, Fabiflu and Toxilizumba have been taken. The first consignment of Remdesivir was expected on Wednesday, Rane said. In another meeting held on Wednesday, which was chaired by Sawant, a strategy for tackling the pandemic in Tiswadi taluka was decided. Whether declaring a containment zone or opening a Covid care centre, the MLAs concerned will be consulted, Sawant said. Replying to a question, Sawant said that BJP Cuncolim MLA Clafacio Dias’ condition is stable and that he is not on ventilator support. “The doctors at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, were consulted. He is stable,” Sawant said. Dias and his family tested positive last week, and since then are under treatment at the Covid-ESI hospital. Rane said there is no shortage of beds at the Covid-ESI hospital and that asymptomatic patients have already been shifted to various Covid care centres. “If required, we can have a second Covid hospital in the state,” he said. He also stated that his department has moved a file to the government to explore the possibility of outsourcing some services, such as providing food to patients at Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-start-plasma-therapy-next-week-cm/articleshow/76863546.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM sets 2022 deadline for piped-water scheme||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has set 2022 as the deadline for the completion of all four phases of ‘Har Ghar Nal’ scheme under Jal Jivan Mission. In a video conference with Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Wednesday, the CM said all programmes under Jal Jivan Mission would be implemented in four phases and he would monitor the progress every month to ensure that deadlines are followed. After the first phase of the scheme in Bundelkhand, other three phases will be implemented in Vindhya region, areas affected by Japanese encephalitis (JE) and acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) and areas along the Ganga affected by arsenic and fluoride. “The CM informed the Union minister that work has started under 12 rural pipe water schemes in Jhansi, Lalitpur and Mahoba districts of Bundelkhand. In remaining four districts, work is expected to begin shortly. Preparations are in progress to initiate the programme in Mirzapur and Sonebhadra districts of Vindhya region,” a government spokesperson said. He added that the detailed project report was being prepared for areas affected by JE and AES and the implementing agency would be selected through open tenders. Shekhawat informed the CM that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had set a deadline of 2024 for the implementation of ‘Har Ghar Nal’ scheme across the country but efforts were being made to complete it by 2022. “To ensure the success of the scheme, it is important that UP sticks to deadlines and implements the project by 2022. The Centre will ensure that there is no shortage of funds,” Shekhawat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sets-2022-deadline-for-piped-water-scheme/articleshow/76863944.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: A renovation to retain an architectural legacy||KOCHI: A church with a legacy of 500 years and possibly beyond in Kochi is all set to become a model of heritage conservation as a trans-disciplinary project supported by archaeological researchers, architects and geologists nears completion. Once the project aided by PAMA, a research collective, involved in archaeological excavations in Pattanam, is completed, the Sts Peter and Paul Church, Venduruthy, considered to be built by Portuguese in 1599 and rebuilt in 1788 will become a living church museum, which will showcase the evidence of the pre-1599 and post-1599 architectural contexts unravelled during the course of conservation. It all began when Fr Alphonse Panakkal, vicar of the church, noticed some relics and architectural remains in the pits and floors below the altar during the renovation work under the guidance of heritage-sensitive architect Leo Francis. “The church has undergone a lot of changes ever since it was rebuilt. So, when in 2018 October, we decided to recreate it, we thought of studying the architecture of other churches in the same period. Two months back, when we opened the altar floor we saw these objects and structures that were not related,” said Fr Panakkal who then sought the help of PAMA to identify the artefacts and document them. A team comprising P J Cherian, Satyajith Ibn, Sidhartha Saha, Miriam Collins and Amrutha Solly cleaned, identified and documented the finds and started contextualising them. One of its important features is the post hole, filled with gravel which could be indicative of wooden church when the use of lime mortar, bricks or laterite blocks were not widely prevalent in the island. There are also three clearly identifiable architectural phases of the post-1599 architectural evolution of the present church. The finds include glazed pottery sherds and medieval roofing tiles known as kooyarodu. “We are planning to preserve these architectural structures in situ by covering it with glass. We also have plans for a museum," said Fr Panakkal. The altar area of the old church, which probably preceded the present altar is completely made of lime mortar and is above a huge laterite block with their five courses. “If you put modern material like cement and concrete, it is too strong for the ancient site and could harm its identity. The site has humbleness of our regional architecture and aesthetics and material usage. So, if in future someone feels that it was done badly in 2020, and they feel the need to work on again they would be able to undo it,” said Satyajith, who is planning to use nanocomposites to conserve the weakened church structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-renovation-to-retain-an-architectural-legacy/articleshow/76862860.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Madurai||HC upholds transfer of VV Minerals files to Madurai I-T circle||Madurai: The Madras high court has dismissed an appeal preferred by V V Minerals and upheld the order of a single judge, who had sustained the transfer of assessment files from Tirunelveli circle to Madurai central circle of the income tax (I-T) department.A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi said that V V Minerals and its associates were being assessed by the I-T department in Tirunelveli circle. The judges said that according to the I-T department, searches were conducted from October 25, 2018 to December 24, 2018 on 63 premises relating to V V Minerals in Tamil Nadu and various parts of the country and they have unearthed undisclosed income to the tune of Rs 2,262 crore.The judges said that pursuant to the letter of the director general of income tax (Investigation), Chennai, which suggested the transfer, the principal commissioner of income tax, Madurai, issued a show cause notice under Section 127 of the Income Tax Act. The notice stated that the reason for the proposed transfer is that a detailed, coordinated and centralised investigation is necessary. Subsequently, the files were transfered to Madurai central circle by an order dated February 19, 2019.The judges observed that the show cause notice has spelt out the reasons for the proposed transfer of the cases and whether the reasons given are sufficient or insufficient, cannot be the subject matter of judicial review. Citing that this is not a case of preventive detention, where the personal liberty of a person is sought to be stifled by keeping him in custody, the judges said that it is a case where the assessment files are being transferred from one city to a neighbouring city hardly 158km away. The judges further questioned what inconvenience can this cause to V V Minerals, especially when they have business and offices in several cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-upholds-transfer-of-vv-minerals-files-to-madurai-i-t-circle/articleshow/76863558.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet approves mutation fee hike to mop up revenue||Chandigarh: To mobilise additional revenue, Punjab council of ministers on Wednesday gave a go-ahead to increase the mutation fee from Rs 300 to Rs 600. The decision would help add nearly Rs 10 crore to the state exchequer.Mutation of property refers to the change in title ownership when a property is sold or transferred, which is recorded in the land revenue department.Meanwhile, chief minister Amarinder Singh asked the revenue department to launch a special campaign for clearing all pending mutations in the interest of landowners. He further directed the revenue department to consider charging mutation fees and expeditiously completing the documentation at the time of registration of sales to prevent unnecessary delays in this regard. As some of the ministers pointed out that several mutations were pending for years, Amarinder asked the chief secretary to look into the matter and take corrective measures.Justifying the hike, a spokesperson said the fees set by the government for revenue collection was very low in today’s high currency environment and the mutation fees was last increased in October 2012, when it went up from Rs 150 to Rs 300. With increasing expenditure burdening the state’s exchequer, the state government had decided to increase the mutation fee after this long period of 8 years, said the spokesperson.Most states charge a nominal fee for property and land mutation and the buyer must appear along with all the documents. Following the submission, the departments concerned conduct a physical verification of the property and then, issue the property mutation certificate. The municipal body in a city keeps records of property ownership transfers to fix property tax payment liabilities. This is applicable for transfer of all sorts of immovable assets. Meanwhile, the cabinet also gave approval to the Annual Administrative Report of the home affairs and justice department for the year 2015.BoxAAP condemns decisionAam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab opposed the decision of the Congress government to double the mutation fee amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Leader of opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema and farmers’ wing president MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said that after imposing special tax on diesel and petroleum products, raising bus fares, the government had doubled the mutation fees, exerting an increase financial burden on the distressed farmers of Punjab, terming it as an anti-farmers decision. Sandhwan on the occasion said that the state exchequer could not be replenished just by doubling the mutation fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-cabinet-approves-mutation-fee-hike-to-mop-up-revenue/articleshow/76863550.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Hard work is key, says Palkesh Jain who scored 98.80%||Jaipur: Palkesh Jain, a student of Rahul Senior Secondary School, Jaipur, scored 98.80% becoming one of the toppers in Jaipur city. Son of a factory manager, Palkesh gave credit to his family and school teachers for his success. “I don’t belong to a wealthy family but my father encouraged me to work hard. During school, I was studying six hours a day but after my classes got over, I stretched my study timings to minimum 12 hours a day. Students need to be disciplined to achieve anything in life. Consistency is important. Take help of teachers and other good students while preparing,” said Palkesh. He said that it was necessary to work hard, but not to get disappointed. “Set your time-table and solve previous years’ question papers. It is not necessary that everyone will do good in academics. Follow your heart and do what you feel like. Never take any extreme step while seeing failures. You can achieve success in some other field in your life,” said Pakesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hard-work-is-key-says-palkesh-jain-who-scored-98-80/articleshow/76863535.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Amritsar||Last Faridkot ruler’s eldest daughter sues sister’s children, trust||BATHINDA: In another twist to the long drawn succession battle, Faridkot’s last ruler Harinder Singh Brar’s eldest and only surviving daughter Amrit Kaur has filed a complaint of will forgery against 23 persons, including her sister Deepinder Kaur’s two children — Jai Chand Mehtab, chairman Mehrawal Khewaji Trust, and daughter Nisha. In her police complaint, Amrit Kaur has alleged that as the mental condition of her father was not well, many persons, including members of the royal family and office-bearers of the trust, took benefit of it and forged his will in 1989 to divest her of rights in the property, which is worth over Rs 20,000 crores. On June 1, 2020, the Punjab and Haryana high court had allowed Amrit Kaur and Deepinder Kaur 37.5% share each in entire property and 25% to Bharat Inder Singh, son of Maharaja’ brother Kanwar Manjit Inder. According to the controversial will, the maharaja had bequeathed his entire property to Maharawal Khewaji Trust, which is looking after the properties for the last over 31 years. Faridkot SSP Swarandeep Singh said a case has been registered at Faridkot police station under sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120B(criminal conspiracy).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/last-faridkot-rulers-eldest-daughter-sues-sisters-children-trust/articleshow/76863545.cms||Neel Kamal
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Pandemic blow to small private schools||JAIPUR: These days Aarif Hussain sells veggies and masks for a living. Though his earning is good enough to sustain his family, none in the neighbourhood knows about this. Aarif, who actually owns a private school, had to become a vendor to keep the money flowing after going almost bankrupt because of the pandemic. There are hundreds of such small private schools in the state which are trying to stay afloat at a time when more than 90% of parents have not paid the fees. Aarif said, “We have around 350 students at my Small Wonder School in Ghat Gate. On an average, we get Rs 12,000 per student. After the outbreak, we have not received fees making it difficult for us to pay fees to our teachers. I have started to look for alternatives to make a living or else I won’t be able to sustain.” There are more than 30,000 small private schools in Rajasthan, many of them are being run on no profit-no loss model. According to school authorities, most of these institutes received the last fees in March before the virus struck. In April, the state government announced that all school fees will be deferred for three months. Two days ago, the government announced that fees have been further deferred until schools reopen. Seema Bharadhwaj, director of Behror-based Sristy Blooming Buds Public School, said the decision of the government had put a dent on their survival. “The moment the government deferred fees further, a parent who is a government teacher and capable of giving fees messaged me ‘Le Mathe Main Maar’. I never expected this kind of behaviour from our parents. Our building is on rent Rs 40,000 per month and my bank balance is in the negative. Bank officials can seize my vehicle any time as I haven’t paid instalments. The government should not be one sided while making decisions and consider the situation of everyone,” said Bharadhwaj. Most schools have either not been able to pay teachers or have to laid off many staff. A private teacher in Jobner, Priya Sharma (a single mother), who was earning Rs 7,000 per month is surviving without salary and said if she wasn’t living with her parents, she would have to work at NREGA site for earning. Many schools have complained that with fees being deferred for around six months, it would now become even more difficult to get the whole amount in one go. Most of the low-cost schools are ready to give some relief in fees, but parents who are even capable of paying have refused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pandemic-blow-to-small-private-schools/articleshow/76863541.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Vadodara||NSUI locks down DEO premises demanding fee waiver||Vadodara: Upping its ante, the National Students Union of India (NSUI) on Wednesday locked down the premises of the district education officer (DEO), demanding that fees charged by schools should be waived off. Student leaders of the NSUI, the Congress-backed student outfit, locked down the entrance gate of the DEO office at Karelibaug, stopped the vehicle of the DEO and gheraoed the officer. Raising slogans against the BJP-ruled state government, the leaders did not allow the DEO’s vehicle to enter the premises for quite some time. “We have been demanding that looking at the current scenario where many parents have lost their jobs and business, the state government should announce a complete fee waiver of the first quarter fees,” said NSUI Vadodara president Vraj Patel. “Since, our earlier representations before the district authorities have gone in vain, we are forced to lock down the office,” he said. DEO U N Rathod, however, told media persons that such protest at the DEO premises was not proper. “It is a policy decision in which the DEO has no role to play,” he said. Following a state-wide call by the student outfit, similar protest was also staged by the NSUI leaders in neighbouring Anand district where the cops detained the leaders before they could lock down the DEO office. As protesters in Anand reached the DEO office and started raising slogans seeking the fee waiver, cops pushed them inside the police van.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nsui-locks-down-deo-premises-demanding-fee-waiver/articleshow/76861187.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Bikaner town teen shines with 99.6%||Shyam Sunder Sharma from Sridungargarh town in Bikaner scored 99.60% in the RBSE class XII science exam declared on Wednesday. He is a student of Bharti Niketan Senior Secondary School, Kaluwas. Hailing from a small town, Shyam is one of the top scorers in the Rajasthan. He scored 100 in physics, chemistry, mathematics and English while in Hindi he scored 98. In total, out of 500, he scored 498. As RBSE does not publish a merit list, there are no toppers. Till this story was filed, Shyam was the highest scorer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bikaner-town-teen-shines-with-99-6/articleshow/76863538.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Quit Centre over fuel prices, then protest: Capt to Sukhbir||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday dared SAD chief Sukhbir Badal to quit the ruling coalition at the Centre before resorting to street protests against the state government’s decision on VAT hike on fuel, saying that he should stop “parroting the lines of his political masters in the BJP”. Reacting to protests led by Sukhbir against VAT hike, with social distancing norms thrown to the winds, Amarinder said instead of putting lives of Punjab’s people at risk with political acts, the Shiromani Akali Dal president should pressure the central government to roll back the “manifold increase” in petrol and diesel prices since the beginning of Unlock 1.0 in the country. What made these hikes even more abominable was the fact that they came even as crude prices internationally were showing a remarkable downward trend, he added. Amarinder claimed that since 2016, the NDA government, in which SAD was a partner, had increased taxes by 900% on diesel and by 700% on petrol. “Prices of petrol and diesel in India are now the highest in the world,” he said. While all other central taxes have a 42% state share, taxes on petroleum products have been increased by way of cess and not excise, thus depriving states of their share and the entire revenue of over Rs 2 lakh crore from the 22 straight days of hike in June 2020, has gone into the Centre’s kitty, said Amarinder. He rejected Sukhbir’s assertion that his party would press the Centre to reduce fuel prices once Punjab government did the same. The state government had announced a single hike in VAT for fuel, which came after a series of daily increases in fuel prices by the Centre, he said, adding that Punjab’s VAT increase could not be compared with the huge burden imposed by the Centre with its spiralling fuel price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/quit-centre-over-fuel-prices-then-protest-capt-to-sukhbir/articleshow/76863561.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana Akalis, HSGMC welcome Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s move||AMBALA: The Akali leaders in Haryana and office-bearers of Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (HSGMC) have welcomed the move of Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa to start a movement against the incumbent leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), especially the party president Sukhbir Singh Badal. Akalis said the present SAD leadership , including Parkash Singh Badal, never took a stand for them in Haryana, backstabbed them and never allowed tem to grow politically or in the panthak affairs. HSGMC acting president Didar Singh Nalvi said, “The Sikhs of Haryana stand by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, as he has brought a hope of democratic practice in the SAD. We will support him in Haryana. Since the time Sukhbir took over as the SAD president, the democratic and party constitutional practice are being sidelined completely and workers are fed up with the arbitrary working style. The youth and senior leaders want a change and Dhindsa is bringing hope.” Ambala-based Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Gobindgarh said, “The Akalis in Haryana had a good base. But they are in pain as the leaders who were appointed as in-charge from Punjab, did not listen to us and imposed pre-planned polices and failed us. For about 20 years, Akalis base in Haryana was losing ground and leaders, like RS member Balwinder Singh Bhunder never let Haryana Akalis to be recognised, either politically or in Panthak affairs, and always silenced their voice with misleading policies.” Elected member of SGPC Harpal Singh Machhonda from Ambala said, “We have had a talk with Dhindsa and we appreciate his move to free SAD from Badal families as they have treated it as the party of their own family.We will take this movement ahead and talk with the sangat and urge them to support the side which they think is actually working on the principles of SAD.” TOI attempted to reach SAD Haryana chief Sharanjit Singh Sotha, who did not answer calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-akalis-hsgmc-welcome-dhindsas-move/articleshow/76863563.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Elderly ‘jumps to death at hospital before testing negative for Covid||JAIPUR: A 78-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the second floor of Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) Hospital, which is the main Covid-19 treatment facility in the city, on Wednesday morning. The man, suffering from asthma, was admitted to RUHS on Tuesday, after being referred from SMS Hospital. He was tested for Covid-19, the result of which came negative on Wednesday. According to RUHS authorities, the man jumped after breaking the grill of a toilet window and died on the spot though the health staff tried to revive him. The family claimed that it was due to the carelessness of the hospital staff that the elderly man died and have registered a complaint against RUHS. Cops are investigating the matter. The deceased was identified as Kailashchand Sharma, who was a resident of Jhotwara in Jaipur. He died around 11.30 am. Purshottam Maheriya, SHO, Pratapnagar police station said, “It appears that Sharma was first taken to a government hospital after which he was referred to SMS Hospital and then finally admitted to RUHS. On Wednesday morning, he apparently jumped from the second floor of the building and died. There could be various reasons for this and although his Covid-19 report came to be negative, he was probably not aware of this and the phobia got to him, but it cannot be said with certainty.” However, the family claimed that there was no reason for Sharma to take his own life and his grandson, Tapish told TOI, “My grandfather was admitted to hospital as he was having trouble breathing and though they administered oxygen at SMS Hospital, he was later referred to RUHS where we met him only once. On Wednesday morning, we were informed that he had died.” The family also alleged that it was sheer carelessness on RUHS’s part due to which Sharma fell to his death and Tapish added, “There is no staff to take care of the patients and in fact, RUHS administration told us that he probably accidentally fell to his death. We have registered a complaint against them.” Meanwhile, RUHS authorities have refuted these allegations and a doctor who did not wish to be named said, “The patient was suffering from hypertension and Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). He was admitted to semi-ICU ward which has all the facilities and adequate staff. In the morning, the patient went to the toilet and broke the grill from where he jumped.” RUHS officials claimed that they are also seeking an internal report in the matter. Sharma’s body was handed over to the family after autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/elderly-jumps-to-death-at-hosp-before-testing-ve-for-covid/articleshow/76863556.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Despite lockdown, spike in Covid-19 cases in Barmer||JAISALMER: Eight people were arrested on Wednesday for selling vegetables without permission from the district administration in Barmer, which is under lockdown since July 3. Two persons were arrested for violating lockdown norms on Tuesday. As many as 27 more people were found infected with the virus on Wednesday, taking the tally to 541 in Barmer. Despite lockdown and zero mobility curfew, Covid-19 cases in Barmer city are on the rise. One of the reasons for the spike is that some people are not adhering to the lockdown norms. In the past one month, 406 people were found infected. Barmer district collector Vishram Meena said strict action is being taken against people violating the lockdown and penalty is being imposed on them. Vegetable market was open at Vishnu Colony, which was operating despite the lockdown, when a team of district administration and police raided it. “Today eight people have been arrested in Sadar Police station under Section 151 of CrPC,” said sub divisional magistrate Prashant Sharma. The situation has turned worse in the past one month. Till June 7, there were only 105 Covid-19 cases in Barmer district, whereas on July 7, the cases increased to 514. In the last 30 days, the district added 409 new infections. The administration was forced to enforce a lockdown as a lot of people started pouring in at shops, malls, and vegetable markets without taking much safety measures to ward off the risk of getting infection. “The city witnessed spike in cases after the marriage season, which ended a few days ago. Now, there is spurt in number of new infections. In the lockdown, we are taking samples of as many people as we can, which is why, more people are being tested positive for Covid-19,” said Dr Kamlesh Chaudhary, chief medical health officer (Barmer). During the wedding season, while people threw Covid-19 norms to wind, the administration too remained a mute spectator and failed to control the crowd attending the marriages. Balotra vegetable mandi is the epicentre for the outbreak of Covid-19 in the district. Around 20 days ago, a father-son duo at Balotra vegetable market were found infected. Later, six more members of the same family and then over 100 were tested positive, who came in contact with them. On June 26, in Barmer, a vegetable trader was found infected, after which till now 140 people have been infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/despite-lockdown-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-barmer/articleshow/76863560.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Mysuru||Siddaramaiah: Govt failed to protect interest of people||Mysuru: Former chief minister and opposition leader Siddaramaiah said on Wednesday that he would take the fight against alleged misappropriation of money in Covid management to a logical end. The state government has failed to protect the interest of people in times of distress, as a result they’re leaving Bengaluru, he added. “The situation would have not arisen had the government taken care of people’s daily needs during the crisis. People are panicking after a spurt in positive cases in Bengaluru. The government has failed to give them confidence,” Siddaramaiah said in Mysuru. “After the lockdown was relaxed, there was a rise in Covid cases. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had imposed lockdown earlier, but it didn’t help much in the fight but when it is needed, the government has failed to take people into confidence,” he said. Siddaramaiah reiterated that the government should provide an account of money spent during corona management. “I will verify the records and let officials bring balance sheets to me,” he said. To a query, the former CM said, “When I objected to an alliance with JD(S) I was isolated but today functionaries are openly expressing their views.” “I came to Mysuru to rest for a few days, but it was rumoured that I have been quarantined. Therefore, I’m leaving for Bengaluru,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/siddaramaiah-govt-failed-to-protect-interest-of-people/articleshow/76862612.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hubballi||ASHA workers threaten to strike work from Friday||Hubballi: Close on the heels of the state government pacifying doctors employed on contract, who were assured that their jobs would be regularised soon, and resumed duty soon afterwards, ASHA workers have now raised the banner of revolt, threatening to go on an indefinite strike from Friday. From tracing contacts of infected patients to raising awareness about Covid-19 among the public, ASHA workers have been at the vanguard of Karnataka’s fight against the pandemic, and now, they want their efforts acknowledged. They want the government to provide personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and a hike in honorarium, and want their demands met before Friday. Secretary of Karnataka State Samyukta Asha Workers’ Association (KSSAWA) Nagaralakshmi D said that ASHA workers had submitted scores of memoranda to ministers, MLAs, deputy commissioners and MLCs. “But our demands are not being met nor have we been called for a discussion. As many as 42,000 ASHA workers have been visiting each and every household across Karnataka. We have been instrumental in reaching nearly 1.6 crore households, many of which were in containment zones. We have been deployed at fever clinics, for collecting swabs and have been working in tandem with screening teams. The Union health ministry too has appreciated the role of ASHA workers of Karnataka,” Nagalakshmi told TOI. Dharwad district vice-president of KSSAWA Bhuvana Ballari said that they were working without PPE kits at our workplaces, while the error in the data software had made uploading of data an onerous task. “We have been demanding that our monthly honorarium be fixed at Rs 12,000. Since the government has turned a deaf ear to our pleas, all ASHA workers will abstain from work from Friday till our demands are fulfilled,” Bhuvana added. Other ASHA workers Bharati Shettar, Annapurna Giriyappagoudar, Shanta Chavan, Prema Kabbur expressed regret over the decision to shirk work, but in the same vein, pointed out that they had been left with no choice to attract the government’s attention to their plight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/asha-workers-threaten-to-strike-work-from-friday/articleshow/76862370.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 9, 2020||Allahabad||Police challan 7.40 lakh people in UP for not wearing masks||PRAYAGRAJ: Police took action against over 7.40 lakh people who were found not wearing masks and realized Rs 7.92 crore in the form of fine from them till July 5. As per statistics revealed by UP police, the highest number of challans (169,308) against the violators were issued in the Lucknow zone followed by Kanpur zone (99,485), Varanasi zone (85,468), Bareilly zone (85,025) and Meerut zone (76,542). In GB Nagar commissionerate, the number of challans issued by the police was 9647 which was the lowest. Similarly, in Lucknow zone, police realized the highest amount (Rs 1.69 crore) followed by Meerut zone (Rs 1.01 crore), Bareilly zone (Rs 99 lakh), Kanpur zone (Rs 97.55 lakh) and Gorakhpur zone (Rs 86.75 lakh). The state has eight zones--Meerut, Agra, Bareilly, Kanpur, Lucknow, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur and Varanasi and two commissionerates--Lucknow and GB Nagar. The data revealed that a total of 20,847 people were challaned in the Lucknow district under Lucknow commissionerate and a fine of Rs 20.85 lakh was realised from them. Similarly, police had challaned as many as 54,632 people in Agra zone for not wearing masks and realized a fine of Rs 61.60 lakh from them while 65,857 people were challaned in Prayagraj zone and Rs 68.72 lakhs was realized from them. In Gorakhpur zone, police challaned 3,697 people and realised Rs 86.75 lakhs, 85,468 people were challaned in Varanasi zone and a fine of Rs 76.87 lakhs realized. IG KP Singh told TO, “Over 36,000people have been challaned in Prayagraj range which comprises Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Pratapgarh and Fatehpur districts and realised around Rs 37 lakh from them. The highest number of challans were issued in Prayagraj followed by Fatehpur, Kaushambi and Pratapgarh, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/police-challan-7-40l-people-in-up-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76860361.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||Farmers asked to use Damini app||LUCKNOW: Cane development department has stressed on the use of Damini mobile application which sends out alerts on the possibility of lightning strikes. Cane commissioner Sanjay Bhoosreddy said the mobile application would help farmers stay safe while they work in the fields during rainy season. “The mobile application, developed by Pune-based Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, is available free of cost on Google play store,” he said. The application sends out SMS and audio messages about the possibility of lightning so that the user may move to a safer place. Bhoosreddy said the department’s officials were directed to ensure wide publicity of safety guidelines among cane farmers and employees of the department. Under guidelines, cane farmers have been advised not to take shelter under trees, hilly areas or rocks during lightning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/farmers-asked-to-use-damini-app/articleshow/76863950.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav slams BJP government over poor law and order in UP||LUCKNOW: Attacking the ruling BJP over what he described as a rapidly deteriorating law and order and crime scene in the state, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday said the recent ghastly attacks on policemen have come as an open challenge from criminals who want to send a message across that no one can save the common man from them. “The state is passing through a phase of unprecedented lawlessness where neither the criminals who fatally attacked policemen have been brought to book, nor senior police officers who sided with the criminals have faced the music,” Akhilesh said in an apparent reference to the attack on policemen by Vikas Dubey and his men, in which a deputy superintendent of police (DySP) and seven of his subordinates were peppered with bullets and brutally hacked. Investigations so far have revealed that the gangster was tipped-off about the police raid possibly by men in khaki following which he orchestrated the attack. Allegations that a business partner of Vikas was hand-in-glove with former senior superintendent of police (SSP), Kanpur, Anant Deo, saw the latter being transferred to PAC, but no penal action has been initiated against him, though police station level policemen have been arrested. “No action has been initiated against the officer whose association with the gangster’s close associate is an open secret,” Akhilesh said. The most shocking aspect is that the local police had even removed the name of the gangster from the list of top 10 criminals of the police station and did not have his criminal history, he said. The former UP CM said while the Kanpur incident was still fresh in the memory of the people, in Aligarh policemen were attacked by miscreants inside Tebthu police outpost. In Sultanpur one Shiv Bahadur of Sarai Achal and Vinay Shukla of Rampur locality were done to death within a span of 24 hours. In Balia a PCS officer committed suicide alleging that a conspiracy was being hatched against her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-slams-bjp-govt-over-poor-law-and-order-in-up/articleshow/76863955.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wind power generation sees a sharp jump in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Strong winds accompanying heavy rains in many parts of Gujarat have resulted in a sharp jump in wind power generation across the state. The average wind power generation has more than doubled over the past couple of days.  The average electricity generation from wind surged to 2,092MW and 2,425MW on Monday and Tuesday respectively, as against just 883MW on Sunday, shows data compiled by Western Region Load Dispatch Centre (WRLDC), a central government entity. In terms of million units (MU), wind power generation galloped from 21.18 MU on July 5 to 58.2 MU on July 7. The generation stood at 50.21 MU on Monday, shows WRLDC data. “Strong winds accompanying rains, especially in coastal areas have led to a jump in wind power generation. With weather remaining cloudy, solar power generation has seen a drastic fall,” said K K Bajaj, a city-based energy and regulatory expert. Surge in wind power generation has led to a reduction in electricity generation from thermal (coal, gas and lignite) power plants in the state, say experts. The wind power contributed almost 20% of the peak power demand of 12,136 MW on Tuesday. Gujarat’s current installed wind power generation capacity is 5,691MW. Heavy pre-monsoon winds in the last week of May had pushed up average wind power generation to a high of 3,947 MW on May 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wind-power-generation-sees-a-sharp-jump/articleshow/76863585.cms||Kalpesh Damor
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||City student Ayush Goyal scores 100 in four subjects||JAIPUR: Ayush Goyal from Adarsh Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School on Kalwar Road in Jaipur scored 98.80% in Board of Secondary Education, Rajasthan’s Class XII science, results of which were declared on Wednesday. Ayush, 17, has topped the city by scoring centum in Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics and Hindi, while in English he scored 94 marks. Overwhelmed with his accomplishment, Ayush gave the credit of his success to his parents and teachers. “My parents, who are both teachers, motivated me to work harder. Every time I got depressed my parents asked to just make efforts and not to think about results. Teachers in my school were available whenever I called them to clear doubts. It is because of their blessings that I have achieved this,” Ayush said. Dreaming of becoming an IAS officer, Ayush will appear for JEE exams. While talking about his preparations, Ayush said that consistency is important to achieve anything in life. “Every day I used to study for two hours and revise whatever is taught in school. During exams, I was studying for six hours every day. Nothing can be achieved overnight, so we must maintain a routine. It is not a difficult exam to clear. Fixed routine and time table can help students get good results in board exams,” said Ayush.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-student-ayush-goyal-scores-100-in-four-subjects/articleshow/76863543.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Betrayed by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, backstabbed by Sewa Singh Sekhwan, Bir Devinder Singh: Ranjit Singh Brahmpura||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (Taksali) president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura has said that Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and his MLA son Parminder Singh have betrayed him and did not even consult him before holding the crucial meeting on Tuesday in Ludhiana. All leaders who were earlier expelled from the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had claimed on Tuesday that they had unanimously elected Dhindsa as the new president of the SAD by removing Sukhbir Singh Badal, in the Ludhiana meeting. Brahmpura, who is admitted in the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) at Chandigarh, told TOI, “I had even offered Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa to take over as president of the SAD (Taksali) and I was ready to work as a sepoy in my own party in view of the larger interest of panthic unity. But he rejected the offer.” At the same time, Brahmpura also said his own party leaders Bir Devinder Singh and Sewa Singh Sekhwan have also backstabbed him and have joined Dhindsa in the Ludhiana meeting. Sekhwan was one of the three founding members of the SAD(Taksali). Brahmpura, Sekhwan and Ratan Singh Ajnala were expelled from the SAD for revolting against the leadership of Sukhbir Singh Badal. “Dhindsa never told me that they are going to come up with a new party, but people close to them used to generally discuss that they should come up with a new party and project Parminder as chief minister face,” said Brahmpura. The SAD(Taksali) president said it was not a small decision that he was ready to step down as president of his own party and appoint Dhindsa as president, but the decision taken in Tuesday’s meeting at Ludhiana by Dhindsa’s supporters has come as a big blow to the unity of Taksali leaders who had common goal. Feeling hurt, former Khadoor Sahib MP Brahmpura said, “I don’t think there is any scope now for me to go with Dhindsa, as he had already taken the decision by keeping me in dark.” He further added, “We used to share stages for the common goal of reviving the principles of the Akali Dal but what kind of comrades are they if they keep their friends in the dark about important decisions.” Asked whether is it possible to oust Sukhbir Badal as the SAD president, Brahmpura replied, “It is not possible to either oust Badals or Congress from Punjab until all like-minded people, including small parties who think of the betterment of Punjab, come together in one platform.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/betrayed-by-dhindsa-backstabbed-by-sekhwan-bir-devinder-brahmpura/articleshow/76863557.cms||Sanjeev Verma
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||Cong members protest fuel price hike, booked for lockdown violations||Nagpur: Couple of days after BJP netas were booked for protesting against hefty electric bills, the Nagpur city police on Wednesday registered offence against Youth Congress activists and senior Congress members for violating lockdown norms while staging an agitation against the rise in fuel prices outside the residence of city MP and Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari. Rana Pratapnagar police station senior police inspector Bhimrao Khandale said no arrests have been made and added that though Youth Congress had sought permission to take out the morcha, it was rejected. The agitation by around 100 men and women was led by Youth Congress state vice-president Kunal Raut, city vice-president Dhiraj Pandey, Ajit Singh, Krishnakumar Pandey, corporators and leader of opposition in the NMC Tanaji Wanve, Praful Gudadhe and Kamlesh Chowdhary. Holding placards, youth Congress activists also brought a cycle rickshaw to the protest venue. A few women activists also performed ‘bheek mango andolan’. Raut criticized the Centre for raising fuel prices 22 times since the lockdown and likened the government’s act as that of extortion. The poor and the middle class have been severely hit by the recent hikes. Such a situation was not seen in any other country. All the countries were helping its people during the coronavirus crisis. The Centre has hammered the people when the country was facing economic slowdown. No government has hit its people so hard before, Raut said. He said petrol and diesel prices directly affect the common people but the Centre has not formulated any policy to deal with the economic slowdown and they passed on the burden to the masses. “No government can ignore people’s voice. Hike in petrol and diesel prices will have to be reversed,” he demanded. Pandey charged the government with profiteering at the expense of the people, saying its duty was to help them in times of crisis and not make profits out of their hard-earned money. “We have booked the Congress netas and party workers for blatant violation of norms that allowed assembly of not more than five persons. The party workers didn’t follow Covid distancing or wore masks,” said the senior PI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cong-members-protest-fuel-price-hike-booked-for-lockdown-violations/articleshow/76862907.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Three minor boys found dead in Karnal canal||KARNAL: Three minor boys died under mysterious circumstances at Binjhol village in the Panipat district. The bodies recovered from the minor canal in the wee hours on Wednesday. The deceased have been identified as Vansh (10), Varun (12) and Lakshay (10), all residents of Binjhol village. Family members of the deceased children had alleged that they were murdered. According to them, on Tuesday evening, the six boys went to a ‘bleach house’ near the village to bring thread for flying the kite. Three children returned home after being scolded by someone residing in the illegal bleach house, while the remaining three were caught by them. Since then, they had been missing. A massive hunt was launched by their families and the police at various places but to no avail. On Wednesday morning, their bodies were recovered from a canal. Family members of the victims put the bodies on Panipat-Gohana road and staged a protest demanding action against the culprit. The families alleged that the children were drowned in a chemical-laced tank and then the bodies were thrown into the minor canal. Following an assurance from the deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sandeep Kumar, they lifted the blockade and agreed for the postmortem of the deceased. DSP Kumar said the bodies had been handed over to the family members. Earlier, the FIR was lodged under Section 365 and after the family members alleged murder, Section 302 of IPC also included in this case. The investigation is underway. “We have registered an FIR on the complaint of the family members. We will look into the allegations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/three-minor-boys-found-dead-in-karnal-canal/articleshow/76863575.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||2 students die by suicide after results||JAIPUR: Two students committed suicide in Sikar after RBSE results were declared on Wednesday. They were from Fatehpur and Neem Ka Thana in Sikar district. Another student attempted suicide in Kotputli and is undergoing treatment. The Fatehpur student was identified as 20-year-old Suresh Kumar while the one in Neem Ka thana was identified 18-year-old Mohit Kumar. Uday Singh, investigating officer in the Fatehpur case said, “The student apparently failed in the exam. He was a science student and soon after the result was declared, the family found Suresh hanging from the fan in his room. After the result was declared, the family did not think that Uday would take such a step. We are investigating the matter.” Mohit’s body was also found hanging in his room. An official from Neem Ka Thana said, “The family has not been able to tell us any other reason except that he failed in the exam.” According to sources, both the deceased were science students and their bodies were handed over to the families after post-mortem. Karan Gurjar (18) in Kotputli also attempted to take his own life following the results. An official said, “The result was declared around 4 pm and the teen tried to kill himself around 5 pm. Fortunately the family managed to save him and he is undergoing treatment at a local hospital. We are also following up on the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-students-die-by-suicide-after-results/articleshow/76863555.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Child expenditure in govt schools cut by Rs 7k in last 5 yrs||JAIPUR: At a time when private schools are increasing annual fees by 6-10 per cent annually, the government has substantially reduced the per-student expenditure from Rs 17,582 in 2014-15 to Rs 10,579 in 2019-20, almost reversing the inflation cycle. The nosedive in the per-child expenditure may be a case study for a management institute, but it hits hard private schools in the state. The reimbursement for RTE is similar to the cost spent by the state on students enrolled in its schools. So private schools admitting RTE students have seen a per child loss of Rs 7,500 in the last five years causing a slight decline in profits of elite institutes while evaporating the thin profit margin of low-income and middle-income schools. The per-child expenditure is calculated by dividing the total expenditure spent on students from class I to VIII. It is calculated on the basis of salaries paid to teachers, grants for facilities to schools and cost on books. The major reason for reduction in the per-child annual cost is increasing enrolments in government schools, closure of non-functional schools, rationalization of teachers and technological advancements. “The state has added 22 lakh students in the last four years with almost the same number of schools and teachers. In a simple market analogy, production increases but cost of production remains the same. It has reduced the cost per child. It appears that it will continue to decline for the next couple of years as state resources (schools, buildings or classrooms) are underutilised and it can accommodates more students in its existing facilities,” said a government official dealing in finance. The government’s gain is a complete loss of private schools. “The RTE reimbursement per child is around less than 20% of the actual fees per child we charge from our non-RTE quota students. To fill the gap, we are left with no option to increase the fees or pass the burden to non-RTE admitted students. The way the state is cutting the costs, it appears that they will pay us token money of Rs 101 per child under the RTE admissions,” said a private school owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/child-expenditure-in-govt-schools-cut-by-rs-7k-in-last-5-yrs/articleshow/76863570.cms||Shoeb Khan
July 9, 2020||Shimla||Landslide, flood alert in Himachal Pradesh after heavy rains||MANALI: The weather department on Wednesday issued a landslide warning for Shimla, Solan and adjoining areas following rains in most parts of Himachal Pradesh. Most parts of the state will continue to receive rain in the day, the weatherman said. Kullu administration has sounded an alert following incessant rains in many parts of the district and issued advisory to residents and tourists to stay away from rivers in spate and from landslide-prone areas. The water level in rivers and streams increased suddenly following heavy rains here on Wednesday. The high peaks received some traces of snow overnight. With increase in temperature, the snow is melting fast, resulting in increase in water level in the rivers that are already high due to rain. Kullu deputy commissioner Richa Verma said, “A yellow alert has been issued in the district. People are advised not to go close to the rivers and nullahs. They should maintain a safe distance from the mountains and landslide-prone areas. The monsoon season has started and the possibility of landslides, shooting stones and floods increases,” she said. She added that meteorological centre has issued warning for very heavy rain on Friday and Saturday and landslides are likely at some places. Children and elderly have been advised to stay indoors during this time. Residents and tourists have been advised not to park vehicles close to mountain faces and to avoid driving in the night time. The administration has asked public works, electricity, irrigation and public health departments to stay alert. Officials have been asked to deploy machines at crucial points so that roads remain open 24 hours a day. Meanwhile, hearts of thousands of people living close to Beas river have started beating hard. Flood in Beas wreaks havoc every year in monsoon season. It damages both public and private properties. Many people shift to safe place around the monsoon. Cloudbursts and flash floods are other natural disasters that cause loss to both humans and properties in monsoon season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/landslide-flood-alert-in-hp-after-heavy-rains/articleshow/76863579.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||Mafia menace: Who will bell the cat in badlands of Uttar Pradesh?||LUCKNOW: Forty-one years have passed since the sensational killings of 21 Rajputs at the hand of bandit queen Phoolan Devi gang at Behmai village in Kanpur Dehat. Of the total 39 accused, 35, including Phoolan, have died, while four of them are struggling to survive. But, the case is still at the trial stage and the accused are yet to be convicted. The inexplicable delay in the conviction of the Phoolan gang for the mindless killings conclusively highlights the pathetic state of the criminal justice system in the state. Over 200 mafia dons and dreaded criminals have found their names in the history-sheets in 30 years, but barring a few nobody has been convicted. Most of them have either turned 'mananiya' (honourable members of august House) in Lucknow or in Delhi, or are still running their parallel underworld empires. In most cases police have not been able to ensure their conviction and throw them behind the bars. Former director general of police, Brij Lal, remarks: “Like land mafia, mining mafia, coal mafia and jungle mafia, there exists a kanoon (law) mafia which ensures denial of justice to the society and system.” Vidhan Sabha records reveal that in 1985, hardly 35 MLAs were facing criminal cases. But by 2017, their number rose many a time, reaching to over 148. “The day is not far when MLAs with criminal cases would have their own majority of 203 and they would form their own government in the state. These MLAs have clearly declared in their affidavits the number of crime cases in which they are involved," says a political observer. About 27 years back in 1993, the NN Vohra committee had observed that ”with the rising number of mafia dons and their presence in the Houses, the state is losing its relevance.” Talking to TOI, former DGP Prakash Singh, a Padma Shri recipient, who was first to launch a crusade against the organised crime during the Kalyan Singh government in 1991-92, blamed the SP and the BSP governments for the jungle raj and patronising criminals by giving them party tickets to contest elections. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is genuinely fighting against mafia dons. But unfortunately a former DGP proved a stumbling block for the time being. Now, things have changed. Police should use this opportunity to liquidate criminals. I don’t know whether any chief minister in future would honestly work against the organised crime,” he added. Citing an instance to establish that mafia dons used to enjoy full political patronage in the state, sources said that in early 2000's the high court had ordered then principal secretary GB Patnaik to submit a report on the flourishing organised crime in the state. In the report that was submitted, Patnaik had clearly stated that the “organised mafia controls movable and immovable property to the tune of Rs 10,000 crore in the state and politician-criminal nexus has to be demolished to end this menace.” The then CM, however, got furious against Patnaik and set up a committee under chairmanship of a minister for an inquiry against him. That report was never pursued by any government in the state, Patnaik said, lauding the Yogi government for taking genuine steps to end the politician-criminal nexus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mafia-menace-who-will-bell-the-cat/articleshow/76863965.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 9, 2020||Kochi||Man held for sexual abuse on minor girl in Kochi||KOCHI: Ernakulam rural police arrested a 76-year-old man for allegedly sexually abusing a minor schoolgirl. The accused has been identified as Thomas Chittuthara of Keezhmaad village in Ernakulam. According to police, the accused sexually assaulted the minor girl in Aluva police station limits six years ago. A case in this regard was registered after taking the child’s statement a year ago, said police. According to police, the accused has been in hiding ever since the crime. He was staying at a house at Kalletin Kara in Irinjalakuda. Police said the accused was picked up from the spot on Wednesday based on a confidential alert. The arrest was made by Aluva East SHO N Suresh Kumar as per the directions of Aluva DSP G Venu. Apart from the SHO, sub-inspectors Abdul Azeez, Reji M T, SPOs Suresh, Sajeev and Shaija were part of the probe team. The accused was presented before a magistrate and was remanded in judicial custody. Police said further details about the crime or place of occurrence of the crime was being withheld to protect the identity of the victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/man-held-for-sexual-abuse-on-minor-girl/articleshow/76862878.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Value democratic norms, says SAD||Chandigarh: As Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Tuesday claimed to have been unanimously elected as the new president of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), senior SAD leaders have now aksed Dhindsa to respect democratic norms and abstain from making false claims. In a press statement issued by senior SAD leaders, MP Balwinder Singh Bhundur and former minister Tota Singh, mentioned Dhindsa as “new SAD (Democratic) outfit leader”. Whereas Dhindsa had claimed on Tuesday that he had not formed any new party and had been made president of the SAD by ousting Sukhbir Badal. Senior SAD leaders said Dhindsa had not even participated in the party membership drive of the SAD last year. They added that according to the party constitution, subsequent to the membership drive and formation of circle and district units of the party, as many as 540 delegates were chosen. These delegates attended the general ‘ijlas’ of the party, which led to the election of Sukhbir Singh Badal as president of the party, said Bhunder and Tota Singh. “Both Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and his son Parminder Singh Dhindsa did not attend the ‘ijlas’,” they added. The senior SAD leaders also attacked Dhindsa for humiliating SAD (Taksali) president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura. The senior Akali leaders said instead of trying to mislead the people, Dhindsa should tell if he was nominated to the Rajya Sabha on behalf of the SAD or the SAD (Badal) as he was referring to his former party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/value-democratic-norms-says-sad/articleshow/76863566.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana receives 35% excess rainfall so far||HYDERABAD: Telangana has received bountiful rains in the last one month as the state recorded 35 per cent excess rainfall from June 1 to July 8. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad, the state has received cumulative rainfall of 245.5 mm as against 182 mm in the last 38 days. While southern districts such as Mahabubnagar, Nagarkurnool, Jogulamba Gadwal received excess rainfall (60% above normal), northern districts such as Adilabad, Komaram Bheem and Mancherial received normal rainfall. Hyderabad figured in the excess rain list by recorded 65 per cent rains above normal to the tune of 230.2 mm rainfall as against 139.7 mm from June 1. On Wednesday, city received light rains of up to 20 mm in some parts. Kalavancha in LB Nagar received highest rainfall of 20.5 mm followed by 15.5 mm in Telecom Colony in Alwal. Despite majority of districts receiving excess to large excess rains, IMD, Hyderabad has stated that the southwest monsoon has been weak across the state. “The amount of rains that districts are receiving on a single day is weak. But overall, southwest monsoon is pretty much active across the state. We can expect vigorous rains over the next few days,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, IMD, Hyderabad. Meteorologists forecast that thunderstorm accompanied with lightning will occur at isolated places across Telangana on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-receives-35-excess-rainfall-so-far/articleshow/76862901.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC reserves verdict on plea of Yadav Singh against CBI custody||PRAYAGRAJ: Allahabad High Court on Wednesday reserved its judgment on a habeas corpus petition, filed by former chief engineer of Noida, Yadav Singh, seeking release from the alleged illegal custody of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The CBI had arrested Yadav Singh on February 10, 2020 in connection with an FIR registered against him, alleging therein that he had awarded a contract in favour of seven persons, flouting all the rules including prevalent market rates, and thereby had caused big financial losses to the government. In the petition, it was alleged that CBI has not filed chargesheet within the time limit, which is 90 days. Therefore, either he should be granted bail or be released from the CBI custody forthwith. However, the counsel appearing for the CBI had informed the court that courts had been closed due to Covid-19. Since the Ghaziabad court, where CBI court is located, opened on June 8, 2020, the CBI has filed chargesheet there. Hence, the CBI counsel pleaded that the delay in filing the chargesheet was not intentional. Therefore, the petitioner is not entitled to get any relief on this ground. According to CBI counsel, the petitioner has taken the main plea of delay in filing of chagesheet, therefore his petition should be rejected in view of the above submissions, added CBI counsel. After hearing counsel for the petitioner and CBI at length, the division bench comprising Justice Pritinkar Divakar and Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav reserved the judgement on the petition, which will be pronounced later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-reserves-verdict-on-plea-of-yadav-singh-against-cbi-custody/articleshow/76860384.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Non-Covid services at Mahila Chikitsalaya from July 10||JAIPUR: Mahila Chikitsalaya at Sanganeri Gate, which became a lifeline for pregnant women who tested positive for Covid-19, will resume other services from July 10. A portion of the hospital will be dedicated to Covid-19 patients. Rest of the building will be used for other purposes. The hospital is attached to the SMS Medical College. The college administration issued the directions to reintroduce all facilities which remained unavailable due to Covid-19. Following the order, Chikitsalaya initiated the process to convert a part of the hospital into Covid-19 care centre. The non-Covid portion of the building will be sanitized. Due to pandemic, the hospital had stopped services like vaccination, Mamta Card, OPD for gynaecology and ante-natal OPD along with various investigations. Due to unavailability of services, patients had to go to Zanana Hospital at Chandpole as it is a non-Covid hospital. “The portion of the building which will be converted into Covid care centre has facilities of operation theatre, wards, lifts, ramps and labour room,” said Dr Shalini Rathore, nodal officer (Covid-19) Mahila Chikitsalaya. Chikitsalaya has played a key role in battle against Covid-19. The hospital has attended 125 Covid-19 positive pregnant women. The hospital is a lifeline for pregnant women who belonged to hotspot areas like Ramganj and nearby areas. It also came into light after the youngest councillor of Jaipur Municipal Corporation died due to alleged carelessness and following which the SMS Medical College had sent 15 healthcare staff, including doctors and nurses, to awaiting positing orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/non-covid-services-at-mahila-chikitsalaya-from-july-10/articleshow/76863568.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Kolkata||Xavier’s Univ among first to follow UGC exam diktat||Kolkata: St Xavier’s University becomes one of the first educational institutions in Bengal to follow UGC diktat and prepare to take tests for terminal-semester students by the end of September. This, when the university was ready to publish its terminal semester and MBA results on July 10. It will now suspend the earlier assessments and conduct a 50-mark online test for the end semester. With hundreds of students already bagging jobs and scheduled to join the companies by this month, St Xavier’s University vice-chancellor Fr Felix Raj has written to the employers, seeking extension to submit the final semester marksheets, even for MBA graduates. Several students are also looking to join foreign universities, where they have to submit their final semester transcripts within a deadline. “We had followed the UGC advisory, which was brought out in April, advising the universities to allocate 50% weightage to previous semesters and another 50% to continuous assessments. We had prepared our own formula, in which 50% marks were assigned to the previous semester, 25% on internal assessment and for the remaining 25%, we conducted exams on the virtual platform, based on online classes held during the lockdown,” said Fr Felix Raj. The evaluation was completed by June 30 and the marks were submitted to the controller of examinations. The university was ready with the results. But UGC’s Monday notification left little scope for universities to allot marks to previous semesters, as was prescribed earlier. “We will now have to scrap the 50% weightage to marks from previous semesters and take online exams on 50 marks in each subject. We had conducted 25-mark online tests earlier. So, together it will be 75 marks in online exams and 25 on internal assessments,” said the Xavier’s University VC. “The new proposal will be placed before the executive council, the highest administrative decision-making body on Thursday.” “The new circular says universities have to take exams for all terminal-semester candidates in offline, blended or online mode. Based on the infrastructure of the institutions, they can choose their mode,” said a senior higher education department official. He added though most state universities still stuck to the state-prescribed 80-20 evaluation formula, it was always better to follow UGC guidelines to have a parity among universities across India. About publishing results, Fr Felix Raj said, “We will make fresh announcements. Now, we can only conduct online exams in August since in July, multiple areas in Bengal will be under lockdown. We had thought publication of results would have helped students focus ahead.” Students fear the exams might be pushed back even further if lockdown continues. Some MBA students are apprehensive that their new employers might not entertain their request to extended the deadline to submit final marksheets. The university has written to all employers, informing them about the delay in publishing results and requesting them to either defer the joining dates or allow students to submit the final semester transcript later. The university has 600 terminal-semester students in UG and PC together. The MBA course has another 120 students in the final semester.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/xaviers-univ-among-first-to-follow-ugc-exam-diktat/articleshow/76862939.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man moves court alleging custodial torture||Ahmedabad: A man has approached the metropolitan court accusing Vatva police of engaging in custodial torture in a bid to extort money from him in connection with a betting case. A resident of Ghodasar, Pramod Shinde, filed a complaint against a police sub-inspector and three constables of Vatva police station and demanded action against them under Sections 161, 166, 323 and 324 of IPC. He sought punishment for public servants for disobeying directions of the law with intent to cause injury and brutally beating him in custody. In his complaint, Shinde has alleged that he was summoned to Vatva police chowky on July 2 in connection to a case of betting, as co-accused in the case had named him too. He went to the police chowky with a lawyer named Bhaskar Naik and a guarantor Dilip Patel thinking that he would get bail. He further alleged that the PSI demanded Rs 5 lakh from him for removal of his name from the case. His advocate argued with cops and there were counter arguments between the cops and the lawyer, who left the premises telling the cops that he would ensure that Shinde gets bail the next day. The guarantor too left with him. However, the policemen took Shinde inside and thrashed him. He was asked to fetch Rs 5 lakh, but he kept on saying that he could not arrange for such a huge amount. Finally, he was made to call Dilip Patel to bring Rs 20,000. The latter advised him that he should go and tell the magistrate the next day about the custodial torture. At hearing this, the cops immediately released him. He went to the LG Hospital, obtained medical treatment, got a certificate and then filed the complaint in the court through advocate S M Vora. The court is likely to take up his complaint for hearing later this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-moves-court-alleging-custodial-torture/articleshow/76863589.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Set your own house in order first: Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala to Bhupinder Singh Hooda||CHANDIGARH: Reacting to the statement of former chief minister (CM), Bhupinder Singh Hooda that Haryana had provision of giving 75% jobs to the youths in the private sector since 2011, state deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday asked Hooda why his government had failed to enact such provision during its one decade long regime. Dushyant said that there are employment opportunities for youth in the private sector and for increasing this share, the law would be enacted soon. The deputy chief minister was interacting with the media after hearing the public grievances at his party’s Chandigarh office. Reacting to the formation of shadow cabinet by Hooda, the deputy chief minister said first, the Congress must set its house in order and then review government’s performance. He added that Congress must show its 30 MLAs together under one roof. Chautala said Congress made tall claims of destabilising the government, but both Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP and Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) are working tirelessly for the welfare of the state in the last nine months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/set-your-own-house-in-order-first-dushyant-to-hooda/articleshow/76863587.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh brings policy to back startups||LUCKNOW: The state cabinet has given its go ahead to the UP Startup Policy-2020 to promote fledgling units in various areas like agriculture, health, power, khadu, education, tourism, transport etc. Its aim would be to ensure that UP is ranked within the first three states in the Centre’s start-up rankings, create 100 incubators with at least one in each district, create an ecosystem to promote at least 10,000 start-ups, set up state of the art excellence centres and create the largest incubator in the country in Lucknow. The policy will be valid for five years and provide direct employment to 50,000 people and indirect employment to 1 lakh. At present, the UP Information Technology and Startup Policy, 2017 is in place. However, there are more than 1,800 start-up units registered with the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade under the Centre and since there is no holistic policy for start-ups, it was decided to create an ecosystem for promotion of start-ups which would require a new policy, said a government spokesperson. UP government is already providing startups with a subsidy, and has started a Rs 1,000 crore fund, along with an Angels Network to promote new entrants in the field. An online portal has also been launched for incubation and promotion of start-ups. The cabinet also approved the principals under which the CM Shikshurta Protsahan Yojna or the Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme will be implemented. The scheme, under which students or recent school passouts will be given a chance to work in an industry of their choice and be paid Rs 2,500 per month by the state and the Centre, will be implemented as per the rules set by the Centre under the National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme. In UP, it will be rolled out by the department of vocational education and skill development. The implementation will be reviewed monthly by district magistrates, every two months by the director, training and employment and every three months by the principal secretary of the vocation education and skill development department. Expecting 85,000 people to participate in the scheme, the state government has allocated a budget of Rs 100 crore. Amendments to the Pharmaceutical Policy of 2018 have also been approved. Under this, the food safety and drug administration department has been made the nodal authority. To provide skill training in pharma units, the government will provide Rs 1,000 per month for six months over a period of five years for a maximum of 50 apprentices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-brings-policy-to-back-startups/articleshow/76863972.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 9, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Curbs to be imposed in Nawada from tomorrow||PATNA: The spike in Covid-19 cases has forced several districts to either enforce lockdown or restrictions in the coming days. While Patna DM has imposed lockdown from July 10 to 16 and Bhagalpur district administration for four days from Thursday, Nawada administration will keep the district under lockdown for three days from July 10 to 12. Restrictions were imposed in East Champaran, West Champaran and Kishanganj while lockdown period in Madhubani since Sunday ended on Tuesday. Nawada ADM Om Prakash said DM Yash Pal Meena passed an order on Wednesday. He said only essential services would be allowed from 7am to 10am and 5pm to 8pm for the three days. West Champaran DM Kundan Kumar has also ordered lockdown in Bettiah district headquarters and its town from 7pm to 5am from July 9. When contacted, additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani told TOI over the phone that district magistrates have been empowered by the state government to take action for imposing restrictions in their respective districts as per requirement amid the present Covid-19 situation. He said the DMs have been directed to issue local orders after assessment of the situation. On Tuesday, the home department issued a letter that DMs would be empowered to issue more stern orders than at present in central government’s Unlock 2.0 guidelines as per seriousness and local requirements to stop the spread of Covid-19. In the letter issued by the department’s special secretary Sunil Kumar, he mentioned that the decision was taken at the crisis management group meeting on Monday. Subhani said fines were being imposed for not wearing masks. “Vehicles are being seized if the occupants are not found wearing masks. Shops and business establishments are being shut if found violating social distancing norms,” he said. In East Champaran, DM Shirsat Kapil Ashok imposed lockdown from 6pm to 7am with exception to government and private employees on showing identity cards. He also ordered that all shops and establishments would open only till 6pm and they would remain shut on Sunday. No roadside eateries would be allowed. The order was issued on Tuesday. In Kishanganj, no shops are allowed to open in town area where large number of cases surfaced in the last few days. DM Aditya Prakash said essential services and shops selling fruits, food, milk and few other products are open. “Public transport is allowed but with people wearing mask. Restrictions will remain till 8am on Friday,” Prakash said. (With Inputs from Thirthraj Kushwaha in Bagaha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/curbs-to-be-imposed-in-nawada-from-tomorrow/articleshow/76861888.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||State forms committee to reduce board syllabus||Ajmer: Minister for primary and secondary education Govind Singh Dotasra on Wednesday said a committee had been formed to reduce RBSE syllabus for the current academic session since all schools are closed due to lockdown. The CBSE has already decided to rationalise its syllabus up to 30 per cent by retaining the core concept of subjects. The minister was in the city to declare the RBSE Class XII science results. Dotsara said in primary and middle classes, the committee will see which chapters are important and which are not. The committee will also look into the syllabus of secondary and senior secondary since no classes have been held in the academic session. The minister repeated no fees need to be paid till schools reopen. “Whether it is government or private schools, authorities will not collect fees from parents till July 31 or till schools reopen,” said Dotasra. He said after schools reopen, the situation will be reviewed. Dotasra clarified the state government was yet to decide when to allow schools to reopen. The union HRD minister has already directed that no schools ill open till July 31. Based on the guidelines of central government and after reviewing the situation, the state government will decide on opening of schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-forms-committee-to-reduce-board-syllabus/articleshow/76863562.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||97.94% passed in maths, the highest among key subjects||Ajmer: The Class XII science results has sprung a major surprise with 97.94% passing the maths exam while 95.43% clearing the biology test. Experts said students’ interest in maths, which is a difficult nut to crack, is becoming a trend since the last few years. Better scores in maths is helping students in national level exams such as NEET, JEE-Mains and JEE-Advanced. In chemistry, the pass percentage is 95.43 while in physics it is a little lower at 94.93%. Sources said physics continue to remain in the bottom among the core science subjects. The pass percentage remained at 100 per cent in Sanskrit while in English, the pass percentage improved from the previous year and touched 97.28%. English used to give nightmares to RBSE students 10 years ago, but it is now playing a major role in improving their percentage. Similarly, in subjects like Hindi, English, maths, agriculture science, agriculture, physics, chemistry biology and agriculture biology students scored 100 marks. But in Sanskrit, the highest score was 81. In information technology, the highest score was 85 while in travel and tour subject, 88 was the top score.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/97-94-passed-in-maths-the-highest-among-key-subjects/articleshow/76863571.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Baroda bypoll: Abhay urges party workers to ensure INLD win||Jind: Senior INLD leader and MLA Abhay Singh Chautala held a meeting with party workers on Wednesday in a private hotel at Safidon bypass in Jind about the upcoming Baroda assembly constituency byelection. Several persons joined the INLD during the meeting. Abhay targeted Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP)-Jannayak Janata Party(JJP) ruling coalition in Haryana for not fulfilling people’s demands during its rule of around eight months. He also attacked deputy chief minister and his estranged nephew Dushyant Chautala by saying he had deceived the public by making false promises such as increase of old age pension to Rs 5,100 per month. During the lockdown period of 80 days, the middle and working classes have suffered the most as their issues were not addressed properly, he said. Abhay asked party workers to focus on Baroda bypoll and ensure the winning of INLD party. Talking to reporters, Abhay said, “Today, no one is safe in the state, as the crime graph has escalated. Even police personnel are not safe. Several scams by the BJP-JJP led government, such as rice, liquor and now a panchayat scam, are being exposed. I would further highlight such scams in the assembly session to be held before the Baroda bypoll, astonishing every citizen and people who are in power.” Speaking on 75% reservation to the state’s youth in private sector, he said the government should release a white paper for the jobs provided by the present government in universities, non IAS posts and other higher posts. He alleged that then people will come to know that not even 25% of the people in the state have benefited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/baroda-bypoll-abhay-urges-party-workers-to-ensure-inld-win/articleshow/76863588.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Sewage diversion work ignites row||HYERABAD: Lake protection activists and irrigation department officials are at loggerheads over the ongoing sewage diversion work at Chinna Cheruvu in Neknampur. Madhulika Chowdhary, founder of an NGO, alleged that work was taken up within the full tank level (FTL) of the lake. “A contractor at the behest of irrigation officials has started filling up the lake with mud. When questioned, he told us that this was part of sewage diversion works,” she said, and added that tampering with FTL was against rules. Madhulika said Rs 22 crore was earmarked two years ago to develop Chinna Cheruvu and Pedda Cheruvu. “When the officials could not complete work on the bigger lake till now, what are they worried about on the smaller lake,” she sought to know. Chowdary Ajay Singh, a resident of Neknampur village, said the filling of the lake would make one believe that a road is being laid there. When contacted, irrigation officials said work was taken up to protect the lake from further encroachments. “We are laying a pipeline for sewage diversion, but have to stay clear of patta lands in the buffer zone. We will also lay a walking track,” said an official on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, some residents have come out in support of the irrigation authorities. Radhika Punjala, who resides close to the Pedda Cheruvu, said work is going on at a brisk pace at the bigger lake. “It is because of the irrigation department that some part of sewage water has been diverted, reducing the mosquito menace in the colony,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sewage-diversion-work-ignites-row/articleshow/76862935.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||HMDA amends 100-ft road norm for layouts||HYDERABAD: Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA)’s norm on minimum road width (approach road of 100 feet) for layouts and Covid-triggered slowdown have dried up its coffers, forcing municipal authorities to give up the norm and collect additional development fees for allowing layouts less than 100 feet. HMDA had proposed the 100-feet road norm to avoid traffic issues in the future and encourage planned layouts. The decision would help HMDA rake in Rs 100 crore to Rs 150 crore as thousands of applications were pending with the authority for approval for the past 18 months. The government has decided to collect between 50% and 100% additional developmental charges to allow layouts, which have less than 100 feet road. The new layout norms would be applicable for all pending applications and new applications. However, these new rules would not be applicable for layouts pending for final layout approvals. As per HMDA layout rules, all layouts should have minimum 30-feet (nine metres) roads. Without modifying the layout rules, HMDA had started insisting on 100-feet approach roads for 10 acres and above extent layouts, saying that 63% of layouts in the authority’s jurisdiction were above five acres and flow of traffic increased due to high number of dwelling units and vehicles for the past four years. The municipal administration department (GO No. 106) consulted traffic and transportation experts and came up with the 100-feet proposal. The government changed the rule. It said the charges over and above regular development charges and road impact fee would be kept in a special escrow account and utilised to meet land acquisition and road formation in future. When asked why the government decided to give up its own norm for planned growth, municipal administration principal secretary Arvind Kumar said: “Collection of road impact fee is incidental and very nominal. Our focus continues to be on developing road with sufficient width.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hmda-amends-100-ft-road-norm-for-layouts/articleshow/76862926.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Health staff stays aloof from governor, gap widens||HYDERABAD: Is there concern not just among senior government officials but also among doctors about governor Tamilisai Soundararajan’s visits to hospitals to take stock of Covid-19 situation? It appears so, going by the reluctance of the authorities of Gandhi Hospital — the nodal Covid hospital in Telangana — to allow the first citizen of the state when she wished to visit the hospital. Some time back, the governor had visited the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences, interacted with Covid-19 patients and the doctors treating them. The governor said she visited NIMS — where several doctors had tested positive for coronavirus — to express solidarity with the medical professionals as she is a doctor herself. She even said the government’s response to her letters on handling of Covid-19 had been lukewarm and implored the TRS government to follow the Centre’s guidelines by increasing the testing and sharing information with people on impact of the virus. That was enough for senior officials to distance themselves from Raj Bhavan. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar and special CS, health, Santhi Kumari gave a meeting called by the governor a miss on Monday. Eventually, the meeting was cancelled. That the state health department was also not happy about her visit to NIMS could be gauged by the officials’ attempts to dissuade her from making a visit to Gandhi Hospital. Despite her several attempts, a visit to Gandhi has not materialised till now. Highly-placed sources told TOI that she was keen to visit Gandhi Hospital first before making a trip to NIMS. “But, some ‘forces,’ including senior doctors, are opposing her visit,” an official said. “No one wants to upset the top brass, especially when there is a strong perception that there are serious differences between the TRS government and Raj Bhavan,” the official added. Not just us, many believe that the gap between Raj Bhavan and the TRS regime is widening. We also did not attend the meeting as we cannot afford to rub the government on the wrong side,” a top executive of a corporate hospital told TOI. “Remember, she was a leading gynaecologist in Tamil Nadu before coming here and taking over as a governor.She is concerned about the pandemic and health of the people. So, she does take extra interest in the health of Covid-affected people,” a Raj Bhavan source told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-staff-stays-aloof-from-guv-gap-widens/articleshow/76863594.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Girls outshine boys in RBSE class XII science exam||AJMER: Girls continue to outshine boys in the Rajasthan Board of Secondary (RBSE) Class XII science exam declared on Wednesday. The girls attained a pass percentage of 94.90 while boys were behind with 90.61%. This year’s biggest disappointment was that the overall pass percentage dipped from 92.88 last year to 91.96. This year the exams took place at the beginning of the epidemic giving additional stress to students. The girls may have superseded in the pass percentage, but they are way behind in participation. Figures say out of 2.37 lakh students who appeared for the exam, 75,339 were girls. State education minister Govind Singh Dotasra while declaring the result acknowledged the hard work of RBSE staff for completing the remaining board exams amid the pandemic. “Rajasthan is the only state in the country which conducted the remaining exams after the lockdown with large number of students and successfully completed the process of declaring the results,” said Dotasra. The Class XII science exams started in the second week of March month but was discontinued from March 20 because of the lockdown. The remaining exams were held in June. Out of the total number of students who cleared the exam, 1,68, 235 passed in first division, 44,577 in second division and around 5,150 managed to just pass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/girls-outshine-boys-in-rbse-class-xii-science-exam/articleshow/76863596.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Puppy mills: Dogs abused for pet trade, rising demand sparks concerns about illegal breeders||HYDERABAD: Leo was a dog who produced many Labrador pups, a puppy mill mother dog, who was used as a breeding machine and then abandoned by her breeders on the streets last month when she couldn’t give birth to more puppies. Open wounds, skin infection and severely malnourished, the dog was rescued and adopted by animal rights activists. The story of Leo stands as a testimony to all that’s wrong with the implementation of dog breeding regulations in Telangana and elsewhere in the country. While more and more people are seeking to add a dog to their family during lockdown, the demand has also sparked concerns about illegal breeders and puppy mills cropping up in city. Pradeep Yarra, an animal welfare activist said, “We rescued three Great Dane dogs from a breeder a few months ago. All the three dogs had infected sores and were malnourished. One of them who was found with deep lacerations on one of the hind legs had to be amputated.” Experts say that there is a need for stricter implementation of the dog breeding regulations in the state . “In 2017, the Centre notified dog breeding and marketing rules which brought in provisions that address the welfare issues in this business but there has not been much effort towards its implementation,” said Shreya Paropakari of HSI. On Wednesday, after a pet owner took to social media saying she lost her puppy a week after she bought it from a local breeder, experts said if someone is buying a dog from the breeder or a pet shop, it is inevitable that the dog is going to come to you with some disease . “It is also impossible that you get a health puppy from a pet shop or a breeder due to the conditions in which the parents are reared in,” said Panneeru Teja, a canine behaviorist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/puppy-mills-dogs-abused-for-pet-trade-rising-demand-sparks-concerns-about-illegal-breeders/articleshow/76862950.cms||Moulika.KV
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||PM job scheme takes 10-time leap over MNREGS with 10 crore man-days||LUCKNOW: More than a fortnight after its launch by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the ambitious PM Gareeb Kalyan Rozgar Yojana (PM-GKR) is set to generate jobs of more than 10 crore man-days with an estimated spend of Rs 2,800 crore in Uttar Pradesh. Conceptualised to provide employment to migrants forced to return to their villages, following the pandemic-triggered lockdown, the PM-GKR scheme takes a 10-time leap over the original job-spinner — Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) — which aims to create jobs of 1 crore man-days in the ongoing season. The rural development department, which hammered out the blueprint for implementation of the scheme, envisages implementation in 31 districts in at least 11 sectors, including water conservation, harvesting, plantation, digging farm ponds, construction of cattle and goat sheds, digging wells, anganwadi centres, vermicomposting, horticulture and solid and liquid waste management. The proposal entails 1.9 lakh projects with a maximum of 54,672 in water conservation, followed by 32,560 in plantation work. The blueprint accessed by TOI states maximum of 60 lakh man-days would be generated in Siddharthnagar district of east UP. Data shows the state government would be spending more than Rs166 crore in implementing projects under the scheme in Siddharthnagar. Sitapur district in central UP follows with more than 59 lakh man-days. Other districts in line are Hardoi and Basti with 55 lakh and 50 lakh man-days respectively. Kushinagar tops the chart in water conservation and harvesting with 3,416 projects. This is followed by Maharajganj (2,728), Hardoi (2723) and Gorakhpur (2376). Among plantation works, maximum projects have been bagged by Jaunpur (4,311) followed by Azamgarh (3,970). Likewise, maximum number of 930 projects related to digging farm ponds have been allocated from Azamgarh, followed by neighbouring districts of Ghazipur, where as many as 449 farm ponds would be dug. The scheme also envisages construction of over 22,000 cattle sheds, of which the maximum are proposed to be constructed in Sitapur (2437), followed by Azamgarh (2208). The scheme, however, does not give emphasis on digging wells, proposing only 15 wells of which the maximum has been proposed in Amethi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pm-job-scheme-takes-10-time-leap-over-mnregs-with-10cr-man-days/articleshow/76863969.cms||Pankaj Shah
July 9, 2020||Goa||Monsoon surplus hits 26% in Goa||PANAJI: As rains continue to pound Goa, the state’s monsoon surplus has now hit 26%. The India meteorological department (IMD) has attributed this to weather systems that prevailed from the beginning of the season this year. “When such systems prevail, the amount of rainfall exceeds its normal value. This is how we have received extra rainfall this year,” IMD said. While 26% is the average surplus rainfall this season for the state, North Goa has seen 30% and South Goa 22% surplus. The systems that helped this year’s surplus are cyclone Nisarga, trough formations in the Arabian Sea and other circulations that prevailed over the Konkan coast. The state has so far received 1429.8mm (over 56 inches) of rain so far. Over the years, Goa has witnessed monsoons wherein the initial month has poor rainfall but it catches up in the later months. One such example was 2019, when the onset of monsoon was delayed by two weeks. Last year, the monsoon arrived on June 20, leading to a deficit of 14%. However, August and September made up for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monsoon-surplus-hits-26-in-state/articleshow/76864059.cms||Nida Sayed
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt issues revised guidelines||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government on Wednesday issued revised guidelines for online applications for National Awards to Teachers 2019. A spokesperson of the education department said teachers could register on http://mhrd.gov.in and http://nationalawardstoteachers.mhrd.gov.in by July 11. A district selection committee would be constituted in each district to evaluate the candidates. The district selection committee will shortlist three candidates and send them to the state selection committee by July 21. Shortlisted candidates will then have to submit vigilance clearance behaviour and conduct certificates. As per the guidelines of MHRD, certificates will be printed out from the online portal and will be re-uploaded on the portal after being signed by all the members. The chairperson of the state selection committee will be secretary education. The committee will also include a representative of the central government, director education (member secretary), director of SCERT. (member) and state MIS in charge (technical assistant). The state committee will send names of six candidates to the national jury by July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-issues-revised-guidelines/articleshow/76863601.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: CBI says can’t share status report as it’s internal communication with HC||CHANDIGARH: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday stated in the special CBI court that it cannot share any information with Punjab Police in connection with the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case registered against former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini. In its reply to an additional application moved by Punjab Police, the probe agency stated that it does not possess any record as it had weeded out record of old cases. On the subject of status report which the Punjab and Haryana high court returned to it in 2016, CBI stated it was an “internal communication” between the probe agency and high court, and its record could not be shared at all. Punjab Police has sought to file its reply, following which the matter was adjourned. It will come up for hearing on July 14. CBI also questioned the jurisdiction of the application moved by Punjab Police, saying the case against Saini had been registered in Mohali, but Punjab POlice moved the application in the Chandigarh court of CBI. Refuting CBI’s claim of not having any record of the 29-year-old case, Punjab Police in the new application had earlier argued that the probe agency was returned the status report by the high court in the same case in 2016. Police had on June 6 moved the CBI court in Chandigarh, seeking preliminary inquiry record of the agency in the case against Saini, but the CBI stated it does not have any record in such an old case, as the same was weeded out as per its policy. On June 8, Punjab Police in its additional application had asked the CBI how it could say the case was old and it did not have the record when the high court had returned the status report of the case to it on January 22, 2016 — just a little over four years ago. At this stage, the CBI prosecutor had sought time to file its reply. Earlier, after Punjab Police sought previous records, CBI had stated though it did registered the FIR in 2008, on the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court and conducted a preliminary inquiry, the FIR was quashed by the Supreme Court on technical grounds in 2011. As the CBI keeps record of old cases for only five years, it had been weeded out the same. A new FIR was registered on May 6 in Mohali’s Mataur police station on a complaint by the victim’s brother, Palwinder Singh Multani, over the alleged abduction of Balwant Singh Multani, son of a former IAS officer, in 1991. The Mohali court has granted anticipatory bail to Saini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cbi-says-cant-share-status-report-as-its-internal-communication-with-hc/articleshow/76863595.cms||Neha Sharma
July 9, 2020||Goa||IIT protest: Three detained for holding press conference||VALPOI: Two senior citizens and one youth from Shel-Melauli in Sattari taluka were detained by the Valpoi police on Wednesday for organising a press conference to protest against the proposed construction of an IIT in their village. They were later released. Villagers alleged police acted under political pressure. They claimed police themselves had told them earlier in the day that only four people would be permitted to address the media. However, just as the press conference was about to begin at a temple in the village, police buses arrived at the spot. A team led by Valpoi police inspector Sagar Ekoskar ordered the villagers to refrain from speaking to reporters, they alleged. Police also removed the banner that was put up ahead of the press conference and escorted two senior citizens and one youth to a police vehicle despite fervent pleas to let them go, the villagers said. They were taken to the Valpoi police station and instructed to seek permission before organising any gathering in the future. Valpoi police said no criminal complaint was filed against the trio and that they were subsequently released. “Politicians are trying to construct an IIT over lakhs of square metres of verdant land, but we will not give them even one square metre. We will not allow them to destroy the environment. We will fight till the end,” Shubham Shivolkar, one of the detainees, said. “We’ll look into the matter and find out the facts”, said SP (North Goa) Utkrisht Prasoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iit-protest-three-detained-for-holding-press-conference/articleshow/76863603.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Delhi||Active Covid-19 cases down to 25% in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 2,033 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday taking the total count in the state to 1,04,864. The number of fatalities in the past 24 hours was reported to be 48. With this, the state’s death toll has reached 3,213. As many as 78,199 (75%) of total Covid-19 patients reported till date have recovered from the disease, the latest data shared by Delhi government showed. This includes 3,982 Covid-19 patients who recovered in the past 24 hours. The reduction in active cases has led to further drop in bed occupancy in the Covid hospitals. Of the 15,096 beds available, only 4,859 (32%) were occupied on Wednesday, while remaining 10,237 were vacant. In the Covid care centres, where asymptomatic and mild cases were kept in isolation, only 22% beds were occupied. Delhi has 7,866 beds for isolation at various Covid care centres. Of these, the state health department said, only 1,758 were occupied. In the Covid health centres, where basic medical facilities were available to treat mild cases, the occupancy rate reduced to 26%. As many as 14,661 patients, 63% of total active cases, were recuperating under home isolation, the government said. The demand for ventilator beds, which reached over 70% last week, reduced to 48%. At least 442 of the 955 ventilator beds were vacant, revealed the latest update on bed availability in the city hospitals. Senior doctors manning the Covid facilities said there was less panic. “Easy availability of testing facilities, vacant beds in the hospitals and the pouring reports about increased recovery rate have certainly boosted public confidence. However, we always tell everyone to continue following physical distancing and wear masks at all times,” said a doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital. The continued deaths due to the disease, however, remained a concern. In many cases, it was seen that administering plasma therapy helped reduce the risk of complications in the patients. Therefore, the state government has been pushing for more people who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate their plasma to save others. An order has been issued to all the Covid hospitals in Delhi to obtain feedback of patients and their willingness to donate plasma at the time of discharge. Also, the hospitals have been asked to display a flex board of 12X10ft at the entry gate with information related to plasma donation. Watch Delhi reports active COVID-19 cases down to 25%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/active-cases-down-to-25-in-capital/articleshow/76863612.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||PSI seeks bail fearing damage to her reputation||Ahmedabad: The woman police sub-inspector, Shweta Jadeja, who was arrested in an alleged graft case, sought bail from the city sessions court on Wednesday. She claimed that she is a reputed person of her village, and if she is not released on bail, her reputation will be damaged. Jadeja was sent to judicial custody by a special anti-corruption court on Tuesday by rejecting the crime branch’s demand for further remand, on charges of accepting a bribe of Rs 20 lakh from a businessman Kenil Shah, a rape accused, and his brother for not booking them under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA). She was serving as a PSI with the Mahila Police Station (West). Claiming innocence, Jadeja contended that she had forwarded a proposal of booking Shah under PASA way back in March. This offence is alleged to have taken place in February and then in June. The inconstancies in the complaint create doubt on its authenticity. Jadeja was arrested last week after the police received a complaint against her on June 26 that she had already extorted Rs 20 lakh in February and Rs 15 lakh recently from the complainants. They were allegedly made to pay the money through an angadia firm to one Jayubha in Jamjodhpur. Moreover, promising to abide by all conditions if granted bail, Jadeja has contended in her plea, “The applicant is a reputed resident of her village, and if she is not released on bail, her reputation in his village would be hampered, and the her whole family will be at peril.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/psi-seeks-bail-fearing-damage-to-her-reputation/articleshow/76863598.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||BJP women corporators’ silent protest against Mundhe||Nagpur: Over 40 BJP women corporators on Wednesday staged a silent protest against municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe for his alleged harassment of Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Ltd (NSSCDCL) company secretary Bhanupriya Thakur by denying her maternity benefits and humiliating her. The silent sit-in protest was led by deputy mayor Manisha Kothe and senior corporators including deputy party leader Divya Dhurde, Pragati Patil, women and children welfare committee chairperson Sangita Girhe in the new administrative building of the NMC in Civil Lines. Former mayors and corporators Nanda Jichkar and Maya Iwnate did not participate. Kothe told TOI Mundhe should tender an unconditional apology to Thakur while Pragati Patil wondered why the state home minister Anil Deshmukh was not taking any action against Mundhe. “What message is the Maha Vikas Aghadi government wanting to give by protecting an officer who is facing charges of harassing and humiliating a woman colleague,” she asked. On July 6, Mundhe had received a show cause notice from National Commission for Women (NCW) about the issue. According to the deputy mayor, it was not the first case with NCW against Mundhe. In the past too he had insulted women colleagues, she alleged. Citing an example of inhuman behaviour of Mundhe with Thakur, the deputy mayor claimed that the commissioner had given wrong and misguiding information to the directors of the NSSCDCL and many times called her to his cabin and spoken very harshly and insulted in front of other employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-women-corporators-silent-protest-against-mundhe/articleshow/76862954.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 9, 2020||Ajmer||Girls outshine boys in RBSE class XII science exam||AJMER: Girls continue to outshine boys in the Rajasthan Board of Secondary (RBSE) Class XII science exam declared on Wednesday. The girls attained a pass percentage of 94.90 while boys were behind with 90.61%. This year’s biggest disappointment was that the overall pass percentage dipped from 92.88 last year to 91.96. This year the exams took place at the beginning of the epidemic giving additional stress to students. The girls may have superseded in the pass percentage, but they are way behind in participation. Figures say out of 2.37 lakh students who appeared for the exam, 75,339 were girls. State education minister Govind Singh Dotasra while declaring the result acknowledged the hard work of RBSE staff for completing the remaining board exams amid the pandemic. “Rajasthan is the only state in the country which conducted the remaining exams after the lockdown with large number of students and successfully completed the process of declaring the results,” said Dotasra. The Class XII science exams started in the second week of March month but was discontinued from March 20 because of the lockdown. The remaining exams were held in June. Out of the total number of students who cleared the exam, 1,68, 235 passed in first division, 44,577 in second division and around 5,150 managed to just pass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/girls-outshine-boys-in-rbse-class-xii-science-exam/articleshow/76866523.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Allahabad||KVs allow teachers to work from home||PRAYAGRAJ: Drawing flak for not enforcing a common guideline for its staff, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) has finally allowed teachers working in its schools across the country to work from home till July 31 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. KVs had reopened on June 22 after the summer vacations ended. Teachers posted in Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) in Lucknow and Varanasi region have been asked to conduct classes online while staying at home. TOI had raised the issue in an earlier report. According to a letter dated July 7 and signed by KVS joint commissioner (academic) Piya Thakur, deputy commissioners (DC) of all regions have been directed to issue the guidelines for phased re-opening of KVs and ask teachers to conduct online classes. The letter follows the guidelines issued by the department of education and literacy (MHRD) on July 6, wherein schools have been directed to be closed till July 31. Following the letter, deputy commissioners of Lucknow and Varanasi region DK Dwivedi and D Manivannan have written to the principals of the schools under their jurisdiction to act in accordance with the directions. TOI has a copy of both the letters. The decision was also welcomed by principals. “We knew that the teachers were not comfortable coming to school given the rising number of Covid-19 cases. Conducting online classes is more convenient for them,” said principal one of the KVs in the city. “We are happy that we have been given the option to work from home and teach online classes,” said a science teacher working in a KV in Prayagraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/kvs-allow-teachers-to-work-from-home/articleshow/76860418.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Madurai||Cases now doubling at fast pace in south TN||Madurai: The rapid increase of Covid-19 cases in Madurai and the southern districts has raised concerns among the people, especially in the urban areas. On March 22, a 43-year-old man who had returned to Tirunelveli from Dubai, tested positive for Covid-19 became the first case in the 10 southern districts. And it took 61 more days to record the 1000th positive case in the region. The cases doubled again in just 21 days and it took only nine more days to count 3,000 cases. Over the last 11 days, the region has been adding 1,000 cases every one or two days. On Tuesday, for the first time the number crossed 1,000 in a day and touched 1,231, which is a little more than a third of the total (3,616) cases recorded in the whole state on that day. Though the health and district administration officials as well as ministers claim that there is no community spread, they are clueless about the fresh cases whose contacts have not been traced. Si x districts in the south have more than 1,000 cases with Madurai leading the spread with 5,057 cases till Wednesday. Madurai accounts for 34.09% of the total of 14,834 cases in southern Tamil Nadu and 4.13% of the 1,22,350 cases in the state. It took 94 days from March 23 to June 24 for the first 1,000 cases to appear in Madurai. But it just took five, four, three and two days, respectively, to cross the next three 1,000 cases and crossed 5,000 cases on Wednesday. The district has been adding 250 to 350 cases a day over the last 10 days, with more than 300 cases a day at least four times. “Initially, cases were spread in metropolitan cities which have international airports so we had a huge cluster in Chennai. Today, we live in cities and towns where people keep moving and it leads to spread of the disease. From Chennai, Covid-19 travelled to other cities with the movement of people. As people keep moving from urban to rural areas spread can happen there too,” said Dr B Chandra Mohan, special monitoring officer for Covid-19 for Madurai. The officer added that this is the normal pattern of spread of the disease and that is what we are witnessing now in Madurai. Movement of people to Madurai from the neighbouring districts such as Theni and Virudhunagar is cited as the prime reason for the fast pace of spread. People travelled in this manner when zone-based transportation without passes was introduced, and that was in place till last month. Lack of compliance to social distancing and aversion to wear masks are also cited as other important causes of the disease spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-now-doubling-at-fast-pace-in-south-tn/articleshow/76863620.cms||M K Ananth
July 9, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee steps in to end MCH row over non-Covid facilities||KOLKATA: Set Medical College and Hospital as a model of efficiency for other establishments, chief minister Mamata Banerjee urged doctors on Wednesday during a meeting with the hospital administrators and senior health officials. The meeting at Nabanna was an attempt to end the impasse between MCH authorities and resident doctors and interns, who have been demanding that the hospital should resume non-Covid facilities, along with Covid treatment. During the discussion, Banerjee looked to find the problems ailing the hospital and said the government was ready to extend help in finding a solution. “MCH is the No. 1 hospital. We chose this hospital in order to instil confidence in people. Patients think their ailment will be cured if they go to Medical College. The hospital is already offering effective services. It can become more efficient to set itself as a role model for other hospitals. What all are required for services to be better?” said Banerjee, who told all hospitals to ensure patients were not denied medical care. Ever since MCH started functioning as tertiary-level Covid hospital from June 6, it stopped treatment and facilities for patients with other ailments. Junior doctors protested against the move, saying hundreds were denied medical attention. Also, suspension of treatment of non-Covid patients were hampering their clinical training. Addressing their grievances, Banerjee assured, “We will see to it no student’s academic career is hampered. It is the government’s responsibility.” A few days ago, an expert committee was formed to sort out the impasse. It suggested non-Covid treatment could begin in four buildings at MCH, including Ezra and MCH Block. “Now, the expert committee has given its report. Please get ready, accordingly,” Banerjee told hospital officials. Resident doctors and junior doctors lauded the CM’s effort but said they would continue their agitation till the government issued an official notification. The CM agreed to instal portable ACs at Covid wards, like Green and Eden buildings, where doctors said it was difficult to work for eight hours in PPE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cm-steps-in-to-end-mch-row-over-non-cov-facilities/articleshow/76862968.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Allahabad||Forced to come to school, UP Board teachers a irked bunch||PRAYAGRAJ: At a time when most educational boards and universities have allowed teachers to work from home because of the Covid-19 outbreak, UP Board teachers in state-run schools are being forced to report for work, leaving many of them irritated. State-run schools, including government-aided ones, have asked their teachers and clerical staff to report for work for a minimum of five hours daily. “Most of us, barring those living in containment zones, are coming to school every day. We have nothing to do as there are no students to teach nor are there any admission formalities to complete. There are over 100 teachers working in our school, but only three staff rooms to accommodate them. With the limited space, it is very difficult to maintain social distancing,” said a female teacher working in a reputed UP Board school located near Nakhas Khona area. The teachers’ association has raised the issue with the state government. General secretary of Uttar Pradesh Secondary Teachers’ Association (Thakurai faction) Lalmani Dwivedi said, “In a letter on July 6, ministry of human resource development (MHRD) secretary Anita Karwal had directed chief secretaries of all states to ensure that all educational institutions are closed till July 31. The order mandates that teachers and non-teaching staff of educational institutions work from home. However, the order is not being implemented strictly.” The association said that the guidelines issued by principal secretary Aradhana Shukla on July 4 about secondary schools are being wrongly interpreted. “Almost all schools are calling their staff regularly for at least five hours even if they do not have any work for them,” Dwivedi said. At the same time, principals of UP Board schools beg to differ with the association’s view. “We have been calling teachers only when they are required. Presently, teachers of my school are preparing for parent-teachers’ meetings, which would be organised to discuss online teaching as many of our students come from financially weak backgrounds,” said KP Inter College principal YP Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/forced-to-come-to-school-up-board-teachers-a-irked-bunch/articleshow/76860439.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||GujCET deferred again, to be held on August 22||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Common Entrance Test (GujCET) has been rescheduled to August 22 from July 30 due to the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) said in a media statement on Wednesday. More than 1.25 lakh students from across the state are expected to participate in the GujCET exams. Initially scheduled to be held on March 31, this is the second time the exam has been rescheduled due to the coronavirus pandemic. The state level exam is held annually for science students seeking admissions in degree engineering and degree and diploma pharmacy courses in government, grant-in-aid and self-financed engineering institutions in Gujarat. GSHSEB, which conducts GujCET, has seen 12,5781 Class XII (science) students registering for the exam. This figure includes 49,888 students from Group A, 75,519 from Group B and 374 from Group AB. The results of Class XII (Science) board exams are usually announced along with the GujCET results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujcet-deferred-again-to-be-held-on-august-22/articleshow/76863608.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||Disputed garbage bio-mining tender set to be scrapped||Nagpur: Considered a big reason for the complaints by Union minister Nitin Gadkari and mayor Sandip Joshi against municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, the tender for bio-mining of garbage at Bhandewadi dumping yard is all set to be scrapped, because of technical problems. Both the signatory officials, who signed on the tender, have been sacked by Mundhe. The board of directors (BoD) of Smart City Project’s special purpose vehicle — Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) is likely to decide the fate of the tender in its meeting on Friday. It could continue the project with fresh tender or go with earlier project for developing five garbage transfer stations, or take any other decision. Tender for bio-mining of garbage costing Rs40 crore was floated when Devendra Mahajan was general manager (environment) and Uday Ghiye was general manager (infrastructure) in NSSCDCL. The two officials were signatory authority of the tender. In the capacity of chief executive officer (CEO) Mundhe has terminated Mahajan and Ghiye. Sources from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and NSSCDCL told TOI, “NSSCDCL sought legal opinion, and technical opinion from state government-run Maha IT, which looks after online tendering process. The two opinions suggested the tender cannot be continued further.” Mundhe had said recently, “Tender is yet to be completed. I will table the project in BoD meeting.” As part of city’s Smart City Project of Rs3,577.77 crore, the centre had approved smart solutions for Solid Waste Management (Rs148.77 crore). NSSCDCL BoD had decided to spend Rs40 crore on five garbage transfer stations. After assuming charge as CEO, Mundhe directed officials to scrap the tender and instead float tender for bio mining of garbage at Bhandewadi dumping yard. TOI reported the decision on February 19. At that time Mundhe said, “New garbage operators have to transfer garbage to dumping yard themselves. Instead, garbage at yard needs to be treated to prevent pollution and vacate plot of land.” Four months later, on June 22, Joshi and ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav had lodged a complaint against Mundhe at Sadar police station, alleging the civic chief had no power to scrap the tender approved by BoD. Alleging he was not a valid CEO, the two also levelled other allegations, but the Rs40 crore tender for garbage transfer stations was the major reason. Chairman at BoD meet via video link The NSSCDCL BoD meeting on Friday is likely to decide the fate of allegations levelled by Union minister Nitin Gadkari and mayor Sandip Joshi against municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. The board will also decide whether Mundhe will continue as CEO or not. Directors from the city will be attending in person, but chairman Pravin Pardeshi and a central government representative from New Delhi will reportedly participate through video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/disputed-garbage-bio-mining-tender-set-to-be-scrapped/articleshow/76862973.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 9, 2020||Goa||Bicholim mkt to allow veg vendors||Bicholim: Bicholim Municipal Council (BMC) will open its market for vegetable and fruit vendors from Saturday by following social distancing norms. However, it has decided not to allow the Wednesday weekly market. BMC chairperson Rajaram Gaonkar said the decision to not hold the weekly bazaar has been taken as people are not adhering to social distancing norms. He said BMC will mark spaces in the market for social distancing and will depute an official to vigil the area. Gaonkar added that BMC will take strict action against those not following protocol. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bicholim-mkt-to-allow-veg-vendors/articleshow/76863610.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||V Hanumanth Rao calls KVP Ramachandra Rao covert, kicks up row||HYDERABAD: Veteran Congress leader V Hanumanth Rao on Wednesday kicked up a row when he called his former Rajya Sabha colleague KVP Ramachandra Rao a covert and advisor to TRS . The party’s disciplinary committee is likely to take action against the AICC secretary, who levelled allegations against his own party leader. In a letter to state finance minister T Harish Rao, Hanumanth charged the state government for awarding majority of contracts to Andhra contractors. He demanded the TRS government to reveal the list of projects given to Telangana and Andhra contractors. “As I had been saying for past three years, KVP Ramachandra Rao is a covert and advisor of TRS in Congress ,” he said in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vhr-calls-kvp-covert-kicks-up-row/articleshow/76862971.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man ends life after wife refuses to return||HYDERABAD: A 23-year-old labourer in Keesara limits hanged himself allegedly after his wife refused to return to the city from Prakasam district of AP due to the rise in coronavirus cases here. Katta Rambabu, who hails from Prakasam district, settled in Hyderabad for work a month ago and was staying in a rented house with his brother’s family. However, his wife and children stayed back in AP. When he asked his wife to move to the city to work with him, she refused saying that Covid-19 cases are rising in Hyderabad. Upset, the victim allegedly hanged himself on the terrace of the building. No suicide note was found. He was rushed to a hospital but was declared brought dead. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-ends-life-after-wife-refuses-to-return/articleshow/76862965.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Teachers stage protest over order to defer fees||JAIPUR: Private school teachers from Jaipur staged a protest against the government’s decision of deferring school fees. Hundreds of teachers from various private schools of the city gathered at Central Park and walked till Statue Circle holding placards and banners against the government’s decision. This is for the first time that private school teachers have taken to streets against a government decision. Teachers said that deferring school fees has increased problems for them as ever since lockdown, they are already working on half salaries. Anita Kanwar (name changed), one of the school teachers said, “When parents won’t pay fees how will the schools operate. Schools are financially broke and most of us are working on half salaries. Many schools, especially low-cost schools do not have budget to pay salaries or the rent at all. Teachers are suffering because of this decision.” Rajasthan government deferred school fees in April at the time of first lockdown for three months i.e. till June. After continuous protests by parents to waive off school fees, especially of the lockdown period, a few days back, government again deferred school fees until schools are re-opened in Rajasthan. Private schools’ administration and teachers said that this has hit the schools really hard who are already suffering from fund crunch. “We understand some parents may be facing financial crisis but those who are capable should be made to pay school fees. Government must not decide only looking at parents’ perspective, but should take into account other views as well. Since lockdown, teachers are taking online classes continuously. There are teachers who are not well-versed with technology but we still learned new skills for welfare of children. Government must take decision thinking about us as we have to pay our bills as well,” said Mahendra Kumar (name changed), a school teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teachers-stage-protest-over-order-to-defer-fees/articleshow/76863619.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||JMC flooded with plaints of waterlogging after downpour||Jaipur: Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has received 48 waterlogging complaints from across the city after rain on Tuesday. Following the waterlogging, JMC had pressed into service pumping machines and set up flood control centres though the civic maintained that it was prepared for the monsoon. Chief fire officer Jagdish Phulwari said, “We have established four flood control centres – Bani Park, Ghat Gate, Mansarover and Malviya Nagar. We received complaints from Mansarover, Malviya Nagar and Jawahar Nagar Tilla No. 1 & 2. We sent sand bags and machines to pump out the water. The situation is under control.” Due to the pandemic, JMC had postponed all tenders for cleaning of drains and dirty lanes of Walled City. Following orders from the collector, flood control centres were set up in the city in June-end. Mansarover resident Dinesh Meena complained that the entire colony he lices in was flooded and he had to call the flood control helpline. “Every year we have the same problem. Just two hours of rain was enough to spin everything out of control. God knows what will happen when the monsoon wil be in full flow,” said Meena. Phulwari said that JMC had enough resources to tackle floods. “We have 25,000 sandbags, 3 mud pumps, 3 tractors, 4 JCB machines and 25 labourers especially for this. There are times when we get several complaints at a time due to which we cannot reach on time but ensure that all problems are resolved,” said Phulwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-flooded-with-plaints-of-waterlogging-after-downpour/articleshow/76863606.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Declare East Rajasthan Canal Project a national venture, Gehlot urges Centre||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday urged the Centre to declare the ambitious East Rajasthan Canal Project (ERCP) a national project. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gehlot said the project costing about Rs 37, 247 crore will ensure availability of drinking water in 13 districts and water for irrigation in 2.8 lakh hectares. The chief minister pointed out that the detailed project report (DPR) of ERCP had been sent to the Central Water Commission for approval in November 2017. Modi while campaigning in the last parliamentary elctions had assured that he would give consideration to this project as a solution to the drinking water problem in the state. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/declare-east-rajasthan-canal-project-a-national-venture-gehlot-urges-centre/articleshow/76863644.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh plans to reduce syllabus for classes I to VIII, to form panel||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh education department will soon form a committee and decide on the reduction of syllabus for classes I to VIII. The move has been taken after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) reduced sylabuss for classes IX to XII. “Since the CBSE has done it for classes IX to XII, we would also put up a file for formation of a committee of experts to decide on reducing syllabus for classes I to VIII for the current academic year,” said Alka Mehta, deputy director, school education. The CBSE’s decision on reducing 30% syllabus has come as a relief to students as well as teachers. However, education experts say that some important topics have been removed from the syllabus and some have already been taught. They are also of the view that reduction in syllabus will only help students if the same is removed from the syllabus of competitive exams. “It is a welcome move by the CBSE. This will remove some burden as students are already struggling to cope up with limited understanding of topics due to the lack of physical connect with teachers as all classes are being held online. Lack of good internet connectivity and devices have added to the problems of students. There is no clarity if the deleted topics are also deleted from the syllabus of NEET 2021. We will have to cover those topics for NEET aspirants. If we get a clarity on this, it will be helpful for students,” Dr Arvind Goyal, NEET trainer. Sharing similar views, Robin Aggarwal, principal, Learning Paths School in Mohali, said, “Reduction of syllabus in the CBSE has to be matched with that of entrance exam syllabus. The reduction of syllabus has to be in sync.” Ritu Bali, principal, AKSIPS-41, said, “The portion that has been deleted has already been taught, but there is no harm in learning extra. Teachers will have to revise some of the topics once the school reopens so reducing the syllabus will be less stressful.” Experts also criticized removal of some important chapters, Kunal Singh, a city-based educationist, said, “The topics which have been deleted either at secondary or senior secondary-level is irrational, unscientific and illogical, which means claims of the CBSE that it has reduced syllabus by 30% is absurd and masquerading one. Overall, I feel hardly 9-11 hours of lecture has been removed from any science syllabus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-plans-to-reduce-syllabus-for-classes-i-to-viii-to-form-panel/articleshow/76863641.cms||Kamini Mehta
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Monsoon washes away the heat, uproots trees||CHANDIGARH: Heavy rain, the first since the onset of the monsoon, brought with it some relief from the scorching weather. Starting Tuesday evening and continued till Wednesday evening, the city’s observatory recorded 83.3 mm rainfall, while the airport observatory recorded 19 mm. There has been a drop in the temperatures. Some areas in the Tricity got flooded due to the heavy rainfall, while some had to bear with power cuts. Some trees too got uprooted, including a huge mango tree which got uprooted and fell on a house in Sector 16, Chandigarh. According to weathermen, Thursday and Friday are expected to be rainy days as well. The maximum temperature in the city was recorded at 30.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, which was 4 degrees below normal. On Tuesday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 35.5 degrees Celsius, which was one degree above normal. At the airport observatory, maximum temperature recorded on Wednesday was 32 degrees Celsius, which was 3 degrees below normal, while on Tuesday, it was 35.5 degrees Celsius, which was one degree above normal. For Thursday, the Chandigarh met department has forecast generally cloudy sky with rain and thundershowers. The maximum temperature is expected to be around 33 degrees Celsius, while the minimum will be around 24 degrees Celsius. City spared waterlogging despite heavy rain Chandigarh: The city may not be experiencing major waterlogging this monsoon season if the experience in the last 24-hour rains are any indication. Courtesy - timely completion of cleaning of road gullies. In most of the areas in the city, water drained out in a short time. But like past years, water accumulated at the Sector 15 underpass. The water here was drained out with the help of pumping machines. “We knew that this underpass is a problematic area and therefore, the work to divert the drain pipe from this underpass was already allotted over a month back. The work is going on at the site, however, it was closed from past many days for use of commuters. We have drained out accumulated water with the help of pump,” said an official of the municipal corporation (MC). Sources in the MC’s engineering department revealed that multiple teams of the engineering department were out in fields during the rain to see areas where waterlogging created a problem,. They found a few low-lying areas, but did not came across any major waterlogging issue in the city. “Though, during heavy rains, water does get accumulated at some points for a few minutes, but gets drained out easily within 10 to 15 minutes. We are keeping an eye on the situation,” said an official. The public health wing of the MC engineering department had kicked-off the work to clean road gullies across the city in April. Besides hiring 143 people on outsourced basis, the engineering department had also employed its own staff to clean the road gullies. Initially, the most vulnerable areas were identified for cleaning first, and later the rest of the road gullies in the city were cleaned. According to the record of the civic body, there are approximately 30,000 road gullies in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/monsoon-washes-away-the-heat-uproots-trees/articleshow/76863635.cms||Kamini Mehta
July 9, 2020||Pune||‘12 hours to find an ICU bed’: Families of patients recount desperate hunt in Pune||PUNE: On Wednesday, a central control room went live to track bed availability across hospitals for people experiencing Covid-19 symptoms. But even until noon of the same day, accounts continued to emerge of families desperately hunting for specialist care for their loved ones. Two families TOI spoke to said they had to wait for hours to find ICU beds in the city, which already has a dashboard showing vacant beds. But the two families said their wait lasted at least 8 to 12 hours. A relative of the first patient, a 60-year-old man who had come to the city from a village in Pune district, said their hunt began on Tuesday night. “We waited for 12 hours,” the family member said. “We reached Pune because we were told a hospital has a vacant ICU bed. But when we reached this hospital, we were made to wait for two hours before being finally told the bed was no longer available. We then continued to look for hospitals. The patient’s lung condition was deteriorating and we really needed an ICU bed. We found one only by Wednesday afternoon.” The family of the second patient, a 35-year-old man, said it took them eight hours to find a critical care unit. They finally found one at a PCMC hospital. A relative told TOI, “My brother’s condition turned severe by Tuesday morning. This hospital we were at said he needed an ICU bed, which they didn’t have at the time. They then suggested we move him to a private hospital. Our search for an ICU bed went on for eight hours.” Some families have also resorted to social media posts asking users if they know of vacant ICU beds in the city. Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole, who on Tuesday night started a Covid-19 helpline for citizens, told TOI: “We have this helpline to help patients avail existing medical infrastructure on time. It has received six enquires since Tuesday night. Two were from those unable to find beds in the city.” A senior PMC official said, “The ‘Covid Care dashboard’ is being updated and will soon show real-time bed availability. The percentage of beds set aside for Covid-19 patients in hospitals currently is not 100%, which means that hospitals have allocated only a portion of their beds for those with the infection. The PMC is trying to increase the number of beds. Between Tuesday and Wednesday, the number of hospital beds with oxygen support for patients has also gone up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/12-hrs-to-find-an-icu-bed-families-of-patients-recount-desperate-hunt/articleshow/76863602.cms||Neha Madaan
July 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Gangster Vikas Dubey hid in Faridabad for three days before showing up at hotel||GURUGRAM: Two pistols snatched from the UP Police team that was ambushed by gangster Vikas Dubey’s henchmen in Kanpur last week were found in a house in Faridabad’s Indra Complex Colony where Dubey was allegedly holed up for three days. Dubey is the main accused in the killing of eight policemen during the ambush at Bikru village in Kanpur Dehat on July 3. A joint team of policemen from UP’s special task force, which has been given the job of finding Dubey, and Faridabad’s crime branch raided the house late on Tuesday and arrested Kartikey alias Prabhat, a close aide of Dubey. Ankur Kumar and his father Shravan, to whom the house belongs, were also taken into custody and charged with sheltering a fugitive. Shravan was found to have Covid-19 after the accused were tested. But Dubey, who had hours before the raid surfaced on the CCTV footage of a nearby hotel, had already bolted from the Indra Complex hideout. Amid speculation that he would try to surrender in court, police in neighbouring districts, particularly Noida and Greater Noida, were put on high alert through Wednesday. Haryana Police also set up a special task force to help UP Police track down Dubey, who has dodged electronic surveillance by not carrying a cellphone. The gangster was last seen on CCTV cameras of a hotel near Badkal Chowk that he visited on Tuesday evening, purportedly after getting wind of the STF’s imminent arrival in Faridabad. Wearing a blue t-shirt and a blue face mask, a pair of jeans and sneakers, he is seen standing near the reception area of the hotel. But he changed his plans and left soon after. “He left the hotel alone and did not have a personal vehicle. He was some trouble walking, probably due to some injury,” said a police source, adding Dubey is likely to left Faridabad in a taxi or some other mode of transport. Police in Gurgaon were put on high alert. Police said they found a total of four pistols and 44 rounds of bullets in Kartikeya’s possession during the raid at the Indra Compex Colony hose that involved a brief exchange of fire. All three arrested were booked under sections 186 (obstruction of duty), 353 (assault), 307 (shooting with intention to kill), 379B (use of deadly weapons), 411 and 412 (receiving stolen property), and 212 (harbouring an offender) of the IPC and sections of Arms Act. They were produced in a Faridabad court and taken to UP on transit remand. The Haryana ST believes Dubey is still hiding in NCR and has activated its informer network. “Our teams are working on it,” said DIG (Haryana STF) Satheesh Balan. DGP (crime) Mohammad Akil said UP Police is leading hunt. “We can only provide legal, technical and operational assistance as and when they require it,” said Akil. Sources said Kartikey had claimed during interrogation that after shooting at the cops in Bikru, they took shelter at Dubey’s friend’s house in Shivli for two days, before moving to Faridabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/dubey-hid-in-faridabad-for-3-days-before-showing-up-at-hotel/articleshow/76863648.cms||Bagish Jha
July 9, 2020||Delhi||Screening for Covid-19: Delhi government eye on house workers, service providers||NEW DELHI: Concerned that a significant number of “isolated” Covid-19 positive cases were emerging from all districts, Delhi government has decided to identify house workers, services providers, and autorickshaw and other commercial vehicle drivers and conduct their screening. In a revised Covid response plan, the directorate general of health services on Wednesday asked the district surveillance units to categorise these people as “special surveillance groups” (SSGs) and prepare their database with the help of civic bodies, police and residents welfare associations, apart from closely monitoring the high-risk groups of elderly and those with comorbidities. The revised plan, containing a modified standard operating procedure for surveillance, was issued following concerns that a large number of Covid-19 positive cases were emerging frequently from “isolated areas” — not falling under containment zones or categorised as clusters — on and off for 28 days. According to the protocol, all 11 districts will focus on SSGs’ points of conglomerations. “Any case of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms will be dealt with as per standard health protocol,” the plan states. Any positive case should be dealt as per the existing protocol. Those falling under SSGs move around across the city and may prove the most potential carriers of novel coronavirus, said an official. A mass disinfection exercise should also be carried out on a regular basis at the conglomeration points such as labour markets, auto and taxi stands, and transport hubs. Aggressive awareness programmes and media campaigns will be organised to popularise social distancing norms, hand hygiene and respiratory etiquettes and mobilisation of resources through private and civil society initiatives for distribution of masks and protective gear. The guidelines suggest district surveillance units should arrange to collect information about areas regularly reporting isolated cases for 28 days through daily cluster report prepared by the health and family welfare department, the line list of Covid-19 patients received from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal and geographical mapping of coronavirus cases done by Geospatial Delhi Limited. The units will have to map the cases in terms of time and geographical location, conduct their epidemiological situation analysis and track transmission chain, and use ITIHAS app. Enhanced and effective contact tracing within 72 hours of an isolated case and house-to-house check to identify those with SARI and ILI shall be done apart from enlisting high-risk groups and SSGs, the guidelines suggest. The measures also include screening of enlisted cases, regular contact visiting to assess their medical condition, and their testing as per ICMR guidelines if they visit institutional testing facilities, followed by surveillance protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-eye-on-house-workers-service-providers/articleshow/76863654.cms||Atul Mathur
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Couple attacked over land dispute||HYDERABAD: A farmer repeatedly attacked a woman with a sickle and caused severe injuries to her at Buddharam village in Wanaparthy district on Wednesday due to a land dispute. The victim is currently undergoing treatment at a local hospital. Arjuna Rao alias Arjunaiah and his son Narender Rao were involved in the incident. Recently, Arjunaiah’s relative, Ananta Rao alias Ananta Ramulu, gave 28 guntas of agricultural to him. “Even after the land ownership transfer deed was executed, Ananta Rao continued to keep the property in his possession and he recently sowed paddy in the 28 guntas land,” Wanaparthy CI Surya Naik said. The injured husband and wife have been shifted to a nearby hospital for treatment. The accused has been taken into custody. An attempt to murder case was registered under section 307 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-attacked-over-land-dispute/articleshow/76862975.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Madurai||60 more fever camps come up in Madurai||Madurai: Madurai corporation has increased the number of fever camps from the existing 95 to 155 from Wednesday onwards to effectively tackle Covid-19 cases in the city, which has been witnessing an increase in number in the last few days. Officials said that unlike earlier, where only nurses were deployed, now, all fever camps will have a doctor. Meanwhile, Madurai district collector T G Vinay and city corporation commissioner S Visakan on Wednesday conducted a joint inspection of the functioning of the special fever camps at Alwarpuram, Managiri and Manmalai Medu in K Pudur. Visakan told TOI that the fever camps conducted by the corporation helped in detecting Covid-19 cases at early stages. It leads to early testing and isolation and thereby controlling the spread, he added. “Earlier, many who returned from places like Chennai used to test positive for Covid-19. But, now the number is negligible. Only 10 days ago, at least 50 people from that category used to test positive on a daily basis. Now, it is hardly a few cases,” he said. Health officials say that testing has been increased in Madurai city limits. About 60% of the tests are now being conducted on people, who come in close contact with Covid-19 cases. It is followed by tests on people with influenza like infection (ILI). Recently, mobile medical camps were added at 40 places in a day, 12 camps by ESI hospital teams and eight camps by Ayush teams. Body temperature is being checked in the camps to detect fever cases. Those with fever will be made to undergo a Covid-19 test. People will be asked to isolate themselves till results are released and their houses barricaded. Medicines required for the fever patient would also be provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/60-more-fever-camps-come-up-in-madurai/articleshow/76863650.cms||V Devanathan
July 9, 2020||Vadodara||Girl killed by lover inside gurudwara in Dahod||Vadodara: A love affair between a man and a woman belonging to different faiths saw a tragic end after the man allegedly killed in a gurudwara, just two days before she was to get married to someone else. According to the police, the 21-year-old man and the girl were in a relationship, but the girl’s parents had arranged her marriage elsewhere. Sources said that the couple belonged to different faiths and this may have been a major hurdle. On Wednesday, the girl and her cousin sister went to the gurudwara after the man called her to meet. Her cousin was asked to wait outside even as the girl and the man went inside the gurudwara. Dahod town police inspector V P Patel said that the cousin sister who was waiting outside went into the gurudwara once after a few minutes, but was asked by the man to go back. It was sometime after this around noon that the man killed the girl by stabbing her repeatedly and then tried to end his life using the same knife. The duo was found in a pool of blood in the gurudwara and was rushed to the Dahod Civil Hospital. The girl was declared dead on admission while the youth man’s condition is said to be critical. Patel said that it seemed that the assailant took the extreme step as he did not want the girl to get married to someone else. Preliminary investigations have revealed that the couple may not have planned to end their lives together, but it was the man who murdered the girl and then attempted suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/girl-killed-by-lover-inside-gurudwara-in-dahod/articleshow/76861224.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Goa||AAP: Detentions an abuse of power||Saligao: Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday condemned the detention of the three people who had sought to address a press conference opposing construction of an IIT in their village of Melauli. The party said the action was nothing but an abuse of power even as the state has been witnessing an increase in night parties by foreigners and Indian tourists in the North Goa beach belt, in defiance of all lockdown rules. Party functionary from Mapusa, Rahul Mhambre, claimed Goa had been converted into a police state and that the government did not allow citizens to exercise their democratic right to protest. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-detentions-an-abuse-of-power/articleshow/76863632.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Faridabad||Gangster Vikas Dubey hid in Faridabad for three days before showing up at hotel||GURUGRAM: Two pistols snatched from the UP Police team that was ambushed by gangster Vikas Dubey’s henchmen in Kanpur last week were found in a house in Faridabad’s Indra Complex Colony where Dubey was allegedly holed up for three days. Dubey is the main accused in the killing of eight policemen during the ambush at Bikru village in Kanpur Dehat on July 3. A joint team of policemen from UP’s special task force, which has been given the job of finding Dubey, and Faridabad’s crime branch raided the house late on Tuesday and arrested Kartikey alias Prabhat, a close aide of Dubey. Ankur Kumar and his father Shravan, to whom the house belongs, were also taken into custody and charged with sheltering a fugitive. Shravan was found to have Covid-19 after the accused were tested. But Dubey, who had hours before the raid surfaced on the CCTV footage of a nearby hotel, had already bolted from the Indra Complex hideout. Amid speculation that he would try to surrender in court, police in neighbouring districts, particularly Noida and Greater Noida, were put on high alert through Wednesday. Haryana Police also set up a special task force to help UP Police track down Dubey, who has dodged electronic surveillance by not carrying a cellphone. The gangster was last seen on CCTV cameras of a hotel near Badkal Chowk that he visited on Tuesday evening, purportedly after getting wind of the STF’s imminent arrival in Faridabad. Wearing a blue t-shirt and a blue face mask, a pair of jeans and sneakers, he is seen standing near the reception area of the hotel. But he changed his plans and left soon after. “He left the hotel alone and did not have a personal vehicle. He was some trouble walking, probably due to some injury,” said a police source, adding Dubey is likely to left Faridabad in a taxi or some other mode of transport. Police in Gurgaon were put on high alert. Police said they found a total of four pistols and 44 rounds of bullets in Kartikeya’s possession during the raid at the Indra Compex Colony hose that involved a brief exchange of fire. All three arrested were booked under sections 186 (obstruction of duty), 353 (assault), 307 (shooting with intention to kill), 379B (use of deadly weapons), 411 and 412 (receiving stolen property), and 212 (harbouring an offender) of the IPC and sections of Arms Act. They were produced in a Faridabad court and taken to UP on transit remand. The Haryana ST believes Dubey is still hiding in NCR and has activated its informer network. “Our teams are working on it,” said DIG (Haryana STF) Satheesh Balan. DGP (crime) Mohammad Akil said UP Police is leading hunt. “We can only provide legal, technical and operational assistance as and when they require it,” said Akil. Sources said Kartikey had claimed during interrogation that after shooting at the cops in Bikru, they took shelter at Dubey’s friend’s house in Shivli for two days, before moving to Faridabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/dubey-hid-in-faridabad-for-3-days-before-showing-up-at-hotel/articleshow/76867545.cms||Bagish Jha
July 9, 2020||Kolkata||US relaxes visa rules but uncertainty still looms||Kolkata: In a revised norm, the Department of Homeland Security of the US has announced temporary modifications to F-1 and M-1 non-immigrant visa requirements for the Fall semester this year, allowing mixture of both in-person and online coursework. But international students will still have to obtain the appropriate visa and may still be subject to other visa processing or travel restrictions due to Covid-19. Though this might seem a relaxation from Monday’s norms, many Kolkata students in the US remain worried about their future. After the novel coronavirus pandemic, 21-year-old Rishi Mitra returned to Kolkata on March 21 but uncertainty over his course in the US made him take a Vande Bharat flight back on June 30. Mitra, a computer engineering student at Purdue University, said the student community there was “actually quite upset” about the new norms. Pointing out universities were doing a good job of making classrooms as safe as possible, he said, “But most top universities have the resources to make classes go online. It is an option open to anybody who would rather not be in an on-campus class. Some of my friends from India were planning to take online classes while in the US to avoid the campus. But they will have to opt for offline classes now,” Mitra added. Uncertainty looms over visa of students who returned to India in March, when campuses shut for the pandemic, and were keen on pursing their entire course online. Unless international flights resume properly, they can’t return to their US campuses. Suman Das, a second-year PhD student of biological sciences at Louisiana State University, called the new norm “scary”. “We are being compelled to choose between Covid-19 and deportation, and we want neither. This sudden decision raises more questions than ever, regarding the active visa status of international students, who don’t want to risk contracting the novel coronavirus to fulfil the SEVP directive and maintain a legal visa status. Going back home isn’t plausible. It is superficially a loss-loss situation,” said Das from Louisiana’s Baton Rouge. He would ideally want universities to come up with plans to “conduct hybrid classes where a person can register in-person but reserve the option of taking the classes online”. Suchita Mukherjee, pursuing MS in computer science at University of California Davis, said the “vague language” of the new announcement around visa processing and travel restrictions added to the uncertainty. “It is not possible to attend in-person classes and keep social distancing while cases rise. We will possibly continue seeing additional restrictions being put in place that jeopardize the lives and careers of non-immigrant students,” Mukherjee said from Davis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/us-relaxes-visa-rules-but-uncertainty-still-looms/articleshow/76862977.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Cooperative movement needs to reach every farmer: CM||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the intention of the state government is to strengthen the farmers through cooperatives. Online loan distribution is being done along with online registration. All these innovations have paved the way for strengthening the economic condition of the farmers.But he said Rajasthan has to go a long way in reaping the full benefits of the cooperative movement. He said in Maharashtra and other southern states, the farmer’s cooperatives had set up industries to process agriculture produce. This helps the farmers to get better price for their produce by value addition. He was addressing after the inauguration of the newly constructed head office and branch building at Pratapnagar in Udaipur and the newly constructed building at Sahakar Bhawan at Chanderia, in Chittorgarh.This time with the formation of the Congress government, many decisions were taken in the interest of farmers. Farmers’ Loan Waiver Scheme was introduced and all outstanding crop loans up to November 30, 2018, linked to cooperative banks were waived off. He said that interest-free short-term crop loan of Rs16,000 crore will be distributed to more than 25 lakh farmers in this financial year as was announced in the budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cooperative-movement-needs-to-reach-every-farmer-cm/articleshow/76863637.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Coronavirus in 20 PMR villages, now they are hotspots||PUNE: Twenty big villages under gram panchayats bordering Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad limits were declared as containment zones from Wednesday till further notice by Haveli sub-divisional officer Sachin Baravkar. Prominent among these villages are Wagholi, Khadakwasla, Narhe, Manjri, Shewalewadi, Kirkatwadi, Pisoli, Uruli Kanchan, Loni Kalbhor, Nande, Kondhwe-Dhawade and Dehu. Haveli, the largest among the 13 tehsils in Pune district, is also among the worst affected tehsils owing to its close proximity to Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Since the outbreak, the tehsil has recorded 589 cases. Of these, 278 have been discharged, 10 have died and 301 are active cases. There has been a sudden spike in cases since June 8. On Wednesday, Haveli tehsil recorded 63 nCoV positive cases. “On an average, 35 to 40 fresh cases have been recorded in the tehsil over the last fortnight. Most infections can be traced to travel history to Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad,” Baravkar said. The tehsil has 90 gram panchayats of which the 20 are close to the civic limits and are seen as vulnerable. “Working professionals and employees going from these villages to Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad for work, won’t be stopped, but the gram panchayat will have to maintain a record of such travellers and monitor their health. The talathis and gram sevaks have been empowered. Village-level vigilance committees will also help them,” Baravkar told TOI. Milk, vegetable, fruits, essential goods stores and banks will operate from 10am to 2pm while ATMs will run round-the-clock, he said. Industries and industrial establishments won’t be shut down if one or two nCoV positive case is reported. However, if a case is reported from among the staffers of such industrial unit, the authorities will have to put all workers through test, the order said. “The containment measure will remain in place till it is ensured that active cases are reduced to five in each of the village,” Baravkar said. Haveli’s block development officer Prashant Shirke said, “We will hold meetings with these gram panchayats and the police stations for effective implementation of the SDO’s order. Bigger gram panchayats like Wagholi have over 2 lakh population and a large number of cases. We will focus on such areas and make available adequate beds for patients in private hospitals too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/virus-in-20-pmr-villages-now-they-are-hotspots/articleshow/76863607.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||KGH-AMC awaits govt nod ahead of Covaxin clinical trials||Visakhapatnam: Clinical trials for the Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin are yet to commence at King George Hospital-Andhra Medical College (KGH-AMC) as the institute awaits guidelines by the state government. KGH-AMC is one of the 12 Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-designated institutes for clinical trial of the vaccine and as per directives by the ICMR, the process of volunteer enrollment was to have started by July 7. Billed as a ‘top priority’ project, the ICMR is aiming to launch the vaccine for public use by August 15 after the completion of clinical trials at the 12 sites, however, concerns have been expressed by medical experts on the possibility and viability of such an early launch. Speaking to TOI, medical superintendent of KGH Dr G Arjuna said, “Unless we get the permission from the state government, we cannot start the trials. From our end, we have sent the required information to the government that we had received from ICMR and Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL), but we have not received any guidelines so far.” Dr Arjuna pointed out that a more realistic and graded process of human trial and ruling out the possibility of an adverse reaction on humans would take three to six months at least and an August 15 launch does not seem feasible. Nor has the volunteer enrollment process begun, whereas at least 100 volunteers will have to be recruited for the trial. Meanwhile, an Oxford-based company has shown an interest to partner with AMC and participate in the third phase of the trial. The ICMR has partnered with the Hyderabad-based BBIL for the pre-clinical and clinical trials of the indigenously-developed vaccine candidate. The vaccine has been derived from a strain of SARS CoV-2 isolated by ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune. In view of the public health emergency posed by the pandemic and the urgency to launch the vaccine, the designated institutes for clinical trial have been advised to fast track all approvals related to the initiation of clinical trial and ensure that subject enrollment is initiated no later than July 7. In a clarification issued after the ICMR drew flak for setting what appeared as an impossible deadline, the apex medical research body said its letter was meant to “cut unnecessary red tape”and speed up recruitment of participants for trials without bypassing necessary process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/kgh-amc-awaits-govt-nod-ahead-of-covaxin-clinical-trials/articleshow/76861958.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 9, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad University inmates staying sans permission asked to vacate hostel rooms||PRAYAGRAJ: Allahabad University (AU) has asked inmates who have returned from other cities during the lockdown and been staying in its hostels without informing the varsity or the district administration to vacate the rooms with immediate effect. In a letter issued by AU’s dean students’ welfare (DSW) KP Singh and countersigned by chief proctor RK Upadhyay, the varsity has directed warden and superintendents of all hostels to immediately to get the rooms vacated. If the inmates fail to vacate the rooms on their own, they will have to be evicted forcibly. AU public relations officer Shailendra Mishra said, “There were a number of complaints about students coming from other cities and living in their allotted rooms. If they found that their rooms are locked by university authorities, they would enter after breaking the lock. As per norms, students coming from outside should be quarantined for at least two weeks. Their disobedience puts rest of hostel inmates at risk.” “As no classes are scheduled for July and August, the students would be informed well in advance when they can return, be it for exams or when university reopens,” said the PRO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-inmates-staying-sans-permission-asked-to-vacate-hostel-rooms/articleshow/76860469.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold hits high of Rs 50,750 per 10g||AHMEDABAD: Continuing their rally, gold prices touched an all-time high of Rs 50,750 per 10g in Ahmedabad on Wednesday. As prices of the yellow metal surged towards $1,800 per ounce in the international market, prices showed a consequent increase in the domestic market. The last time gold prices touched a record high was on July 1, at Rs 50,630. “International gold prices rallied in anticipation of more stimulus measures from the US Federal Reserve, as Covid-19 cases showed a spike in the US. Gold prices were already high owing to global concerns about the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and a fresh spike in cases caused prices to rally further,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA). In Ahmedabad, prices rose sharply by Rs 700 in just one day, from Rs 50,050 on Tuesday. High prices have deterred consumers from buying gold and demand for jewellery has taken a major hit in the gems and jewellery sector. “Consumers will not buy gold at this price. Those who need it for wedding occasions are buying but come with a fixed budget and most purchases take place with exchange of old gold. Jewellers’ revenues have taken a major hit. To woo customers ahead of the festive season, jewellers have also begun rolling out massive discounts on making charges and other offers,” said a well-placed source. Bullion traders also said that income and revenue shortfalls have triggered a liquidity shortage among people and that is also one of the reasons for decline in demand for gold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-hits-high-of-rs-50750-per-10g/articleshow/76863643.cms||Niyati Parikh
July 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19: Chittoor sees highest single day spike||TIRUPATI: Chittoor district registered its highest single-day spike, after 255 persons tested positive in the district in the last 24 hours. The death toll too increased to 16, after one more patient succumbed to the virus on Wednesday. Of 1,765 positive cases, reported in the district so far, 846 patients are still undergoing treatment, while 903 patients have been discharged. Meanwhile, with 97 new Covid-19 cases being reported in the temple city of Tirupati and its suburbs in the last 24 hours, several wards across the city were designated as red zones. In Kurnool, three more patients succumbed to coronavirus taking the toll to 88. With 51 new cases the district now has 2,722 Covid-19 cases. There was no respite for Anantapur district as well, where 87 new cases were reported on Wednesday. Out of 2,568 positive cases reported in the district so far, 1,517 patients were treated successfully and discharged so far, while 1,033 patients are still at hospitals. Seventy-one new cases were reported in Kadapa district, where the overall tally is now 1,440. While 942 patients are undergoing treatment, 494 patients have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chittoor-sees-highest-single-day-spike/articleshow/76862007.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: In June, another patient died after failing to find admission in 5 hospitals||PUNE: After two similar cases in the past four days, it has come to light that a 69-year-old man with Covid-like symptoms died on June 23 following the failure to get an ICU bed in as many as five private hospitals in the city The Ambil Odha resident died at Dhankawadi hospital on June 23, his son, Jalal Kasbe, said on Wednesday. In the past four days, two men succumbed to health complications at Sassoon hospital after failing to get an ICU bed at private hospitals. “I will file a complaint against hospitals with Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department and a copy of it will be given to the district collector and the divisional commissioner,” said Kasbe. Around 4am on June 23, Kasbe’s father had breathlessness, fever and dizziness. He was taken to a nearby private hospital. It provided him basic care but did not admit him citing lack of bed. Kasbe then took his father to a maternity hospital. The staffers cited inadequate facility and referred him to a hospital on Sinhagad Road. The Sinhagad Road hospital stated its ICU beds were full and referred him to a medical college attached hospital in Narhe, where he was given with oxygen support. But there were no vacant ICU beds. He then took his father to a small private hospital, which referred him to a private Covid-19 hospital in Dhakawadi. Kasbe accused the hospital of asking deposit from him. His father was put on ventilation support. He died around 4pm . The first hospital’s administration said, “Ours is a small hospital and we referred him to another after giving basic care.” The second and third hospital’s administration said they didn't have record of the patient. The administration of Narhe hospital said, “Our isolated ICU beds are ful. We got an ambulance to shift him.” The fifth hospital stated it had no record of the patient. The private Covid-19 hospital’s administration said, “We didn’t ask for deposit. His respiratory distress worsened by the time he was admitted” Ramchadra Hankare, chief of PMC’s health department, said, “We are yet to receive any complaint. We will initiate a probe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-june-another-patient-died-after-failing-to-find-admission-in-5-hosps/articleshow/76863634.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 9, 2020||Goa||It’s illegal, can’t deny last rites to non-residents: Rights activists||Panaji: It is illegal, against the Constitution and a human rights violation to deny last rites to someone on the pretext of being a non-resident of the area, social activists say. The right to enjoy life with dignity also includes the right to have decent last rites, former chairperson of the Goa Women’s Commission, Dr Pramod Salgaocar says. “It is definitely a violation of human rights. People need to be sensitized about this matter and shouldn’t dwell on petty issues. After all death is an equalizer. People shouldn’t carry forward these kinds of ideas even after a person has died,” she said. TOI on Wednesday reported a complaint filed by a resident of Assonora, living there for the past ten years who was denied the last rites of his father as his father was not a resident of the area. Shocked by the panchayat’s stance, the resident had to make arrangements at the 11th hour for his final rites in Mapusa. The Constitution of India allows every citizen the right to move and stay anywhere in the country, retired award-winning teacher Ramesh Gauns says. “The panchayat cannot override this provision of the Constitution. The panchayat’s and locals’ sentiments cannot be the ultimate truth,” he said. The discrimination based on residency doesn’t hold, he says. “Was the deceased from China or Pakistan? If India can accommodate everyone, is Assonora not in India? What was done is absolutely wrong and anti-national. Resolutions against the Constitution must not be taken,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/its-illegal-cant-deny-last-rites-to-non-residents-rights-activists/articleshow/76863661.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Woman, lover held for murder of mom-in-law||Jaisalmer: A woman in Balotara town in Barmer district allegedly gave sleeping pills mixed in tea to her in-laws, who were apparently creating hurdles in her union with her lover. While the mother-in-law succumbed, other members were saved after treatment. The incident took place on June 28 and was reported to the Balotara police station on July 1. Police after completing the investigation arrested the woman and her lover on Wednesday. According to the police, the woman, along with her lover, who works at a textile factory at Noorani Mohalla in Balotara, served tea laced with sleeping pills to her in-laws. The family members fell ill and were admitted to Nahata Hospital. The mother-in-law died during treatment, while her husband was referred to a Jodhpur hospital on deterioration of his health, said police. After two days of treatment, the family members reached home and on suspicion, enquired the woman who confessed to the crime, said police. Sher Mohammad, resident of Noorani Mohalla in BPL Colony, on July 1 gave a report in writing to police that on June 28, at around 9pm, his mother Haseena, brother Akram, Mehraj, Rubina wife of Mehraj, Imran and Soyab sons of Mehraj were at home, when Ruksana, wife of Akram, served food to all and later tea. After having the tea, health of all members started deteriorating and all were taken to Nahata Hospital. Akram was referred to Jodhpur. Haseena died during the treatment. After Akram and others got discharged from hospital, they enquired Ruksana who confessed to have laced the tea with the pills with her lover, Shahrukh. Ruksana got married to Akram around 2.5 years ago. They did not have any child. Akram runs a taxi, while the accused Shahrukh, a resident of Moongra Road, was working as a dyer at the textile factory near her house. Ruksana took Shahrukh’s number some 4 to 5 months ago and then gradually started talking to him over phone and social media. The affair allegedly went on for four months following which they decided to kill the in-laws to eliminate any hurdles in their union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-lover-held-for-murder-of-mom-in-law/articleshow/76863621.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Centre’s probe order a case of political vendetta: Gehlot||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday termed the Centre's decision to probe three Nehru-Gandhi family linked trusts, including the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, as a “clear case of political vendetta”."The decision by MHA to probe three Gandhi family trusts related to INC is clearly a case of political vendetta. NDA Govt can't digest INC raising the issue of the need for transparency in the PM Cares Fund. The action against the three trusts is a direct result of this," he said in a tweet."It is yet another tactic to try to silence the opposition and to prevent opposition leaders from raising issues of national interest, which exposes Govt's wrong decisions,” he said.Gehlot also hit out at the Central government over its “wrong” policies. "Rahul Gandhi ji had warned about the deep economic crisis that awaited India due to wrong NDA policies and now we are unfortunately witnessing the same," he said in a series of tweets.“Smt. Sonia Gandhi ji, Dr Manmohan Singh ji & Rahul ji raised the difficulties faced by common people, MSMEs, enterprises & banks in the past months. INC offered a number of suggestions to bring the economy on track but the Govt paid no heed due to their arrogant attitude,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centres-probe-order-a-case-of-political-vendetta-gehlot/articleshow/76863662.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Pratap is a symbol of valour: Gehlot||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said that Veer Shiromani Maharana Pratap is a symbol of valour and self-respect. His name and fame is known not only in the country but also in the world. His saga is sung not only in Mewar but also in the whole country, he said. Gehlot was addressing a delegation of Rajput community of Mewar at his residence over some alleged disparaging references on Pratap in the textbooks. “Great men are not limited to any caste or religion. Pratap is also an inspiration to all of us. It is the responsibility of all of us to honour great men. Transport minister Pratapsingh Khachariyawas and eeducation minister Govind Singh Dotasra will see if any wrong facts are found in the textbook about Pratap and would be rectified immediately, he said.The delegation included president of Jauhar Smriti Sansthan Takht Singh among others. Khachariyawas was also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pratap-is-a-symbol-of-valour-gehlot/articleshow/76863653.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Woman at ESI hospital delivers baby on floor||KOLLAM: Serious allegations of negligence has been raised against authorities of Ashramam ESI Hospital in the district after a pregnant woman admitted in the hospital delivered while walking towards the toilet. The incident took place early on Tuesday morning. Vigi, wife of Rajesh, Uliyakkovil, was admitted to ESI hospital for delivery on Monday. According to her relatives, Vigi had repeatedly told the hospital staff that she was feeling labour pain, they did not take her seriously. By early morning, as she was walking towards the toilet, the baby slipped out of the womb and fell on its head onto the floor. Later, the baby developed breathing difficulty and shivering and was shifted to a private hospital. Vigi’s delivery date was July 21 but she was admitted when she came for the mandatory Covid test. Relatives said that she had felt the pain from 12 midnight onwards. Vigi, herself a staff at a private hospital, told the hospital staff that she was having labour pain and bleeding. None of the staff attended to her. Even after delivering a baby girl at around 5am, there was no one to attend to her. After a long time, a paediatrician examined the baby, assuring Vigi that the baby was alright, said Rajesh. But while breast-feeding the baby, it developed shivering and breathing difficulty. Soon, the baby was shifted to a private hospital. The private hospital authorities said that some uterine fluids had entered the baby’s body. Vigi is still under treatment at ESI hospital. ESI hospital authorities were initially reluctant to comment. However, later they said that the hospital would come out with an official release on the incident. Meanwhile, DYFI activists laid siege on ESI hospital deputy superintendent Dr Sudheesh, demanding strict action against the erring doctors and nurses who had committed serious negligence in providing required medical assistance to the pregnant woman. DYFI district secretary S R Arun Babu said following an hour-long blockade and discussions, Dr Sudheesh assured of disciplinary action. The deputy superintendent assured them that the doctors and nurses would be relieved from duty till they furnish a satisfactory explanation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/woman-at-esi-hosp-delivers-baby-on-floor/articleshow/76862031.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Varanasi||Activist sues Sadak-2 film crewfor hurting religious sentiments||Gorakhpur: A social activist and a lawyer filed a complaint in Maharajganj district judicial magistrate’s court against filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt and Mukesh Bhatt and actress Alia Bhatt for hurting sentiments of Hindus by using an image of Kailash Mansarovar in the poster of ‘Sadak 2’ in a disrespecting manner. Judicial magistrate Saurabh Pandey fixed September 8 as the next date of hearing in the case, lodged under IPC Sections 295A (deliberately outraging religious feelings) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). The petitioner, advocate Vinay Pandey, a resident of Maharajganj district, took exception to the use of an image of Kailash Mansarovar in the poster of the movie, and said, “The poster of movie Sadak 2 carries a photo of Mount Kailash considered pious by Hindus since it is Lord Shankar’s abode, but unfortunately the name of the movie, producer, director and actress is placed above the mountain. Their names and film’s name is given more importance than the pious mountain. The poster hurts the feelings of Hindus.” “The judicial magistrate has given September 8 as the date of hearing of the case,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/activist-sues-sadak-2-film-crewfor-hurting-religious-sentiments/articleshow/76859191.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Drinking water from pipeline floods road||Coimbatore: The Government Arts College Road in the city was inundated due to a rupture in the main feeder pipeline on Wednesday morning.The 500mm pipeline carries drinking water to the two master reservoirs at Town Hall and Puliyakulam. “It burst around 3.30am and there was ankle-deep water on the road. Local residents alerted the city corporation,” said a government hospital worker.Corporation officials reached the spot around 7am, Sathishkumar, a shopkeeper, said. “Workers of the city corporation and Suez India Private Limited repaired it. It did not cause much inconvenience as it happened during the morning hours and water did not accumulate in the spot.”As the city is facing a water shortage, corporation officials should take precautionary measures to ensure that drinking water does not get wasted, Sathishkumar said. “The officials concerned should check the condition of the pipes frequently as they are decades-old.”The damage was rectified within 12 hours, a corporation official told TOI. “As pipelines are developing leaks frequently, the corporation has decided to replace them with ductile iron (DI) pipes for about three kilometres on the Gandhipuram-Trichy Road. We have sought permission from the highways department to dig up the road for laying pipes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drinking-water-from-pipeline-floods-road/articleshow/76862981.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Accused of stealing jamun, woman thrashed||Chandigarh: A woman accused of stealing a packet of blackberries (jamun) was thrashed at the temporary vegetable market in Sector 17 on Wednesday — an incident that was filmed on mobile phones and the video posted on social media following which the police acted and arrested one of the two accused. Sunita, a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, and is a vegetable vendor, went to the sabzi mandi with her husband to make purchases. She said a wholesaler and his aide accused her of theft. The two parties entered into a heated argument that soon turned violent. The video showed a man holding Sunita by her hair and slapping her while her husband Kishan tried to rescue her. The woman lodged a complaint with the police that was first accused of going slow in its probe and later arrested Rajesh Kumar, the wholesaler. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/accused-of-stealing-jamun-woman-thrashed/articleshow/76863649.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Obscene gestures: 4 detained||Ahmedabad: Vatva police on Tuesday detained four men based on an FIR lodged by a woman lawyer. The lawyer has said that the four men are her neighbours and has alleged that one of them made obscene gestures at her. She said that the other three picked up a quarrel with her when she rebuked him. Police have sent the four for Covid tests and they will be arrested after the results are known, said a senior police official of the Vatva police station. The official said that the 40-year-old lawyer has lived in Vatva for years. “She has alleged in her complaint that on June 30, the man made obscene gestures at her,” the official said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/obscene-gestures-4-detained/articleshow/76862994.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: P1/P2 rule for shops continues to cause citywide confusion, says traders||PUNE: Shopowners across the city have claimed that the P1/P2 plan — set in place to prevent crowding — continues to cause confusion. The plan, which is similar to the parking system in the city, allows shops only on one side of the road to open on odd or even days. But business owners said civic officials should make certain points clearer. Shantanu Pansare, a member of the FC Road Traders’ Association, the businesses are being impacted because much of FC Road has parking on both sides, on all days of the week. “What do we do in such a situation? No one from the civic administration has spoken to us about the rules. Shopkeepers on JM Road were warned their businesses would be sealed if there are violations. Some of our members are now planning to meet authorities within a few days to discuss the situation,” he said. Besides the P1/P1 plan, shopowners in some areas have also been asked to stick to a system that relies on directions. On some days, only east-facing businesses would be allowed to open while west-facing ones have to stay shut. It’s the same rule along north-south roads as well. But shopkeepers said many businesses, especially those on street corners, have multiple entrances. Rahul Bora, a trader from Laxmi Road said: “On Monday, I got into an argument with a corner-shop owner and a policeman on this issue. The policeman said he had received a complaint stating the shop owner was keeping his business open on the wrong days. But with entrances on two streets, how can he follow two different guidelines? He is already shutting his shop on alternate days. We told the police to decide the days this shop should stay open. But that’s really the job of the PMC. We wasted two hours arguing the matter, without a decision.” Bora added that shops in nearly 70% of the city are not following the P1/P2 rule, either because of the confusion or to prevent losses. According to the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP), guidelines have been provided the P1/P2 rule. “The FTAP has also released a set of the guidelines. Trader associations from different areas have to decide which side will remain open and on what dates,” a member of the FTAP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/p1/p2-rule-for-shops-continues-to-cause-citywide-confusion-traders/articleshow/76863618.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Now, get permission for wedding functions online||PANCHKULA: The administration has started giving permission for marriages and other functions online to avoid heavy rush at its office and maintain social distancing in the times of Covid-19, the illness caused from the new coronavirus. A person will have to log on to www.panchkula.nic.in, download a form, fill the necessary details of the wedding/programme and mail it to www.mabranchpkl1@gmail.com. The permission will be granted with 48 hours. Marriage/banquet halls can function with a maximum number of 50 guests at a time, according to the ministry of home affairs guidelines. They have to, however, obtain permission for organising functions on their premises from the deputy commissioner or any officer authorised to do so. Name, address and mobile number of all guests needs to be submitted to the officer, so that they can be traced later. Liquor, pan, gutkha and tobacco is not allowed to be served during the functions. Guests are not allowed entry if they do not have Aarogya Setu mobile application on their phones. While providing a list of advisory, the order stated that all marriage/banquet halls, barber and salons will have to deploy guards at the entry with sanitiser and thermal scanner. Anyone found having fever above 99.50 F, cold, cough or breathing problem will not be allowed to enter the premises and advised for medical help. The owner must ensure frequent sanitisation of all points, like door handles. Parking management should be done in a manner to maintain social distancing. All staff and helpers must wear masks and gloves during work. The owners must ensure display of posters at the entrance about cough etiquette and social distancing. Monitoring officerFor keeping a strict vigil on following the orders during wedding/programmed, the administration will appoint an officer at each function. The officer will do photography as proof in case any violation is found. Strict action will be taken against the violator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-get-permission-for-wedding-functions-online/articleshow/76863652.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
July 9, 2020||Indore||Every rural household to get tap water connection by 2022||Indore: Every household in rural parts of Indore will get tap water connection by March 2022. The district administration on Wednesday chalked out the plan under its water and sanitation mission. At present, less than 30 per cent of rural population has tap water connection and the administration will have to cover remaining 70 per cent of the houses in different villages in less than 2 years. Under ‘Jal Jeevan Mission’ to provide safe and adequate drinking water through individual tap connections to all households in rural India, the Centre has set a deadline of 2024. It’s also meant to implement source sustainability measures as mandatory elements, such as recharge and reuse through grey water management, water conservation, rain water harvesting. “In Indore district, there are 2.02 lakh households in rural area and of them, 28.67 per cent i.e. 58,146 families have tap water connection,” said MP Shankar Lalwani, adding that the state government has set a deadline of 2024 for achieving the target but in Indore, the administration aims to complete the project by March, 2022. In the meeting, collector Manish Singh emphasized implementation of source sustainability measures. For the project, the Centre and state government will bear 45-45 per cent of expenditure while the remaining 10 per cent contribution will be sought from the public. In Indore, there are 606 villages. Of them, 328 villages will be covered under individual household tap water connection projects through retrofitting while 239 villages will be covered under ‘Naveen Nal Jal Yojana’. For better implementation of the district water and sanitation mission, a third-party inspection will be carried out. People from NGOs, social workers, women self-help-groups and others will be included in a panel examining the entire project to make the required suggestions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/every-rural-household-to-get-tap-water-connection-by-2022/articleshow/76862990.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||HC for panel to study salt mining at Sambhar lake||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday directed the advocate general, additional solicitor general and amicus curiae to suggest names of officials and scientists to form a committee to carry out inspection of Sambhar lake and assess impact of salt mining. The division bench of chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta gave the direction during the hearing of a suo motu petition on the death of migratory birds at Sambhar lake last winter. The names have to be given to court within seven days, while posting the matter for next hearing on July 27. The court pulled up the state government and the Centre for not complying with its order on May 18 last year, to report to the court on the policy measures initiated to prevent such incidents in future. The court noted that the state and its agencies are not in a position to identify the cause of death of birds at Sambhar Lake. Although, postmortem was carried out on birds, yet the cause of death of those birds could not be assessed due to putrefaction.”The court observed that, “The postmortem report of the birds that died on May 12 indicates the cause of death as ‘viral infection’ without indicating the nature of the virus which may have caused the death of the birds.” Amicus curiae Nitin Jain argued that migratory birds will start to flock to the Sambhar Lake and other wetlands after monsoon and necessary precautionary steps need to be taken to ensure that similar deaths do not take place in the ensuing season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-for-panel-to-study-salt-mining-at-sambhar-lake/articleshow/76863668.cms||Joychen Joseph
July 9, 2020||Madurai||Govt urged to help release 21 Indian fishers jailed in Iran||Kanyakumari: The families of 21 Indian fishermen lodged in the Bushehr Jail in Iran have appealed to the central government to get them released and repatriate along with other fishermen awaiting repatriation. The 21 fishermen from Tamil Nadu, were working in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia and detained by the enforcement agency in Iran on charges of entering their territorial waters.Nine fishermen working in Kuwait were detained by The Islamic Revolution Guard Corps Navy on January 17. “They were among the fishermen of three boats detained off the coast of Mahshahr, Khuzestan province,” said Nisha, wife of Godwin Jon Weldon, 40, from Kanyakumari in a representation.V Subani, wife of M Joseph Beski of the same village said her husband has not seen their newborn who is three months old now. “We could not even talk to him since the arrest,” she said.Eight other fishermen detained are Albert Ravi, 38, Daynas, 40, Arockia Ligin, 24, Sahaya Vijay, 22, Michael Adimai, 45, Jesudhas, 27, and Velington, 36, of Kanyakumari district, said Charles Johnson, secretary of Meenavar Orunginaipu Sangam.In May, eight Tamil Nadu fishermen working in Saudi Arabia were detained by the Iran Navy. The fishermen are Adlin Jeba, Anton Adimai, Saju, Kavithan and Aadin Gowtham of Kanyakumari and Kaalimani, Mariselvam and Samiaiyya of Ramanathapuram district. “Four more fishermen have been detained along with these 17 men. We are trying to collect their details,” Johnson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-urged-to-help-release-21-indian-fishers-jailed-in-iran/articleshow/76863673.cms||M K Ananth
July 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist reports 1 more Covid death, four new clusters||Coimbatore: The Covid-19 claimed the seventh victim in the district on Wednesday when a 67-year-old woman from 24 Veerapandi died in the ESI Hospital without responding to treatment. The district also saw four new clusters, as it reported 55 fresh positive cases.According to an official source, the woman, who initially went to a private hospital with flu-like symptoms, was moved to the ESI Hospital on July 2 after she developed breathing difficulty. “The woman tested positive for the virus on the same day and was put on ventilator. She died on Wednesday morning,” the source said. The new clusters comprise Muthalipalayam in Annur, where eight people were infected; VKM Feed Mill in Pollachi, where 12 employees tested positive; an electronic shop (K Electrical Zone) in Marakadai, where 10 employees contracted the virus; and Palamalai Road just off Govanur, where five residents tested positive.Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “All the new clusters were identified through contact tracing. A little more than a week ago, 38 people from Bihar had reported for work at the Pollachi feed mill. Last week, one of them had tested positive. So, we collected samples from all of them and 12 were positive.”The outbreak at Marakadai is also traced back to a man, who had tested positive from the area last week. The man was an employee of K Electrical Zone.“From Annur, we had a couple of cases earlier, including a woman who tested positive on Tuesday. All the 10 new cases are either family members or contacts of a youngster, who had tested positive for the virus from the area earlier,” the deputy director of public health said.Meanwhile, 24 patients were discharged from the ESI Hospital, which also handled the delivery of two more Covid-19 pregnant women through C-section. Both the women – a 25-year-old from Othakkalmandapam and a 35-year-old from Podanur – gave birth to baby girls.The government bulletin, which recorded 87 positive cases in the district, had cases that were turned positive from Sunday to Tuesday. As per the bulletin, the district has 615 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-reports-1-more-covid-death-four-new-clusters/articleshow/76862986.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Man with daughter on bike run over by train in Bundi||Kota: A 60-year-old biker and his 18-year-old daughter were mowed down by a passenger train at Garjani railway gate under Kapren police station area of Bundi district around 12.40am on Wednesday. The mutilated bodies were recovered late at night and were handed over to family members after postmortem. The duo were identified as Ghasilal Meena (60) and Sugna (18), residents of Jaroda village under Deikheda police station of Bundi district. Kapren SHO Budhiprakash Nama said the mishap occurred around 12.40 am when the two were crossing the Delhi – Mumbai tracks at Garjani railway gate on their bike when they came under the wheels of the Mewar Express that was heading to Kota. The loco pilot sent a memo on the mishap following which police rushed the spot around 1am and recovered the mutilated bodies, he said. The Garjani railway gate remains closed for public and traffic from 7 pm to 7 am while a guard stays on duty at the gate during the day, the SHO said, adding the duo managed to get pass the gate before being killed by the train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-with-daughter-on-bike-run-over-by-train-in-bundi/articleshow/76863646.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Delhi||Panel for revisiting licensing norms to revive trade in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A special committee formed by Delhi government to suggest measures to revive trades and businesses post-lockdown has asked various departments to come up with a list of licences that can be dropped to boost economic activities. Agreeing to take a ‘Survive, Revive and Thrive’ approach, the committee, formed under the chairmanship of Dialogue and Development Commission vice-chairman Jasmine Shah, has decided to revisit the licensing norms, simplify Covid-19 related regulations and take measures to revive demand. The committee will also focus on revival of the business environment by accelerating the pending reforms related to ease of doing business in Delhi. Shah said by opening up early and putting a robust healthcare strategy in place, the Delhi government had set the right conditions for economic recovery. “By working together with industry stakeholders, the Delhi government is keen to come out stronger from the economic shock caused by Covid-19 pandemic,” he added. The committee was formed last week and has several trade and industry representatives as its members apart from the bureaucratic heads of industry, revenue, environment and civic bodies. “We have asked the business representatives to submit specific suggestions that can be implemented as short-term measures. We have also asked the officials to list various licences that were required to run a trade in the city and their periodicity so that we can resolve the licensing issues,” he said, adding that the suggestions will be analysed in the next 3-4 days and an action plan will be rolled out. Confederation of Trade and Industry chairman, Brijesh Goyal, said a common suggestion that came up was that all licences issued by the corporations and other departments should be “auto-renewed” for the FY 2020-21. “We have also suggested a single-window system for businessmen,” Goyal added. Sources said that the south corporation commissioner highlighted that the civic body had already initiated the process for automatic extension of all existing licences issued up to March 30. Commissioner (industries) shared the progress made by his department in providing moratorium on lease rent on land issued by DSIIDC as well as major reduction in interest rate on penalties. Rebates on fixed charges on commercial electricity connections, a control room in each market to take day-to-day grievances of traders and formation of sector-specific plans were among several other demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/panel-for-revisiting-licensing-norms-/articleshow/76863692.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chennai||Sathankulam custodial deaths: CBI to probe cops for murder, destroying evidence||CHENNAI: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) late on Tuesday registered two cases in the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks who were allegedly tortured by the Sathankulam police in Tuticorin district on June 19. Special crimes unit-1 of the CBI in New Delhi is probing the case. Vijay Kumar Shukhla, additional SP, CBI, will be in charge of the investigation. Based on the first FIR registered by Kovilpatti east police station in the case, the CBI has registered cases of suspicious deaths under Section 176 (1-A)(1) of the CrPc. Kovilpatti sub-jail superintendent M Shanker is the complainant in the case. However, the agency has added suspected offences like illegal detention, murder and destruction of evidence in the FIR. Jeyaraj and Beniks were arrested by Sathankulam police on June 19 night and tortured all through the night. They died two days later in judicial custody. The two were lodged in the sub-jail on June 20. Beniks was shifted to Kovilpatti government hospital on June 22 night on complaints of wheezing. He died in a while. Jeyaraj was also rushed to the same hospital on June 22 night and he succumbed a few hours later. The CBI FIRs have not taken cognisance of the progress made by the state CB CID in the case. CB CID has already registered murder charges against former Sathankulam inspector Sridhar, two SIs Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh and constables Murugan and Muthuraj. All the five have been arrested and are under suspension. They are lodged in Madurai central prison. The CB CID on Wednesday questioned five more policemen who were on duty at Sathankulam police station on June 19 night. Asked whether they would be arrested, CB CID IG K Shankar said it was too early to comment. The CBI has taken over the case based on a request form the state government. A Central government notification in this regard was issued on Tuesday. A CBI team has left Delhi for Tamil Nadu to carry out the investigation, said a senior official in Delhi. The CBI will take over the case diary and evidences from the CB CID team, following which, the central agency is expected to convert the suspicious deaths into murders. With that, the CB CID probe will come to an end. “Since the CBI team has not yet contacted us, we are progressing with the investigation,” said a CB CID official on Wednesday evening. The Madurai bench of the Madras high court had entrusted the investigation with the CB CID as an interim measure – till the CBI stepped in - to prevent destruction of evidences by the culprits involved in the case. A judicial magistrate’s report about the hostile approach of police officials and constables at Sathankulam police station during the inquest had prompted the court to bring in CB CID into the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sathankulam-cbi-to-probe-cops-for-murder-destroying-evidence/articleshow/76862995.cms||Jayaraj Sivan
July 9, 2020||Pune||FIR against ambulance operator for Rs 8,000 bill in Pune||PUNE: District Collector Naval Kishore Ram on Wednesday directed the Regional Transport Office to file a complaint against a private ambulance service that charged a Covid-19 patient Rs 8,000 for a distance of 7km. TOI had reported the incident on July 8. The patient, a banker, was being moved from a hospital in Bibvewadi to a Covid-care centre in Karvenagar. On Wednesday evening, the RTO, in a response to the collector's orders and the TOI report, registered an FIR against the ambulance service — Hadapsar-based Sanjivani ambulance services. The FIR was filed following a complaint filed by RTO inspector Dhananjay Gosavi on Wednesday evening.” An official said,“The RTO has also informed us this particular ambulance was illegally converted from a mobile clinic.” Deputy RTO Sanjiv Bhor said the vehicle involved in the case has now been seized. Meanwhile, city officials said citizens can contact the RTO with complaints of overcharging by ambulances, along with registration number of the vehicle and a copy of the bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fir-against-ambulance-operator-for-rs-8000-bill/articleshow/76863639.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city registers 221 cases, 2 deaths||Nashik: Nashik city on Wednesday registered 221 Covid-19 cases while two people succumbed to the infection. With this, the total number of patients in the district reached 3,478 while the casualties stand at 145. The fatalities include a 50-year-old man from Kathada and a 69-year-old man from Shivneri Chowk of the Cidco area. In addition, 119 patients were discharged from various hospitals after recovery on Wednesday. A total of 1,725 patients have been discharged so far. At present, the city has 1,608 active patients. Interestingly, the recovery rate of the city has crossed 50%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-registers-221-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/76862987.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad crosses 1,500 Covid-19 patient deaths||AHMEDABAD: It took 103 days from the first recorded death in the city on March 26 for the district to record 1,500 cumulative deaths. With the addition of deaths of five Covid-19 patients on Wednesday, Ahmedabad became the third major district to cross the 1,500-deaths mark after Mumbai (5,064) and Delhi (3,213). Chennai is on the fourth worst spot with 1,143 deaths so far. However, the district’s importance in curbing Covid-19 in Gujarat can be seen from the fact that the district accounts for 75% of Covid-related deaths in the state, while Mumbai accounts for 53.6% of Covid deaths in Maharashtra and Chennai accounts for 67.2% deaths in Tamil Nadu. Ahmedabad district’s death rate is 6.7% which is higher than Mumbai’s 5.8%, Delhi’s 3% and Chennai’s 1.6%. However, on the silver lining, the number of daily deaths and death rate are on decline in the district since mid-June. In the first eight days of July, the district recorded 60 deaths at the mortality rate of 4% with double digit number only on July 3, reaching 10 deaths. In fact, the last 100 deaths were recorded in 11 days compared to five days in beginning of June. “The number of deaths in Ahmedabad have significantly gone down in the past few weeks due to better management through OPD clinics of co-morbidities, which otherwise rendered patients highly vulnerable to Covid complications,,” said ACS Dr Rajiv Gupta, in-charge of Covid-19 control in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar. Dr Maharshi Desai, a member of the state government-appointed panel on Covid-19, said that compared to April-May, the doctors are more confident in treating patients with improved protocols and availability of drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-crosses-1500-covid-patient-deaths/articleshow/76863711.cms||Parth Shastri
July 9, 2020||Kolkata||PSC to hold online test for WBCS C & D groups||Kolkata: Given the pandemic, West Bengal Public Service Commission has decided to hold online personality test for appointments to the posts of 2018 WBCS C & D groups, which are meant for appointing co-operative inspectors and labour department officers. Amid the lockdown the PSC has asked the candidates to reach the office of respective district magistrates for the online interview that will be held through video conferencing. A PSC official said the interview was earlier scheduled to be held on March 23 and 24. “But as the lockdown was clamped at that time, the interview could not be held. As the Covid situation has not improved much, the PSC has decided to go for the virtual interview mode, using the networks of the DMs,” said the official. Already the PSC had done the test run for the virtual interview of four days from July 13 to 16, an official said. Keeping in mind the technical snags that might crop up during the interview, technical experts would be there in the room with the candidates. Debashis Bose, chairman of PSC said this is for the first time that online interview will be conducted, so efforts are on to make it error free. “Only an IT expert will be there in the video-conference room. But the expert will have to maintain a distance from the candidate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/psc-to-hold-online-test-for-wbcs-c-d-groups/articleshow/76862991.cms||Debasish Konar
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||House caves in, 2 workers die in Dausa||Jaipur: An under-construction house collapsed in Dausa city, resulting in the death of two labourers who got buried alive and injuring one other who was hospitalised, on Wednesday. Police have started an enquiry and a case is likely to be registered against the contractor. The deceased labourers were identified as Mahesh Bairwa and Chotelal, both of whom were in their 30s, while, the injured worker was identified as Harkesh Kumar who is undergoing treatment. Anil Chauhan, additional SP, Dausa said, “The labourers were working in an under construction building when the roof suddenly collapsed and they got buried under the debris due to which they died. One person who was rescued was injured.” According to officials, the cause of death appears to be suffocation and injuries due to the heavy weight of the debris.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/house-caves-in-2-workers-die-in-dausa/articleshow/76863638.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Special train leaves with guest workers||Coimbatore: The Salem division of the Southern Railway operated a special train from Tirupur on Wednesday to transport guest workers to Jharkhand and West Bengal.The 34th special train, bound for Howrah in West Bengal, was operated after a gap of one month.Guest workers from 15 districts, including Coimbatore, Tirupur, Salem, Madurai and Dindigul, had reached the Tirupur railway station on Wednesday. “The train departed with 1,150 passengers, including 259 from Tirupur. It will stop at Chennai to board another 300 passengers,” said a railway official. “The passengers are natives of Jharkhand and West Bengal. The train will also stop in Jharkhand. The workers were chosen based on the official data of workers willing to return to their native states.”District administrations supplied the workers with food packets, water bottles and soaps before they boarded the train. They were also screened for Covid-19 symptoms at the railway station. Over 52,000 guest workers from Tirupur had returned to Bihar, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Assam and Jharkhand in the special trains operated from May 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/special-train-leaves-with-guest-workers/articleshow/76862983.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Truck owners fined for flouting norms||Coimbatore: The revenue department on Tuesday slapped Rs 20,000 fine each on operators of three trucks for not following physical distancing and other safety norms.The vehicles were operated at a brick kiln at Veerapandi village near Thadagam. “While one truck had been operated by a brick kiln, the others were from Tirupur. The two trucks had come from Tirupur to load bricks from the kiln,” an official saidMeanwhile, district administration officials said they will serve notices to the seven brick kilns that began operation in Thadagam over the last year. The administration had asked them to halt operations as per the collector’s orders.Revenue officials said as the matter was sub judice, they were waiting for the court’s directions on the 180-odd old kilns.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/truck-owners-fined-for-flouting-norms/articleshow/76862984.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Rs 49 crore for drawing tourists to Mata Mansa Devi temple, Gurdwara Nada Sahib||PANCHKULA: As part of its exercise to promote religious tourism across the country, the central government has sanctioned Rs 49.51 crore for developing Mata Mansa Devi temple and Gurdwara Nada Sahib, both in Panchkula. Of the sanctioned amount, Rs 10 crore has already been received by the Panchkula administration. Haryana assembly speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta said the Centre’s move would prove to be an engine of economic growth and employment generation for the city. As per the plan, both places of worship would be developed in a way so as to attract more and more devotees. Mata Mansa Devi temple complex will have a variety of flower and souvenir shops, and the temple gate will also be beautified. A multi-storey vehicle parking lot has also been planned at a cost of Rs 10 crore, and Rs 2.03 crore will go towards toilets and washroom facilities. Additional structures will also be raised for cultural activities, while environment and water conservation have been given due importance in the plan to develop the complex. Similarly, Rs 25 crore will be spent to develop Gurdwara Nada Sahib, including Rs 2.63 crore for beautifying its entry gate. Besides, Rs 18 crore has been earmarked for a multi-level parking to facilitate the visitors. Gupta said, “The Modi government’s plan to develop these religious places has honoured the religious sentiments of the people here.” He also said earlier, the Centre had sanctioned an All India Institute of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, which came up in Panchkula at a cost of Rs 267 crore. National Institute of Fashion Technology and skill development centres were also set up in the city, while Sanskrit college would be ready soon, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mansa-devi-nada-sahib-to-be-developed-for-religious-tourism/articleshow/76863669.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
July 9, 2020||Nashik||Nashik municipal corporation starts rapid antigen tests for early detection of Covid-19||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Wednesday started rapid antigen tests for early detection of Covid-19 patients in the city. Initially, rapid tests have been started in Wadalagaon and Phule Nagar area, which have emerged as Covid-19 hotspots. On the very first day, NMC conducted 91 tests. Of them, nine tested positive, while remaining 82 tested negative. The civic administration has received the first lot of 9,000 antigen kits from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Usually, it takes two-three days to get the swab reports. But rapid tests through antigen kits help us know within 15-25 minutes whether the suspects or high-risk contacts of the patients are positive, said the officials. ICMR has issued guidelines to conduct antigen tests for early detection of Covid-19. The civic body plans to conduct around 200 tests daily in both Wadalagaon and Phule Nagar areas, said NMC officials. “We will gradually increase the number of rapid tests. We are also providing 100 antigen kits each to four large private hospitals, which are treating Covid-19 patients. We will report true positive if the suspect is tested positive. If the suspect tested negative is an asymptomatic, then we will declare him/her negative. But the suspect tested negative is symptomatic having symptoms like fever, cough and sore throat, then we will send the swabs for testing,” said NMC officials. Moreover, NMC has also sought antibody kits from ICMR to check immunity of health staff, patients and others. NMC officials said they are expecting to receive the first lot of 25,000 antibody kits in a day or two. Nashik has been reporting 100 cases daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-starts-rapid-antigen-tests-for-early-detection-of-covid-19/articleshow/76862985.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: After ceasing services, ITI guest lecturers told to report back for work||PANAJI: Around 40 guest lecturers at various Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs), whose services were discontinued from July 1, have been called back on to work. The director of skill development and entrepreneurship, Dipak Desai, in a communication to all ITI principals has stated that the services of instructors, including contract and guest lecturers, should not be discontinued without the directorate’s approval. “I have instructed all principals not to discontinue any contract staff or guest lecturers in this current situation. The problem has been resolved,” Desai told TOI. The instructions were sent out a day after TOI last week reported about ITI guest lecturers being issued orders and also verbally informed that their services were being discontinued with effect from July 1 despite portion not being completed and final exams yet to be scheduled. Following the instructions, at least one principal issued an order stating that the earlier order of discontinuation stands cancelled. Other principals also communicated with their lecturers, asking them to report back to work. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, last week, hiked the monthly remuneration of lecture-basis teachers and vocational teachers to Rs 25,000. He stated that the nomenclature of full-time, contract-basis, double part-time and singe part-time has been done away with.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-ceasing-services-iti-guest-lecturers-told-to-report-back-for-work/articleshow/76863667.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Noida||Noida: Gangster’s TV studio surrender rumours turn Film City into fortress||NOIDA: Police threw a cordon around Film City, Delhi-NCR’s biggest media district, on Wednesday amid a swirl of speculation that fugitive gangster Vikas Dubey, wanted for the murder of eight UP Police cops on July 3, would surrender in Noida. But why Film City? With Dubey fleeing from Faridabad on Tuesday night, there was a surge in conjecture that Dubey would surrender in Noida, at a TV channel’s studio instead of going to the Surajpur court where police were deployed in large numbers. As a result, check points were set up in and around Film City. Noida’s borders with Delhi, Ghaziabad and Faridabad were also heavily guarded. DCP (Noida) Sankalp Sharma told TOI security was beefed up and checking drives were carried out at the borders as well as Film City and Surajpur. At all these points, cops asked commuters to take off their masks so that facial recognition technology could be used. Additional DCP (Noida) Ranvijay Singh said police went on alert as soon as Dubey’s presence was confirmed in Faridabad since Noida shares a border with the Haryana district. ‘There is speculation that he is trying to surrender but police is determined to catch the notorious gangster,” Singh said. While the focus remained on the Surajpur area during the day, speculation about Dubey changing plans and slipping into Film City to take the police by surprise gained currency. By afternoon, deployment outside Film City had been stepped up, though there were no concrete leads on Dubey being in Noida or anywhere in the vicinity of the neighbourhood from India’s leading media companies operate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/gangsters-tv-studio-surrender-rumours-turn-film-city-into-fortress/articleshow/76863671.cms||Shikha Salaria
July 9, 2020||Nashik||‘Intense testing in containment zones’||Nashik: Former chief minister and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday said that there is an urgent need to start antigen testing in containment zones to bring spread of Covid-19 under control. As part of his whirlwind tour of Nashik district, Fadnavis visited Covid-19 hospitals in the city. Fadnavis, who was flanked by the party office-bearers, said that the number of patients are rising as the testing rate is quite low. Therefore, more tests should be carried out. “To contain the spread of coronavirus, the best way is to find out the people from whom the virus is spreading to others. This means that they have to be tested. So, when there is a containment zone, testing of all people in the said area should be carried out to find out the others besides the testing of high-risk contacts,” Fadnavis said. He also pointed out that the reports of swab tests should reach the patients within 24 hours to ensure early intervention of treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/intense-testing-in-containment-zones/articleshow/76862993.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||None of 29,800 private schools in state reimbursed under RTE Act||JAIPUR: Private schools that admitted students from poor families under the Right to Education (RTE) Act have complained of not receiving reimbursement from the state government for up to past two years, making it difficult for them to continue running the institutes. Last year, 2.10 lakh students were admitted under RTE in 29,800 private schools in the state and none of them received the second instalment due since October 2019. TimesViewThe delay in reimbursements to private schools, especially those with low income, on account of RTE admissions have put their survival at stake. Since the schools are already under financial stress due to the non-payment of fees by parents due to the corona pandemic, timely reimbursements by the state government would come as a huge relief to such institutions and help them function. A majority of these schools charge an annual fee of below Rs 10,000 from a child, which barely helps schools to covers their operational costs. The backlog of dues are also preventing them from hiring good teachers and upgrading facilities, ultimately affecting the purpose of RTE. The government should expedite the verification process of RTE admissions by schools at the start of every academic session itself, thereby reducing the bureaucratic delays in payment. For the upcoming session, which will be weighed on by the Covid-19 crisis, the state should release the first instalment as soon as RTE admissions are complete.The RTE provision says that up to 25% of the students to be admitted in every recognised private school and their fees will be reimbursed by the state. The state has estimated Rs 350 crore as reimbursement against the RTE admissions to the private schools for 8 lakh students it has admitted since from 2012. Till March, they have allocated Rs 182 crore of the total as part of the first instalment, while the rest amount is pending till date. Officially, the first instalment has to be released by July end and the second instalment by October end. Most students admitted under the RTE Act are in low-income and middle-income schools. Almost half the schools have been paid just one instalment in August-September by the state, while the second instalment is yet to be processed. “None of the schools have received the second instalment of academic session 2019-20. For low income and middle-income level schools, every penny counts. The chronic delay derails everything like salaries and variable cost on power, water and maintenance,” said Kishen Mittal of Swayamsevi Shikshan Sanstha Sangh, a body of RBSE schools. The body has submitted a representation to chief minister Ashok Gehlot stating that it will be difficult for them to admit students under this Act in the upcoming academic session. The RTE admissions are starting from July 9. The representation says that the delay is not for this year but around 50% of schools have yet to get the second instalment of 2018-19 years. “The delay in payments up to two years is costing dearly to the private schools severely. Even after submitting all the documents, the department officials come up with some discrepancy or the other,” said Mittal. Sahyog Senior Secondary School at New Sanganer Road has a total of 80 students under the Act. “The state has yet to pay Rs 3.50 Lakh due from the academic year 2018-19. This year again the pendency continues forcing us to freeze everything even the necessary repair work required before the monsoon,” said Om Prakash, principal of the school. Reacting to the allegations from the school, a government official says that documentation is required for releasing the amount. “In most cases, schools fail to furnish the documents like Aadhar Card of students. Also, the delay in submitting the documents jumps them to the second instalment,” said an official. Another problem which creates hurdles in the reimbursement process is that almost all students under the RTE remain regular for some months. while in the second half they become irregular and marked no show by the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/none-of-29800-private-schools-in-state-reimbursed-under-rte-act/articleshow/76863687.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Cases doubling at a slower rate in Chennai||CHENNAI: The doubling time of Covid-19 cases has increased across all 15 zones in the city, bringing cheer. On July 6, it was 25.42 days for the entire city — calculated taking into consideration all reported cases in the last seven days — against 12 days in June, 4.4 days in May and 3 days in April. Increase in the ‘doubling time’ — time taken for the number of virus cases to double — shows the transmission rate has reduced, said Dr P Ganeshkumar, assistant director & scientist at ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology. This could be due to various measures undertaken by the city corporation like scaling up testing, conducting camps and imposing lockdowns. Doubling time in an epidemic depends on how cases are detected, said Dr T Jacob John, former head of Indian Council for Medical Research’s centre for advanced research in virology. “It is supposed to reflect the growth or flattening of an epidemic. It is a useful measure provided the testing is uniform over time. This means the number of tests done was adequate to detect the same proportion of cases over time… If lesser tests are conducted to show lesser numbers, then this will have no impact,” he said. As per data, hotspots such as Royapuram, Tondiarpet, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Kodambakkam, Teynampet, Anna Nagar, Valasaravakkam have shown the best results. In Royapuram, it is now 57.1 days against 20 days in June, 32.7 in Tondiarpet against 12 in June, 32.4 in Thiru Vi Ka Nagar against 18 in June, 32.2 in Teynampet against 16 I June, 24.7 in Anna Nagar over 10 in June and 28.8 in Kodambakkam against 20. “A virus taking more than 14 days to reach the double number of people is a good sign,” said S Rakasekaran, former deputy director of public health. Corporation joint commissioner (health) P Madhusudhan Reddy said many strategies had been rolled out since May last week. “The first thing we did was collect more samples, detect more ILI cases and set up screening centres. In the past week, we uniformly tested more than 10,000 samples daily. Next, we strengthened door- to-door surveillance and quarantine management.” He said all steps were taken to ensure no symptomatic person was missed. “In fact, 29% of the 10,500-odd people who attended fever camps from May 8 have tested positive. Extensive contact tracing and community intervention programmes have helped reduce transmission.” he said. In a meeting at the secretariat on Wednesday, all districts were asked to follow measures taken in over the past one month to reduce transmission rate and test positivity rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cases-doubling-at-a-slower-rate-in-city/articleshow/76862998.cms||Komal Gautham
July 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19: High recovery rate in AP's Krishna district brings cheer||VIJAYAWADA: With the increase in recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Krishna district, the administration finally has some reason for relief, following days of a surge in positive cases. In the last three days, around 600 patients have been discharged from hospitals. Of the 1,968 cases registered in the district, 1,245 patients have been discharged so far. There are 651 active cases at present. Patients were tested twice before discharge. Another 300 patients are expected to be discharged over the next 10 days, officials said. The district detected 70 cases on Wednesday and registered two deaths. The district mortality rate of Covid-19 patients has fallen in the last five days. The death toll is 72. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) continues to focus on high-risk areas in the city and monitor sanitation work. People found roaming on the streets without masks are being fined. The district administration is planning to set up a plasma bank to start plasma therapy for high-risk Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-recovery-rate-in-krishna-brings-cheer/articleshow/76862032.cms||Venu Lanka
July 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: No bidder for 24x7 water supply project||CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) has not received a single bid for its much-vaunted Rs 160 crore 24x7 water supply project in Manimajra, forcing it to call a meeting of a technical committee. Experts comprising chief general manager of the CSCL, chief engineers of the UT administration, municipal corporation and Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) and other officers will chalk out a strategy for the success of the tender in the meeting scheduled next week. “Companies had suggested a need to change some of the criterion of the tender in a pre-bid consultation. A clause for joint venture was also recommended. But members of the technical committee did not consider the views. Now, the meeting will decide whether to change some rules or not,” sources said. The project has two components — capital and installation of water meters. As many as 13,700 water connections in Manimajra will be covered under the project, according to records of the CSCL. Reducing water leakage from 50% to 15% is a major priority area under the project. The tender document gives successful contractor one-and-a-half years to complete the project under which pipelines will be laid in outer areas and in houses of residents to prevent water contamination. “Earlier, the MC was laying down pipelines till the outer area of houses only. People used to fix pipes in their houses and connect them with the line. This heightened the chances of contamination, which this project will eliminate,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-bidder-for-rs-160cr-manimajra-water-supply-project/articleshow/76863683.cms||Deepak Yadav
July 9, 2020||Mumbai||BEST to sell bus passes again||MUMBAI: BEST, which caters to over a million passengers, has decided to open its 29 counters to sell bus passes and for their renewal. For those who had a pass but were unable to travel due to lockdown for the last few months, there will be a service to extend the due date. A separate receipt will be issued to such commuters, said BEST spokesperson Manoj Varade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-to-sell-bus-passes-again/articleshow/76863050.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||FDCA busts tocilizumab black market racket||Ahmedabad: With just a little above 2,000 injections in stock in the open market, the Covid-19 life saving immunosuppressive drug Tocilizumab is now a lucrative option for black marketers in the state. The Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA) on Wednesday busted a racket involving two cities — Ahmedabad and Surat — where agents were selling this drug at a premium price. Nearly 3,000 of tocilizumab injections are presently with the government. The agents were selling this drug called Acterma 400 mg to customers at a premium price of Rs 75,000 and even went up to Rs 90,000, while its retail price is Rs 40,545. The drug comes in 80mg, 150 mg, 200 mg and 400 mg injections. How this racket was being operated is quite interesting. A blank prescription was provided by one Ghanshyam Vyas employed as a contractual employee with TB-infectious disease department at Ahmedabad Civil Hospital. This prescription was passed on to a medical representative of a drug major for legal procurement of the injection. Once this was done the injection was ready to be sold illegally. The injection is imported from Switzerland by just one Indian drug major. Food and drug commissioner H G Koshia told TOI: “We raided a pharmacy in Surat called Sarthak and booked its proprietor Uma Kejriwal and a few others for being involved in black marketing this drug. Right now we have registered a case under Drugs (Prices Control) Order for charging more than the MRP. Our officers were in touch with Sarthak Pharma for a few days following a tip off and negotiating the cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fdca-busts-tocilizumab-black-market-racket/articleshow/76863706.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Pune||27 cops have nCoV, 11 from same place||Pune: As many as 27 personnel from Pimpri Chinchwad police force tested positive for the Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking those affected under the commissionerate to 97. “Eleven are from one police station in Pimpri Chinchwad,” a police officer said. The swabs of all the police personnel of another police station have been sent for tests. “We are waiting for the reports,” he said. The infected include 13 police officers and 84 policemen and policewomen. At least 26 have been cured and have resumed duty too. “Sixty-eight police personnel are being treated in different hospitals while three have been home quarantined,” the officer said. Across the state, policemen in frontline duty have been catching the contagion and many have died. Some are from the SRPF cadre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/27-cops-have-ncov-11-from-same-place/articleshow/76863657.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Sweet shop sells herbal Mysurpa as Covid cure, sealed||Coimbatore: A day after a sweet stall owner at Chinniyampalayam announced the sale of herbal Mysurpa stating that could cure one of Covid-19 in a day, the food safety department, along with the joint director of medical services and siddha district officer, sealed the shop on Wednesday, seized 120kg herbal Mysurpa worth around Rs1 lakh and booked him under the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) Act.Sri Ram Vilas Nellai Lala Sweets had on Tuesday unveiled the herbal mysurpa, which it said contained 19 herbs such as sukku, pepper, turmeric, thippili, morina leaves, karpooravalli, agathi leaves and triphala, and could cure the virus infection in a day.After the announcement went viral, the district administration directed the health and food safety department officials to inquire into the sweet maker and product.The officials subsequently conducted a raid at the shop and its manufacturing facility at Thottipalayam and found the herbal formulation that was used for the Mysurpa was unapproved. The advertisement was also misleading as there wasn’t any proper tests or evidences to confirm the product was a cure for Covid-19 and would yield results in 24 hours of consumption, a source said.Officials have cancelled the manufacturing unit’s licence and ordered them to stop making the herbal Mysurpa, which was green in colour. The shop was selling it in 50gm packets. It was priced at Rs 800 per kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sweet-shop-sells-herbal-mysurpa-as-covid-cure-sealed/articleshow/76862988.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||HSC exam results by next week||Thiruvananthapuram: The state higher secondary and vocational higher secondary examination results would be declared by the middle of next week. General education department was planning to announce the results by July 10. However, the triple lockdown in the capital city and the severe restrictions that followed have forced the department to postpone the announcement date. “We were planning to announce the results by July 10. However, work related to the same and the meetings in that connection could not be completed following the total shut down in Thiruvananthapuram district. We hope, the result could be announced in the week that follow. Final decision on the date would be taken once the triple lockdown is lifted,” said general education secretary A Shajahan. Sources say the result could be out by Wednesday, if there comes up no further impediments. The higher secondary examinations were to be conducted in two schedules in March and May following the outbreak of Covid pandemic and the restrictions that followed. Meanwhile, the state government is going ahead with plans for conducting state entrance examination on July 16. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/hsc-exam-results-by-next-week/articleshow/76862071.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Over 15k visit Raj museums & monuments since June 1||Jaipur: Rajasthan government opened its monuments and museums on June 1 with enticements of free and subsidised entries for couple of weeks to lure visitors. The moved seems to have paid off as visitors are now visiting these places buying tickets despite the spread of coronavirus not abating. Over 15,000 have visited the state monuments and museums since they were opened on June 2 for the public. The eight monuments, including museums, in Jaipur cumulatively have received over 5,700 visitors, while the rest of the footfalls come from various historical places in the state. A senior official of the art and culture said that cooped up people want to get out of their homes, but fear of infection is holding them back. But she said the fear is ebbing slowly and more people will come forward if SOPs and hygiene practices put in place raise their confidence. “The free entries and discounts had played their part in drawing some crowds to the monuments. But now anybody visiting the places need to buy tickets. It’s encouraging to see people are ready to pay and visit the places. So, the demand is organic. WE believe the SOPs and hygiene measures have created confidence. That’s why the monuments and museums are getting footfalls,” said Mugdha Sinha, secretary, art and culture. She said that often it’s the word of mouth publicity that creates awareness. In this case, the SOPs and safety standards are the key to generating confidence and interest. But the number of visitors have come down after the free entries and discounts were withdrawn. “It is natural that when something is free, it will attract more people. But it is heartening to see people are now ready to pay for their visits. Moreover, after malls were opened, the public found more flexibility in movement. However, we expect, the volume of visitors will rise though slowly as the visitors would be locally only till domestic travel re-emerges,” added Sinha. She said the focus will remain on social distancing and safety precautions as that will be the key to boost confidence of the visitors. “The employees have been trained and sensitized about the SOPs. We are monitoring everyday how these SOPs are followed by both employees and the visitors. This ground work will help us when the domestic travel restarts,” added Sinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-15k-visit-raj-museums-monuments-since-june-1/articleshow/76863665.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||‘Privilege motion’ attempt to demean opposition: Poonia||Jaipur: Reacting on the privilege motion, BJP state president Satish Poonia on Wednesday said it was yet another move by the state government to demean the opposition for raising issues critical to them. The privilege motion was moved by independent MLA Sanyam Lodha against Poonia for his statement on ‘horse-trading efforts has been made by the Congress and MLAs have been lured with plum postings’ during the Rajya Sabha polls. “Neither I was served any notice nor summoned by the speaker. Any development in the privileged motion will be followed by legal recourse from our side. However, I don’t understand the maths behind the passing of a motion when the reason stated for the same had happened outside the assembly. It appears to be politically motivated which will eventually backfire,” said Poonia. He also recalled that before his alleged statement, CM Ashok Gehlot had made a remark that BJP was attempting to buy MLAs for Rs 35 crore but till date failed to produce any evidence. “I fail to understand that why Gehlot’s statement has not called for a motion against him,” said Poonia, while leaving the onus on the speaker to proceed with the motion. Speaker CP Joshi said, “The motion has been accepted and is under process.” Sources told TOI that the motion has not even referred to the privilege motion committee till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/privilege-motion-attempt-to-demean-opposition-poonia/articleshow/76863681.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Girl ends life after fight with brother over phone||JAIPUR: A 13-year-old girl committed suicide in Jhunjhunu on Wednesday morning after allegedly fighting with her brother over a mobile phone. According to the girl’s family, after the siblings quarrelled, their mother scolded them following which the girl went to her room and hung herself from the ceiling fan. The girl was identified as Kairunissa who stayed in a colony near Gudha Mod in Jhunjhunu city. Gopal Singh of Jhunjhunu Kotwali who is investigating the case told TOI, “On Wednesday morning, Kairunissa’s 10-year-old brother was playing a game on the mobile phone when she asked him for it. The two got into an argument following which their mother scolded them and threatened to not recharge the phone if they fought over it. After this the girl got upset and went to her room where she was found hanging.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/girl-ends-life-after-fight-with-brother-over-phone/articleshow/76863656.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||1,730 prisoners to be tested for Covid: Collector||Nagpur: The number of corona infected prisoners from Nagpur Central Jail reached 87 after 21 were detected Covid-19 positive in rapid antigen test on Wednesday. The labs at IGGMCH and GMCH on Wednesday tested around 116 samples. All 56 samples tested at IGGMCH reported negative. A number of women prisoners too tested negative. District Collector Ravindra Thakare said that 1,730 prisoners would be tested in the coming days by four teams of government doctors. SP, Nagpur Central Jail, Anupkumar Kumre said they had separated 30 prisoners at the initial stage after they showed symptoms. “Out of the 21 who tested positive today, 18 are from these 30. Around 45 who tested positive in the antigen tests so far will be sent to GMCH and IGGMCH on Thursday and doctors would decide where to treat them, at hospitals or jail’s Covid Care Centre,” he said. Thakare, civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar and other senior officials of health department had conducted a meeting at the Nagpur central jail after a spike in Covid cases in the prison house sounded an alarm for the government. Thakare said second confirmatory Covid test (RT PCR) will be done on inmates testing negative in rapid antigen test. “The positive and negative prisoners would be kept separate inside the prison,” said the collector. Another 57 jail staffers who have tested positive are under treatment at government hospitals. The prison administration had a tough time managing a group clash on Wednesday morning within the premises leading to an offence getting registered against four at Dhantoli police station. Three convicts and an undertrial had clashed with each other over an old rivalry. The prisoners also reportedly attacked a jailer. Nine days after the first Covid-19 case at the jail, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) Laxmi Nagar zone on Wednesday notified two residential colonies of Central Jail as containment zone for 28 days. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe issued notification on Wednesday. NMC Laxmi Nagar zone team led by assistant commissioner Raju Bhivgade barricaded the two colonies adjacent the jail. An NMC official told TOI that they had to take permission from higher authorities to notify the colonies as they fall under prohibited area and jurisdiction of home department. Starting from jail’s main entrance, the containment zone covers the first colony, stretches up to Ajni Chowk and end of the second colony on road connecting Ajni Chowk with railway station and back till the main entrance. Central Jail was not covered as NMC cited no authority over it. TOI had on July 7 reported the NMC or Central Jail administration yet to barricade the two colonies despite staff and family members tested positive for Covid-19 since June 30. and BJP leader Omprakash 'Munna' Yadav had alleged people from the two colonies were moving freely to nearby areas leaving chances of spread of novel coronavirus to other localities. The NMC on Tuesday had conducted survey and identified boundaries of containment zone. The washing station at Ajni chowk has been exempted. The NMC will conduct door-to-door survey in the two colonies and complete contract tracing for positive staff members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1730-prisoners-to-be-tested-for-covid-collector/articleshow/76863005.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai may have 30K active cases by mid-July||CHENNAI: Chennai has seen a decline in daily active cases but that is no reason to lower the guard as experts have projected the city to have more than 30,000 active cases by mid-July. Tamil Nadu is projected to have 60,000 active cases by the end of this week and that could rise to 90,000 by July 21. While mathematicians said the intense lockdown has had little to no effect on the virus spread as the current growth rate in Chennai continues to be the same, epidemiologists said the projected numbers for the state and the city could be lowered if people follow safety precautions. Professor Sitabhra Sinha from Institute of Mathematical Sciences said the intense lockdown has had no effect as the R value of 1.13 +/- 0.01 for Chennai calculated before the lockdown period (June 9 to July 5) continues to be the same post lockdown. Though the number of 1.13 is a drop from 1.34 during May 30 to June 10. R value or effective reproduction number is the average number of secondary cases per infectious case. However, Tamil Nadu has seen a marginal rise in its R value from 1.22 for the period between June 25 and July 1 to 1.23 during the July 2-5 period. Hence, if the R-values or the current growth rate continues, Chennai will have 30,000 active cases by mid-July. As for the peaks predicted by epidemiologists in late July or August, Sinha said, “I don’t think this can be predicted. Chennai cases had reduced earlier in the second half of May but had then gone up in early June. These depend on so many chance events that it is very hard to say for sure whether it will steadily go down from August or whether we will see periodic rises and falls.” On June 20, Chennai accounted for nearly 60% of the daily active infections and at present it contributes to about 33% of the daily cases. This, according Dr G Srinivas, head, department of epidemiology, TN Dr MGR Medical University, is a sign that lockdown has had an effect and it would continue for at least one more week. While lockdown relaxations would naturally see a rise in cases, following the 3Ws - wearing masks, watching distance and washing hands -- could become a substitute to lockdown and strike a balance for the rise in cases after easing of lockdown. Epidemiologists from the medical university had earlier projected Chennai to have around 1.5 lakh cases and TN around 2.7 lakhs by mid-July. “The lockdown has slowed and lowered the cases and the R-value would have changed. It is natural for the cases to rise after lockdown relaxation. But it is now that public should be more responsible by following the safety precautions. With public participation, the numbers we have projected could be delayed even for months,” he said. Virologist Dr T Jacob John said measures like mask wearing could also help in slowing down virus spread in districts that are seeing a rise in cases. “Lockdown has really not helped that much. It is preventing social contact. My recommendation is to make social contact safe by wearing a mask and it is the best solution in districts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-may-have-30k-active-cases-by-mid-july/articleshow/76863007.cms||U Tejonmayam
July 9, 2020||Nashik||Slight increase of seats for FYJC admissions likely||Nashik: The education department is likely to marginally increase the number of seats available for first-year junior college ( FYJC) admissions in Nashik city, said Nashik region’s deputy director of education Pravin Patil. “Although the final decision on the availability of seats in different steams is yet to be taken, overall, the number could go up by about 300 seats in comparison to year,” he added. Last year, there were around 29,000 seats for Class XI admissions in about 60 junior colleges in the city. A bulk of the seats were for the science stream, followed by commerce, arts and HCVC. Over 1500 seats had remained vacant last year. According to Patil, the admission process for students who have appeared for Class X examination would start from July 15. He held a meeting with the officials of junior colleges on Tuesday. The coordinator for last year’s admission process in Nashik city, Vaibhav Sarode, coordinated Tuesday’s deliberations. According to the authorities, unlike last year, this time during the special round of admission process ⁠— which is conducted after the first three rounds ⁠— the students will have to give their consent to be considered for admissions. Or else, the authorities would not consider them during seat allotment in colleges. “From July 15, students can start the process of registration by filling up and submitting Part I of the admission form that includes basic details like names, date of birth, whether he/she belongs to reserved category etc.” the officials added. The forms can be downloaded after paying the admission process fees online. Students can visit the website created by the state education department ⁠— 11thadmission.org.in ⁠— and click on the Nashik link. “While filling up Part I form, students must upload supporting documents like caste certificates, excellence in sports for seeking admissions in sports quota etc,” said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/slight-increase-of-seats-for-fyjc-admissions-likely/articleshow/76862999.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||SC instructs Raj poll panel to complete rural polls by Oct 15||Jaipur: The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the state election commission to complete the remaining panchayat elections by October 15.The bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde gave the order on an application by the state election commission. Elections to 3,859 village panchayats, 352 panchayat samitis and 33 zilla parishads are pending. The court had earlier asked the state election commission to hold the in April but was postponed due to Covid.Election to the panchayats was delayed after the state government decided to delimit the panchayats afresh before the elections. This led to tussle between the panchayati raj department and the state election commission. The matter was taken to the apex court after the high court cancelled the notification issued by the panchayati raj department increasing the number of panchayats.After the high court order on December 13 that nullified the new panchayats created after November 15, the state election commission had announced panchayats polls in four phases beginning January 17. But the state government took up the matter to Supreme Court which stayed the high court order and ordered the election commission to complete the polls by April. But that did not happen due to Covid outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sc-instructs-raj-poll-panel-to-complete-rural-polls-by-oct-15/articleshow/76863701.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Former teacher accuses school director of rape in Sikar district||JAIPUR: A former teacher of a private school in Sikar district’s Ajeetgarh area registered a rape case on Wednesday against the institution’s director alleging that he sexually assaulted her after spiking her tea with a sedative. According to the complainant, the incident took place two years ago when she was still working at the school. She alleged that the accused took multiple videos of the assault, which continued over couple of years. The case was registered at Ajeetgarh police station. An official said, “The complainant alleged that the accused continued to rape her by threatening to upload the videos and photographs which he had taken when she was nude.” The complainant, who is in her 20s, got married during these two years following which she left the teaching job. The woman alleged that even after quitting, the accused kept forcing her to rejoin the school but when she did not, so he uploaded the videos and photographs that are being circulated on social media. In the complaint letter, the woman claimed that other staff members of the school were aware about the sexual assault but did not speak up. She alleged that after the videos were uploaded online, she decided to register a case. The police have initiated investigation. According to sources, there are at least 18 graphic videos which were allegedly uploaded by the accused school director who is currently on the run. Police are investigating the role of others also in the alleged rape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/former-teacher-accuses-school-director-of-rape-in-sikar-district/articleshow/76863685.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Tourism secy given addl charge of MD and chairman of RTDC||JAIPUR: After five days of bureaucratic reshuffle, the state government finally decided to give new principal secretary tourism Alok Gupta additional charges of director tourism, and both managing director and chairman of Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation (RTDC). Along with the charges of Devsthan department, Gupta will be the sole civil servant responsible for driving the revival of tourism and putting the debt-saddled RTDC back on track. For Gupta, the first challenge would be to chalk out a post-Covid revival roadmap and a marketing strategy aimed at attracting domestic tourists since international tourist movement is not expected to take place at least in the coming six months. In the first six months of the current year, from January to May, tourist arrivals have crashed over 40% and the situation is not expected to change much in the next 3-4 months, given the spread of the virus. Similarly, around five proposals for developing various tourist circuits covering niche areas like tribal, desert, eco and adventure tourism have been pending with the Centre. A lot will depend on how the department engages with the Union tourism ministry to get them sanctioned. Similarly, the work on Amber fort, which has been declared as one of the iconic sites, is yet to start. Being chairman and managing director of RTDC, Gupta needs to pay special attention to the precarious condition of the corporation which has accumulated losses of over Rs 150 crore. The employees have not been paid their salaries for the past 3-4 months. Palace On Wheels had to cancel some of its journeys due to Covid outbreak. While the corporation’s hotel arm continues to post losses, the luxury train made some money. But it was tailor-made for foreign tourists. Given the fact that foreign tourists are unlikely to travel in the coming season, the corporation has to reorient the focus of the train to domestic market. The start of the season for POW is not far as it begins its first journey on September 5 every year. The bigger challenge would be to restructure RTDC and make it self-reliant. The previous government made a few attempts to restructure the corporation, but nothing came out of it. After Congress came to power, it has not spelt out on how to bring the corporation back to health. In the current regime of the government, three MDs have been transferred in less than two years. Now, Gupta needs to do a balancing act so that a plan can be initiated to revive RTDC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourism-secy-given-addl-charge-of-md-and-chairman-of-rtdc/articleshow/76863675.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 9, 2020||Noida||Family of dead SSB jawan demands probe||Greater Noida: The Jewar-based family of an SSB jawan who allegedly shot dead his senior officer in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district before killing himself using the same service rifle on July 6, suspect the sequence of events and has demanded a thorough probe. The body of the constable reached Jewar around 9 pm and was cremated late on Wednesday night. Suresh Chand Sharma, the father of SSB jawan Aman Sharma, told TOI that they suspect the sequence of events. “In the pictures, it can be seen that my son’s body was lying in a pool of blood, while there was no blood around the body of his senior officer lying next to him,” he said. “Moreover, the rifle is placed near the senior officer’s body even as we were told that it was Aman who had first shot him at a court complex in Kulgam. If officials are to be believed, the rifle should have been placed near Aman and not near ASI Sandeep (the senior officer). Further, the crime scene looked like as if Sandeep’s body was placed there,” he alleged. Aman’s family has also given a complaint to the SSB officials and at the Jewar police station. “We will soon give a complaint to the Jewar MLA and the Gautam Budh Nagar MP,” Suresh said. A spokesperson for the SSB, however, told TOI that the matter is now being inquired into by the J-K Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/family-of-dead-ssb-jawan-demands-probe/articleshow/76863696.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Kolkata||SAT directs state govt to pay DA on a par with Centre||Kolkata: The state administrative tribunal (SAT) on Wednesday directed Bengal government to pay DA to the employees on a par with the employees of Centre, considering the All India Consumer Price Index (AICPI). Nabanna officials felt that if the state has to pay the DA along with arrears,the state exchequer will have to spend around Rs 18,000 crore. At present, there is gap of 42% between the state employees and Central government employees, an official said. The SAT bench of Justice Ranjit Kumar Bag and Subesh Das, while hearing a review petition, directed the state government for release of DA. Earlier in July 2019, the SAT had directed Bengal chief secretary to evolve norms or principles within a period of three months for release of DA on the basic pay of the state government employees fixed in terms of Revision of Pay and Allowances (ROPA) Rules, 2009, based on AICPI. The bench said in its order : “We find that the grounds can be taken up by the petitioners for challenging the judgement and order before the superior court, but the same can never be agitated before us for review of the earlier decision. Those grounds by no stretch of imagination fall within the ambit of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 for review of the earlier decision of the SAT. Accordingly, we are constrained to hold that the petitioners have miserably failed to establish any ground for review of the judgement.” Thus the bench said the memorandum of review is not admitted for hearing. Malay Mukhopadhyay, secretary of Confederation of State Government Employees, had moved the matter, but the SAT had earlier on February 16, 2017, turned down the claim for DA, saying it falls within the discretionary domain of the state government to pay DA. Mukhopadhyay said they were happy with the SAT order and now they will file the contempt petition against the state government for not paying their due DA within the stipulated time frame as earlier SAT had given the order in July 2019, but the state government sought a review. Advocate General Kishore Dutta appeared for the state on Wednesday, but the SAT bench refused to give relief to state government. Sardar Amjad Ali counsel for Mukhopadhyay said the state has to pay the DA, but obviously they can seek an appeal again to delay the payment. He added that the employees are entitled to get their outstanding dues as well, which the SAT had mentioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sat-directs-state-govt-to-pay-da-on-a-par-with-centre/articleshow/76863004.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Amaravati||Now, symptomatic patients focus of testing||AMARAVATI: The health department has decided to focus on identifying people vulnerable to Covid-19 and testing symptomatic patients. The decision has been taken to treat sensitive people at the earliest and reduce the mortality rate. Medical officers have been directed to concentrate more on providing treatment to symptomatic cases than asymptomatic ones as it is only adding to the workload of testing laboratories. The health department has asked ANMs and field surveillance teams to complete the data compilation of vulnerable people so that those in immediate need of attention would be tested and shifted to hospitals. They have been asked to collect samples of symptomatic cases on a priority basis. A senior medical officer said many middle-aged people are succumbing to the virus of late. “Younger people are dying due to Covid-19. A 40-year old lab technician died in Prakasam district two days ago. While three of his family have tested positive, the condition of one of them is critical. They are all middle-aged without co-morbidities. This is shocking,” she said, adding that more and more people becoming critically ill, despite having no history of other ailments, within a few days of testing positive. It is to arrest this trend that the health department has come up with the new action plan. While the government continues to advocate screening of all primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 positive patients, the district medical and health officers are of the view that such a process is only increasing the burden on healthcare workers as well as hospitals and labs. “The aggressive tracing of primary and secondary contacts was found useful in the initial days of the outbreak. But now that the Centre itself has changed the rules for quarantine and isolation in view of the fast-growing positive cases, there is no point in constantly testing all asymptomatic people. All primary and secondary contacts of positive patients can be directed to stay in home quarantine and tests should be carried out only when symptoms appear,” suggested a senior health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/now-symptomatic-patients-focus-of-testing/articleshow/76862063.cms||Samdani MN
July 9, 2020||Indore||Soyameal exporters seek tax relief to compete in global market||Indore: Plummeting soyabean meal exports from India, the leading producer of non- Genetically modified organisms (GMO) soyabean, amid non-competitive prices in the global market and subsequent closures of economies in lockdown have left exporters baffled seeking a revival package. Hard hit by a sharp dent in exports of soyabean meal in the ongoing oil year after being outpriced in the global market amid a poor crop and rival countries eating into the traditional markets such as South East Asian countries, exporters and processors have sought export incentives and restrictions on import of edible oils. The new oil year starts from October and ends in September. Soyabean processors and exporters under the banner of Soybean Processors Association of India (SOPA) in a letter addressed to Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare have demanded to exempt soybean and soybean meal from Goods and Services Tax. SOPA executive director DN Pathak said, “We used to export about 40 lakh tonne of soyabean meal costing around Rs 15,000 crore annually till 2012-13. But we gradually lost the export market in couple of years and then regained to some extent last year by exporting 20 lakh tonne. But again, this year was a sorry picture and the government needs to support us to make us competitive in the world market.” Exporters and processors from Madhya Pradesh, a leading producer of soyabean contributing over 70 per cent to total national output and a major trading centre, anticipates a revival if soyabean prices are kept competitive in the home market facilitating exports. According to the processors body SOPA, soyabean meal exports in 2018/19 was 20 lakh tonne due to adequate availability and competitive prices in the world market but in 2019/20, exports are likely to consolidate between 6 to 7 lakh ton because Indian origin produce is costlier than the competing countries. Soyabean meal exporters said, South East Asian countries, the traditional buyers for Indian meals have also slowed down purchases owing to higher prices offered for Indian meals.  Girish Matlani, a leading manufacturer and exporter of soy food ingredients said, “There is no doubt, India has the potential to capture the world market as it’s the leading non-GMO producer. If price disparity can be addressed by ensuring sufficient production and spot supplies, then export will bounce back. We anticipate better production this year and hope for better exports in the new oil year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/soyameal-exporters-seek-tax-relief-to-compete-in-global-market/articleshow/76863008.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Bareilly||An app will warn farmers when lightning is about to strike||Pilibhit: With the onset of monsoon and the heightened risk of lightning strikes on the sugarcane farms of Uttar Pradesh, the state has issued an advisory recommending that farmers use a lightning alert app, Damini, to keep themselves safe. This comes two weeks after 110 lost their lives to lightning strikes in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar in just two days.An alert assesses atmospheric conditions to predict if there is a possibility of lightning. With this app, its developer SD Pawar said, users will get an alert five minutes before lightning could strike. “It will also point out how far lightning could strike and in how much time. If there is no possibility of lightning when it rains, the app will indicate that as well,” he added.The idea is to give people enough time to evacuate. “Farmers end up being most at risk because of this,” said Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, principal secretary of the sugarcane and sugar industry. There are 46 lakh sugarcane farmers in the state. “The app will tell them when it’s unsafe and also how to protect themselves.” The app was released in November 2018 by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology at Pune in Maharashtra. Its interface now shows it is supported by the Union ministry of earth sciences. It has been downloaded 1 lakh times and as of Wednesday, it’s the sixth top weather app in India. While its reviews and a quick trial by TOI show the app is buggy and crashes often, it does show on a map which places are most likely to be struck by lightning in three categories — zero to five minutes, five to 10 minutes and 10 to 15 minutes. The app also has a tab outlining ways in which people can keep themselves safe. Complementing the app, the government has also issued an advisory for farmers, asking them to stay away from ponds, water streams, waterlogged fields and anything else that is a good conductor of electricity. “Sugarcane growers have been advised not to take shelter in open fields and under trees, and avoid lying flat on the ground,” Bhoosreddy said. If someone does get stuck in an open space when lightning strikes, he added, they should “put their hands over their ears, bend downwards and make sure the heels of their feet are touching each other.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/an-app-will-warn-farmers-when-lightning-is-about-to-strike/articleshow/76860579.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan cops on alert for UP gangster Vikas Dubey||Alwar: Rajasthan police is on alert after the Uttar Pradesh’s most wanted gangster Vikas Dubey who is accused of killing eight police personnel absconded from Kanpur and is yet to be arrested. Rajasthan police officials especially of the border, including Alwar, Bhiwadi, Dausa and Bharatpur, have started strict checking of the vehicles to ensure that Dubey does not enter the desert state. On Wednesday, police officials in bullet proof jackets were seen checking the vehicles on the borders adjoining Haryana. Police officials also claimed that apart from checking the vehicles, they will also check two-wheelers as well as hotels and restaurants operating in the border districts especially on the highway. Meanwhile, senior officials claimed that no formal alert has been issued and DGP Rajasthan, Bhupendra Singh added, “There is no direct alert issued to police personnel but there is always a possibility of the criminal entering the state though nothing has been communicated to us by UP police.” Sriman Meena, additional SP said, “While we have no direct communication from UP police regarding this case, there were reports that Dubey was spotted in Faridabad and there are chances that he might try to cross over to Rajasthan due to which we have started intensive checking at the border.” Dubey had killed eight policemen after ambushing them when the team had gone to arrest him. The wanted criminal has 60 cases against him in Chaubepur police station in Kanpur. The role of various cops is also being investigated in the gangster’s escape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-cops-on-alert-for-up-gangster-vikas-dubey/articleshow/76863691.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Vadodara||Man stones cousin to death in Savli||Vadodara: A 38-year-old man was found stoned to death on the outskirts of Poicha Raniya village in Savli taluka of Vadodara district on Wednesday morning. Ghanshyam Dabhi, the cousin of the deceased, Kirit Dabhi, was arrested on the same evening for the murder. According to Kirit’s family members, he had gone out for a stroll in the village after having dinner on Tuesday night. Since, he used to remain out of the house till late hours often, the family members did not inquire when he did not return home on Tuesday. However, his dead body with injury marks on head was found on a bench on the outskirts of the village on Wednesday morning, following which police were informed. The police questioned the villagers and his family members throughout the day. “We learnt that two days back the victim had a fight with his cousin Ghanshyam. They used to often fight over petty issues. Hence, we picked up the accused for questioning,” said a police official. During his interrogation, Ghanshyam broke down and confessed to killing Kirit when he was sleeping on the bench on Tuesday night. Ghanshyam told cops that Kirit was a headstrong person. “The accused said that the victim used to go to his house often and fight with the mother of the accused and niece over different reasons, and that was also the reason for the fight between the two cousins,” the official said. Due to repeated confrontation, Ghanshyam decided to kill his cousin. On Tuesday night, when Kirit was sleeping on the bench, Ghanshyam hit Kirit with a stone several times which resulted in his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-stones-cousin-to-death-in-savli/articleshow/76861265.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Goa||Man held for threatening woman||Margao: Fatorda police on Wednesday arrested Margao-resident Abdul Kadar Shah on charges ofallegedly insulting the modesty of a woman and threatening her. Police sources said the accused also threatened the woman with dire consequences if she didn’t sell her flat to her. Acting on the complaint filed by the woman, the police arrested Shah under Sections 509 (insulting modesty of a woman) and 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-held-for-threatening-woman/articleshow/76864093.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Authorities overwhelmed as residents flood testing centres||HYDERABAD: Even as Covid-19 testing through antigen kits began in Hyderabad, Medchal and Rangareddy districts on Thursday, the government is still reluctant in pushing for more number of RT-PCR tests. The medical and health authorities were asked to do no more than 100 tests a day per centre, but some of the local authorities are taking more samples as people are turning up in huge numbers for testing. The government issued a circular on antigen tests and other testing protocols. The government has selected 25 Primary Health Care Centers (PHC) in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and 20 each in Rangareddy and Medchal districts, where the spread is very high. Authorities also told ground-level staff not to take more than 25 antigen samples in a day per centre and this has led to commotion in the ground level. “We are facing difficulty as many people are asking us to do antigen tests as the results can be given in 30 minutes, but we have our own limitations,” said an official. The circular on tests said only symptomatic people should be tested either with RT-PCR or antigen method.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/authorities-overhelmed-as-residents-flood-testing-centres/articleshow/76863716.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 9, 2020||Bareilly||Boat capsizes in Sharda, two missing, eight rescued||Pilibhit: Two residents of Ramnagar village under Madhotanda police station went missing after a boat ferrying 10 people capsized in the Sharda river around 6.30pm on Wednesday. A team of Sashastra Seema Bal rushed to the spot but by then, villagers had rescued eight people, while two are still missing. According to gram pradhan Prashant Sana, the villagers were on their way home after working in their field located trans-Sharda when the boat capsized. The river was in a spate after the high discharge of water in the past two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/boat-capsizes-in-sharda-two-missing-eight-rescued/articleshow/76860556.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Minister tests positive: No quarantine for Gujarat CM, others||GANDHINAGAR: The chief minister and other ministers have decided not to undergo quarantine after Raman Patkar, minister of state for forests and tribal development, tested positive for Covid-19. The state cabinet meeting was held on schedule on Wednesday in Gandhinagar. Nitin Patel, deputy CM and state government spokesperson said, “Ramanbhai had maintained social distancing from the CM, me and other ministers in the last cabinet meeting. As everyone had sat at a safe distance from each other, there is no need to observe quarantine. Since last week, he had not met any ministers, so there’s no need of quarantine for any minister too.” Earlier, the chief minister, deputy chief minister and the minister of state for home had observed quarantine after they met and interacted with Congress MLA Imran Khedawala, who subsequently tested positive for Covid-19. Patkar, who has been admitted to the Civil Hospital, Asarwa, for corona treatment said, “On July 1, after attending the cabinet meeting, I went to Aravalli district to interact with party workers. I began experiencing symptoms like cough and other problems from the next day. I returned to my constituency and then to Gandhinagar on July 7 for the cabinet meeting. As I was not feeling well, doctors advised me to undergo a Covid-19 test. I am being treated at U N Mehta hospital in Civil.” Before testing positive, Patkar had attended a few meetings at the CM’s residence taken part in meetings at the state BJP headquarters, Kamalam, for assembly byelection preparations, in which state BJP president Jitu Vaghani, state party general secretary Bikhubhai Dalsania and other office bearers were also present. Patkar also met several senior IAS officers at his Swarnim Sankul II office, triggering anxiety among many officers as well. Rupala’s mother tests corona positive Gandhinagar: Union minister of state, agriculture & farmers welfare, Purshottam Rupala’s mother Hariben has tested corona positive at Gandhinagar. She has been advised home quarantine at Rupala’s Gandhinagar residence. Just a few days ago, she had come from her native Amreli to Gandhinagar. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Vijay Rupani and senior BJP leaders spoke to Rupala and wished his mother a speedy recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/minister-tests-ve-no-quarantine-for-cm-others/articleshow/76863719.cms||Kapil Dave
July 9, 2020||Kolkata||Phoolbagan murder: Gun supplier held||Kolkata: Cops arrested Prithvi Sagar, a resident of Nawada, for allegedly supplying the murder weapon to the chartered accountant Amit Agarwal who had killed his wife Shilpi in Bengaluru last month and then come down to Kolkata and murdered his mother-in-law before he finally shot himself. Sagar is the second person arrested in connection with the murder case. The arrest was made after interrogating the gunrunner Pankaj Kumar in Bihar, said DC (ESD) Ajoy Prasad. “Agarwal had paid Rs 60,000 for the pistol and ammunition. Agarwal had been acquainted with Kumar through an office cook. Kumar had kept Rs 20,000 and travelled to Howrah to deliver the weapon on March 7. The rest of the money was handed to Sagar by Kumar. Agarwal had given an advance amount of Rs 40,000 to buy the pistol,” said an officer. Almost 24 hours ago, a major boost was received in the murder probe with the arrest of Kumar from Nawada. Police had earlier established Amit’s presence in the city on that day. Cops believe that Amit had hidden the pistol at the Kankurgachhi flat and left for Bengaluru. “We need to ascertain how long Kumar got in touch with Agarwal and whether there is any other person who had facilitated the meeting between the two,” said DC Prasad. Police sources said they have already established that Agarwal had travelled to Bihar earlier. The Child Welfare Committee had earlier ruled that the couple’s son would stay with Agarwal’s family. This was after the child’s maternal uncle and grandfather expressed their helplessness in grooming the child, claiming they were tied up with many responsibilities. The committee will keep checking on the child’s progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/phoolbagan-murder-gun-supplier-held/articleshow/76863010.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 9, 2020||Chennai||Tirupur units shelve plan to bring back workers||CHENNAI: The country’s leading readymade and knitwear cluster in Tirupur has shelved a plan to bring back guest workers following a spike in Covid-19 cases in the districts. The sector engages around 6 lakh workers. Of them, around 2 lakh are from Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and UP. A majority of them had gone to their native states following an outbreak of Covid-19 cases two months ago. Though guest workers have sent out feelers to return, member units of Tirupur Exporters Association (TEA), an umbrella organisation of all entrepreneurs in the textile hub, are apprehensive of facilitating their transportation to Tirupur. TEA has asked its members to continue its operation with the existing workforce. The office bearers of the association have taken the decision following the spread of Covid infections in rural TN. “At present, the industry is working with around 3 lakh workers and meeting the lean-season demand. Bringing workers from outside the district might put at risk the tranquillity in the industry and endanger its operation,” president of TEA Raja M Shanmugam told TOI. The association has told members not to bring back workers from outside the district, particularly from containment zones. “The industry is managing 40% to 50% production with the existing workforce. This is normal production during lean season. We want to sustain this until the normalcy returns,” Shanmugam said. A few of the member units had plans to bring workers from the northern states. However, they have been asked to postpone their plans by two weeks. “We are in touch with the workers who had gone to their native village in Bihar. They want to come back to work and have asked us to get an e-pass for them. But we have put the plan on hold now, keeping the wellbeing of the workers who are with us now,” said an employer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tirupur-units-shelve-plan-to-bring-back-workers/articleshow/76863018.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CEE releases admit cards||Thiruvananthapuram: Office of the commissioner for state entrance examinations released admit cards for candidates appearing for Kerala Engineering and Pharmacy entrance examination scheduled for July 16. The admit cards can be downloaded from KEAM 2020-candidate portal provided on the website www.cee.kerala.gov.in. Despite the health emergency looming large over the state following the spike in the number of Covid cases in recent days, state government has decided against conducting the entrance examinations which it had to postpone once following the lockdown. Candidates without admit cards will not be permitted to attend the entrance examination. Colour printout of the admit card is preferable for proper identification of the candidates. Admit cards will not be available to candidates who have applied for medical or architecture courses only, an official statement from the commissioner for entrance examinations said. Admit cards have not been issued to candidates who have to remit balance application fee and also to some candidates who have defects in their photograph and signature uploaded during the submission of online application. The admit cards for candidates who have to remit balance application fee/Dubai centre fee shall be released as and when the balance amount is paid. The admit cards of other candidates will be released only if correct photograph/signature is uploaded through the links concerned before 2pm on July 9, 2020, the statement said. The candidates who do not know their application number can get it by giving their name and mobile number on the link ‘forgot application number’ provided in the candidate portal. Candidates needing assistance with regard to the examination can contact the liaison officers. Due to Covid-19, candidates should strictly follow the instructions on the website of the commissioner for entrance examinations, the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cee-releases-admit-cards/articleshow/76862101.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Nashik||Shirdi temple receives Rs 79.36L donation||Nashik: Shree Saibaba Sansthan Trust, Shirdi, has received Rs 79.36 lakh through donation in a single day on the occasion of Guru Purnima, chief executive officer Arun Dongre said. Though the temple was shut for visitors, priests performed rituals inside the temple, Dongre said, adding that a three-day-long programme was conducted from Saturday to Monday. The trust had already appealed to devotees to avoid coming to the temple as it was closed for public as per the orders issued by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shirdi-temple-receives-rs-79-36l-donation/articleshow/76863014.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Jodhpur||Court returns chargesheet filed in Anandpal case||JODHPUR: A trial court in Jodhpur has returned the chargesheet filed by the CBI in the matter of Sanwrad violence, which followed encounter of gangster Anandpal citing some deficiencies in it. The court of ACJM (CBI cases) has asked the CBI to correct them and re-submit in the court. The CBI had submitted the chargesheet on June 28, in which 24 people from Rajput community, including daughter of the slain gangster, had been accused of inciting mob in Sanwrad on July 12, 2017. The court was supposed to take cognizance of the chargesheet, but on finding some technical defects, the ACJM Indra Banera returned the same to the CBI on Friday last week without taking cognizance. “The court was not satisfied with the chargesheet as there were some technical lacunae in the chargesheet in the opinion segment. So the court did not take cognizance of it and returned it to the CBI for correction and re-submission on a later date,” said a source in the court. After taking cognizance, the court will proceed with issuing notices to the accused describing the charges framed by the CBI in the chargesheet against them, which will be followed by a trial. It may be noted that CBI had taken over the investigation of the case in January 2018, previously registered at Jaswantgarh police station in Nagaur, to investigate the violence in Sanwrad on July 12, 2017, during a condolence meeting wherein one of the accused invited the people in large numbers and instigated them into violence holding hate speeches The instigated crowd allegedly pelted stones at police vehicles in which police personnel suffered injuries. Some of the police personnel were allegedly held captive in a house and the crowd snatched their arms, mobile phones and other items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/court-returns-chargesheet-filed-in-anandpal-case/articleshow/76866575.cms||Ajay Parmar
July 9, 2020||Jaipur||Court returns chargesheet filed in Anandpal case||JODHPUR: A trial court in Jodhpur has returned the chargesheet filed by the CBI in the matter of Sanwrad violence, which followed encounter of gangster Anandpal citing some deficiencies in it. The court of ACJM (CBI cases) has asked the CBI to correct them and re-submit in the court. The CBI had submitted the chargesheet on June 28, in which 24 people from Rajput community, including daughter of the slain gangster, had been accused of inciting mob in Sanwrad on July 12, 2017. The court was supposed to take cognizance of the chargesheet, but on finding some technical defects, the ACJM Indra Banera returned the same to the CBI on Friday last week without taking cognizance. “The court was not satisfied with the chargesheet as there were some technical lacunae in the chargesheet in the opinion segment. So the court did not take cognizance of it and returned it to the CBI for correction and re-submission on a later date,” said a source in the court. After taking cognizance, the court will proceed with issuing notices to the accused describing the charges framed by the CBI in the chargesheet against them, which will be followed by a trial. It may be noted that CBI had taken over the investigation of the case in January 2018, previously registered at Jaswantgarh police station in Nagaur, to investigate the violence in Sanwrad on July 12, 2017, during a condolence meeting wherein one of the accused invited the people in large numbers and instigated them into violence holding hate speeches The instigated crowd allegedly pelted stones at police vehicles in which police personnel suffered injuries. Some of the police personnel were allegedly held captive in a house and the crowd snatched their arms, mobile phones and other items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/court-returns-chargesheet-filed-in-anandpal-case/articleshow/76863715.cms||Ajay Parmar
July 9, 2020||Mumbai||Charge-sheet against 2 landlords, others for Rs 73 crore groundwater theft in Mumbai||MUMBAI: In perhaps the first police case of groundwater theft of more than Rs 73 crore that happened over 11 years, Azad Maidan police on Tuesday filed a 488-page charge-sheet against five persons, including two landlords of a building where two wells were dug illegally in Kalbadevi. They allegedly stole water in six lakh tankers and sold water in each tanker for Rs 1,200. Additional commissioner (south) Nishith Mishra said, “Illegal digging of wells was carried out for extraction of water. An electric connection taken for some other purpose was used for the offence. There was illegal transportation of water for commercial purposes.” Earlier cases involved theft of municipal water. A senior official said they caused a loss to the revenue department by not paying taxes. The FIR mentioned six accused, including owners of Pandya Mansion in Bomanji Master Lane, landlord Tripuraprasad Pandya and company directors Prakash Pandya and Manoj Pandya. They extracted water with the help of tanker owners and operators Arun Mishra, Shravan Mishra and Dhiraj Mishra. Tripuraprasad Pandya passed away a year back. Five other accused have been charge-sheeted. Activist Sureshkumar Dhoka had submitted evidence to police, which he obtained through RTI. They accused were arrested under sections 379 (punishment for theft) and 34 (criminal act by several persons with common intention). They were later granted bail. An officer earlier said they sold the groundwater between 2006-17. LT Marg police had earlier filed a charge-sheet against Pandya Mansion owners for forging building plans to include two wells, digging them and exploiting the water for commercial gain. National Green Tribunal had ordered closure of the wells.Mateen Hafeez and Rebecca Samervel BMC terminates leaseBMC terminated the 999-year lease of Pandya Mansion on Bomanji Master Lane, near Metro Cinema in South Mumbai, for alleged unauthorized construction and illegal selling of groundwater from two wells on its premises. Officials said the owner had been issued many notices in 12 years for unauthorized constructions. Four months back, BMC’s improvement committee passed a resolution to cancel the lease but the process got delayed due to lockdown, said an official. The lessee can approach court against the decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/charge-sheet-against-2-landlords-others-for-rs73cr-groundwater-theft/articleshow/76863045.cms||Mateen Hafeez
July 9, 2020||Nashik||NMC tells Ganesh Mandals to get permission for pandals a month before festival||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to issue online permission to Ganesh mandals for erecting pandals. Those interested can seek permission on http://nmcfest.nmc.gov.in. However, the civic administration has made it mandatory for the mandals to seek permission a month before the festival. The civic body has also issued a public notice in this connection. The mandals will also have to display the NMC’s permission notice on the front side of the pandal, failing which, the pandal will be removed by the anti-encroachment department of the civic body. Accordingly, Ganesh mandals in the city which apply a month before the festival will only get permission to erect pandals. Ganesh festival will begin from August 22. The authorities have also made it clear that mandals seeking permission 10-15 days prior to the festival will not be given a go ahead to erect pandals. The rules will be applicable for other upcoming festivals such as Navaratra,said civic officials. In addition, the NMC has warned of strict legal action against unauthorized Ganesh pandals. Besides, the mandals have been advised to keep the celebrations a low-key affair in view of coronavirus outbreak. They have also been asked to follow all lockdown rules, including wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-tells-ganesh-mandals-to-get-permission-for-pandals-a-month-before-festival/articleshow/76863027.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Vendors at RTC stations stare at loss||VIJAYAWADA: The Covid-19 crisis has disrupted the lives of shopkeepers at various bus stations in the state in the absence of public transport for three months. Though the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) resumed operations partially after relaxation of the lockdown, it was not business as usual for those running shops at bus stations. APSRTC used to lease out shops for selling drinking water, soft drinks, confectioneries, tea and eateries. These small businesses remained shut from the last week of March till June. Even as bus services resumed, passengers were less than 40 per cent of that before the lockdown. Vendors running shops at bus station complexes are now unable tp pay rent to APSRTC. They are requesting the transport corporation to waive the rent in view of loss of business. Almost all shop owners except a few in cities like Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam have defaulted on rent to APSRTC. The state-run transport corporation has incurred Rs 12 crore loss per month after shop owners defaulted on rent. Executive director of APSRTC for operations K Brahmananda Reddy said vendors are requesting rent waiver for the lockdown period. “The decision to waive rent is not in our hands and we have written to the state government and are awaiting the decision,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vendors-at-rtc-stns-stare-at-loss/articleshow/76862096.cms||Srikanth Aluri
July 9, 2020||Bareilly||Medical officer suspended for deaths of4 newborns at Budaun CHC in one night||Bareilly: The Uttar Pradesh government has suspended the medical officer-in-charge (MOIC) of Budaun’s Islamnagar community health centre based on the report of a magisterial inquiry conducted into the deaths of four newborns in a single night at the CHC on May 31. According to health department sources, the report has indicted the CHC staff for "negligence". Confirming the development, Budaun chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Yashpal Singh said, “The state government has suspended then MOIC of the Islamnagar CHC. We had transferred the MOIC to the chief medical office when the magisterial inquiry into the matter was ordered.” Earlier, an FIR was registered against a retired auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) and her unidentified aide in this connection under section 304 A (culpable homicide and not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). After the deaths of newborns, the aggrieved family members had accused the CHC staff of laxity in providing treatment to the babies. The first newborn that died was born to Anita Devi and Pal, a labourer from Girdharpur village, while the second death was reported by Sunita and her husband Jitendra, residents of Alinagar village. Similarly, the baby, delivered by Mala, wife of Pushpendra Kumar, died within a few minutes of delivery. In the fourth case, Umesh’s wife Kusum gave birth to a stillborn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/medical-officer-suspended-for-deaths-of4-newborns-at-budaun-chc-in-one-night/articleshow/76859302.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||West accounts for 52% of new cases||Ahmedabad: The western parts of Ahmedabad accounted for 52% of the 172 fresh Covid-19 cases and 75% of the four deaths reported in the city on Tuesday. On Monday, the West Zone of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), which includes Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Ranip, Paldi, and Vasna wards, reported 47 cases, the highest among the AMC’s seven zones. It was followed by the East Zone, where 32 fresh cases were reported, which comprises of Viratnagar, Nikol, Gomtipur, Odhav, Vastral and Amraiwadi wards. The North West Zone, which reported 29 fresh cases, includes areas such as Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia and Gota. The South West Zone reported 15 cases and includes the Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Maktampura and Sarkhej areas. Of the four deaths reported on Tuesday, two were from the North West Zone and one from the South West Zone. According to AMC officials, all the four deaths reported in the city on Tuesday were from private hospitals. The western parts of the city have lately been reporting high numbers of cases and since July 1, of the 1,064 cases in the city, 642 were from the three zones west of the Sabarmati. Currently, the western parts account for 49% of the active cases in the city. As of Wednesday morning, the city had a total of 3,137 active cases of which 1,538 were from the western parts. Of these, the West Zone had 622; the North West Zone 472 and the South West Zone, 444. The other active cases are 229 from the Central Zone, 453 from the North Zone, 450 from the East Zone, and 467 from the South Zone. In the 24 hours ending on Wednesday morning, a total of 110 patients were discharged of which 26 were from government hospitals. Fifty-nine patients at private hospitals and 51 patients in home isolation were also given clean bills of health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/west-accounts-for-52-of-new-cases/articleshow/76863720.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||Vaccine trials: 4 big centres get priority over Nagpur||Nagpur: The wait to take part in the first human trials in India for the Covid-19 vaccine has just got longer for volunteers in Nagpur. Only four big hospitals across the country have initiated the trials yet, with the Nagpur leg expected at least a week later. Dr Gillurkar’s Hospital and Research Centre is the only trial site in Maharashtra for human trials, and has been flooded with phone calls from people willing to be ‘subjects’. However, the phase I is being initially conducted in the four big sites out of 12. So, enrolment of participants in Nagpur will take a week or two more. “We have several volunteers and are still getting calls,” said Dr Gillurkar. “I came to know today that four big hospitals among 12 sites will be initially starting the Phase I trials. Till then, we have to be ready with volunteers. It will take a week more,” he said. The four hospitals shortlisted for early trials include two AIIMS (Patna and New Delhi), NIMS Hyderabad, and King George Hospital, Vizag. In the meanwhile, some centres, including Nagpur, have started the process of shortlisting volunteers for trials. In Nagpur, the hospital received phone calls even from people in Pune and Akola to join in. The centre has got more than 50 interested candidates. It will begin collection of blood and urine samples of each participant and send them to central laboratory (New Delhi) by July 13. In Delhi, it will be assessed whether the candidates are fit for trials. The process revealed so far makes it clear that the vaccine trial is going to take at least six months. Experts said the participants will be administered first dose of vaccine on Day Zero. Their progress will be tested on Day 14, Day 28, Day 42, and so on. After satisfactory results of Phase I, the second phase will be conducted on 750 participants. At present, enrolments are going on only for the first phase. This development has made it clear that the vaccine cannot be expected before August 15, but results of Phase I trials could be expected. Experts told TOI that positive results of Phase I trials could be a major breakthrough in the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vaccine-trials-4-big-centres-get-priority-over-nagpur/articleshow/76863021.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Up to five-day delay in test results vexes Covid-19 suspects||HYDERABAD: Suspected Covid-19 patients having mild to severe symptoms who had been lining up at private testing labs for getting the RT-PCR test for Covid-19 are now facing an unusual delay of 4-5 days in getting the test reports. That is if they are able to get past the serpentine queues at private laboratories which are still offering to conduct the test. A duration of five days, meanwhile, is enough for the condition of a patient to deteriorate drastically and can even lead to death. However, without a positive report in hand, symptomatic patients cannot be admitted in hospitals as most hospitals insist for a positive report to admit a symptomatic Covid-19 suspected patient. “Such patients who have symptoms suspect they have Covid-19 but are unable to get tests done due to long queues and closure of centres,” said T Hari Prakash, president Telangana Network Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association. “Since the government crackdown, several labs have remained voluntarily shut down. As a result, the number of samples landing up at our centre has increased but we too have manpower constraints and can only take a certain number of samples per day. Also with the increased load, time taken for our lab technicians to test and confirm a report has gone up,” said an official from a testing centre. Shortage of data entry operators is yet another issue that labs are finding as a hindrance in churning out reports quickly. People have been left scrambling from testing centre to testing centre in search of a report. There are some who are unable to get a test and have even turned to registered medical practitioners for treatment in the absence of hospitals taking in the tests. “I’m from Hyderabad in Telangana, I’ve been sent away from testing centre as I don’t have a doctor’s prescription. I’ve been symptomatic since Friday since I’m tight on budget went to 4 govt based testing centres appointed by ICMR none tested me. Have shown myself to an RMP doctor,” read a tweet from one Sharath. The sample load at government testing centres too has increased substantially and many centres are closing sample collection by 1pm as they cannot take any more samples for the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/up-to-five-day-delay-in-test-results-vexes-covid-suspects/articleshow/76863722.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 9, 2020||Madurai||Madurai crosses 5K Covid-19 cases, central districts 3,850||Madurai/ Trichy: Madurai crossed the 5,000-mark in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, with 379 people testing positive for the infection. The southern region also recorded 17 deaths, the highest number in a single day; among them 11 are in Madurai. The region reported 911 new cases, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 14,834. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded 146 new cases taking the tally to 3,851 in the eight districts. Five more deaths were reported in Trichy, Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts on Tuesday and Wednesday. According to the state bulletin, the region reported 19 deaths so far. The number of fever clinics and screening camps has been increased in Madurai. Hundreds of people with fever or other symptoms of Covid-19 are approaching them. Madurai has been reporting more than 200 cases a day since July 1, when 296 people tested positive, followed by 273 on July 2, 288 on July 3, 352 on July 4, 302 on July 5, 247 on July 6, 333 on July 7 and 379 on Wednesday, the highest number of cases in a single day in the district. The district has 3,811 active cases, as on July 8; among them nearly 2,500 are in the Madurai Corporation limits. With 17 deaths, the total number of deaths in the southern districts has climbed to 167. Eleven of these deaths were reported in Madurai including five at the GRH and six in private hospitals. Among the 17 deaths, three were women. One aged 55 died at the GRH in Madurai, and the other aged 45, died at the Sivaganga Medical College Hospital. A 42-year-old woman with seizures died at the Theni Government Medical College Hospital. A 70-year-old man died in Ramanathapuram Government Medical College Hospital. Sivaganga Medical College Hospital reported two deaths and Theni Medical College Hospital reported three deaths. All those dead had co-morbidities. A 58-year-old woman village health nurse attached to a primary health centre (PHC) at Valanadu in Trichy district died at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy on Wednesday after testing positive for Covid-19. A 55-year-old man from Kumbakonam in Thanjavur who had no travel history or comorbidity died of Covid-19 after testing positive. A 60-year-old woman from Bose Nagar, and a 55-year-old man from Trichy died at the government medical college hospital in Pudukottai on June 7. A 65-year-old man from Adappanvayal died at the Pudukottai government hospital on Wednesday. All of them tested positive for Covid-19. Trichy district reported 21 new positive cases. The tally of the district stood at 1,077. MGMGH discharged 59 Covid-19 patients on Wednesday. Besides, 49 Covid-19 asymptomatic patients were also sent home from the Covid care centre (CCC) at the Khajamalai campus of Bharathidasan University. Tuticorin district reported 141 cases, followed by Kanyakumarii with 115. All other districts reported less than hundred cases, with Tirunelveli reporting just six cases and Dindigul 10. Covid cases were also reported from Thiruvarur (38), Nagapattinam (19), Thanjavur (15), Pudukottai (31), Ariyalur (12), Karur (7), Perambalur (3), Sivaganga (34), Ramanathapuram (65), Tenkasi (27) and Theni (75).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-crosses-5k-covid-19-cases-central-districts-3850/articleshow/76863728.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Kochi||Cops harassing us, allege wives of 3 accused||Kochi: Wives of three of the accused in the case alleging blackmailing of actor Shamna Kasim has approached the high court alleging harassment by police. In the petition filed through advocate BH Mansoor, they said that they have no connection with the case and they have never contacted the victim. In the petition filed through advocate BH Mansoor, they have alleged that they are being repeatedly summoned to police station under the instruction of Kochi city police commissioner, deputy commissioner (law and order), and assistant commissioner of Thrikkakkara. They are also being threatened that they will be arrested by registering new cases, the petition said. Fearing arrest and torture, the first petitioner had moved an anticipatory bail plea before the HC. Prosecution had informed then that she has not been named as an accused. The petitioners are therefore afraid of harassment by the commissioner and other police officers, it is contended while seeking a court directive to police not to harass them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-harassing-us-allege-wives-of-3-accused/articleshow/76862160.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Vijayawada||South Central Railway lays 46-km track in phase 1 of new line||GUNTUR: In a major boost to infrastructure development, South Central Railway has completed construction of the first phase of the Nadikudi-Srikalahasti railway track. A 46-km-long track between New Piduguralla-Savalyapuram, which is part of Nadikudi-Srikalahasti, has got the green signal from the Commissioner, Railway Safety (CRS) to begin operations. The CRS, after a two-day long inspection, has permitted trains to run on the new route at a maximum speed of 80 kmph. Although the SCR is not in a hurry to run passenger trains in the new section, it is likely to operate freight wagons as it facilitates direct traffic movement from Secunderabad to Bangalore without touching Guntur. The new line will reduce distance between Secunderabad and Bangalore by nearly 95 km. Since it connects the mineral belts in Guntur and Nalgonda with Rayalaseema and Karnataka, the new line is expected to boost traffic. The Nadikudi-Srikalahasti project is one of the key infrastructure projects taken up by the railway ministry to connect less-developed Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore districts in the state. The project has been taken up for the expansion of rail network in Andhra Pradesh and is conceptualised as an alternative route to Vijayawada-Chennai, which faces heavy traffic and interruptions during cyclones. The new line was originally sanctioned in 2011-12 at an estimated cost of Rs 2,289 crore. With costs escalating to Rs 3,500 crore, the railway ministry granted nearly Rs 1,130 crore in the last budget. The project is a joint venture between the Centre and the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/scr-lays-46-km-track-in-phase-1-of-new-line/articleshow/76862116.cms||Samdani MN
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao sets one-year deadline for new secretariat complex||HYDERABAD: As the state government gears up to invite tenders for the construction of the new secretariat complex, CM K Chandrasekhar Rao will take a call on whether to go for nationwide or global tenders to select a reputed company to execute this ambitious project. The chief minister wants the construction of the new secretariat complex to be completed in one year from the date the contract is awarded to the selected agency. The new secretariat complex will be fully Vastu-compliant with ultra-modern facilities. The new complex will also have an administration-cum-command control centre with connectivity to all the district collectorates and gram panchayats. Plans are afoot to construct an earthquake-resistant secretariat complex that can withstand seismic activity better than normal constructions.  Meanwhile, the government plans to complete the demolition and debris removal process prior to the fina lisation of the tender process. “The demolition will continue for a few more days and the debris will be dumped at quarry pits around Greater Hyderabad. We are also looking at other sites to properly dispose of the building debris,” said an official. Sources said that a provision will also be made for the construction of a temple and mosque in the premises of the secretariat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-sets-one-year-deadline-for-new-secretariat-complex/articleshow/76863743.cms||Roushan Ali
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Swaminarayan sect head given plasma therapy||Ahmedabad: The condition of the acharya of Maninagar Shree Swaminarayan Gadi Sansthan, P P Swami, remains critical and he was given plasma therapy for Covid-19 on Wednesday at a private hospital in the city. The head of the Swaminarayan sect tested positive for Covid and has been hospitalized the for last 11 days. As his condition worsened, he has been on ventilator support for the last two days. The hospital authorities on Wednesday decided to treat him with plasma therapy, confirmed the mahant of the Maninagar Swaminarayan temple, Bhagwat Priyadas Swami. The mahant also said that prayers are taking place at more than 300 temples affiliated with this sect across the world for the quick recovery and good health of the head of the sect. P P Swami (78) had undergone a surgery in the past. A few days after his hospitalization, he was on the path to recovery and the hospital was mulling over discharging him. However, he suddenly developed a lung infection and his condition grew critical. He was put on life-support systems. Last month, P P Swami celebrated his birthday at the Maninagar temple campus. A few days after the celebration, seven sadhus of the temple tested positive. The temple management said that some of them have recovered and have returned from the hospital. However, as the acharya’s health deteriorated, all saints and numerous devotees affiliated with the Maninagar Shree Swaminarayan Gadi Sansthan have been praying at temples for his recovery since yesterday, the mahant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/swaminarayan-sect-head-given-plasma-therapy/articleshow/76863730.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Trader assaulted for ransom; 4 booked||NASHIK: The Nashik Road police have booked four people for allegedly beating up a 38-year-old businessman, along with some of his family members, and demanding Rs 10,000 per month as protection money if he wanted to continue with his trade. The alleged incident happened at Chadegaon, a village on the outskirts of the city, on June 28, said police. The suspects and the complainant hail from the said village. According to the complainant, he was strolling outside his home after dinner around 10pm, when the four suspects approached him and allegedly put forth their ransom demand. They started abusing him for refusing to pay and soon started beating him up. The suspects allegedly assaulted the complainant’s family members, including his wife, mother, father, brother and sister-in-law tried, when they intervened, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/trader-assaulted-for-ransom-4-booked/articleshow/76863034.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||IIM-Visakhapatnam readies academic calendar, online classes start August 17||VISAKHAPATNAM: Indian Institute of Management, Visakhapatnam, will resume academic activity online from July 15. The IIM-V had 150 admissions for its postgraduate programme in management (PGP) for 2020-22. Classes for senior students will begin from August 17, after conducting nearly month-long preparatory courses. Classes for new admissions will begin only on August 31 since students will first undergo foundation and preparatory courses for nearly one-and-a-half months. IIM-V is the first higher educational institution in Andhra Pradesh to finalise its academic calendar in the wake of the Covid-19 disruption. Prof M Chandrasekhar, director, IIM-V, said the institute has taken great care in choosing the best tools that fit the learning needs of students. “It all began with constituting a taskforce of faculty, comprising both technical and management people, to explore the available options and curate a list of tools for an effective virtual learning environment. After the taskforce team submitted its report with some suitable learning management system and web conferencing and online examination tools, a sub-taskforce was set up to pick the best ones. Consequently, the academic council and finance committee accorded their approvals,” he said. He added that it cost them about Rs 1 crore to procure the requisite hardware and software tools for the online teaching platform. “The preparatory courses for the seniors will provide a flavour of the courses that the students will be offered in the second year. On the other hand, the foundation and preparatory courses for the freshers, hailing from diverse academic backgrounds and work experiences, will lay a foundation for conceptual and analytical reasoning. These courses will equip them with critical thinking, problem solving, data interpretation skills, soft skills and principles of accounting/economics/statistics. The institute will provide the online teaching tools for every faculty to teach from their homes,” said Prof Chandrasekhar. Remote lectures will be stored in the cloud. For example, if a student has some constraints in accessing live classes due to bandwidth or other connectivity issues, he/she may download the lessons at a later date, Prof Chandrasekhar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/iim-v-readies-academic-calendar-online-classes-start-aug-17/articleshow/76862172.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Aversion to masks adds Covid-19 containment areas||Ahmedabad: One’s aversion for wearing masks and adhering to maintaining social distancing are only adding more Covid-19 micro containment areas (MCA) in Ahmedabad. On Wednesday, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation declared 10 more MCAs, taking the total tally to 148. The new areas include 7,8,9 and 10 floor of Rajvi towers on Gurukul road, Devnandan platinum in Chandlodia, D-block of Bhagwati apartment in Thaltej and Sreenandnagar part 2. Then there is F-block of Satya Residency and A-1 to A-20 of Ganesh Dwar Society in Ranip area. In the eastern part of the city, Ramanpura ni chali — a cluster of 25 houses is under microcontainment. In the central zone all blocks consisting of 144 houses of Juli apartment in Girdharnagar has been contained. In the south zone, Deep Apartment near Kankaria Gate-4 in Maninagar and Garagdi vali Gali in Ambedkar Vas in Narol with 40 houses have been declared a containment zone. CO-MORBIDITY STILL A MAJOR FACTOR: The analysis of deaths in the city reveals that 64% of the deaths were due to co-morbidity. Age was another major factor as out of 1,460 deaths, 79.6% were reported in patients above 50 years of age. A total of 927 deaths were attributed to co-morbidity where 84% of the patients were above 50 years of age. Dr Manoj Vithlani, a city-based physician, said that despite all the medicines available, Covid-19 should not be taken lightly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aversion-to-masks-adds-covid-19-containment-areas/articleshow/76863734.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Bareilly||DM refers Delhi-based rape-accused undertrail’s case to district judge on request||PILIBHIT: Rape accused Atiq Ahmad (45) of Delhi’s Chhattarpur, who is lodged in Pilibhit district jail, has urged district magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav to set up a magisterial inquiry in his matter. In a letter sent to the DM from jail, Ahmad has claimed he was falsely implicated in the criminal case on the direction of Pilibhit police. The DM has decided to refer his case to the district judge, as he is in judicial custody at present. Ahmad has been charged of bringing a 26-year-old woman from Delhi to Pilibhit’s Bisalpur Kotwali police station circle, raping her and then escaping to Delhi after dropping the survivor somewhere in Bisalpur. The FIR in the matter was lodged at Bisalpur Kotwali police station on January 29, though the incident is shown to have taken place in the intervening night of January 12 and 13. In her complaint, the woman — whose parents live in Mathura district, while she lives with her husband in Noida — had stated she had contacted Ahmad early in the evening of January 12, for purchasing some property in Chhattarpur. Ahmad had offered to meet her over dinner in a restaurant, but after consuming the food, she alleged she had lost her senses. He then drove her down to Bisalpur and raped her in his car, dropped her by the roadside and fled. As her mobile battery had exhausted and she was unsure where she was, she went to her parent’s home at Mathura, and only returned to Pilibhit on January 29 to lodge the FIR. As per Pilibhit police’s case diary dated January 31, her father had told them that his daughter had married in 2015, but left her husband later. Apparently, the husband cut off all relations with her after he found out that she had been involved in “illicit practices”. Moreover, cops couldn’t trace any relevant CCTV footage nor record of Ahmad’s car at toll points between Delhi and Bisalpur, which is a 300km-long drive. Ahmad alleged he had been implicated in a fake case on the direction of an IPS officer who was earlier posted in Tihar jail and later in Pilibhit. The officer wanted to grab a valuable property in Chhattarpur in his possession, Ahmad alleged. DM Shrivastav said, “Because the complainant is in judicial custody, what I can do is refer his case for inquiry to the district and sessions judge, as getting justice is the constitutional right of every Indian citizen.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dm-refers-delhi-based-rape-accused-undertrails-case-to-district-judge-on-request/articleshow/76860655.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Goa||‘Restarting tourism wrong, impose lockdown’||Panaji: The state government’s move to restart the tourism sector is ill-conceived said former Calangute MLA Agnelo Fernandes as he urged the government to impose a 15-day lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus in the state. Fernandes also taunted BJP for curtailing the monsoon assembly session to just a day and called upon government employees and teachers to refrain from going to work. Stating that he is a toruism stakeholder, the Congress spokesperson said this is not the right time to restart tourism in the state when there is a spurt in Covid cases. “It is a very ill-conceived decision of the government to open tourism,” said Fernandes. Using chief minister Pramod Sawant’s claim that Goans have strong immunity, Fernandes questioned why the BJP is reluctant to hold the monsoon session and debate on the state budget. He urged teachers and government employees to participate in a civil disobedience movement as the government could not be trusted to take the right decisions. “Our government is acting as if they know everything about the virus. There should be a lockdown for at least 15 days to bring it under control,” said Fernandes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restarting-tourism-wrong-impose-lockdown/articleshow/76864103.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||20 MSEDCL staffers test +ve after Konkan cyclone duty||Nagpur: Twenty of the 42 employees of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), who went for around 17 days to restore power in Raigad district after the cyclone last month, have tested positive for Covid-19. MSEDCL has proactively tested the employees, all from Nagpur and Wardha districts, and is also taking care of their treatment. A MSEDCL official told TOI the cyclone damaged power distribution infrastructure in Konkan on June 3. The workload was high and target was to restore power supply as soon as possible. Therefore, MSEDCL sent teams from all parts of the state to the cyclone-hit areas. “Nagpur city sent 12 employees, 10 from Nagpur Rural and 20 from Wardha district went to Raigad on June 14. All returned on July 3. MSEDCL got their tests done at private laboratories. Nine from Wardha district, four from city and seven from Nagpur Rural tested positive while others are negative,” he said. Zilla parishad doctors said one family member each of two MSEDCL employees also tested positive on Tuesday. One of the employee’s wife is a lady police constable in Nagpur Rural. Before the cyclone, Raigad was facing high number of Covid-19 cases. Still, the MSEDCL employees did not hesitate to work there and help restore power supply. Some more MSEDCL employees from remaining nine districts of Vidarbha were also sent to Konkan on the same task, but there are no reports of any staffers testing positive till date. Also on Wednesday, five medical staffers of a private hospital at Sadar tested positive for Covid-19. The owner and doctor of this hospital had tested positive a couple of days ago. All 20 medical staffers were tested at IGGMCH. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) Dharampeth Zone had quarantined all 20 inside the hospital itself for last two days. On Wednesday, five who tested positive were shifted to isolation wards and remaining to institutional quarantine. The hospital has been shut for fumigation. In the district, many front-line workers of NMC, medical staff of GMCH, police personnel, SRPF etc engaged in containing spread of Covid-19 and treating positive patients have tested positive. With more easing of lockdown and allowing rapid antigen tests, cases are on the surge in the district. In the first eight days of July, 422 novel corona positive cases were registered. The total number of cases increased to 1,927 on Wednesday. The district had registered first 1,000 cases in 96 days. The number of cases was 1,002 on June 14, and 925 cases have been registered in last 25 days, with the district heading for 2,000 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/20-msedcl-staffers-test-ve-after-konkan-cyclone-duty/articleshow/76863043.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 9, 2020||Nashik||CBD invites claims and objections on voters list||NASHIK: Cantonment Board, Deolali, (CBD) has invited claims and objections from local residents about the preliminary electoral roll of 2020 that it has published on July 1. The last date of filing of claims and objections related to the electoral roll is July 20. The electoral roll has 31,043 votes involving eight wards of CBD. The highest number of voters (5,781) is in ward VIII and the lowest in ward VII (1,799). According to a statement issued by CBD, as per the directives of the director general of defence estates, people who have claims to enter their names in the electoral roll or any one having objections about any entry must e-mail their application by filling up the form on www.cbdeolali.org.in. The form must be mailed to ceodeol-stats@nic.in. CBD authorities said that there is no need for anyone to visit the cantonment office physically to submit their claims/objection application. Bhagwan Katariya, vice-president of CBD, said that the dates for the cantonment board elections are yet to be declared. The present term of the elected members has been extended by six months till August. CBD sets up crematorium ghatThe Cantonment Board, Deolali, has set up a new crematorium ghat with three cremation beds near the Stationwadi area at a cost of Rs 1.5 crore. Two philanthropists — Vasu Seth Shroff and Maharaj Birmani — have made partial contributions for the project. Proper lighting, seating and vehicle parking are among the facilities made available at the ghat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cbd-invites-claims-and-objections-on-voters-list/articleshow/76863038.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Kochi||State govt should collect details of migrants: HC||Kochi: The state government should collect full identity details of migrant labourers existing in the state and those returning after Covid-19 lockdown, the high court has directed. A division bench led by Chief Justice S Manikumar issued the directive while disposing cases regarding issues faced by migrant labourers. The court took note of the contention that with no proper registration and information, the migrant workers were unable to be located whenever any adverse situations had arisen. Therefore, in order to avoid any such complex and inconvenient situations, the state government should gather the full details of the migrants, the court said. Further, the court said it is open for the government to bring in appropriate legislation or rules regarding the stay and management of migrants within the state, instead of issuing fragmented notifications, circulars, and orders whenever an issue crops up. The collection of details will be the duty and obligation of the district collectors and the nodal officers appointed for the guidance and welfare of such migrants. The employers and the owners of the buildings in which the migrants stay shall also be saddled with the responsibility of collecting information and apprising the same to the respective nodal officer, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-govt-should-collect-details-of-migrants-hc/articleshow/76862192.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Delhi||Technology to track people who break quarantine norms in Delhi||NEW DELHI: It is going to become tougher for people under home quarantine to break rules with the government deciding to utilise the Itihas technology as a “digital eye” to keep a tab on high-risk individuals. It will not only track their travel histories through mobile towers but also store the information in dedicated servers to make projections about emerging clusters of Covid-19. A combination of Aarogya Setu app and the Itihas surveillance infrastructure will be used in the capital as a long-term strategy to keep the novel coronavirus spread under check. Officials who are part of district surveillance teams and the disease monitoring mechanism are getting trained by National Centre of Disease Control and Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme to use the dual-tracking system, which will also enhance contact-tracing efforts. A senior corporation official said a session was held on Tuesday through videoconferencing. “Just like the name suggests, Itihas keeps a track of the movement history of individuals. Mobile towers record the movement and Itihas servers preserve the information,” he said. By combining the data from Aarogya Setu and Itihas, “we will be able to narrow down on focus areas where a large number of high-risk individuals are moving around and localised steps can be taken”, he added. Another official said the move would help in contact tracing. “If an individual leaves his house before the mandatory home quarantine period is over, Itihas will flag it. Itihas also bypasses the problem of bluetooth not being activated for Aarogya Setu as it works on mobile networks,” he said. While Aarogya Setu is based on self-assessment by the user and bluetooth data, Itihas uses orientation of mobile towers, he added. Itihas, anchored by the electronics and information technology ministry, is capable of tracking movements and projecting cluster development in a 300m area. The surveillance system will be guided by an IT-driven tool at district- and state-level hubs, and teams will consist of epidemiologists, district surveillance officers and IT personnel. “The training session focused on multiple uses of the Itihas technology. Carrying out frequent door-to-door surveys for a population of 2 crore is not possible,” the official said. Delhi, with its high mobile penetration, provides an ideal field for the technology. While more than 70 lakh people have downloaded Aarogya Setu, 12,000 positive cases have been detected till date through this app, the official said. The combined use of Itihas along Aarogya Setu first came into effect as per the recommendations of a committee headed by Niti Aayog member Prof V K Paul. Based on the recommendations, a new Covid response plan was worked up to strengthen surveillance response in the capital. Watch Covid-19 in Delhi: Technology to track people who break home quarantine norms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tech-to-track-people-who-break-quarantine-norms/articleshow/76863747.cms||Paras Singh
July 9, 2020||Patna||Expat bodies come to rescue of stranded Bihar natives in UAE||PATNA: Thousands of people from Bihar have lost their jobs and are stranded in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and other Middle East countries. Since there are few flights under the Vande Bharat Mission and over 3 lakh people from India are on the wait list, the state or region-specific associations are arranging chartered flights to send some of them back home. Aquib Javed, Kamran and Zubair Alam from Nawada, Md Salim from Danapur Cantonment area in Patna and Sonu Singh from Siwan were among the 171 expatriates from Bihar and Jharkhand who landed at Gaya airport by one such special chartered flight (6E9632) arranged by the Purvanchal Pravasi Milan (PPM) on Tuesday evening. This was the second chartered flight arranged by the PPM from Dubai to Gaya since June 24. Though they paid 1,450 dirham (approximately Rs 26,000) each to fly back, these expats were all praise for the PPM that helped them out in this period of crisis as they had lost jobs and their visas were cancelled by the respective companies in March. “I should have come back by April 14 as my visa was cancelled in March. I spent three months in precarious conditions. The organizations of people from Odisha and Maharashtra were sending their fellow brethren back to India, but refused to help me. Then I came to know about the PPM through a newspaper report and contacted them. Their team, led by Ravi Shankar Chand, helped us right from getting the tickets booked to facilitating everything at the airport,” Zubair told TOI from the Magadh University (MU) campus where he and others have been quarantined for seven days. “We came to know about the PPM working for the welfare of people from ‘Purvanchal’ in Dubai,” said Aquib, who worked as a technician at Ajman in the UAE. Salim said thousands of Indians have become jobless in the UAE due to Covid-19 pandemic. “Over 200 people from India in my camp are jobless with no means to survive. My visa was cancelled in March-end. Though the UAE government has allowed the expats to leave the country by August 18 without paying any fine and the companies concerned have to arrange for the workers’ accommodation till then, most of them will find it more difficult to survive with their savings if the situation does not improve,” said Salim, who was paid 2,600 dirham with accommodation as an AC mechanic per month. Sonu, who worked at a restaurant in Dubai, said his visa also lapsed in March. “But there was Covid lockdown and international flights were cancelled. There was also no chance of getting a ticket in any Vande Bharat Mission flight. Then I came to know that the PPM had arranged a special chartered flight to Gaya from Dubai in June. I approached them and Ravi, Om Prakash and Manoj from Bihar and they helped me out with a seat in this flight,” he added. When contacted, Ravi S Chand of the PPM, who belongs to Ara in Bhojpur district, told TOI over the phone from Dubai that his association had so far arranged eight special chartered flights, including two each to Gaya, Varanasi and Lucknow and one each to Kolkata and Jaipur. “Over 3.5 lakh people have registered themselves with the Indian embassy in the UAE for going back to India. Majority of the Vande Bharat Mission flights are for South India. We helped our people from ‘Purvanchal’ with active support from the Indian embassy as well from the state and central governments of our country,” said Ravi, who is also the executive committee member of the People of Indian Origin Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PIOCCI), which has arranged nine flights to different destinations in India so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/expat-bodies-come-to-rescue-of-stranded-bihar-natives-in-uae/articleshow/76863061.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
July 9, 2020||Madurai||Yoga, counselling pep up Covid care centres||Madurai: After a 65-year-old Covid-19 patient attempted suicide by jumping off the first floor of a Covid-19 care centre in Thiruparankundram and later died in hospital, focus has been on the well-being of patients at these centres. Now, yoga and counselling have been introduced here to help improve patients’ physical and mental well-being during their recovery. “Unfortunately, there is a lot of stigma in society now regarding Covid-19 patients. Any patient will face apprehension, fear and uncertainty. That is why as a first step, we set up post-test counselling centres in Madurai corporation areas where counsellors contact patients once they test positive to guide them through the recovery process,” Dr B Chandramohan, special monitoring officer for Covid-19 for Madurai, told TOI. Covid-19 care centres house asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients who can’t afford home isolation.. “These (meditation and yoga) sessions are held at the centres early morning every day and help patients keep calm, feel refreshed and also be engaged,” said Dr Chandramohan. Siddha doctors are posted at all the centres for the sessions, which included the practice of Pranayama (breathing exercises) as well. Deputy director of health services, Madurai, Dr P Priya Raj said psychiatrists have also been posted to counsel patients. “Apart from yoga, all necessary psychological support is being provided, including alleviating fear of what lies ahead for patients, educating regarding the disease and recovery, and what to follow at home once they recover,” she said. Health officials say all Covid care centres house an X-ray unit and doctors are present round-the-clock for care of patients. Provisions for hot water and Kabasura Kudineer have been made. Three nutritious meals, including eggs and healthy snacks, are provided every day. “Many have welcomed the stay at Covid-19 care centres over even home quarantine since the centres offers them a safe space for recovery, especially for those patients who have cramped rooms, don’t have proper facilities or caretakers at home,” said Dr Priya Raj. Currently, there are three such functional centres in Madurai with a capacity of 2,045 beds. Dr Chandramohan said that as of now, there is no shortage of beds as people are also getting discharged every day. He added that a further 2,000 beds will be augmented if the need arises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/yoga-counselling-pep-up-covid-care-centres/articleshow/76863744.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 9, 2020||Bhopal||Corona hotspots go up in state, deadly virus hits new areas||Bhopal: Coronavirus in the state is creeping into new areas. Even though at least one case was reported from each of the 52 districts of Madhya Pradesh last month, but newer districts have emerged as hotspots. In eight days of July — 2443 new positive cases were reported in the state. It is Morena with 425 cases and Gwalior with 344 cases that have contributed to a third of the Covid tally of July alone. As many as 2,443 new cases were reported in the state in the first week of July. The highest number of cases (436)reported in this period were from Bhopal, followed by Morena, Gwalior and Indore. When seen in terms of percentage wise jump, Shivpuri district has seen an increase of 172% between July 1 and July 8.  Only 36 positive cases were reported in Shivpuri till July 1 and now by July 8, 98 cases have been reported in Shivpuri. There are at least six districts where cases have doubled and seen over 100% increase in number of positive cases — Shivpuri (172%), Sehore (133%), Alirajpur (125 %), Datia (112 %), Morena (104%) and Harda (100%). When comparing the percentage wise increase in number of positive cases between July 1 and July 8, Bhopal is at 35th position in the state and Indore is at 45th position among the 52 districts.  Though numbers of positive patients in the districts showing higher rate of increase, may be lower, but it clearly signifies the pace at which the cases are growing in the “non-hotspot” districts of state. Similarly, there has been an increase of 26% in number of containment zones in the state as it has increased to 1,313 on July 8 from 1039 on July 1. This signifies rapid spread of infection. If multiple cases were reported from the corona-hit localities, there would have been no net change in the number of containment zone, but the figures indicate that more colonies are getting corona-infected patients, thereby increasing the number of containment zones. The administration has announced 1262 localities across these 52 districts as containment zones and any kind of movement in these containment zones is strictly prohibited. Madhya Pradesh government has established 843 fever clinics in the state, where primary treatment is being provided and samples on the basis of the symptoms are being taken,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/corona-hotspots-go-up-in-state-deadly-virus-hits-new-areas/articleshow/76863048.cms||Amarjeet Singh
July 9, 2020||Hubballi||DC looks into patients’ grievances at KIMS, ensures adequate facilities||Hubballi: Following a report published in The Times of India highlighting the lack of key facilities in the Covid ward at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi, Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil ensured that the patients’ basic needs were looked after. Patients TOI had spoken to had complained of poor plumbing in the bathrooms, in addition to a shortage of mugs and buckets and non-availability of hot water. Patil acted on the report, and all bathrooms and toilets were well stocked with buckets and mugs. “I asked for a report from the KIMS chief administrative officer about the lack of facilities at the hospital. I was subsequently informed that, though there were sufficient number of buckets and mugs, they had been misplaced. Since staff deployed in the Covid ward do not move much, they were unable to keep their eyes on the misplaced buckets and ensure they were restored to the bathrooms and lavatories. But KIMS procured additional buckets and mugs nevertheless and all bathrooms have them now. We request the citizens to boost the morale of KIMS staff during this critical time. It has come to our notice that asymptomatic patients, clicking photographs of small things gone wrong, are posting them on social media, but we will not curb internet facility,” Patil told TOI. Meanwhile, at the behest of DC Patil, assistant director of food quality Manjunath Revankar paid a visit to the production unit of Mamma’s Lunchbox at Gopanakoppa, to assess the conditions in which meals being provided to Covid hospitals and care centres were prepared. Patients in the Covid ward at KIMS expressed their gratitude for the corrective measures taken following the TOI report. They said that bathrooms now had new taps, and also pointed to the improvement in the quality of food being provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dc-looks-into-patients-grievances-at-kims-ensures-adequate-facilities/articleshow/76860924.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Drive against bogus soyabean seeds||KOLHAPUR: Agriculture department has launched a drive against the sale of sub-standard seeds of soyabean, following thousands of complaints from farmers. The department has, so far, lodged formal complaints against 23 companies, including the state government-run Mahabeej. On Tuesday, agriculture department lodged a complaint against a private seed company with Vairag police in Solapur district after 59 farmers complained that the seeds did not germinate at all. Officials in agriculture department said the company did not have a licence and was producing sub-standard seeds. Agriculture commissioner Suhas Diwase told TOI that complaints are filed only after a technical team of the department conducts tests on the seeds. “Specific seeds are tested after we get a complaint from the farmer and necessary action is taken after the test report comes in,” he said. The agriculture department has even initiated action against government-run Mahabeej, which has almost 30 % share in the market. Officials in agriculture department said that many of the companies had replaced the seeds after complaints by the farmers but the issue has not been completely solved. While soyabean is a major cash crop from Marathwada and parts of Vidarbha, it is also cultivated to some extent in western Maharashtra. Diwase said almost 42 lakh hectares is under soyabean cultivation in the state. Farmers are worried that they will face cash crunch to purchase new soyabean seeds. Sachin Patil, a farmer from Chachegaon in Karad, said he had to go for re-sowing. “I had to spend additional money and even now I’m not sure that I will have a crop,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/drive-against-bogus-soyabean-seeds/articleshow/76863054.cms||Satyajit Joshi
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 80% demolition of C block completed||HYDERABAD: A day after launching the demolition work at the secretariat, roads and buildings (R&B) workers continued pulling down some of the blocks for the second day on Wednesday. Officials said 80% demolition of C block was completed while G block was completely razed. About 30% of H block (both north and south) was also brought down.  Demolition of the only new building in the secretariat — D block — was also taken up and officials expect the work to be completed in a day or two. The stone building, temple and mosque on the premises of the secretariat were brought down on Tuesday itself. “The only untouched buildings are A, B, J, K and L blocks, which will also be pulled down soon,” a senior R&B official said. Meanwhile, police continued the restrictions on vehicular movement on all the roads leading to the secretariat on Wednesday also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/80-demolition-of-c-block-completed/articleshow/76863748.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||30 Pocso cases await trial amid Covid-19 pandemic in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: As many as 30 cases under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act are awaiting trial in child-friendly courts due to the coronavirus pandemic. “The survivors cannot be called for trials in court due to the spread of coronavirus. With one survivor, at least five family members come to court during trial and it is the same on the offender’s side. It will be very difficult to manage and will be a huge risk given the situation,” said Pocso legal support officer, Spandana Sadasivuni. Officials also said that it was difficult to conduct trials online in for minor survivors, many of whom often communicate through gestures to explain the abuse. “We are still adjusting after courtrooms have moved virtual. We are not calling survivors for the past four months, not since the lockdown. The cases scheduled for trial in February are stuck since then. Currently, over 30 such cases ready for the trial are stuck due to the pandemic,” Sadasivuni said. “Only urgent matters will be heard. We have stopped conducting trials as of now as Covid-19 cases are increasing. In cases where trials were over before the lockdown, proceedings (not requiring the presence of survivor or offender) were taken up through video conferencing. Convictions in three Pocso cases were pronounced recently,” said additional public prosecutor, K Pratap Reddy. In June, after the court started taking up cases, a home guard was sentenced to 10 years rigorous imprisonment (RI) for raping a minor in 2018. The minor’s teacher found out about the incident and informed the mother of the 12-year-old. In another case, a private school teacher was sentenced to ten years RI for sexual assault of a 12-year-old student in 2015. The accused, a teacher of Urdu and Arabic, had asked the boy to come to his house to collect some books and sexually assaulted him thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/30-pocso-cases-await-trial-amid-pandemic/articleshow/76863203.cms||Aditi Mallick
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Dacoits who robbed medical shop worker held||HYDERABAD: Five days after they attacked a medical shop worker and robbed Rs 3.3 lakh, five members of a gang were arrested at Putlibowli on Wednesday by task force sleuths of the east zone. Cops recovered Rs 2.6 lakh cash, knives and a screwdriver from the offenders. The gang members trailed Pasha, who works at a pharmacy shop in Koti, carrying a bag of cash for 10 days before deciding to rob him on July 4. Accordingly, at around 9.05 pm, when Pasha was heading home, two members of the gang attacked him near Putlibowli with a screwdriver and robbed the bag containing Rs 3.3 lakh. Pasha who sustained stab injuries was shifted to the hospital. Police said the kingpin, Syed Farooq Pasha (26) of Talabkatta hatched the plan with his friend Syed Fayaz Imran (25) of Purani Haveli. Soon, they formed a gang along with Amer Khan (24) of Shalibanda, Mohammed Waseem (25) of Kalapather and Syed Abdul Khader Hussain (21) of Moghalpura. Another associate Sameer from Nampally is still at large. Four of the five arrested members were previously involved in similar offences, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dacoits-who-robbed-med-shop-worker-held/articleshow/76863191.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 75-year-old doubts wife’s fidelity, breaks her arm||BENGALURU: A 75-year-old former secretariat staffer allegedly thrashed his 68-year-old wife and broke her arm on July 1, suspecting she was having an affair with their 34-year-old male tenant. The battered wife sought help from Parihar, the women’s helpline at Bengaluru city police commissionerate. “The woman is a grandmother of two. Her husband for 44 years is suddenly doubting her fidelity. The tenant and his wife had moved into the house on the first floor of the elderly couple’s residential building in Jayanagar in mid-2019. Trouble began after the tenant’s wife went to her mother’s house for delivery in early 2020 and the landlady began helping him with the cooking,” narrated Parihar senior counsellor BS Saraswathi, who received the woman’s distress call last week. The elderly woman’s attention to the young man didn’t go down well with her husband. The couple fought over the issue, and the woman’s explanation that the tenant was like her son did not disabuse him of his suspicion. The woman continued to help the tenant during the lockdown, which angered her husband even more. “Last week, they got into a heated argument at their ground floor home and in a fit of rage, the elderly man beat up his wife black and blue leaving her with a broken left arm. She then called the Parihar helpline to complain about the domestic abuse she was subjected to at her old age,” the senior counsellor said. Taking note of the complaint, Saraswathi soon contacted the senior citizen on his cellphone. “I told him that it was a case of misunderstanding as his wife said the young man was like her son and she was just trying to be helpful. But the husband was far from being convinced as he believes something is going on between them,” said Saraswathi, who also told the former government employee that they are contemplating legal action against him for brutally assaulting his wife. The woman continues to live with her husband and Parihar personnel are monitoring her well-being through phone every day. Domestic violence cases exceeded 1k-mark in JuneAccording to Rani Shetty, head of Parihar, domestic violence cases in Bengaluru homes peaked like never before during the lockdown. “The lockdown took a toll on people. Relationships between couples forced to stay at home started to turn sour and in many cases, violent. In May, we received 803 cases and nearly 75% of them were related to domestic violence. Taking note of the rise in cases, we introduced 24 hours of telephonic counselling in June. The number climbed to 1,014 last month. In most cases, we tried to reconcile the couple through phone counselling. The rest were referred to the jurisdictional police for necessary action,” she explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/75-yr-old-doubts-wifes-fidelity-breaks-her-arm/articleshow/76862708.cms||Petlee Peter
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||Q-centres struggling to manage persons with mental ailments and disabilities||Nagpur: A 52-year-old with mental ailment had jumped from the first floor of a city quarantine centre on June 29. The man had fractured both his legs and was referred to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital.Under wraps for over seven days, the incident came to light after a woman with mental illness was refused entry at two quarantine centres on Monday. When TOI inquired about facilities for people with special needs, quarantine centre officials said they were finding it hard to manage mental health patients — who are difficult to identify — and the disabled. The 52-year-old man was quarantined with his family members in a room on the fifth floor and couldn’t find the balcony open, post which he went down searching for an escape route. The quarantine centre officials said the man stayed comfortably for 12 days, but they came to know he had stopped taking his medicines for psychological illness after coming there.A resident of Mahal, he told TOI that all he remembered was slipping from the first floor balcony. “They took me to a hospital and plastered my legs. I don’t know how I reached there,” he said.No FIR was registered despite it being a medico-legal case. “Policemen were present there and helped in shifting him to hospital. When they realized he was under medication for mental ailment, they decided not to register a case,” an official said. Officials from other centres added that the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and police had been bringing many mental health patients and persons with disabilities, managing whom was becoming a challenge because of insufficient manpower.After the June 29 incident, some have decided to stop taking in such patients. When Kalamna police took the woman with home quarantined stamp on her hand to two centres, both refused to take her in. Later identified as a 20-year-old from neighbouring district, she was also violent and had been spitting in the quarantine centre. Recalling some past incidents, a quarantine centre nodal officer said a woman brought by the NMC would scream all the time. Another officer said they faced problems with disabled persons. “When such cases turn Covid-19 positive, we are in big trouble because they have to be physically assisted. There is no point in keeping them here. Institutional quarantine is only for people who may move about if unchecked. Going by this, there is no point in bringing such people here as they themselves remain indoors,” some officials said. When asked if facilities had been made for mental health patients and the disabled, civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar, who is the district nodal officer, said that such cases pose a challenge and solutions for them would be found. Dr Paturkar also said that sometimes there is no one to take care of them, as the entire family is quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/q-centres-struggling-to-manage-persons-with-mental-ailments-and-disabilities/articleshow/76863059.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Industrial policy moots plug & play factories||Bengaluru: Karnataka’s new industrial policy, while reiterating decades-old ambition of taking industries to tier-2 and tier-3 cities and enhancing ease of doing business, is mooting ready-to-use industrial parks developed by private builders. The policy is most likely to be placed before the cabinet for approval on Thursday, industries minister Jagadish Shettar told TOI. “We’re looking at introducing plug and play factories at industrial parks, which will be developed by private builders. There will be different models. We’ll disclose more details once the cabinet accords its approval,” Shettar said. Officials said this will allow industries to reduce the turnaround time and expedite production. These will be specific for manufacturing industries, the official said, adding that an entrepreneur will be able to just occupy a space that has been specifically designed for manufacturing. Gaurav Gupta, principal secretary, industries department, had earlier told TOI that these pre-constructed factories with all necessary infrastructure, will be offered on lease which will reduce the upfront investments by industries. “There will be special focus on tier-2 and tier-3 cities. We need to take industries beyond Bengaluru and this policy will do more than ever before on this front. There will be special customised incentives that will be provided to industries and we have focussed on various factors of production,” Shettar added. Karnataka’s focus on tier-2 and tier-3 cities is not unique. This has been on the industries department’s agenda for more decades, but most industries still prefer areas in and around Bengaluru or other big cities like Mysuru and Mangaluru. CR Janardhan, president, FKCCI, said: “Earlier, the problem was lack of connectivity. But now with good connectivity — both physical and in terms of communication and internet — districts will see more industries, as land and labour will be cheaper there.” He said the new policy, as per what the government had discussed with the industry bodies, will also look at granting industrial township status to at least five industrial estates. “This has been a long-standing demand and we’ve been given to understand that it will be in the policy, we’ll have to wait and see,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/industrial-policy-moots-plug-play-factories/articleshow/76862688.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Mysuru||Two women succumb to Covid-19 in Mysuru||Mysuru: Two women with pre-medical conditions have succumbed to Covid-19 taking the death tally in Mysuru district to 14. A 60-year-old woman was being treated at the Covid hospital since a week while a 48-year-old woman died a day later. Both were hospitalized with complaints of breathlessness and fever. Mysuru on Wednesday reported 59 positive cases, the highest so far. About people 18 were discharged from the Covid hospital. As of now, the district has 249 active cases. Meanwhile, the Mysuru law Court complex was sealed off after a practicing advocate tested positive. The courts in the block are expected to reopen on Friday, an advocate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-women-succumb-to-covid-19-in-mysuru/articleshow/76862596.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Commando shoots self on Greyhounds campus||HYDERABAD: A Greyhounds senior commando shot himself at the unit’s campus at Gandipet on Wednesday morning. The deceased, 41-year-old Chand Pasha, was from Suryapet. Though police are yet to ascertain the reason for his sucidie, they suspect it could be due to personal issues. According to police, Chand Pasha was a Telangana State Special Police Battalion head constable currently attached to the elite anti-Maoist commando unit, Greyhounds, as a senior commando. Pasha had been with Greyhounds since 2007. Around 8.40am on Wednesday, Chand Pasha shot himself with a pistol near the check point-1 of Greyhounds campus in Gandipet, Narsingi. During the preliminary inquiry, police found that Chand Pasha, who came from the residential quarters on the campus, casually walked to Check Point - 1 which is close to the residential quarters when the guards were having breakfast in the room.  “Chand Pasha asked one of the guards who finished breakfast whether his short weapon was a Glock pistol. While enquiring about his weapon, Pasha asked the guard to let him check his Glock 17 pistol and the guard handed him over the weapon without any suspicion as the former performs duties at the bell of arms, overseeing the issuance of firearms,” a Greyhounds source said. After taking the 9 mm pistol from the guard, Pasha sat on the bed in front of the guard’s room and shot himself on the temple. There was not enough time for the guard to react, Narsingi inspector Gangadhar said. Pasha died on the spot. After Pasha reported that he was suffering from mild fever, senior officials asked him to stay in home quarantine. He stayed at home for a week. “Three days ago, he gave samples for Covid-19 test and results are yet to come,” a Greyhounds official said. As of now, 10 members Greyhounds personnel, including ministerial staff, have tested positive for Covid-19 and most of them were asymptomatic. Police seized the cell phone of Pasha to analyse his call records. Pasha is survived by his wife and two sons. “There was no suicide note and the exact reason for the death is yet to be ascertained. We suspect that he might be having some personal problems,” the inspector said. A case was registered under CrPC Section 174.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/commando-shoots-self-on-greyhounds-campus/articleshow/76863212.cms||Mahesh Buddi
July 9, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: ‘Will fight till last breath to get justice for my father’||VADODARA: “They could have thrown my father on the road, at least we could have buried him with dignity.” These are the words of Sheikh Salim, son of 62-year-old Sheikh Babu Nishar who was allegedly tortured to death by six cops of Fatehgunj police station in December last year. Salim, who is extremely pained with the situation, is ready to fight tooth and nail for justice. “I will fight till the Supreme Court if need be, but I have the right to know the truth and get justice,” said Salim, a native of Hyderabad who used to regularly shuttle between Ahmedabad and Hyderabad before lockdown. Salim has a provision store in Ahmedabad’s Shah-e-Alam area and often commutes to Hyderabad where the family has another house. He said if Vadodara police would have acted when he first approached them with a missing person complaint in January, he would have been spared the tyranny of fighting for over six months. “I was fed up of meeting police officials including the police commissioner and requesting them to trace my father. But things only moved when I went to the high court,” said Salim. “When the high court sent notice and asked for their response, there was development in investigation otherwise all these months they were only trying to put a lid over the entire issue,” he added. “The FIR was registered only after the high court’s intervention, but the culprits have not been arrested yet. Had it been a case involving a common person, the arrests would have been made by now,” he told TOI. Salim also pointed out that when he went to Sayajigunj police station on January 17 he had learnt from a hearsay that his father had been tortured to death at Fatehgunj police station. “I went to Fatehgunj police station four times to find out the truth and saw the station diary entry made about my father, but there was no CCTV footage,” he said. It was only after that, that he gave a missing person complaint which was registered at Sayajigunj police station on January 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/will-fight-till-my-last-breath-for-justice/articleshow/76861306.cms||Jay Pachchigar
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Early online exam option at colleges||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat government today issued fresh guidelines for universities to conduct exams for terminal semester students. According to the notification, varsities have to conduct online exams by July 30 for students who wish to go abroad for further studies. This option is also available for other candidates, including those who want to pursue higher studies in other states. “Every candidate who chooses to take early exams must be given the opportunity to participate in online exams that are to be completed by the universities latest by July 30,” said a state government official. The new directives, based on SOP released by MHRD on July 6 and on latest University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines, allow universities to take a final call on holding examination for final-semester undergraduate students as well as second and fourth semester postgraduate students. According to the UGC guidelines released earlier this week, terminal semester and final-year examinations are to be conducted by universities and institutions by the end of September in pen and paper, online or blended (online + pen and paper) modes. Students who do not want to participate in the online mode of exams, can avail the option of taking exam in pen and paper mode to be carried out by the universities till September 31. In May, the state government had announced that terminal examinations for all varsities and institutions in Gujarat would be held from June 25. The government had to reverse this after many varsities called off the examinations after protests from students. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March when the central government announced a countrywide classroom shutdown to contain the novel coronavirus. According to the commission’ guidelines, intermediate semester students will be evaluated on internal assessments. Based on this, the state government had earlier announced a ‘merit-based progression’ scheme for students in intermediate semesters. According to the new notification students can avail the scheme for the upcoming exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/early-online-exam-option-at-colleges/articleshow/76863746.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Punish errant cops, Telangana HC tells police brass||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday directed the top police brass to mete out harsh punishment to errant cops in Miryalaguda for crossing their limits while discharging their duties at a checkpost. In a strong message to the government and the police authorities for shielding errant cops, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said: “Mere censuring is of no use. Cut two increments with cumulative effect. The wrong-doers will understand the gravity of their actions. This will serve as a deterrent for other cops.” Hearing a petition of Osmania University law student Baglekar Akash Kumar, the judges said the authorities were only breeding indiscipline in a disciplined department like police by shielding the errant cops. The petitioner brought to the notice of the court on how the Miryalaguda cops brought five accused in petty offences to Vadapalli checkpost on AP-Telangana border and made them set up and remove barricades under the hot sun. “This exercise went on for more than a month,” Akash said. “The five youths were brought to the police station and later sent to the checkpost to do the labour job. It was only after filing of the PIL, that the police have stopped sending them there,” he said. He further said: “This is a gross violation of fundamental rights as guaranteed by the Constitution.” The judges earlier directed the government to record the statements of the youths and furnish them to the court. Police recorded their statements and sent them to the high court. The bench, however, rejected these statements on the grounds that they were “tutored and parrot-like.”  The bench said all the statements were seemingly filled and signed by cops themselves. “Only the names were changed but the language remained the same in all the statements,” it said. Expressing serious doubts on the authenticity of the statements, the bench said the police authorities should punish the errant cops stringently so that others in the department would not nurture similar ideas of enforcing law. At this, advocate general BS Prasad assured the court that he would prevail over the top cops to sensitise the police force and urged the court to close the current case. Akash opposed this and urged the court to set up an inquiry commission. The judges asked him to file a rejoinder to the state affidavit and posted the case to three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/punish-errant-cops-hc-tells-police-brass/articleshow/76863169.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 9, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Drunk man with guns in both hands shoots at bank guard||MEERUT: Shripal alias Kaale, a resident of Kheda village in Meerut's Sardhana area, was held after a dramatic encounter with the local police on Wednesday. The accused was later sent to jail. "When the police team arrived at the spot, he [shooter] was on the terrace of a building with country-made pistols in both hands and was firing. He was overpowered after two hours of gruelling effort. He sustained bullet injury and is being treated at the hospital," Ajay Sahni, senior superintendent of police (Meerut) said. Shripal, said to be in an inebriated state, opened fire at Sudhir Kumar, a guard on the premises of a bank. As the other bank staffers scrambled for cover, Shripal got on top of the terrace of a nearby building with country-made firearms in both of his hands and began dancing as a posse of cops alerted by onlookers arrived at the spot. Initially, the cops tried to persuade Shripal to surrender, but the latter continued with his dance steps and then opened fire at the police team. He was later arrested in an encounter where he sustained a bullet injury in the leg. Shripal was living a normal life until a few years ago when he had a bitter fallout with his family over a woman he wanted to marry. According to police, the accused has six prior cases and was involved in several similar indiscriminate shootings in the past where he was arrested and sent to jail. "In a similar incident in 2016, he had opened fire at a man in Kheda village and later went into hiding near a forested area around his house. When we tried persuading him to surrender he opened fire at us. He was later overpowered," a senior police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/drunk-man-with-guns-in-bothhands-shoots-at-bank-guard/articleshow/76862196.cms||Piyush Rai
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC gets strict on masks, distancing||Ahmedabad: AMC officials have been collecting Rs 800 per minute in city fining people for not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing. In the last two days, AMC teams have collected Rs 9.66 lakh in fines in these two categories, and of this Rs 4.18 lakh was collected from pan shops. Civic body officials said that the 151 teams are working for approximately 10 hours every day and have been catching more than 162 persons per hour for breaching Covid protocol. Harshad Solanki, the director of solid waste management department of AMC said the teams found social distancing ignored at pan shops and people not wearing masks there. A drive was then taken up and the pan shop owners were warned to maintain social distancing, but the warning did not yield results. He said people were also found spitting on footpaths or roads after chewing pan masala or gutka, and hence AMC began targeting pan shops. However, at several places the teams had to face arguments and people who refused to pay fines. An AMC team member from the North West Zone said that at several pan shops there were not less than 15 people inside the shop and they were mostly without masks. The teams in many cases didn’t fine people without masks if they were standing far apart from each other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-gets-strict-on-masks-distancing/articleshow/76863756.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Thane||Rain crosses 1,000mm mark, ‘green alert’ in Mumbai, Thane||MUMBAI: Rain recorded this season at the Colaba and Santacruz observatories crossed the 1,000mm mark on Wednesday. Weathermen issued a green alert for the city, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Palghar till the coming weekend. Rain subsided on Wednesday after an active monsoon spell over the last weekend, which continued through the first two days of the week. Except for light rain, with one or two isolated heavy showers, the city was dry. The average rainfall on Wednesday recorded by India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Colaba and Santacruz observatories was 5.4mm and 11.8mm (light rain category). In the 24 hours ending 8.30am on July 8, rainfall in Colaba and Santacruz was 58mm and 58.3mm respectively (moderate). Dr Madhavan Nair Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, tweeted about a break in monsoon activity. “After an active spell over Maharashtra and Gujarat, monsoon to be weak over most parts of country kind of monsoon break. Activity will shift to east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and North East Region during next 5-6 days,” he tweeted. The stocks in catchment area lakes touched 2.53 lakh million litres (17.50% of required quantum) from 2.04 lakh million litres or 14.13% a day earlier. Tulsi, the smallest, reported maximum rain on July 7-8 (112mm), while Bhatsa, the biggest, received 63mm. The required stocks is 14.47 lakh million litres by October 1 for the city to go without a water cut for the rest of the year. BMC supplies 3,420 million litres of water daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/rain-crosses-1k-mm-mark-green-alert-in-city-thane/articleshow/76864899.cms||Richa Pinto
July 9, 2020||Mumbai||Rain crosses 1,000mm mark, ‘green alert’ in Mumbai, Thane||MUMBAI: Rain recorded this season at the Colaba and Santacruz observatories crossed the 1,000mm mark on Wednesday. Weathermen issued a green alert for the city, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Palghar till the coming weekend. Rain subsided on Wednesday after an active monsoon spell over the last weekend, which continued through the first two days of the week. Except for light rain, with one or two isolated heavy showers, the city was dry. The average rainfall on Wednesday recorded by India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Colaba and Santacruz observatories was 5.4mm and 11.8mm (light rain category). In the 24 hours ending 8.30am on July 8, rainfall in Colaba and Santacruz was 58mm and 58.3mm respectively (moderate). Dr Madhavan Nair Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, tweeted about a break in monsoon activity. “After an active spell over Maharashtra and Gujarat, monsoon to be weak over most parts of country kind of monsoon break. Activity will shift to east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and North East Region during next 5-6 days,” he tweeted. The stocks in catchment area lakes touched 2.53 lakh million litres (17.50% of required quantum) from 2.04 lakh million litres or 14.13% a day earlier. Tulsi, the smallest, reported maximum rain on July 7-8 (112mm), while Bhatsa, the biggest, received 63mm. The required stocks is 14.47 lakh million litres by October 1 for the city to go without a water cut for the rest of the year. BMC supplies 3,420 million litres of water daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rain-crosses-1k-mm-mark-green-alert-in-city-thane/articleshow/76863119.cms||Richa Pinto
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: ‘Sankalp’, empathy & yoga did the trick for residents||HYDERABAD: Residents of SVSS Sankalp, Lower Tank Bund won the Covid-19 battle by forming a Covid taskforce, practicing yoga and teamwork. Giving empathy utmost priority, members of the housing society collected Rs 4.3 lakh and distributed 600 packets of food during the entire lockdown. “The food was distributed with the help of police. Residents donated essentials to the needy as well,” said Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, Indian Medical Association (IMA) Telangana secretary and a resident of SVSS Sankalp. To restrict public movement, the community halls in their housing society were converted into homes for staffers working in their society. Essentials for staffers were distributed by residents. “Volunteers would keep a check on health of senior citizens and ensure they do not face any trouble. Sanitising the society twice a weekend and ensuring social distancing were among the many healthy practices adopted,” said Chandu Rao, a resident of the society. Members of the society ensured children do not play together and walkers/ joggers wore a mask. The Covid-19 task force, consisting of five members, ensured every person entering the society sanitises their hand. Sharat Kumar, a part of the task force, said that they ensured vegetables and essentials are available within the society. “Trucks stocked with vegetables and essentials were roped in so that people don’t step out,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sankalp-empathy-yoga-did-the-trick-for-residents/articleshow/76863750.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Rain crosses 1,000mm mark, ‘green alert’ in Mumbai, Thane||MUMBAI: Rain recorded this season at the Colaba and Santacruz observatories crossed the 1,000mm mark on Wednesday. Weathermen issued a green alert for the city, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Palghar till the coming weekend. Rain subsided on Wednesday after an active monsoon spell over the last weekend, which continued through the first two days of the week. Except for light rain, with one or two isolated heavy showers, the city was dry. The average rainfall on Wednesday recorded by India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Colaba and Santacruz observatories was 5.4mm and 11.8mm (light rain category). In the 24 hours ending 8.30am on July 8, rainfall in Colaba and Santacruz was 58mm and 58.3mm respectively (moderate). Dr Madhavan Nair Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, tweeted about a break in monsoon activity. “After an active spell over Maharashtra and Gujarat, monsoon to be weak over most parts of country kind of monsoon break. Activity will shift to east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and North East Region during next 5-6 days,” he tweeted. The stocks in catchment area lakes touched 2.53 lakh million litres (17.50% of required quantum) from 2.04 lakh million litres or 14.13% a day earlier. Tulsi, the smallest, reported maximum rain on July 7-8 (112mm), while Bhatsa, the biggest, received 63mm. The required stocks is 14.47 lakh million litres by October 1 for the city to go without a water cut for the rest of the year. BMC supplies 3,420 million litres of water daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/rain-crosses-1k-mm-mark-green-alert-in-city-thane/articleshow/76864901.cms||Richa Pinto
July 9, 2020||Kochi||Man stabbed to death in front of wife, child||Kottayam: A man was stabbed to death in front of his wife and two-year-old son in Mundakayam in the district late on Tuesday night. Adarsh, 32, hailing from Mundakkayam, was the victim of a road rage incident. Police have taken into custody Jayan, 43, in connection with incident. Jayan is known to Adarsh. Police are on the lookout for two more accused in the case. The arrest of Jayan will be recorded only after a detailed interrogation, said Mundakkayam CI of police. According to police, the stabbing incident took place on Tuesday night following a road rage that happened earlier. Jayan was travelling along with family to a friend’s house. Adarsh hurled abuses at Jayan when the latter overtook Adarsh’s vehicle. Jayan stopped the vehicle a little ahead and picked up a fight with Adarsh. After an altercation both went their respective ways. Later, when Adarsh returned home at midnight, Jayan and friends stopped the vehicle when it was passing near Jayan’s house. The accused persons stabbed in his abdomen. Though local residents rushed him to a private hospital in Mundakayam, Adarsh succumbed to his injuries. The autopsy was done at the medical college hospital and the funeral was held at his residential premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/man-stabbed-to-death-in-front-of-wife-child/articleshow/76862266.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Part-time migrant worker now Kalahandi’s favourite rapper||Clad in a faded white vest and dark bermuda shorts, his shaggy hair falling over his face, Duleswar Tandi does not fit the image of a tattooed and pierced rapper. But as the rap beats start playing in his mud-walled and red-tiled house, this 27-year-old from poverty-stricken Kalahandi transforms into rapper ‘Dule Rocker’, and lets his angst emerge. Tandi, a resident of Borda village in Bhawanipatna block, has emerged as migration-prone Kalahandi’s favourite rapper. Himself a part-time migrant worker, who is often jobless, the singer is making waves with his searing lockdown raps sung in Kosali, Hindi and English. Some of the tracks, like ‘Hashtag Farmer’ (bus jumla hi jumla hain, system yeh khokla hain) and ‘Doctor’ (amar Ram-Allah-Jisshu gyan daktar), take up the difficulties faced by specific sections of the society. However, it is his latest track, ‘Sarkar jabab de’, that has gone viral with more than 400 likes on Facebook and over a 100 shares on the site. Tandi completed a BSc in chemistry from Government Autonomous College, Bhawanipatna, in 2013. The degree, like most in Kalahandi, was of little use to him. “I didn’t fare too well. I am not into studies. Besides, from 2012 to 2014, both my parents were ill,” said Tandi, adding that he moved to Raipur in 2013 with a group of boys from his area in search of work. “I have travelled as a migrant worker to Kerala and Chhattisgarh, among other places. In Raipur, I wiped tables and worked as a newspaper delivery boy. In Kerala, I did odd jobs to survive. So I know what prompted migrant workers to walk for hundreds of kilometres to reach home,” Tandi told TOI over the phone from Borda, adding that he was now without work. The track’s first lines make Tandi’s intent clear. “Garbhabati ma pete gute chua dhori kina, hajar hajar kilometre khali paa-de chali kina‘ speaks of migrant women workers, many of them pregnant, who made the arduous journeys home. From the government’s decision to allow sale of liquor, to its frequent addresses to the people of the state, nothing is sacred for Tandi in his ‘Dule Rocks’ avatar. Tandi’s work has caught on fast in Kalahandi, part of the historically impoverished KBK or Kalahandi-Balangir-Koraput belt of the state where outbound migration, especially to brick kilns, is very high. The migration is seasonal in nature, with people leaving around October-November, and returning home around monsoon the following year to take up agriculture. Some, like Tandi, head to Raipur; others go to Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. “In Kalahandi, degrees mean nothing. Unemployment is very high and most young boys travel with groups of others like them in search of work. Some of my own friends, who held master’s degrees in sociology, worked as rickshaw pullers in Raipur,” said Tila Kumar, a sociology professor at Delhi University and a native of Nuapada (part of what was undivided Kalahandi). “This boy (Tandi) is using his own experiences, which are the same as that of countless others like him, to critique the system,” Kumar added. Tandi, who lives with his mother, began writing rap songs early in life. “I don’t know when I started it. I was always doing this, for as long as I can remember. In fact, I didn’t even know that what I was doing was called rap,” said the scheduled caste singer who discovered the world of rap as a student of Government Autonomous College in Bhawanipatna. Tandi, who says he composes all day, has performed with a group of rappers in Punjab and is a huge fan of Divine (Mumbai-based rapper Vivian Fernandes). “I left Punjab because I found the rap battles there very aggressive. Most battles would end in fisticuffs,” he said. “During the early days of the lockdown, we did not have enough to eat. My uncle, aunt and other family members helped us. Sometimes we forage in the forests for food. This is what I want to do now, write about people like me,” he said, adding that he was helped with Rs 30,000 by Ollywood singer Humane Sagar during the lockdown. Tandi’s new-found fame has seen him open an account on Twitter, a platform he says he is not familiar with. It has also resulted in him getting offers from local musicians, but he sounds wary of accepting any. “I know they will give me a lot of money, but they’ll make me write about alcohol and women. I will never do that,” said the rapper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/part-time-migrant-worker-now-kalahandis-favourite-rapper/articleshow/76862255.cms||Amava Bhattacharya
July 9, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: In a U-turn, higher education department to hold exams for final year||BHOPAL: In a U-turn, the MP higher education department has decided to conduct examinations for final year students of under graduate and post-graduate courses. Earlier, after an announcement by the chief minister, the department had announced for general promotion and given an option to final year students to appear for exams or take average marks based on past semester records. The department has backed down following the UGC order directing all universities to conduct exams for under graduate and post graduate final year before September 30. In the wake of the coronavirus crisis, CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan had announced last month a general promotion for all university and college students in both higher education and technical education. It was stated that final-year UG and PG students would be deemed to have graduated based on the highest score they obtained in previous exams. An option of offline exam was given for those who wanted to improve their score. Principal secretary (higher education), Anupam Rajan told TOI that after UGC's directives it has been decided to conduct exams for final year students. "Universities have been asked to work it out. Time table will be issued as the exams are to be conducted before September 30," said Rajan. There are 17.77 lakh examinees at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels in the current academic session. About first year and second year students, Rajan said, "General promotion will be applicable for them. There will be no change on this." Those in undergraduate first-year and second-year and PG second semester will be promoted without examination based on the last year/semester marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-a-u-turn-higher-edu-dept-to-hold-exams-for-final-year/articleshow/76863065.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Dehradun||State child rights commission orders probe in rape case of 16-year-old||Dehradun: The State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) on Wednesday directed the SSP of Dehradun to investigate the rape of a 16-year-old under the POCSO Act and present the report to the commission within 15 days. The girl had allegedly been raped in January this year, following which she even had a miscarriage. A complaint had been filed with the SCPCR on July 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-child-rights-commission-orders-probe-in-rape-case-of-16-year-old/articleshow/76860721.cms||Shivani Azad
July 9, 2020||Dehradun||Scholarship scam: SIT arrests two persons in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: The SIT, probing the multi-crore scholarship scam, arrested an employee of a bank customer service and owner of an ITI college for fraud on Wednesday. Reportedly, the two managed to receive Rs 53 lakh from the social welfare department between 2014 and 2017 using fake documents. The two accused have been identified as — Amit Kumar Saini and Naveen Saini — both residents of Jamalpur village under Bhagwanpur block of Haridwar district. SIT has found out that Naveen worked as a “bank mitra” at a local customer service and helped ITI College owner Ashwani Kumar in forging documents. SIT officer Anil Kumar told TOI that ITI college owner Amit obtained a stay on his arrest from the Nainital high court after a case was registered against him. “Police have found some crucial evidence against the two accused and further probe is underway,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/scholarship-scam-sit-arrests-two-persons-in-haridwar/articleshow/76860731.cms||MS Nawaz
July 9, 2020||Bhopal||Act against those defying social distancing norms, not wearing masks: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: In wake of the sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases across the state, especially the bordering districts, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has directed officials to strictly ensure wearing of masks and social distancing. During a review of the Covid-19 situation in the state through video conferencing, Chouhan said public advisory should be issued in all border districts and necessary restrictions should be imposed once a week in all districts. He said that in the last one week, Corona growth rate of the state has increased. Earlier, the Corona growth rate in the state was 1.72, which has increased to 2.01. It has come to the fore in a review of Barwani, Morena and other bordering districts, that Corona infection cases are increasing there due to the spread in other states across the border. In this connection, Chief minister Chouhan directed the chief secretary and DGP to prepare a mechanism in this regard and issue a public advisory. We have to prevent Corona infection from spreading in the state. Chouhan directed that use of masks has been made mandatory in the state. Similarly, it is necessary to use sanitizers in shopping malls, offices and other business establishments and if it is not used, fine must be imposed. Physical distancing is to be followed at all places, otherwise action should be taken. During the meeting, ACS health Mohammad Suleman informed that Kill Corona campaign is showing good results in the state. Earlier, the testing capacity in the state was 6,000 tests per day, which has reached to 12,104 due to this campaign. Samples taken under the Kill Corona campaign have a positivity rate of 2.2%, which is a good sign. A review revealed that the condition of Indore district is constantly improving. In Indore, the positivity rate of Corona has steadily decreased. Earlier this rate was up to 11%, which has now dropped to 2.12%. There are currently 875 active cases in Indore and 3,871 patients have recovered and returned home. The death rate in Indore has reduced to less than one percent. Chief minister congratulated the entire team. Health minister Narottam Mishra, chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, DGP Vivek Johri, were present among those present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ensure-social-distancing-masks-at-public-places-cm-to-officials/articleshow/76863091.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Total lockdown in Patna, Nawada from July 10||PATNA: The Patna district administration has reimposed lockdown for 7 days from Friday and it will remain in force for four days in Bhagalpur and Nawada following the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in state on Wednesday. The lockdown in Bhagalpur will be for four days from Thursday. The Nawada administration has imposed it for three days from Friday. Other districts have also enforced restrictions in their respective jurisdictions in view of the rising Covid cases. Altogether 10 deaths and 749 positive cases reported on Wednesday surpassed all the previous records as the toll mounted to 110 and Covid tally reached 13,274 in state. Among the deceased, two were residents of Patna and a 15-year-old boy of Rohtas. However, the health department has reported only two deaths officially, one each from Araria and Bhagalpur. With 9541 recoveries, there were 3,631 active cases in Bihar on Wednesday. Apart from the two deaths reported by the health department, five Covid patients died at NMCH, including one each from Bihta in Patna, Saran and Bhojpur. NMCH epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said all the deceased were comorbid. “One was the resident of Rajeev Nagar and died of cardiac arrest. He was 64 and admitted on July 7. Another deceased of Patna was from Patna College area. He was 50 and admitted on July 6. He also died of cardiac arrest. Another one was from Daulatpur in Bihta. He had a medical history of hypertension and thyroid,” said Dr Mukul. The fourth deceased was from a 72-year-old man from Saran. He also died due to cardiac arrest. The fifth deceased was a 75- year-old man from Piro in Bhojpur with medical history of hypertension, tuberculosis and asthma. Three other deaths were reported from AIIMS-Patna, including the Rohtas boy, a 53-year-old woman from Chauhatta in West Champaran and a 53-year-old havildar, who was originally from Dehradun. AIIMS-Patna nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said the deceased havildar was positive for coronavirus and he was brought dead from Bameti isolation centre. The state health department bulletin said Covid-19 cases were reported from 37 districts with maximum 235 from Patna district, taking the total number of positive cases to 1351. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the increase in the number of cases was also because two testing centres — RMRI and PMCH — started giving pending results after their closure for two days. He said the administration was increasing the beds in isolation centres. Apart from Patna, other districts with large number of cases included Begusarai (67), Gopalganj (61), Bhagalpur (50), Nawada (36), Munger (24) and Siwan (20). State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh, through a press release, stated that 749 cases have been registered in the past 24 hours and 203 people recovered in the same period, taking the total recoveries to 9,541 with recovery rate at 71.88%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/total-lockdown-in-patna-nawada-from-july-10/articleshow/76863111.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 9, 2020||Kochi||Marriages at Guruvayur from Friday||Thrissur: Notwithstanding the reports of rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district, Guruvayur Devaswom has decided to resume wedding ceremonies from Friday. Devaswom chairman K B Mohandas and administrator S V Sisir said bookings for conducting marriages at the temple Kalyana mandapam will resume from Thursday. All Covid-19 protocols will be observed during the ceremony. Only 12 people, including photographer and videographer, will be permitted to participate in the function that should be held between 5am and 12.30pm. He said 40 marriages will be permitted per day. The devaswom had suspended permission for conducting marriages at the temple mandapam following the lockdown. It decided to revoke the suspension in the first week of June. However, the devaswom had to retract from its decision after two weeks. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/marriages-at-guruvayur-from-friday/articleshow/76862281.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Rajkot||No trace of two persons swept away with SUV||Rajkot: Two of the three dead bodies are still to be traced in an accident in which an SUV was swept away in the strong currents of Aji River at Bodighodi village of Padadhari taluka in Rajkot district on Monday night.The victims’ SUV got swept away on the bridge between Bodighodi and Sarapdal villages which was overflowing with flooded water.Rajkot fire brigade officials fished out the body of Sanjay Tank (41) on Tuesday. However, the bodies of Rajendrasinh Zala (47) and Balwantsinh Jadeja (42) still remain untraceable.The victims had gone to drop their friend in Radal of Padadhari taluka on Monday. As it was raining heavily, they advised their friend to halt during night and leave on Tuesday morning. “However, the victims said they would leave in their SUV. When the victims did not return home, the family members of Zala and Jadeja tried to contact them on their cellphones which were switched off. Then the family members approached us on Tuesday evening,” said M J Parmar, sub-inspector with Padadhari police station. “The search operation started from Tuesday evening, during which Tank’s body was found floating. Later, when the SUV was found half-submerged under the railway bridge near Padadhari on Wednesday afternoon, it was confirmed that the victims had drowned,” said Parmar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/no-trace-of-two-persons-swept-away-with-suv/articleshow/76860701.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Plans afoot to stage protests to cancel varsity exams||ABVP workers do a mock surgery on an effigy of the GU VC at Gujarat University campus on Wednesday to protest against outsourcing of online admission process to a private agencyAhmedabad: College students, including those politically unaffiliated, and members of students’ political outfits are planning to stage protests demanding cancellation of exams at all universities in the state. The move comes in the wake of the revised guidelines by the University Grants Commission which makes it mandatory for all universities and institutions to hold exams for terminal semester and final-year students. Members of National Students Union of India (NSUI) said they are planning to launch a state-wide protest to call off the exams and ensure all students are graded by merit-based progression. “There is a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. Who is to be blamed if the students taking the theory exams get infected? The exams are only for terminal semester students. We fail to understand what makes them immune to the disease as compared to others,” said an NSUI member. NSUI members are currently pressing for their demand to cancel all exams in Gujarat University starting with medical, dental and paramedical that are likely to be held soon, said sources. Faced with protests from students and student organizations, most universities in Gujarat including Gujarat University, Saurashtra University, SP University, Veer Narmad South Gujarat University and Maharaja Krishnakumarsinhji Bhavnagar University had earlier called off exams. Last week, Gujarat Technological University (GTU), the state’s largest technical university, called off its exams at the eleventh hour. NSUI members said that the merit-based progression scheme introduced by the state government should be extended to all students and that they should all be graded based on performance in previous semesters and internal exam marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plans-afoot-to-stage-protests-to-cancel-varsity-exams/articleshow/76863754.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Confusion over medical course exams||Ahmedabad: Confusion prevailed at Gujarat University over conducting medical, dental and paramedical exams. While the newly released University Grants Commission’s guidelines states that the varsities have to conduct terminal semester and final year exam for all undergraduate students, it allows candidates of intermediate semesters to be assessed on internal marks and previous semester performance. Gujarat University has already begun conducting exams for paramedical students including intermediate semester candidates and now with no clarity from the state government too, the authorities are stuck it seems. The varsity has also begun preparations for conducting theory exams for medical students which is slated to be held by the end of this month. “The exams are to be held for all semester medical and dental students. There is confusion now on whether to call off exams for intermediate semester students or continue with our plan,” said a GU official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/confusion-over-medical-course-exams/articleshow/76863752.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Even at Rs 55,000, oxygen concentrators selling like hotcakes||HYDERABAD: Apart from cylinders, the sale of oxygen concentrators too seem to have shot through the roof in Hyderabad, their steep prices notwithstanding.  Usually available for Rs 30,000 to Rs 35,000, the cheapest concentrators are now up for grabs for no less than Rs 45,000 to Rs 52,000. When TOI called posing as a customer, one popular healthcare product supplier even quoted Rs 95,000 for a five litre oxygen concentrator! Yet, almost all suppliers said that they have no stocks and it would take at least 10 days for a fresh batch to arrive. Some even asked for an advance payment to book one. “I am currently sitting on a requirement of 20 to 25 pieces. We are hoping to be able to source them from Delhi/Gurgaon soon,” said Vijay Kumar, a new entrant in the business adding, “People are scared and want to keep this as a back up in their homes. That’s why the demand.” Other dealers agree. “Though we have no stocks, we are taking orders in case the customer is willing to make the payment in advance. Many, absolutely healthy people, are also approaching us,” said another dealer quoting a standard price of Rs 55,000. A concentrator can be used to generate oxygen round the clock, with brief breaks every five or six hours. While doctors see no reason for such panic buying, those wheeling these concentrators into their homes say it makes them feel secured. “I have an aged mother at home who is both diabetic and hypertensive. Though she is otherwise fit, I do not want to take a chance. That’s why I bought a concentrator,” said city industrialist Rajendra Agarwal who’s even loaned his machine to friends and family since he bought it. He added: “Given the situation in most hospitals — with limited beds for critical patients requiring oxygen supply — this is the only alternative.” Another businessman, A Nanda Kishore, had a similar reason for shelling out Rs 50,000 for this machine. “I am 72-years-old and have several co-morbidities. Knowing that I have oxygen supply at home, in case I take ill, gives me confidence. Too many people around me have lately been infected. It is scary,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/even-at-rs-55k-concentrators-selling-like-hotcakes/articleshow/76863759.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
July 9, 2020||Meerut||Under heat for alleged nexus with criminals,UP police issues termination notice to 5 cops||MEERUT: Fifteen months after Uttar Pradesh's gangster Badan Singh Baddo escaped police custody from a Meerut hotel, Farrukhabad police has issued notice for the termination of five policemen who had allegedly connived in the murder convict's escape. Baddo has Rs 2.5 lakh reward on his head. The UP police has faced a lot of flak for its 'nexus' with high flying criminals, such as Vikas Dubey, so much so that senior police officers are now under the radar of investigation in the recent brutal murder of eight policemen in Kanpur. Farrukhabad SP Anil Mishra, however, downplayed the timing of the delayed action against the cops. "There is no delay and it has nothing to do with the prevailing circumstances. Everything was done as per the procedure generally adopted in any departmental inquiry. The notice of termination was first issued in April this year and they were given three months to reply. Now, they have been issued a final notice after which action will be taken." In an embarrassing development for UP police, Baddo, a dreaded gangster serving life sentence for a murder, easily slipped off police custody after spiking a police team comprising half a dozen personnel, including a sub-inspector. Escorted by Farrukhabad police team, the 48-year-old gangster, lodged in Fatehgarh Central Jail, was being taken to Ghaziabad jail for a hearing in March 2019 when he managed to escape from the hotel room in Meerut with the help of his associates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/under-heat-for-alleged-nexus-with-criminalsup-police-issues-termination-notice-to-5-cops/articleshow/76862276.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 9, 2020||Dehradun||Students to be evaluated on their average marks||Dehradun: Uttarakhand’s school education secretary R Meenakshi Sundaram issued an order stating that the students who missed out on giving their board exams last month will now be evaluated on the basis of their average marks. Like CBSE, the state education board will issue the marks for the missed exams based on a respective student’s best performing subjects. Also, if a student is not satisfied with the marks given on this basis, he/she can apply for improvement within one month after the declaration of the UBSE (Uttarakhand Board of School Education) results. The UBSE will make arrangements for re-examination at a later date when the situation gets normal. Notably, more than 3,500 students missed their re-scheduled board exams last month as they reside in areas which were put under containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/students-to-be-evaluated-on-their-average-marks/articleshow/76860742.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 9, 2020||Dehradun||One killed, another hurt after car falls in gorge||UTTARKASHI: One person was killed and another sustained injuries after the vehicle they were traveling in fell into a 100-metre-deep gorge from Mando Road in Uttarkashi district on Tuesday night. The deceased, a Nepalese, was identified as Guddu (32). The injured person 40-year-old Ashish Semwal was admitted to the hospital for treatment. The two persons were going towards Uttarkashi town when the accident took place. Soon after the accident, police forces rushed to the spot. Inspector Mahadev Uniyal, in charge of Uttarkashi police station, said, “The body of the deceased has been sent for postmortem examination and the injured person has been declared “out of danger” by the doctors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-killed-another-hurt-after-car-falls-in-gorge/articleshow/76860757.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
July 9, 2020||Dehradun||Three Covid-19 patients die, 28 new cases found||DEHRADUN: Three more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the infection on Wednesday, taking the toll of the virus in Uttarakhand to 46. Also, the state’s Covid-19 tally reached 3,258 on the day with 28 fresh cases. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, said, “On Wednesday, a 79-year-old Covid-19 positive man died in Haldwani. The cause of his death was GEJ Carcinoma with Metastasis/Post chemotherapy/COPD with Respiratory failure/Shock/Septicemia/Anoxic Encephalopathy. The other death was of a 52-year-old man in Dehradun and the third one was of a 51-year-old man who was declared brought dead at Base Hospital in Pauri's Kotdwar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-covid-19-patients-die-28-new-cases-found/articleshow/76860739.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 9, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh governor still critical in Lucknow hospital||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh governor Lalji Tandon remains critical in a private hospital at Lucknow. He is on ventilator support and is under supervision of critical care team of doctors. On June 9, Tandon had left MP on a 10-day leave to visit his hometown in Lucknow. He went unwell there and is admitted to the Medanta hospital since June 11. Officials in MP Raj Bhawan said Anandiben Patel would continue to discharge the duty of MP governor till Tandon returns. On June 28 President, Ram Nath Kovind gave Anandiben Patel additional charge of governor of MP due to prolonged illness of Lalji Tandon and to facilitate expansion of MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cabinet. Anandiben Patel took oath as governor of Madhya Pradesh at Raj Bhawan in Bhopal on Wednesday July 1 and later she administered oath and office of secrecy to new ministers on July 2 and returned to UP on July 4. Chief minister Chouhan had visited the ailing governor Tandon at Lucknow on June 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/guv-still-critical-in-lucknow-hospital/articleshow/76863121.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Godown gutted in Mundka fire||NEW DELHI: A massive fire broke out at a godown in outer Delhi’s Mundka area on Wednesday night. It was doused after a seven-hour firefighting operation, which continued till Thursday morning. The godown spread in an area of about half an acre was being used to store medical equipment and MRI machines. No life was lost in the incident. According to a fire department official, a call was received around 10.30pm about the blaze. “Twenty four fire tenders were rushed to the location and the flames were doused by 7am on Thursday. It was a single-storey building with a huge hall and a couple of rooms. The godown was stocked up with goods of various companies,” said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services. Over 120 firemen were pressed into service to douse the fire. Some workers of the godown had gathered outside in violation of social distancing norms. Sunil Choudhary, deputy chief fire officer, Central division, said, “The godown had electronic items, medical equipment, plastic materials and other combustible items stocked up inside. We were engaged in firefighting when the temporary roof of the godown collapsed. Due to the fire, the tin sheds had turned extremely hot and the materials were going up in flames. We first controlled the fire and then another team cooled down the sheds.” Police officials said that at the time of the incident, the godown was closed and security guards were present outside the entrance gate. “Goods/equipment of various companies were stored and the godown was covered with iron sheets. No loss of human life was reported,” said A Koan, DCP (Outer) .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/godown-gutted-in-mundka-fire/articleshow/76882689.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Dehradun||Two senior PWD engineers suspended for delaying key border road project||Dehradun: The state government has suspended two senior public works department (PWD) officials for allegedly causing inordinate delay in floating a tender for the Tanakpur-Jauljibi motor road near the Indo-Nepal border. According to sources, an inquiry ordered by chief minister TS Rawat in March found the officers, Pithoragarh superintendent engineer Mayan Pal Singh Verma and superintendent engineer in-charge Manohar Singh, prima facie guilty of delaying the tender for the road construction. The project is of strategic importance as it lies along the international border. The Union government had sanctioned Rs 110 crore to complete the construction of the 25-km-long road and set November 2019 as the deadline. PWD engineer-in-chief Hariom Sharma told TOI, “The action was taken after we found out that there was a delay of over 8-10 months in starting the tendering process for the road project despite the go-ahead from the high court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-senior-pwd-engineers-suspended-for-delaying-key-border-road-project/articleshow/76859445.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Rajkot||ACB nabs PSI in Rs 40K graft case||Palanpur: The sleuths of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) arrested a police sub-inspector (PSI) taking Rs 40,000 for registering an FIR in Deesa taluka of Palanpur. PSI of Aagthala police station, B K Goswami, was held red-handed by the ACB Tuesday late night. ACB PI K J Patel said that a dealer of cattle medicine had approached Goswami a few months back complaining that one of his men had embezzled money from his firm. However, Goswami filed a complainant in this regard and allegedly demanded Rs 40,000 to register an FIR. The dealer then approached ACB with complaint against Goswami. The ACB set a trap and caught Goswami red-handed near Rajmandir cinema on Tuesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/acb-nabs-psi-in-rs-40k-graft-case/articleshow/76860728.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Delhi||Manpower shortage, cash crunch hit business in Delhi||NEW DELHI: It wasn’t easy for Sheesh Sharma to restart operations at his factory in Mundka Industrial Area after the lockdown restrictions were eased. He had to arrange for a motorbike to ferry a specialised worker from Punjab to Delhi. Sharma is not the only one braving a crisis of labourers. Boards saying “Helpers ki awashyakta hai (helpers needed)” have been put on the wrought iron gates of all factories in the area. Over 25,000 labourers used to work in the 700-odd units of the industrial area, but in the aftermath of the pandemic their numbers have reduced to 10,000. “The factories want to restart operations to their full capacity, but there are no trains or other modes of transportation for the workers to return from their hometowns,” said Sharma, who is also the chairman of the pollution control committee of Mundka Industrial Area Welfare Association. Factory owners said only 20-25% of labourers were currently there in Delhi. Many pointed out that they were in touch with workers who wanted to return, but there were no means to ferry them back. Prakash Chand Jain, the head of Bawana Industrial Area Welfare Association, runs a factory producing recycled iron sheets, which are used in manufacturing fans. “We are suffering from a cash crunch as well as labour shortage. We hope that the situation improves in the coming weeks. Factory owners are in touch with migrants in their hometown. We’ll need to incur costs to transport them back. Almost all factories are open, but only 20% are actually producing goods,” he said. The convener of Chamber Of Trade and Industry (CTI), Brijesh Goyal, agreed that lack of transportation was causing a hindrance in the revival of businesses. He is also a part of a 12-member expert committee formed to explore economic reform measures to help businesses recover from the impact of the lockdown. “The situation has improved compared with June when only 10-15% of trade was happening. Costs have increased due to an expensive workforce,” Goyal said, adding that CTI had written to the government to arrange for specialised trains to bring back the workers. The image of Delhi being a major Covid hotspot has also shaken the confidence of the labourers. Manish Mangla, who has a factory specialising in steel goods and kitchenware in Wazirpur Industrial Area, said the workforce had reduced to 20%. “The family members of migrants are scared to send them back. Production, not only demand, can push the revival of industries,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-labour-shortage-cash-crunch-hit-biz/articleshow/76863770.cms||Paras Singh
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||Absconding sacked Sena city chief held||Nagpur: Facing five cases of extortion, sacked Shiv Sena city President Mangesh Kadao was arrested by the crime branch sleuths on Wednesday. Kadao had been on the run after he was booked in three separate cases of extortion, land grab, cheating etc at Sakkardara, Ambazari and Hudkeshwar police stations sometime back. The police received a tip off that he was seen in Pandhrabodi area under Ambazari police station. Under the guidance of DCP Gajanan Rajmane, anti-extortion squad’s PI Bharat Kshirsagar, API Ishwar Jagdale, Kiran Chowgule went there and spotted Kadao fleeing in an autorickshaw. After a hot chase, the police succeeded in nabbing him. In the first case, Kadao and three of his accomplices had thrashed 47-year-old Vikram Labhe when he tried to confront them over grabbing his property at Bharat Nagar. Kadao had grabbed his property and also decamped with the belongings and cash collectively valued at Rs 5 lakh. In another case, Kadao and others had demanded Rs 20 lakh from Devanand Shirke for returning the advance taken for a property deal and nullify the agreement. Kadao had mortgaged the property with a bank and borrowed Rs 50 lakh. Learning about the mortgage, Shirke had approached Kadao who demanded Rs 20 lakh. In the third case, Kadao and his wife Ruchita were booked for not returning Rs 15 lakh to Dinesh Admane paid as advance to purchase a property from the couple at Manewada road in 2013. The crime branch on Wednesday took Ruchita into custody in a fraud case registered at Hudkeshwar police station after the court had granted her bail in connection with a fraud case registered at Sakkardara police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/absconding-sacked-sena-city-chief-held/articleshow/76863120.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Goa||Open terrace now GMC’s 20-bed cardiology ward||Panaji: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Wednesday inaugurated the 20-bed cardiology ward 125 of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. “The additional facility will definitely help the department in taking care of additional load of patients,” said Rane after inaugurating the new ward in the presence of GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar, head of cardiology department, Dr Guruprasad Naik and other senior doctors. Praising the work done by the department, Rane said when it comes to cardiac treatment in the state, GMC tops the list. An open terrace area of the hospital premises which was unused has been converted into a new ward for the cardiac department. The work started a year-and-half-ago and was completed recently, Rane said. Naik said though they had so far managed with a 12-bed ward, the added facility will help them offer better facilities for patients. At times, he said, patients had to wait for some time till a bed was empty. With more beds now, such adjustments will not be required, Rane said. The cardiac department operates the outpatient department (OPD) four days in a week and sees over 240 patients. Its admissions for a month range between 300 and 400 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/open-terrace-now-gmcs-20-bed-cardiology-ward/articleshow/76864110.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Heavy rain lashes Ahmedabad, cools weather||AHMEDABAD: An overcast sky and spells of rain throughout the day from the afternoon cooled the weather considerably in the city on Wednesday. The city received 22.75mm of rain while the temperature went to a enjoyable 32C. Heavy rain lashed the city between 2pm and 4pm. In these two hours the city received 19.43mm rainfall. During the afternoon, Usmanpura received the maximum, 31.5mm of rain followed by Chandkheda and Ranip with 24.50mm each. Paldi came close with 21mm. The city has so far received 268.19mm of rainfall this year according AMC control room. Following the rain and inflow of water from the Narmada canal the AMC released water from the Vasna Barrage. Against an inflow of 600 cusec from Narmada canal, 780 cusecs was released from Vasna. There were three complaints of waterlogging. These were from Garden Residency, Nandanvan Park; Shakti Mata Mandir in Bopal Ghuma area, and from Mahalaxmi Crossroads in the western part of the city. The AMCV control room said that two complaints of tree uprooting were received from Central Zone. AMC officials said their control room had not received any complaints of waterlogging from areas like Manav Mandir, AEC Crossroads among others. There were however reports of waterlogging from these areas. The AMC also received complaints of waterlogging from the newly merged area of Bopal-Ghuma. The weathermen have forecast light to moderate rain or thundershowers in Ahmedabad city. According to IMD officials the city has has received 284.4mm which is 115.5mm more than the normal rainfall .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heavy-rain-lashes-city-cools-weather/articleshow/76863761.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Dehradun||Help pours in for blind folk singer couple, district administration to give land for house||DEHRADUN: Days after TOI highlighted the plight of a blind folk singer couple who was struggling to make ends meet during lockdown in Almora district, donations have poured in for the duo. The Almora district administration has also announced land for the couple who is currently living in a decrepit one-room shop. The folk singers, Sant Ram and his wife Anandi Devi from Almora’s Dhaulchheina village, who are regular performers at several fairs held annually in Uttarakhand, lost their source of income as the coronavirus outbreak brought all festivities to a halt and no fairs were held post-lockdown. Almora district magistrate Nitin Bhadauria told TOI that the district coordinator has been asked to initiate the process of allotting land to the singers. “We are providing them dry rations and will extend all help,” he said. Satish Kumar Tomar from a Rishikesh-based NGO has already approached the district administration with an offer to help the couple build their house once the land is provided to them. Meanwhile, Chandan Singh Mehra, pradhan of Dhaulchheina, told TOI that last week, a man from Pithoragarh deposited Rs 15,000 in the couple’s bank account. Two people from Noida have also contacted him for the couple’s bank account details. A Facebook donation page for the folk artistes has managed to raise Rs 50,000 so far. Navin Anand, general secretary of Self Help (Society for Eradication of living fragmentation, Holistic Healing and Enhancement of Livelihood for the Poor), said he started the FB campaign after coming across the TOI report. “About 25 people have donated a cumulative amount of Rs 50,000. We will continue the campaign for sometime and hope to raise more.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/help-pours-in-for-blind-folk-singer-couple-dist-admin-to-give-land-for-house/articleshow/76859473.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||NRIs stranded as DGCA nixes permit for Dubai flight||HYDERABAD: A group of NRIs, who booked a 52-seat chartered flight from the city to Dubai, were left stranded and disappointed on Wednesday as the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has withdrawn permission for chartered flights to the UAE. The NRIs had booked the chartered flight for Rs 85 lakh. As many as 160 NRIs, who had come home in March, are stranded here because of the Covid-19 situation and lockdown. They had applied to book a 150-seater chartered flight to return to UAE but they could not get permission for that. “We want to return to our homes in the UAE. We have our jobs there. Our families are there and after all the effort we put into organising a chartered flight, the permission by DGCA has been withdrawn,” said S Srinivasa Rao, a mechanical engineer who works for a power station in the UAE. He and his wife were on a short trip to India in March and had booked their return tickets on March 20. But UAE announced a lockdown from March 19 and subsequently, lockdown was announced in India. “Imagine the plight of our family. Both my teenage daughters are living alone in a flat and have struggled to survive without us. I have also not got my salary for four months as I was unable to return to work,” Srinivasa Rao said. Ratna Vadapalli, who was also to be on the cancelled flight, said each passenger paid Rs 2 lakh for the one-way ticket to Dubai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nris-stranded-as-dgca-nixes-permit-for-dubai-flight/articleshow/76863765.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Hosts on hot seat as govt drafts rules for marriage, funeral ceremonies||Bhubaneswar: Hosting a marriage ceremony has just got more difficult with the families now responsible for making guests follow Covid-19 norms. From making arrangements of soap and water for hand washing to ensuring availability of sanitisers, the organisers would have to keep these things ready and more. It’s the same for those hosting a memorial service following a funeral. Chewing of paan and gutka and spitting in public is strictly prohibited, which will have to be ensured by the hosts, as per the latest guidelines issued by the state government for marriage and funeral-related events during Covid-19 crisis. State special relief commissioner P K Jena issued the guidelines and asked the district collectors for strict implementation. As per the guidelines, persons with influenza-like symptoms and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) will not be allowed to the marriage venue. Vulnerable groups like those above 65 years of age, children below 10 years, persons with co-morbidities and pregnant women are advised not to attend such functions. While 50 people including the groom, bride, their family members, friends, relatives, guests, priests, catering staff are allowed in wedding venues, the number of people participating in a funeral ceremony should not exceed 20. Both marriage and funeral functions can be held with prior permission of the local police stations. It has been made mandatory to maintain at least two-metre physical distance between individuals during these social events. “The seating and dining arrangement for both the rituals shall be done in such a way that at least two-metre physical distance is maintained between individuals while all persons in the marriage venue shall mandatorily use face mask during the entire period of the function except during eating,” Jena said. The guidelines said vehicles used in the funeral procession will not carry persons beyond its seating capacity. “It will be the responsibility of the host of the marriage and funeral function to ensure that the provisions of the guidelines are strictly followed, including the ceiling on number of attendees. The owner/manager of the premises of the marriage and funeral function will also be held responsible for ensuring the guidelines on the premises and liable for legal action in case of any violation,” he added. In case of marriage ceremony, participants will also be held responsible for violating the rules and could face legal action. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hosts-on-hot-seat-as-govt-drafts-rules-for-marriage-funeral-ceremonies/articleshow/76862298.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Rebels killed in Kandhamal encounter carried Rs 34L reward||Bhubaneswar: Police said the five suspected Maoists who were gunned down in Kandhamal on July 5 together carried a reward of Rs 34 lakh on their head. This is the first time that rebels carrying this kind of high reward were killed in a single-day in the state. There have been instances of deaths of more than five Maoists on a single day in the past. But, the deaths of Maoists carrying Rs 34 lakh reward on a single day is the highest so far. Some years ago, a few rebels carrying reward of Rs 25 lakh were killed on Angul-Deogarh border, a senior police officer said. Among those killed on Sunday, Sukru aka Kosa Sodhi was a state committee member of CPI (Maoist) carrying Rs 20 lakh reward. A divisional committee member carried Rs 5 lakh reward, two area commander members, Rs 4 lakh each, and a party member carried Rs 1 lakh on his head. Notably, the Rs 34 lakh will be given to Kandhamal Police. DGP Abhay had earlier appealed to the Maoists to surrender and take advantage of the surrender and rehabilitation policy of the government. “This action by the security forces deep inside the jungle of Kandhamal will give boost to development projects of the state government, similar to those that have veen taken up in the Swabhiman Anchal of Malkangiri district,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rebels-killed-in-kandhamal-encounter-carried-rs-34l-reward/articleshow/76862301.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
July 9, 2020||Kochi||Dancer violated visa norms||Idukki/Kochi: A resort at Santhanpara in Idukki, which hosted a dance party allegedly in defiance of Covid-19 regulations, was on Wednesday issued a stop memo, even as the foreigner regional registration office (FRRO) in Kochi sought more information on a foreigner who danced at the party. In a related development, Santhanpara police arrested five more persons—and later released on bail—in connection with the June 28 dance party. So far, 33 people have been arrested. The party was held as part of the inauguration of a metal and granite factory at Chaturangappara. Its owner, Roy Kurien, was arrested on Tuesday. He owns the resort as well. "The owner of Jungle Palace resort violated the Covid-19 restrictions and conducted a dance party in the resort. Hence the stop memo was issued,” Shantanpara panchayat president Saraswathi Selvam said. The FRRO confirmed that one of the dancers, Ukranian national Viktoria, violated visa norms, since she had been issued a tourist visa. “A tourist cannot engage in a performance or profession here. More details are sought by the department,” a top FRRO official said. Idukki SP R Karuppuswami said they had alerted FRRO to check if the woman had violated any visa norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dancer-violated-visa-norms/articleshow/76862304.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Two deaths stir up panic in Nilgiris; 10 new cases surface||Udhagamandalam: A day after two people died in the Nilgiris, panic gripped the locals on Wednesday as both the deceased had attended a wedding function at Thangadu–Oranalli village, where an 85-year-old woman had tested positive for Covid-19 recently. The wedding was on June 24.One of the deceased was a 65-year-old woman from Mulligoor. It was her grandson’s wedding. She developed fever after she came back from the wedding. She had a temperature for the past one week. And she died on Tuesday. The second case was also a 65-year-old, but a man. A resident of Thambatty, he was a relative of the deceased woman and had attended the wedding function along with her. The man died soon after he was discharged from a private hospital on Tuesday. He was admitted to Chamraj Estate Hospital near Ooty with chest congestion on Monday.According to sources, the man was referred to Coimbatore for advanced treatment by the hospital and discharged on Tuesday. He died soon after he came out of the hospital premises. Health officials had lifted throat/nasal swabs from both the deceased.Dr P Balusamy, deputy director of public health, said, “In both the cases, the funeral was conducted as per the existing protocol with police protection. No gathering was allowed.”While officials had collected throat swabs from 26 contacts of the Mulligoor woman on Tuesday, they collected samples from 30 contacts of the Thambatty man on Wednesday. “We have also collected throat swabs from the doctors and nurses at the Chamraj hospital for the test. The hospital will remain closed till the results arrive,” Balusamy said.Meanwhile, the Nilgiris recorded 10 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the tally to 160. Except for two cases, the rest have travel history. The new cases consist of five men and five women. A family of five, three of them women, residing at Lovedale tested positive for the virus. They are the primary contacts of one of their family members who tested positive earlier after visiting Erode. A 31-year-old truck driver from Emerald near Ooty tested positive after he visited Chennai for unloading vegetables. A 36-year-old woman and a 15-year-old girl residing at Melkouhatty in Ooty taluk tested positive after a family member from Rajasthan visited them. The remaining two cases are - 45-year-old and 38-year-old men - primary contacts of the official of the private needle manufacturing company located at Yellanhalli. The tally of the infected persons through the official of the private company stands at 97. As on date, the Nilgiris has 111 active cases. While 74 positive cases are being treated at the Ooty government headquarters hospital, seven are in Coonoor government Lawley hospital. Thirty cases are admitted to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-deaths-stir-up-panic-in-nilgiris-10-new-cases-surface/articleshow/76863128.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Dehradun||Heavy rains lash state, Badrinath highway blocked||DEHRADUN: The Badrinath national highway was blocked on Wednesday following recurring landslides at Lambagad due to heavy downpour in Uttarakhand throughout Tuesday night. The Yamunotri national highway, meanwhile, remains closed for the fourth consecutive day. A 10-metre stretch of the route had been washed away in heavy rains last week. Due to incessant rains, there have been recurring landslides and mudslides on the Rudraprayag-Gaurikund highway. According to the regional meteorological center, heavy to very heavy rainfall lashed Kumaon region on Wednesday, with several places receiving over 100mm rainfall between Tuesday night and Wednesday morning. Khatima in Champawat district received the maximum rainfall at 190mm, followed by Banbasa (180mm), Mukteshwar (130mm), Nainital (120mm), Haldwani (110mm), Pantnagar (90mm), Almora (80mm) and Ranikhet (80mm).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/heavy-rains-lash-state-badrinath-highway-blocked/articleshow/76860771.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||Gadchiroli border opened for essential services after protest||CHANDRAPUR: People from villages on border of Chandrapur and Gadchiroli districts in Bramhapuri tehsil on Wednesday blocked the Wadsa-Bramhapuri road to protest ban on travel from either side. Tehsildars of Bramhapuri and Wadsa took cognisance of the protest and allowed farmers with 7/12 extract and those involved in essential services to enter Gadchiroli district. In wake of spike of Covid-19 cases, the Gadchiroli administration had sealed the district border. The protesters stalled traffic for hours by putting stones and chopped trees on the road. The move had miffed villagers from Bramhapuri tehsil’s Hardoli, Chicholi, Surbodi and Chikhalgaon who have farms in Wadsa tehsil of Gadchiroli. Vegetable producers and milk vendors from these villages who sell their produce in Wadsa too had been denied permission to cross the border. They only need to cross the bridge on Wainganga river to reach Wadsa tehsil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadchiroli-border-opened-for-essential-services-after-protest/articleshow/76863126.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||Amid confusion, MHRD issues SOP for final exam conduction||NAGPUR: Even as there is confusion over conducting final year exams, the ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) has issued standard operating procedure (SOP) for the same. Some of the SOPs include keeping 2 metre distance and keeping one seat vacant between two examinees. A sample seating plan having four columns with a gap of one seat has been suggested. However, with space being a major problem in many colleges, it remains to be seen how colleges would overcome the issue. In the latest order too, the ministry reiterated that “final term examinations should be compulsorily held as per UGC guidelines” by September 20 this year. In his letter to HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, state eduction minister Uday Samant has said that it is not possible for Maharashtra to hold exams this year. As per the guidelines, the higher education institutions (HEIs) have been asked to address various concerns, including implementation of directives regarding safety and health issue by the central and state government departments. HEIs have also been told to address uncertainty among students regarding modes of teaching, learning, completion of courses, examinations, evaluation, declaration of results, academic calendar, admissions and opening of institutions. In addition to ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) guidelines, personal hygiene and sanitation at institutions are key factors in the SOP. HEIs have been given liberty in adopting more stricter provisions and guidelines if needed. In case there is a restriction on movements in certain areas, admit cards issued to the students shall be treated as a pass for movement. State governments have been advised to instruct all local authorities to issue movement passes to invigilators and all personnel engaged in exam work. Candidate seating area should be thoroughly sanitized after every session. Students having symptoms of fever, cough and cold should be either made to sit in a separate room or given a chance to appear on another day. Adequate arrangement of thermal scanners, sanitizers, face masks and hand gloves at all entry and exit points, including reception area, need to be made. Students should be given fresh face masks by the invigilators in the examination room itself. HEIs also need to have multiple entry and exit points to avoid crowding of examinees. They will have to carefully dispose of used gloves and masks part from maintaining record of all exam functionaries for future reference and traceability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-confusion-mhrd-issues-sop-for-final-exam-conduction/articleshow/76863133.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 9, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Man rams estranged wife’s vehicle, booked||RAJKOT: A man was booked for allegedly ramming his car into a two-wheeler on which his estranged wife and brother-in-law were riding in Sadhana Society on Kotharia Road in Rajkot on Tuesday evening. Police said the accused, identified as Vishal Sakhia (35), hit the two-wheeler being driven by his brother-in-law Tushar Chauhan, on which his wife Puja Sakhia (30) was riding pillion. “Puja had walked out on Vishal two months ago, following a marital discord. Vishal had been allegedly issuing threats to Puja saying that he would kill her by running over with his car,” said an official from Bhaktinagar police station. “We have booked Vishal under section 308 of Indian Penal Code (IPC), dealing with an attempt to commit culpable homicide and 506 (2) of IPC for issuing threats,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-rams-estranged-wifes-vehicle-booked/articleshow/76860745.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Dehradun||Containment zone created in Bhatta village in Mussoorie||MUSSOORIE: After three persons of a family tested positive for Covid-19 in Bhatta village near Mussoorie, a containment zone was created in the area on Wednesday. “A resident of Bhatta village near Mussoorie, who had travel history to Haryana in the last week of June had tested positive this week. A few days later, his wife, son and a relative also tested positive. Following this, the administration has decided to cordon off the area around the house of the family,” said Prem Lal, sub-divisional magistrate, Mussoorie. “Contact tracing has been done and nine persons who had come in direct contact of the infected person have been quarantined,” informed Ashutosh Sati, executive officer of Mussoorie Municipal Council. The five Covid-19 positive cases reported from Mussoorie and nearby areas this week has caused local residents to panic. “Our town was more or less free from COVID-19. Only a handful of positive cases had been reported over the past three months. The new cases emerged after some of the restrictions were lifted. It is scary,” said Ravinder, a local resident. Residents are also apprehensive of tourists visiting the town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/containment-zone-created-in-bhatta-village-in-mussoorie/articleshow/76860790.cms||Anmol Jain
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC faults state over Covid-19 software, says take it from Delhi||HYDERABAD: After being pulled up by the Telangana high court on low testing and not sharing information on Covid-19 measures, the state government on Wednesday said it is developing an exclusive software to benefit Covid-19 patients, which is in the advanced stages of completion. It also informed the high court that it plans to unveil soon the live dashboard containing details like availability of beds and ventilators in private and government hospitals for admitting the Covid-19 patients. However, a bench of chief justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and justice B Vijaysen Reddy wondered where was the need for the government to develop a software now. “The state of Delhi is already using it. Just request them and they will be more than happy to share the software with you (Telangana),” the judges told advocate general BS Prasad. The state counsel sought time to convey to the court the status of government’s efforts in this regard. The bench, which posted the case to July 14, was hearing a PIL filed by Siva Ganesh Karnati who was seeking immediate installation of dashboards to indicate the live status of the occupancy levels and availability of beds and other facilities in the hospitals. Petitioner’s counsel Kasibhatla Saaketh said that several patients with breathing problems were being denied admission in hospitals on the ground that beds with the ventilator facility were already filled. “If there are live dashboards in the hospitals, at least in those designated as Covid-19 treatment centres, and if the info is available in public domain, family members of the patients will rush them to such hospitals without losing valuable time,” he said. He also said the steep rise in the Covid-19 cases was leading to hospitals chockablock with patients and kin of the patients running from pillar to post in search of a bed with a ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-faults-state-over-covid-19-software-says-take-it-from-delhi/articleshow/76863784.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Bhopal||BJP targeting our netas in Chambal-Gwalior out of malice, say Digvijaya Singh & Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: Senior Congress leaders Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh on Wednesday alleged that the BJP state government was wrongly targeting rival party leaders out of political malice before the assembly bypolls in the state. Sixteen of the 24 assembly seats going for by-election are from the Gwalior Chambal areas. In a series of tweets, Kamal Nath said that Congress leaders from the Gwalior-Chambal region are being targeted “on the insistence of some people”. The controversy started after permission to start a petrol pump of the Indian Oil Corporation by Aniruddha Rawat, son of former minister and state Congress working president was withdrawn on July 2 by the district administration of Sheopur allegedly because the leader stood by his party when others in the region left and joined BJP. Former chief minister Kamal Nath tweeted, “BJP government is starting wrong traditions. Our leaders are being deliberately targeted with political malice. Our party leader and working president Ram Niwas Rawat is being avenged and personally targeted on the insistence of some people.” In another tweet, Kamal Nath said, “With approaching by-elections in the Gwalior-Chambal region, Ram Niwas Rawat, Ashok Singh and many other of our leaders are being targeted. Governments come and go but this kind of vengeance is contrary to the traditions of healthy democracy. Congress will not sit silent and tolerate such actions being taken purely out of political hatred. We will strongly oppose this and fight on the ground the oppressive policies and actions of the BJP.” Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh issued a statement on Tuesday in which he alleged, “It is highly condemnable that the state BJP government is targeting Congress leaders to take political revenge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-targeting-our-netas-in-chambal-gwalior-out-of-malice-say-diggy-nath/articleshow/76863130.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Salem||Salem rly division aims to ramp up freight traffic with new unit||Salem: Southern Railway, Salem division, has set up a business development unit (BDU), to improve freight transportation from the division.Speaking reporters on Wednesday, divisional railway manager (DRM) U Subba Rao said the focus of the unit was to double the freight carried by the Salem division. “Particular focus will be on strengthening division’s share in existing traffic while at the same time strongly foraying into miscellaneous non-bulk goods traffic.”At the divisional level, the unit will have junior administrative grade officers from relevant fields. Senior divisional operations manager M Harikumar is the convenor of the BDU and senior divisional commercial manager E Harikrishnan, senior divisional finance manager S Uma Maheswari, and senior divisional mechanical engineer S Mukundan are other members in the unit. “The unit will often interact with members of the trade and industry sector to understand the existing pattern of goods transportation and explore the possibility of attracting additional freight traffic,” the DRM said. The BDU will also serve as a nodal point for speedy operationalisation of any new traffic proposals, he added. The division has recorded freight traffic of 0.067 metric tonne in April, 0.227 metric tonne in May and 0.245 metric tonne in June. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-rly-division-aims-to-ramp-up-freight-traffic-with-new-unit/articleshow/76863134.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Dehradun||Jagpreet Singh made The Doon School’s headmaster||DEHRADUN: Veteran academician Jagpreet Singh took over as the 11th Headmaster of The Doon School in Dehradun on Wednesday. Prior to this, Singh had been holding the position of the headmaster of the Punjab Public School in Nabha (Punjab) for more than nine years. He had earlier served at Mayo College in Ajmer for over two decades. The veteran academician hails from Ajmer and had started his career over there as a teacher in his early 20s. Singh, a keen sports enthusiast, has declared that some changes will be brought about in The Doon School in order to maintain social distancing and to ensure that Covid-19 doesn’t spread among the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/jagpreet-singh-made-the-doon-schools-headmaster/articleshow/76860784.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar breaks record of 45 cases in a day, sees count jump by 46||BHUBANESWAR: In yet another highest single-day spike, the city on Wednesday reported 46 Covid-19 positive cases. It broke Saturday’s record of 45 cases. Bhubaneswar now has 525 Covid cases. Out of the 46 fresh cases, more than 50 per cent are local infections. Twenty-four are local contacts and 22 are persons who were in quarantine. Bomikhal and Jharpada, which were under containment, have reported a case each. The other areas that have reported positive cases are Aiginia, Chandrasekharpur, Pahala, Garage Chhak, Old Town, Rasulgarh, Baramunda, Laxmisagar, Nayapalli, Ghatikia, Kalinga Nagar, Kolathia, Patrapada, Khandagiri and Ganganagar. Out of the 525 cases, 206 have been reported between July 1 and 8. BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury said there was no plan to bring any more areas under containment as mostly one or two cases have been reported from them, with the exception of the RTO-I office which has reported four cases. “We don’t have plan for complete shutdown on other days besides the weekend shutdown. We are keeping a close watch on the situation and active surveillance is being carried out aggressively,” he told TOI. On Wednesday, 18 patients recovered here, all in the age group of 15 and 60. The patients include four from Laxmi bazar slum. With 295 people recovering and seven deaths, there are now 223 active cases in the city. Out of the 206 cases reported in July so far, 81 are local contacts. This is an indication that the virus has spread to other people from primary contacts. Local cases have been termed as secondary contacts, and they are suspected to have contracted the disease from the primary patients. In May and June, there were hardly any local cases. “The first phase of unlock started in June, and we brought some more relaxations in July. Local cases are a worry but they will happen as people need to be more aware and alert,” said a BMC officer. In view of local cases being reported, serological test, which will start within two days in the city, will help gauge the volume of infectivity in the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/city-breaks-record-of-45-cases-in-a-day-sees-count-jump-by-46/articleshow/76862310.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Distance from doctor taking a toll on patients||NEW DELHI: The reassuring touch of a doctor and his or her proximity during a patient’s visit have gone missing these days because of the pandemic. While most consultations are taking place over the phone or through videoconferencing, even when a patient reaches the hospital, he or she has to meet the doctor from a distance. This particular phenomenon, psychiatrists pointed out, could exacerbate distress and anxiety among the ill. In the case of Covid-19 patients recuperating in hospitals, it could lead to a feeling of neglect.How distance from doctor is taking a toll on patients Read the story on TOI+ How distance from doctor is taking a toll on patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/distance-from-doctor-taking-a-toll-on-patients/articleshow/76863810.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Forest dept honours tribal girl who scored 95%||Coimbatore: The forest department on Wednesday honoured the 16-year-old tribal girl from Udumalpet, who scored 95% in her Class X exams, apart from extending all support to her to help her continue higher studies. C Sreedevi, a student of Nayaranagadi model residential school in Chalakudy in Trissur district of Kerala, was presented a memento and a shawl by S Arokiyaraj Xavier, deputy director of Pollachi division of Anaimalai Tiger Reserve (ATR), in Coimbatore. The function was organised under the guidance of Debasis Jhana, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), who is also in-charge as field director of the ATR. “The girl deserves huge appreciation. Inspired by her, other students should also continue their education,” said V Selvam, assistant conservator of forest. “On behalf of the forest department, we have assured to extend all support for the girl to continue her education,” he said.  As Sreedevi wishes to study Science group at the same residential school, the officials spoke to the school management to request that a seat is reserved for her. “I thought it would be really useful if I got a laptop and when I conveyed this to the officials, they immediately agreed to get me one,” said Sreedevi, who is also a sports enthusiast. She has attended the national championship of Atya patya thrice in the last three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-dept-honours-tribal-girl-who-scored-95/articleshow/76863144.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Dehradun||Cabinet gives nod to integrated farming in 95 blocks, SEZ in US Nagar||DEHRADUN: In a move to promote agriculture and provide more job opportunities in the rural pockets of Uttarakhand, the state cabinet on Wednesday gave nod to the Akikrit (Integrated) Adarsh Krishi Bhumi Yojana (AAKBY). Under this scheme, one area in each of the 95 blocks of the state would be developed for cluster farming on a minimum of 10 hectare land. The cabinet has also decided to come up with a Special Economic Zone in Udham Singh Nagar district under the Centre’s ambitious Amritsar-Kolkata Industrial Corridor project. Initially, 1,000 acre land in SIDCUL would be used for the purpose and thereafter, more land would be provided by the government as per the requirement. Other major decisions taken during the Cabinet meet include — appointment of a finance officer for CM Relief Fund, recruitment of 1,020 nurses, and providing water pipe line connection to villagers at the cost of Re 1 in villages. State urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik has said that AAKBY would be started as a pilot project at 95 locations, one in each block of the state. “The district magistrates will head the committee which will include prominent villagers. At least 10 acre land would be used for cluster-based farming. An amount of Rs 15 lakh will be allotted to each block and around 100 locals would be roped in for each project,” said the minister, while underscoring that experts and locals would advise on the crop so as to ensure the best results. “On basis of the recommendations and findings, the cluster-based farming would be done,” he added. For the first phase of the project, the state government has reserved a budget of Rs 14.25 crore. “Later, we intend to extend the project to other areas as well,” said Kaushik. Regarding the Centre's Amritsar-Kolkata Industrial Corridor Project, he added, “The cabinet has given approval for a Special Economic Zone (SEZ) in Udham Singh Nagar. The industry associations were asking for 3,000 acre land for the project. For now, the Cabinet has agreed to give 1,000 acre SIDCUL land for the project, and thereafter, the land will be provided as per the requirement." The state cabinet also put a blanket ban on taking raw River Bed Material (RBM) outside Uttarakhand or bringing it inside the state. On the recommendations made by agriculture minister Subodh Uniyal, the cabinet has given nod to setting up stone crushers, mobile stone crushers, and hot mix plant at a distance of 1.5 km from the Ganga at Haridwar, at 1 km from Ganga in the plains, and at 500 metres from seasonal rivers. The decision was taken under the Uttarakhand Stone Crusher plant, Mobile Hot Mix Policy of 2020. Uttarakhand Mining (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation, and Storage Rules, 2020) was also given approval by the state cabinet on the day. From now on, no transaction would be done with cash. “Now only cheque or draft would be used for payment,” said the minister. The lease for mobile stone crushers would now be given for a period of two years instead of one year. Similarly, for retail stocking, the term has been increased from two years to five years. The license fee has been increased from Rs 3,000 to Rs 25,000. It was also decided that any matter of dispute, which was earlier addressed at government level, would now be heard on the commissioner level. For complete transparency in the CM Relief Fund, the cabinet has approved that an officer of the finance department will now take care of the records. “Some Congress leaders were questioning the usage of the funds and unfortunately, they are the least bothered in making contributions to the fund to help people. I would like to inform everyone that from March 15 this year to June 26, CM Relief Fund has received a financial support of Rs 154.56 crore. Prior to which, it had a buffer of Rs 100 crore, taking the entire amount to Rs 254 crore. Out of this amount, Rs 85.60 crore have been used for Covid-19 related works, providing food to needy people, and waivers given by the government. To put an end to all doubts, we have decided to let a specially designated officer from the finance department manage all records,” Kaushik informed. To help farmers, especially those in far flung areas, the state government has decided to increase the zero interest loan limit provided to them. Earlier, an interest free loan of Rs 1 lakh was given to them through co-operative banks. Now, they can avail a loan amount of Rs 3 lakh. “Till date, 3.68 lakh farmers and 1,247 self-help groups have been benefited and a total loan amount of Rs 108 crore has been given to them,” the minister said. The Cabinet also approved a proposal under which a person living in rural areas of Uttarakhand can apply for water pipeline connection under Jal Jeevan Mission for Re 1. There are 15.08 lakh families living in villages. Among these, 2.72 lakh families (estimatedly) have arrangements for water supply. Thus, more than 12 lakh families would benefit from the project. “To help people who have financial constraints in giving Rs 2,320 for water pipeline connection, the Cabinet has decided that they can get the connection for Re 1 only,” said the minister. For CAMPA Yojana, the state cabinet gave the nod to the management and structure. As many as 29 posts were approved and a nod was given to bring a CEO on deputation. According to the Cabinet department, the recruitment in the department of industries will be done through Uttarakhand Subordinate Services Selection Commission. Kaushik says that this will benefit the people coming from the economically weaker section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cabinet-gives-nod-to-integrated-farming-in-95-blocks-sez-in-us-nagar/articleshow/76860810.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 9, 2020||Dehradun||Rabindranath Tagore’s Nainital retreat to house Visva Bharati’s second campus: Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank||NAINITAL: More than a hundred years after Rabindranath Tagore composed parts of ‘Gitanjali’ here, the hill named after him will be home to another project of his, Visva Bharati University. This will be the second Visva Bharati campus in the country when the project comes to fruition. “We have cleared the proposal to establish a Visva Bharati University campus at Tagore Top,” Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Wednesday. Visva Bharati was set up by Tagore at Shantiniketan in Bengal in 1921, with the idea that an open, non-structured approach to education was needed to reject colonial trappings in education. The state has just one central university, the HNB Garhwal University at Srinagar. This will be the second. While Uttarakhand was a mid-range 10th in the Niti Aayog’s ranking of school education, its higher education space has been mostly wanting. In the National Institutional Ranking Framework rankings released last month, only one institution from the state had made it to the top 100, IIT-Roorkee. “The establishment of a central university at Ramgarh will cater to the youth of Nainital and all of Kumaon region,” Pokhriyal said. The site of the new central university, now known as Tagore Top, is on the Bhowali-Ramgarh road. It was where Tagore had retreated to with his daughter Renuka after she had been diagnosed with tuberculosis. This was in 1903. He had lost his wife, Mrinalini Devi, a year before that. “During this period, he wrote a series of poems, ‘Shishu’ (The Child). It is also believed that some verses of ‘Gitanjali’ were composed here. The second and third poems of ‘Balaka’ were written here,” Nainital-based historian and former Kumaun University professor Ajay Singh Rawat told TOI. Renuka died two years later, at 13, but Tagore would come back to the Kumaun Hills three more times — to Ramgarh in 1914 and 1927, and to Almora in 1937. The cottage he lived in at Ramgarh, though, now lies in ruins. A 5-km trek to Tagore Top takes one about 80,000 feet above sea level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tagores-nainital-retreat-to-house-visva-bharatis-second-campus-pokhriyal/articleshow/76860803.cms||Prashant Jha
July 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||192 fire services personnel recover from Covid-19||BHUBANESWAR: At least 192 Odisha fire services personnel, who tested positive for Covid-19 following their return from post-Amphan restoration work in West Bengal, have recovered. Many of them have already resumed duty. The state government had on May 24 sent a team of 372 firemen to Bengal to carry out restoration work. All of them returned on June 5 and were kept in institutional quarantine. On June 9, 12 of them tested positive for Covid-19. Subsequently, 180 more personnel were found to be positive. “We are happy that all the 192 personnel who tested positive have been cured. Many of them have joined duty while others are in 15-day home quarantine after being discharged from Covid hospitals. All are fine and healthy. The other 180 personnel, who tested negative from the beginning, have already joined duty,” DGP (fire services and home guards) Satyajit Mohanty told TOI. The 192 personnel were accorded a rousing welcome by their colleagues in Cuttack after being discharged from hospitals in phases. Those who tested positive for the novel coronavirus heaved a sigh of relief after being cured. “Though I was nervous after being detected with the virus, my seniors and doctors kept my morale high. I regained my patience and mental strength. Along with 10 of my colleagues, I recovered in seven to ten days,” Ajay Kumar Paikray, station officer from Kabisurya Nagar in Ganjam district, said. Sunil Chandra Das, another recovered fireman, said the government arranged free transport for him and his colleagues to their homes after they were discharged. “I stayed in home quarantine for 15 days after being discharged. I joined duty last week. During my home quarantine, our seniors had regularly been inquiring after my health,” said Das, a fireman in Rayagada station. The recovered personnel said they find the workplace same as before. “I am cured. I feared that friends and colleagues might maintain distance from me but nothing like that happened. My colleagues are cooperative and I find my workplace comfortable,” Das said. DGP (fire services) Mohanty said adequate prevention measures have been taken to keep the employees free of Covid-19. “I held a video conference with our officers on Monday and asked them to segregate personnel according to their age and comorbidities. Any duty that may require an officer’s exposure to the virus is not being given to personnel above 50 years of age with previous ailments,” Mohanty said. IGP (fire services and home guards) Asheet Panigrahi said. “We have engaged Covid compliance officers at our offices. They will conduct weekly audit and monitor compliance of Covid-19 guidelines to prevent infections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/192-fire-services-personnel-recover-from-covid-19/articleshow/76862323.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
July 9, 2020||Rajkot||No change in RMC wards||Rajkot: There will be no addition of wards or seats for the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) before the 2020 civic body elections. This was stated in the notification issued by the Urban Development and Urban Housing Department on Wednesday The newly merged four areas — Ghanteshwar, Mota Mava, Munjka and Madhapar — will be included in existing wards. BJP city president Kamlesh Mirani said, “There is no change in wards and reserved seats. One seat reserved for women has been increased. However, demarcation describing which area will fall in which ward will be declared soon.” Rajkot currently has 18 wards having 72 seats. There will be five seats reserved for scheduled castes, seven for backward class and 36 seats reserved for women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/no-change-in-rmc-wards/articleshow/76860773.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Coimbatore||CM to lay foundation stone for Ooty medical college tomorrow||Udhagamandalam: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will lay foundation stone for the Ooty Government Medical College Hospital through video conferencing on Friday, the district administration said on Wednesday.A total of 40 acres of land - 25 acres at Indu Nagar in Ooty and another 15 acres adjacent to that - has already been identified for the facility, for which Rs447 crore has been allotted. With 21 departments, the medical college hospital will have 650 beds.As the district is a hilly terrain, the government has also sanctioned a helipad for the new government medical college hospital to facilitate heli ambulance service. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cm-to-lay-foundation-stone-for-ooty-medical-college-tomorrow/articleshow/76863161.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: With rise in Covid-19 cases, cops and civic body shift focus back on slums||KOLKATA: The city’s slums that just had started coming out of the grip of the novel coronavirus have again begun reporting infections. The situation in some slums has proved to be worrisome and the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Kolkata Police’s joint Covid-response team has decided to bring some slums under containment zones and ask the dwellers to abide by strict lockdown rules. While civic officials and cops shifted their focus to the city’s high-rises and apartment buildings after detection of multiple cases in the past two months, they were alerted after several cases were reported from Hazar Basti in Bagbazar. Some smaller slums between Galiff Street and Bagbazar also reported Covid cases. As the city sees the creation of containment zones yet again, both KMC and police have found several new cases emerging from certain slum pockets cutting across the city. While Hazar Basti in Baghbazar has reported more than 13 cases in the past two weeks, Muchibazar slum — located a few kilometres away — has emerged as an area of concern in the north. Four other slums in the north have been listed as containment zones. These slums include Motilal Basak Lane in Kankurgachhi, Arif Road in Karbagan and Duttabagan in Ultadanga. Among these slums, Karbagan has reported 11 cases in the past two weeks. “We were primarily concerned about Belgachhia and Narkeldanga slums as these two had reported the maximum number of Covid-positive cases during the first phase of lockdown. However, a successful containment policy had resulted in a sharp drop in cases. Now, we are concerned about four slums located in the Ultadanga-Kankurgachhi-Bagmari area, which have shown a spurt in positive cases,” said a health department official. Two slums in the south, Kakulia and Panchanantala, located close to each other in the Dhakuria-Ballygunge area, too, remain a concern point and are being closely monitored by the KMC’s Covid-response team to prevent a further spread of the deadly virus in the neighbourhoods. For the cops, the biggest threat is of cross-carriers. “These slums are located right next to apartments. The slum dwellers are either involved with the markets or work as domestic helps. There is a possibility that one set might infect another. We are carrying out campaigns each day in the slums on how to get rid of the virus. Our beat officers are helping the KMC workers to take status reports from the ground,” stated an officer at Lalbazar. According to rules, the KMC ward coordinators and OCs are responsible for carrying out a surveillance and make the slum dwellers follow the lockdown guidelines that worked for the Belgachhia slum. At the same time, the KMC solid waste management department did a yeoman’s job by conducting regular disinfection drive at the slum, which initially reported several positive cases. This apart, cops had successfully persuaded the slum dwellers to adhere to some basic rules. “All these factors combined led to curbing the spread of novel coronavirus in the Belgachhia neighbourhood over the past two weeks,” local borough coordinator Tarun Saha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-rise-in-cases-cops-and-civic-body-shift-focus-back-on-slums/articleshow/76863156.cms||Saikat Ray
July 9, 2020||Thane||Covid-19: Kalyan-Dombivli cases over 10,000, most after Mumbai, Thane||KALYAN: Cases in the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) breached the 10,000-mark on Wednesday, placing it just behind Thane city's 11,000-plus Covid-19 cases.  KDMC recorded 471 fresh coronavirus cases, taking its tally to 10,351. Seven deaths were reported, adding up to 158. Between March 16, when the first case was reported, and March 31, the region had only 14 cases. In April, around 100 cases were added. The situation spiralled in May when the number of cases crossed 1,000. By June, cases had spiked to over 5,500. The last eight days have already seen 3,776 new cases. Civic officials, who attribute the spike in cases to enhanced testing, do not rule out the possibility of KDMC overtaking Thane city in the coming days. Low death rate of 1.5% is only ray of hope in KDMCWith 10,000 antigen kits pressed into service, cases are expected to rise in Kalyan-Dombivli. The daily swab testing in KDMC is now in the range of 700-1,000. The only silver lining for Kalyan-Dombivli vis-à-vis Thane is that it has a 1.52% death rate as compared to Thane’s 3.67%. Thane is currently on top of the Covid charts in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) with 11,705 cases. It added 410 new cases on Wednesday. The death toll rose to 430 with 17 more patients succumbing to the virus. As of Tuesday, the maximum number of infected patients was from Naupada-Kopri ward (1,827) followed by Lokmanya-Savarkar Nagar ward (1,732). Navi Mumbai, which had the second highest positive cases till now, has 8,279 cases, including 207 on Wednesday. Nine deaths have taken the toll to 269. A total of 4,913 patients have recovered. Mira-Bhayander is nearing the 5,000-mark. It added 175 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 4,808. Four deaths have pushed the toll to 176. A deputy municipal commissioner is among those who have tested positive. The civic chief has proceeded on 14-day home quarantine. His swab report is awaited. The Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) has 6,599 cases with 146 new cases on Wednesday. One death was reported, taking the toll to 130. The PCMC area has 93 cases, making it a total of 3,165. Three deaths have taken the toll to 88. (Inputs Vijay Singh, Shrutika Sukhi, Umesh Parida)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/kalyan-dombivli-cases-over-10000-most-after-mumbai-thane/articleshow/76864648.cms||Pradeep Gupta
July 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Servitors’ body petitions HC over graft in aid scheme||CUTTACK: Disbursal of financial assistance to servitors of the Jagannath Temple in Puri following the Covid-19 outbreak has come under judicial scrutiny, with the Orissa high court taking up a petition that claims several fake servitors received benefits in place of genuine ‘Palia Sebaks’ of the Pani Apata Nijog. The single-judge bench of K R Mohapatra on July 3 issued a notice to the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA). As an interim measure, the court said disbursal of emoluments to the Palia Sebaks of the Pani Apata Nijog would be subject to the result of a writ petition. The Pani Apata Nijog refers to the servitors who draw water from the temple well and supply all the water needed throughout the day for rituals. The Nijog’s secretary Vimasena Apata filed a petition seeking an independent inquiry into the inclusion of fake sebakas in the list of servitors receiving financial assistance. According to the petition, a number of outsiders were included in the list of Sebakas of the Pani Apata Nijoga and they have been shown to have performed Pani Apata Seba (service). Advocate Dayananda Mohapatra argued for the petitioner and advocate Subrat Satpathy appeared on behalf of the SJTA, when the case was taken up through video conferencing. The SJTA had provided Rs 5,000 in April and Rs 5,000 in June as part of a package for servitors whose livelihood has been adversely affected by closure of the shrine since March 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/servitors-body-petitions-hc-over-graft-in-aid-scheme/articleshow/76862335.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
July 9, 2020||Bhopal||I’m minister of all departments, says Madhya Pradesh CM amid portfolio tussle||BHOPAL: “I am the minister of all departments,” chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan told mediapersons on Wednesday, even as the stalemate over portfolio allocation dragged on for the seventh day since the swearing in of 28 ministers. CM Chouhan, who returned from Delhi on Tuesday, had said on Sunday that portfolios would be distributed “as soon as he is back in Bhopal”. That is yet to happen. On Wednesday, he hinted that it may be taken up on Thursday before a scheduled cabinet meeting. "All departments are enshrined in the chief minister. I am the minister of all the departments. The government is running smoothly. Tomorrow is the cabinet meeting. Everything will be done,” said Chouhan when mediapersons asked him about the delay in distribution of portfolios. Sources said the cabinet meeting was earlier scheduled for 10.30am but has been postponed to 5pm due to the tussle over portfolios. Departments could be allocated before the meeting, they said. On returning from Delhi, the CM had said on Tuesday that portfolio allocation needed “some more work”. It’s believed that the rising clout of Jyotiraditya Scindia and his equation with the BJP central leadership is leaving little room for Chouhan in the negotiations. Home minister Narottam Mishra sought to defend the CM and said BJP has a method to work out sensitive issues. “The chief minister has made it clear that departments will be allocated very soon. There is no hurry. BJP takes every leader into confidence on important matters. The party is not an individual but a group that moves forward after mutual discussion,” said Mishra. With 14 members, 41% of MP cabinet are Scindia loyalistsSources said the BJP central leadership is likely to finalise the list and convey it to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. One of the thorny issues is independent charge to Scindia loyalists, say sources. BJP is running out of time as monsoon session is due to start on July 20, where the Shivraj government will table budget proposals and some key bills related to the revenue department and Money Lending Act. If portfolios are allocated on Thursday, whoever is appointed finance minister will get barely 10 days to prepare for it. Besides, the government plans major welfare schemes in some districts ahead of bypolls to 24 seats, said sources. With 14 ministers, Team Scindia accounts for 41% of the Shivraj cabinet. Of the 28 new ministers, 20 are of cabinet rank and eight are ministers of state. Watch I’m minister of all departments, says Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh amid portfolio tussle||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/im-minister-of-all-depts-says-shivraj-amid-portfolio-tussle/articleshow/76863163.cms||Rajendra Sharma
July 9, 2020||Rajkot||Jobless diamond workers find new glitter in farming||Rajkot: Rajesh Thummar had returned to his native village, Abhrampar in Savarkundla taluka of Amreli district, from Surat last March soon after the lockdown was imposed. In June, he was called back again by his employer following lockdown relaxations. However, the gloom in the units owing to the pandemic and the threat of virus spread didn’t suit Thummar, who chose to come back to Amreli and start farming activities. And he isn’t the only polisher. Many more like him have expressed their decision of not to go back until after Diwali vacations. “The units were operating for a few hours in a week only and so we weren’t earning sufficient amount. This year the rain is good and I am hoping that I will be able compensate my loss of income from diamond polishing to some extent,” Thummar told TOI. The polisher-turned-farmer has already sown groundnut and cotton in 10 bigha each. Going by Amreli district administration’s estimate, nearly 1.5 lakh people have returned to Amreli in the past few months with a bulk of them being from Surat alone. Lalit Thummar, president of Amreli District Diamond Association said, “After Unlock 1.0, many workers went back to Surat last month, but soon realized that staying in the city was very expensive.” He further explained that in villages they have their own homes while vegetables and even milk comes for free during monsoon season. The other main reason is due to schools being still closed. The workers feel they will earn better from their farms especially groundnut cultivation, as it’s a political commodity and the state government declares higher minimum support price (MSP) for the produce every year. Last year the state government procured groundnut at Rs 1,018 per 20kg, which was Rs 200-250 higher than the market price. Kamlesh Patel another diamond worker of Savarkundla who returned in March said, “We will review the Covid situation and its impact on the industry before deciding to go back to Surat.” A diamond worker earns around Rs30,000 depending on his skills in Surat. As, the income from agriculture depends on monsoon, these workers hire labourers for their farms, while the elders take care of the farming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jobless-diamond-workers-find-new-glitter-in-farming/articleshow/76860817.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 9, 2020||Delhi||Keeping guard up in Delhi, says Centre||NEW DELHI: The Centre will remain engaged in the fight against Covid-19 in Delhi-NCR to ensure that there are no more slip-ups and a repeat of the situation when the pandemic threatened to overwhelm the public health system is avoided. Government sources said measures taken by all the stakeholders have shown results, but emphasised that there was no scope for complacency and that the Centre would keep its guard up so that recovery from the pandemic was fast in Delhi and the NCR. “We cannot lower our guard,” a senior officer said. Sources said the home ministry had to step in when infections showed an alarming rise, something that came through in Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s June 9 statement that Delhi would have 5.5 lakh Covid-positive cases by July 31. The surge in infections and the grim prognosis, while sparking panic among people, threw the spotlight on gaps in the state’s preparedness like non-availability of enough beds, poor hospital facilities and anxiety among frontline heath personnel. The first step was to take all agencies and experts on board — be it Delhi government, central government, municipal corporations of Delhi, political parties and public health professionals — while reviewing the strategy. A panel was constituted under Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul to suggest a professional way to tackle coronavirus. The local administration was empowered to execute the revised strategy. “The idea was to keep aside politics and take the help of every possible stakeholder and we will ensure that the unified fight continues until the virus has been defeated. Home minister Amit Shah expanded the approach to cover the entire NCR so that jurisdictional issues and turf fights don't facilitate the virus,” an officer said. As part of measures introduced following the review meeting chaired by Shah on June 14, testing was ramped up from 2,800 tests per day between April 1 and June 14 to 20,000 tests at present. This was made possible by encouraging rapid antigen testing that gives the outcome within half an hour. Also, testing cost for RT-PCR test was cut to Rs 2,400 from Rs 4,500 on the recommendation of the V K Paul panel. Thanks to the same committee’s suggestions, treatment costs in private hospitals are down by almost two-thirds. Isolation beds, ICU beds without ventilators and ICU beds with ventilators now cost Rs 8,000-10,000, Rs 13,000-15,000 and Rs 15,000-18,000 a day respectively (down from Rs 24,000-25,000, Rs 34,000-43,000 and Rs 44,000-54,000). To deal with the acute shortage of beds — that had initially led to the Arvind Kejriwal government order that only local residents would be treated at city hospitals, which was later reversed by the LG — the home ministry initiated a revamp of hospital preparedness. Shah visited LNJP Hospital, then in the news for poor facilities for Covid-19 patients with some forced to lay next to dead bodies, before taking steps to augment beds. The bed capacity was increased to 30,000 with setting up of Covid care centres and hospitals, from 9,937 beds as on June 14. “We provide all assistance to the capital and the NCR,” a source said, pointing out that the Centre had speedily arranged for 440 ventilators and 500 oxygen cylinders, besides helping the Delhi government more than double the strength of ambulances in the city when infections were surging. The home ministry ensured that containment zones were increased in accordance with the spread of the virus that has been sought to be reliably captured through door-to-door surveys. A drastic revision of the home isolation policy, a big factor in the jump of infections and fatalities, was also ordered by limiting it to only asymptomatic patients without co-morbidities with homes which had at least two rooms and separate toilets. Simultaneously, to save patients from having to run from one hospital to another in search of beds, each district in the capital has now been linked to hospitals. Installation of CCTV cameras, provision of back-up kitchens and counselling of doctors and others have improved the motivation level of “corona warriors”, sources said. “But the battle is far from over and we have to ensure that all stakeholders continue with their efforts until it has been won,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/keeping-guard-up-in-delhi-says-centre/articleshow/76863179.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||Brothers duped of Rs 5.55 crore, eight booked||NAGPUR: The Sitabuldi police on Tuesday booked eight persons for duping two brothers of Rs5.55 crore over a period of two years by luring them to invest their money in land properties. The accused have been identified as one Zahid Baig (New Colony, Poonam Chambers), Gautam Singh (Jafar Nagar), Bunty Shaw (Nagpur), Ashish Jain (Nagpur), Prashant Satalkar (Civil Lines), Sujit Kumar (Zingabai Talki), Naeem Khan (Nagpur) and Wakekar family (Besa road, Shatabdi Chowk). According to a complaint lodged with police, Kolhe brothers (Sushil and Pankaj), a resident of Nimdevi Nagar, Wanjra Majri Helgaon Road, Kamptee road, run a digital advertising firm from Utkarsh Apartment, Civil Lines. Between 2018 to 2020, the accused lured them with high rate of interest in land properties and asked them to invest their property for fast earning. The accused even showed them Church’s land in front of Smurti Talkies and another in front of a restaurant near old VCA Stadium. The accused also asked them to invest money in a land situated in front Jaripatka crematorium and another owned by the Wakekar family in Mauja Babhulkheda (on Besa road) by preparing fake documents, police said and added that the brothers invested Rs5.55 crore over a period of two years. The complaint further said all papers were found fake when Kolhes verified the documents on various stages, forcing them to ask their money back from the accused. But they refused to return the money, leading to file a formal complaint with police. Further investigation in this case is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/brothers-duped-of-rs5-55-crore-eight-booked/articleshow/76863164.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||Government relief to cable networks, scraps per screen fee||LUCKNOW: In a big relief to local cable channels, the government has removed the fee of Rs 100 per television screen that it was imposing on cable networks. The state cabinet on Wednesday revised the licence fee from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 while doing away with the per screen charge. “Operators used to charge the fee from channels and this was not financially viable for small, local channels. Now the per screen fee has been removed which will be a huge relief for the local channels,” said an official. The cabinet also cleared the draft of the UP Homeguard Services (Sixth Amendment) Rules, 2020. Under this, eligibility criteria will be set for the promotion of the district commandant and divisional commandant. The cabinet has revised the proposed expenditure for extending the two-lane Palia-Lucknow Marg in Hardoi district to four lanes. For implementation of the common service centres-3 scheme, the cabinet approved of a ‘request for proposal’ for selection of a district service provider. The selection will be conducted through an open tender for a period of three years. A policy for selection of a principal or teacher of a secondary education department under the State Teacher Award has also been cleared. Due to Covid-19, applications for 2020-2021 can be made from July 15-30. The government has also provided relief to people for payment of dues under the Motor Vehicle Act, 1997. It has extended the deadline for payments to one month after the notification is issued and no penalty will be imposed in this duration. In Noida and Lucknow, the police commissioner will now head the committee which will decide allocation of gunners, guards and shadows The cabinet has cleared proposals for setting up a state college in Hastinapur under Meerut district and in Agra Cantt. Land for the colleges will be provided free of cost to the higher education department for these projects. The government will also be setting up a Savitribai Phule girls’ hostel at Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University in Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-relief-to-cable-networks-scraps-per-screen-fee/articleshow/76863790.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Surat||SMC to now have 30 wards, 120 councillors||Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) will now have 30 wards and 120 councillors, a month after the state government issuing a notification regarding expansion of municipal corporations areas. The civic elections are due this year. At present, Surat has 29 wards and 116 councillors. Out of the 120 seats, three will be reserved for scheduled castes, four seats for scheduled tribes and twelve for the other backward classes. “Sixty seats will be reserved for women which includes the number of seats reserved for SC, ST and OBC,” according to the the notification.SMC’s limit was expanded after two municipalities, Sachin and Kansad, and 27 villages were merged with the state’s second largest city which has a population of over 60 lakh and spreads over 326 sq km. After the merger of these villages and towns, 1.76 lakh population and an area of 146 sq km have been added to the city. The city limit has been expanded where civic body elections are due later this year. Surat city’s limit was expanded almost after a 14 year gap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-to-now-have-30-wards-120-councillors/articleshow/76860845.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Lockdown won’t affect transport’||KOLKATA: The confusion and uncertainty that prevailed over running of public transport in the city was largely dispelled in the later part of the day with urban development minister Firhad Hakim clarifying the containment zone issue would not affect the public transport system. Buses are likely to ply normally, as they have so far. However, the rise of diesel price after a respite of a few days sent bus operators into a tizzy. The bus operators, however, said they needed clarity from the transport department over the changes in route alignments. According to the government order, transportation will not be allowed in the containment zones. “But many of the zones on our routes fall in containment zones. So, we may have a very fragmented alignment to ply our buses,” said a bus operator. Bus operators were apprehensive of the passenger count from Friday, after the enforcement of the stringent lockdown. A large part of North 24 Parganas will come under containment zones. Similarly, Budge Budge, Maheshtala, Thakurpukur-Bishnupur, Rajpur, Sonarpur and Baruipur are containment zones. “Since the bulk of the commuters come to the city from these areas, we are expecting a sharp drop in passenger count from June 9,” said Shankar Nag, an operator of route 83. “Mukundapur, for instance, has the termini of three routes — SD16, 24A/1 and 1. Since Mukundapur falls under the containment zone, we need to terminate our routes elsewhere,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, general secretary Joint Council of Bus Syndicate (JCBS). “If you talk about bus routes of the city, the majority of the routes touch upon more than one district. If one district goes out of limit, the alignment becomes dysfunctional,” he added. “We are working with police and civic bodies. We will come clear on the possible transport scenario by tweaking some current alignments,” said a transport official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-wont-affect-transport/articleshow/76863174.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 9, 2020||Kolkata||3 arrested for oxygen pipe theft at MCH||Kolkata: Three persons were arrested on Monday for stealing around 800m oxygen copper pipe from the premises of Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. The accused, Sk Rabiul Islam, Nazim Sk and Nazir Sk Rabiul, had cut the copper pipe and while escaping from there, they had been caught red-handed. Though the arrests were made on Monday, the theft was committed on Sunday night, according to the police. Of the three, Rabiul was a local living at Kalabagan near College Street and he had teamed up with the two others from Jeevantala in Canning to carry out the theft. The price of the pipe has been pegged at Rs 2 lakh in the open market. Cops are interrogating the accused to find whom they were to sell it off. Sources said one of the accused had a history of committing theft in government quarters and buildings. Cops said they had received a complaint from the medical superintendent about the theft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-arrested-for-oxygen-pipe-theft-at-mch/articleshow/76519238.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 9, 2020||Surat||Will close markets if more than 10 test positive: SMC||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials said on Wednesday that if more than 10 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the diamond trading markets, they would be forced to shut the markets.The SMC on Wednesday issued Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for diamond trading markets in the city which is scheduled to re-open from 10 July in the city. There are two main diamond trading markets — Mahidharpura and Varachha — in the city and they were closed a few days ago after a surge in Covid-19 cases in those areas. As diamond trading markets are set to re-open on 10 July, the SMC has issued SOPs for traders and asked them to follow it strictly or pay the fine. According to the SOPs, the diamond trading offices will be allowed to operate between 2 and 6 pm. Trading offices will not allow any employee coming from containment zone to their offices. The civic body also asked the traders to check oxygen level of all the employees working in their offices. The oxygen level should not be below 95. It also has also made it mandatory for the traders and employees to sing ‘Vande Mataram’ when market opens in the morning. “The SMC has also asked the traders to ensure that all employees take oaths like ‘I will follow all the government guidelines and will help prevent the virus’. Traders will have to shout slogans ‘Corona will be defeated, Surat will win’,” said an SMC official. “All the traders will have to follow the SOPs, and we will carry out surprise checking of the market. If we find the traders not following the SOPs, then they will have to pay the fine,’ the official added. Nandlal Nakrani, president of Surat Diamond Merchants’ Association, told TOI: “Though certain guidelines are very strict such as placing foot-operated sanitiser and wash basins, we have to follow them in order to keep our trading business operational.” Nakrani added, “Those sorting diamonds on the pavements outside the offices will not be allowed in the market and that the merchants will have to trade sitting in their offices and maintaining social distancing norms” According to Nakarni, there are about 4,000 merchants operating in the diamond markets in Varachha and Mahidhapura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/will-close-markets-if-more-than-10-test-positive-smc/articleshow/76860860.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Goa||Interest in kitchen gardening grows, demand for seed subsidy doubles||Panaji: One positive of the lockdown is that many Goans have embraced agriculture, many turning their backyards, gardens and balconies into small, thriving farms. This spurt of interest in growing one’s own food has also resulted is 50% increase in the number of applications this year for the agriculture department’s 50% subsidy scheme on vegetable seeds. “This year, nearly 10,000 people have applied for this scheme. Thus far, 1,200 kg of vegetable seeds have been distributed among them,” agriculture director Nevil Alphonso told TOI. Interestingly, just last Kharif season, only 300 kg of seeds were sold after less than 5,000 farmers applied for the scheme. This scheme enables farmers to purchase small packets of seeds, each weighing between 10-25 gm, of vegetables such as cucumber, lady finger, ridge gourd, bottle gourd, ash gourd, cluster beans, long beans, pumpkin, muskmelon and amaranthus that grow well during the monsoon. Alphonso said that there is a rising demand among kitchen gardeners for vegetable seeds. This is especially because the scheme is open to citizens irrespective of whether they are farmers registered with the department or whether they possess a Krishi card. Some farmers say the department needs to do more to popularise this scheme so that more farmers and kitchen gardening enthusiasts can avail of the benefits. “There is a tendency for people to buy subsidised seeds in bulk only to sell them in the market at full price. In this situation, many genuine farmers are unable to reap the benefits of this scheme. The agriculture department must vastly publicise this scheme as there are many farmers who are still unaware of the subsidy they can avail of from their zonal office,” Parra-based farmer Jerry Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/interest-in-kitchen-gardening-grows-demand-for-seed-subsidy-doubles/articleshow/76864138.cms||Nida Sayed
July 9, 2020||Vadodara||Shop owners self-impose deadline for working hours||Vadodara: The Vadodara Vepari Vikas Mandal (VVVA) on Wednesday decided to self-impose deadlines for the shops in the city. The association of shop-owners, traders and professionals have fixed deadlines depending on the kind of services and products offered. “For general provision stores and other shops, the deadline to down the shutters will be 6 pm. For professionals like chartered accountants, company secretaries, tax consultants, builders and architects, the closing time has been fixed at 5 pm,” said Paresh Parikh, convener, VVVA that has 62 different associations and bodies as members. Restaurants, sweet shops and those engaged in seasonal products will be able to operate till 8 pm. “The decision was taken after lot of deliberations. On one hand, there is a concern of rising Covid-19 cases and on the other hand we have to take into consideration the business aspects of our members who have suffered losses during the lockdown,” Parikh added. Most of the members had agreed to down shutters early but those in seasonal products trade, electronic shop items and eateries were reluctant to reduce their operating hours. VVVA members also met district collector on Wednesday and presented their plans to impose deadlines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/shop-owners-self-impose-deadline-for-working-hours/articleshow/76861352.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Surat||Surat: Doctors at high risk, 131 test positive since outbreak||SURAT: As Surat witnessed spurt in Covid-19 cases post Unlock 1, the frontline warriors working relentlessly in the Diamond City are increasingly falling prey to the deadly virus. At least 131 doctors have got infected with the coronavirus, with majority of them getting the infection in June. According to the data from the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), 128 doctors and 120 paramedics including nurses have been infected with the virus till date. About 70% of these cases have been recorded post June 1, when the cases started peaking in the city. The Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Surat chapter has been keeping a close count as more and more of their peers—physicians, interventionists, orthopaedics, radiologists, gynaecologist and general surgeons—have become victims of Covid-19. In the last fortnight or so, 35 doctors from the New Civil Hospital (NCH), 25 private practitioners and 15 nurses from NCH, SMIMER and private hospitals were reported positive for the virus. Official sources in the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER hospital said that there is a shortage of about 200 medical officers including pulmonologists, anaesthetics, general physicians etc. due to the rising cases of Covid-19. Currently, the SMIMER hospital has about 250 doctors, which includes resident doctors. Recently, about 350 nursing staff was appointed in the SMIMER hospital, but about 25% are yet to join their duties. Dr Parul Vadgama, president of IMA-Surat told TOI, “From the last four months, doctors and healthcare staff in private and government hospitals are working day and night to treat Covid-19 patients. They are continuously exposed to the virus. Despite taking utmost precautions the frontline warriors are getting infected for corona.” Dr Samir Gami, pulmonologist and the Covid-19 survivor said, “The Covid-19 cases have crossed 200 mark per day and doctors are continuously being exposed to the patients. I myself contracted the virus despite taking precautions while examining the patients. It is worrying that if more doctors will be infected in the city, patients will be left at the mercy of the god.” However, the medical fraternity is still confused on the large number of doctors getting infected. Dr Chandresh Jardosh, president of IMA Gujarat told TOI, “Whether the doctors contract infection from the patients or from the environment is the matter of investigation. The immunity levels of the doctors could be low as they are not getting proper diet due to their eight to 10 hours of duty. Doctors wear PPE kits in the Covid-19 ward, but when they move out after the duty hours, they are exposed to the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/docs-at-high-risk-131-test-ve-since-outbreak/articleshow/76860901.cms||Melvyn Reggie Thomas
July 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Brace up for stricter lockdown: CP||Aurangabad: Police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad on Wednesday informed that people should be ready for stricter lockdown and FIRs will be registered against those found stepping out of the house without valid reasons. A complete lockdown has been announced in the city from July 10 to 18 in order to curb the spread of Covid-19 cases. Talking to reporters, Prasad said, “This time around neither the NGOs nor any social workers will be allowed or granted passes for delivering cooked food, and it will be only dry ration kits that will be allowed for distribution in exceptional conditions.” He added, “During these nine days, even grocery stores, vegetable markets and all the other businesses would remain closed. Delivery of milk and newspapers would be allowed from 6 am to 8 am.” Rapid antigen tests during lockdown Meanwhile, the local civic body will carry out rapid antigen tests on citizens living in areas where Covid-19 patients will be detected during the proposed lockdown. These rapid tests will give results within one hour, and are expected to help in putting an effective check on the spread of the pandemic. Municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey and health officer Neeta Padalkar held a special meeting on Wednesday during which demonstration of the antigen test was given. The civic body has formed17 teams for carrying out rapid tests that are being carried out in other metro cities of the country as part of the strategy to contain the spread of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/brace-up-for-stricter-lockdown-cp/articleshow/76860921.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Pandemic delay leaves grad students worried||LUCKNOW: While the corona pandemic has derailed the academic calender this year, students are now worried that the ripple effect may continue next year too, as the academic sessions of all the universities in Lucknow are set to get delayed by at least three months. Worst hit are the final year students, many of whom may lose the opportunity to apply for higher studies or research programmes and even competitive examinations. The academic sessions in most universities begin in July. But this year, even results have not been declared yet. While some universities have decided to promote students to next classes based on internal evaluation and performance in the previous semester, Lucknow University is yet to take a call on promotion policy. Officers of various universities say it will take at least three months to put the session back on the track. TOI spoke to students of LU, Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University (SMNRU), Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Language University (KMCLU) and Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) on the issue. The common refrain was that the delay in start of the new session would extend their course duration by 3-4 months. This means, they will not be able to apply elsewhere for admission/research after graduation/postgraduation, winter internship plans would get derailed, and they may even lose an attempt in competitive exams which have limited attempts or age-bar. Students, therefore, want the government to chalk out a plan to check this ripple effect. Arshit Shukla, BA III student of LU, said, “Had results been declared by now, we would have applied for admission in post graduation at other places. Now, it seems, the option for us would be to continue here.” Mohit Singh, LU BSc III student, said he had plans to pursue postgraduation in Delhi and alongside join the coaching for civil service exams. But the plan is now on hold due to delay in announcement of results. Abid Hasan, BCom II student of SMNRU, said, “Neither results have been declared nor have classes resumed. It seems the three-year course will take three-and-a-half-year to complete and thereby impact our future prospects.” “The summer break has already gone unutilized and now it appears the delay in session will also hit internship plans in winter break,” said Akshay Mishra, BTech III, Institute of Engineering and Technology, AKTU. Priya Malhotra, who has passed Class XII and applied for graduation, said “Normally, new session would begin in July, but this year the admission process will be completed by September-October, which means fewer months to complete the session or a delay in the three-year-course.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pandemic-delay-leaves-grad-students-worried/articleshow/76863854.cms||Mohita Tewari
July 9, 2020||Kanpur||IIT-Kanpur assistant professor hangs self on campus||KANPUR: Pramod Subramanyan, 35, an assistant professor in the department of computer science and engineering of IIT-Kanpur, allegedly hanged himself on Wednesday. His body was found hanging in a room on the campus. Police have launched a probe in this connection. Kalyanpur police on coming to know about the incident reached the institute, brought down the body and sent it for postmortem examination. “I am saddened to inform you about the tragic and untimely demise of Prof. Pramod Subramanyan, assistant professor in the department of computer science and engineering today afternoon. In him, we have lost a bright and rising star in computer science in the country. We deeply mourn and pray to the Almighty to give strength to his family. May his soul rest in peace,” an IIT-Kanpur press communiqué read quoting institute Director Prof Abhay Karandikar. Contacted, station house officer (SHO) Kalyanpur Abhay Seth told TOI that Prof. Pramod hanged himself to death. His body has been sent for postmortem and we have launched a probe into the incident. The cause of suicide could not be known immediately. He hanged himself using a nylon rope and has not left behind any suicide note, the police added. The institute is almost vacant due to Covid-19 with no students present except for the faculty members who reside on the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/iit-k-assistant-prof-hangs-self-on-campus/articleshow/76862397.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Aurangabad||145 discharged from two centres||Aurangabad: A total of 204 new cases were registered across Aurangabad on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 7,338. The day also saw discharge of as many as 145 patients — 73 from Kila-E-Arak-based covid care centre and 72 from Meltron-based centre. According to a health official, the total number of active cases stands at 2,975 and till now 4,033 patients have recovered from the infection. “The recovery of positive patients is due to appropriate and timely response of the health and district officials towards treatment of those infected,” he added. As many as three deaths were also reported from different hospitals on Wednesday, taking the toll to 330.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/145-discharged-from-two-centres/articleshow/76860958.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Surat||Traders, wholesalers cut down on shop, office timings||Surat: The traders and wholesalers associations have agreed to restrict working hours for the shops and establishments from 8am to 6pm.The decision came after the Confederation of All India Traders’ (CAIT) office-bearers held a meeting with the traders and wholesalers associations in the city on Wednesday.Various traders and merchants including stationery merchants, FMCG dealers and distributors, edible oil merchants, ceramic association, electrical merchants etc. have agreed to cut down the operational timings of their shops. Pramod Bhagat, president of CAIT Gujarat chapter told TOI, “To prevent people from gathering at the shops, we had called upon the traders and wholesalers to reduce their operational timings.” Bhagat added, “The coronavirus infection has hit the trader community hard as they are the first point of contact with many customers. Many of our traders have tested positive and some have also died. We can’t keep the shops and establishments open until late evening hours thereby risking the safety of our families.”The total Covid-19 cases in Surat crossed 6,000 mark with an average of 200 people testing positive for the virus every day since July 1. Falgun Mehta, president of Association of Surat Wholesale FMCG dealers and distributors told TOI, “All our member distributors and dealers have unanimously decided to operate from 9am to 3 pm till July 27.”Sanjay Patel, president of Surat Stationery Merchants’ Association said, “All the stationery shops in the city will remain open from 9am to 5pm and members have been asked to strictly following the guidelines for their own safety.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/traders-wholesalers-cut-down-on-shop-office-timings/articleshow/76860928.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Goa||IMD apps Meghdoot and Damini for weather forecast||Panaji: Now, receiving the latest information about rainfall and lightning in India is just a phone tap away. The ministry of earth sciences has recently launched two apps – Meghdoot and Damini to keep users updated about weather related information. Meghdoot is a joint initiative of the India meteorological department (IMD) and Indian Council for Agriculture Research (ICAR) to bring high resolution weather forecast-based agro advisories to farmers in vernacular languages. Apart from the crop advisory, the app also makes available observed weather and weather forecast. The agro-met field units (AMFU) issue contextualised district and crop wise advisories twice a week – every Tuesday and Friday, which can be accessed by farmers and interested users through the app. The advisories are also issued in vernacular languages wherever available. “Information about weather parameters like rain, temperature and even cloud conditions are available on a single platform with the help of this app,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. In the Damini lightning app, on the other hand, the lightning activity is tracked in close to real time, he said. Users can therefore receive notifications whenever lightning strikes are detected in their area. Developed by IITM-Pune and Esso, the Damini app monitors the lightning occurrence all over India and alerts the user of lightning near them by a GPS notification under 20km and 40km. Both apps are available on the Google playstore for android users and on Apple app store for IOS users.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/imd-apps-meghdoot-and-damini-for-weather-forecast/articleshow/76864158.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||3 SRPF men among 5 test +ve in Chanda, lockdown back in 3 towns||Chandrapur: Five corona positive persons were detected in Chandrapur late on Monday night. They include three jawans of SRPF battalion posted here and two others. As the three jawans are not native of Chandrapur, they have not been officially accounted to Chandrapur’s tally. Hence, the number of total Covid cases in the district is considered as 125. Officials claimed that though the three jawans have been found positive, they have no symptoms. They are being treated and their condition is stable. All three are native of Pune and came to Chandrapur on July 1. All three were under institutional quarantine and their reports came positive late on Monday. Two others including a 27-year-old Kamptee-returnee from Urjanagar and a Padoli resident 36-year-old MIDC worker were detected positive. Meanwhile, district administration has announced full lockdown in Chimur, Bhadrawati and Bramhapuri towns. Barring shops of essential commodities, no other establishment will be allowed to remain open and all kind of public and private programmes have been cancelled. All those coming from outside the district will be compulsorily sent to institutional quarantine. So far, 71 persons have been treated an cured while there are 57 active patients here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-srpf-men-among-5-test-ve-in-chanda-lockdown-back-in-3-towns/articleshow/76855042.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Rajesh Tope, Devendra Fadnavis in Aurangabad today to review situation||AURANGABAD: State health minister Rajesh Tope and Aurangabad district guardian minister Subhash Desai are scheduled to hold a review meeting with top officials in Aurangabad on Thursday. Leader of opposition in the state legislative assembly Devendra Fadnavis and leader of opposition in the state legislative council Pravin Darekar also have their official tours lined up for Thursday in order to to review the pandemic situation. As per official release, at 2pm, Tope and Desai are scheduled to jointly attend a meeting with health and other top government officials to discuss the situation of Covid 19. The meeting which is taking place a day before the lockdown is expected to chart out future strategy for battling the current pandemic. On the other hand, Fadnavis and Darekar are scheduled to visit the Government Medical College and Hospital at 4pm folllowed by a meeting with Aurangabad divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tope-fadnavis-in-city-today-to-review-situation/articleshow/76861023.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Lockdown delays Bezbaroa house renovation||Sambalpur: Renovation of the house of the doyen of Assamese literature Laxminath Bezbaroa at the Nelson Mandela Chowk here has been badly hit due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Earlier, it was expected to be completed by June 30. The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) started renovating the house in December 2018. Bezbaroa lived in Sambalpur for 20 years from 1917 to 1937. He had constructed two houses in the city in 1924. While the eminent Assamese writer was living in one house, he was using the other as office. Member of INTACH, Sambalpur chapter, Deepak Panda said the renovation work was going on in full swing till the lockdown was imposed. “Work has resumed and if everything goes as per plan, the work would get over by August-end,” he said. He said currently plastering of the walls is underway. A paste prepared from lime, gum of wood apple and jaggery is being used for the purpose. After completion of the plastering and flooring work, interior work will be undertaken. Panda said the building will be converted into a library-cum-museum. Books of Bezabaroa besides the books on Bezbaroa will be kept in the library. Moreover, portraits of Bezbaroa, old photographs and artefacts of Odisha and Assam will be displayed in the house so that the people would know about Bezbaroa and his life in Sambalpur. “We have also planned to start the renovation of the other other house of Bezbaroa, where he was living, after work on this house gets over,” he added. While the Assam government has sanctioned Rs 50 lakh, the Odisha government has given Rs 55 lakh for the renovationof the two buildings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/lockdown-delays-bezbaroa-house-renovation/articleshow/76862403.cms||Subrat Mohanty
July 9, 2020||Surat||Stickers to identify those in PPE suits!||Surat: Now-a-days all healthcare workers (HCWs) working at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) use PPE suits of similar colours, making it very difficult to differentiate between two individuals, especially when someone is covered from head to toe with barely the eyes visible. And it becomes even more challenging during the change of shifts of staff members! However, to make it more simple, the HCWs will now have a sticker on their suits for easy identification. To make things simple, there will also be mention on the stickers whether someone is a doctor, nurse or a class 4 employee. A doctor will have a red coloured sticker, while a nurse and an attendant will have a blue and green coloured stickers respectively. “At present, since all of us wear similar suits it is difficult to communicate properly,” said a doctor at NCH. “Not only HCWs but patients also face problem to identify the person present in the ward. With the stickers, the patient can come to know the identity of a doctor or a nurse and can thus ask for specific help. Since many doctors are young it may be confusing for others to identify them in just the PPE suits,” said Dr Ragini Verma, in-charge superintendent NCH. “The stickers can help our colleagues to identify each other and communicate properly and make us work effectively,” said Dr Ashvin Vasava, nodal officer for Covid-19 treatment. Meanwhile, NCH has also started issuing discharge kits to patients that include face masks, Ayush medicine, hand sanitizers, soaps, snacks, water bottle, juice and instruction brochures to be followed by patients at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/stickers-to-identify-those-in-ppe-suits/articleshow/76860972.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 9, 2020||Chennai||HC reserves verdict on ‘inflated’ power bill row||Chennai: With Tangedco standing to its ground that domestic electricity consumers are getting fat bills as they are spending more time at homes due to lockdown, the Madras high court has reserved its orders on a PIL questioning the manner in which consumption is calculated by authorities. With Tangedco employees starting to take meter readings after a gap of two months, many consumers have complained that power bills have shot up beyond their limits. Tangedco has accumulated four months’ consumption — February to May — into one billing cycle, thereby billing the consumers at much higher slabs, they say. The PIL-petitioner, N L Ravi said the calculation adopted by Tangedco has affected thousands of consumers using 100 to 500 units every billing cycle who had to shell out more money but did not harm in any way the affluent, who normally consume over 500 units every billing cycle, because there wouldn’t be any change in their bill amounts. Denying the allegation, additional advocate-general P H Arvindh Pandian submitted that the bills cannot be calculated as per the units consumed, as no one, including the petitioner and Tangedco, knows the reading for the lockdown period. Moreover, the method followed by the corporation to calculate the charges are proper and is in compliance with the provisions of the Act. “We have even got the approval from the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission,” Pandian added. At the close of arguments, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha reserved the orders, after remarking: “Normally, anyone who is working would spend at least six to eight hours in their office or workplace. Now, they are spending such time in their homes and this might be a reason for the increase in charges.” It was Ravi’s submission that Tangedco has relied on the previous month’s bill amount to arrive at the present bill. This results in 96% of domestic consumers having to pay 12% to 50% higher charges than what is due under the Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-reserves-verdict-on-inflated-power-bill-row/articleshow/76862418.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 1,924 new Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths; tally over 28,000||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Wednesday reported 1,924 Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths. The cumulative case load in the state now stands at 28,536 and the death toll has reached 324. As many as 992 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the state on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 17,279 since the first case was detected here in March. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has reported a major share of the total cases with 1,590 cases. On Wednesday, a total number of 6,363 tests were conducted. The number of cases in districts also continues to increase with Rangareddy reporting 99 cases, followed by Medchal (43), Sanga Reddy (20) and Warangal rural (26). Authorities said a total of 749 patients need critical care and across the state. As on Wednesday, the government hospitals in the state have established a capacity of 17,081 beds for Covid-19 patients, of which 11,982 are isolation beds, 3,537 are oxygen beds and 1,161 are ICU beds. While 595 isolation beds are occupied, 553 oxygen beds and 181 ICU beds have patients admitted. According to details released by the medical and health department, 133 patients in Gandhi hospital are in ICU and another 445 people are on oxygen. There are 1,141 vacant beds in the hospital, as on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-1924-new-covid-19-cases-11-deaths-tally-over-28k/articleshow/76863227.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Surat||215 fresh cases recorded in Surat||Surat: Surat city reported 215 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, highest in the state taking the tally to 6,313 in the city. The highest number of cases, 37, were reported from Varachha (A) zone where large number of diamond units are located. Also, number of diamond polisher and people engaged in embroidery work in the textile industry reside there. Rander and Katartgam reported 36 cases each while Varachha (B) reported 33 cases. SMC officials said that three Covid-19 patients succumbed to the virus taking the death toll in the city to 242. Meanwhile, 118 patients were discharged from hospitals in Surat city on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/215-fresh-cases-recorded-in-surat/articleshow/76861003.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Dehradun||Suspension bridges open, retd Gorkha soldiers of Indian Army from Nepal get pension after 4 months||Pithoragarh: After close to four months, suspension bridges at three places on the India-Nepal border -- Dharchula, Jauljibi and Jhulaghat – were opened for ex-soldiers of the Indian Army from Nepal to enable them to come over to India and collect their pension from branches of the State Bank of India (SBI). During the day, a 78-year-old pensioner from Baitadi region of Nepal died soon after withdrawing his pension at Jhulaghat. The pensioner, identified as Dhan Singh Rawal (78), had come to the SBI branch at Jhulaghat along with his son Ram Singh. “He told bank officials that he was not feeling well, so the bank personnel helped him withdraw an amount of Rs 80000 on priority. Soon after he came out of the bank, his condition deteriorated,” said TS Rana, SHO of Jhulaghat. “His son told us that his father was an asthma patient and suffered an asthma attack after coming out of the bank." As reported by TOI earlier, more than 1,600 Nepalese citizens who have served in the Indian Army, mostly in the Gorkha regiment, were unable to withdraw pension ever since India and Nepal went into lockdown in March and closed their borders. After the former soldiers made an appeal for the border to be opened, saying they were facing financial distress, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Tuesday issued guidelines for the border to be opened for three days from Wednesday to Friday. Sources said that on Wednesday, a cumulative amount of Rs 70 lakh was withdrawn by the pensioners. Vijay Kumar Jogdande, DM, Pithoragarh, told TOI that in all 110 pensioners or their family members crossed the border on Wednesday. BS Sipal, a bank official, said that all SBI branches had made sufficient arrangements to cater to the pensioners. “An amount of almost Rs 50 lakh was withdrawn by pensioners from the Jhulaghat branch while a cumulative amount of almost Rs 20 lakh was withdrawn from the Dharchula branch,” he added. Pensioners said they were thankful to the administration for allowing them to cross the border. “It was becoming increasingly difficult for us to manage our homes since we were not able to withdraw our pension money ever since lockdown began and the border was closed. We are thankful to the governments of India and Nepal for understanding our plight,” said Heera Singh Bora, a pensioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/suspension-bridges-open-retd-gorkha-soldiers-of-indian-army-from-nepal-get-pension-after-4-months/articleshow/76859701.cms||Prem Punetha
July 9, 2020||Hubballi||KU closes offices for 8 days||Dharwad: The visit of a Covid-19 positive person to the offices of Karnatak University here has forced the authorities to close varsity offices for eight days till July 16. Sources said that a lady lecturer from Karnatak College who had tested positive on Monday had inadvertently visited several offices in the university before being admitted to KIMS. On learning about this, the non-teaching staff insisted that they should be allowed to stay at home to avoid getting infected. Considering their demand, the varsity ordered the closure of all offices in the premises for eight days and has asked the staff to be home quarantined. However, the authorities sought to downplay the incident and insisted that the measure is to encourage non-teaching staff to develop the culture of work-from-home. “The UGC has also issued guidelines to encourage non-teaching staff to work from home. Accordingly, Karnatak University has decided to allow the staff to work from home. We have also sought the permission from the Chancellor,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ku-closes-offices-for-8-days/articleshow/76862523.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Mumbai||Hotels welcome guests to ‘new normal’, brace for uncertain future in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Five-star hotels in the city reopened on Wednesday after more than three months of lockdown, but an uncertainty on the number of guest check-ins has gripped operators. ITC, Accor, Marriott, among other chains, checked body temperature at entry points and have put in place sanitary measures for people and their belongings. The staff wore masks and other protective equipment. Fern Hotels started operations at four properties in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai and is “assessing the demand situation” for two other properties, according to the chain’s senior vice-president Noshir Marfatia. While lodging chains are running schemes like ‘buy now, stay later’ and ‘pay for one night, stay for two nights’, the hospitality industry is unsure how much these schemes will translate into actual check-ins as travel restrictions continue in the city and elsewhere. Moreover, with organisations continuing to let employees work from home and large gatherings still not allowed, corporate bookings for conferences and exhibitions will be nil. Hotels are allowed to sell just 33% of their room inventory and the industry hopes that the limit will be increased “if business signs are encouraging”. While in-house restaurants are permitted to serve food only to residents, other amenities such as swimming pool, spa and gym remain closed for guests. With the first quarter of fiscal 2021 being a wipeout for the sector, players expect bookings to pick up in the current quarter. “We have been receiving queries and bookings,” said ITC Hotels area manager (West) Atul Bhalla. “However, it is too early to comment on how occupancy levels will be for fiscal 2021”. Some hotel operators believe that it will take at least a year to bounce back to pre-Covid RevPar levels. RevPar (revenue per available room) is a performance metric used by the industry. “Hospitality was the first industry to get hit (when Covid-19 unfolded as a pandemic) and most unfortunately, it will be the last to recover. However, we are a resilient bunch and we will remain optimistic about the future. As bookings begin to trickle in, we will be able to instill confidence in our guests which we hope will encourage other guests to check-in. When this happens, we will seek the government’s permission to increase the present capacity of 33%,” said Hotel and Restaurant Association (Western India) president Gurbaxish Singh Kohli. A few hotels have added a new revenue stream to their business models—takeaway and delivery service of their gourmet food—to offset the zero revenue from rooms during the lockdown. “We are ready to welcome guests to the ‘new normal’ standards of hospitality,” said a Marriott spokesperson. “...We would like to take a more pragmatic approach moving forward, adjusting our strategy as conditions change.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hotels-welcome-guests-to-new-normal-brace-for-uncertain-future/articleshow/76863263.cms||Reeba Zachariah
July 9, 2020||Mangaluru||DK witnesses record spike of 183 cases, 2 fatalities push death toll to 28||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 183 cases reported in the district, while Udupi reported 31 new cases. DK also recorded two more fatalities – both patients with co-morbid conditions — taking the total death toll in the district to 28. Udupi has recorded three Covid-19 deaths. The fresh spike saw total positive cases in DK shoot up to 1,542 and active cases to 819. As many as 12 patients were discharged from hospital on Wednesday. The positivity rate in the district now stands at 0.07 %. Health authorities as on date have received 22,181 samples and 20,153 out of 21,695 samples tested have turned out negative. Khader’s gunman tests +ve The gunman assigned to former minister U T Khader tested positive on Wednesday and three others who were with him in the escort vehicle have been quarantined, said city police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash. A section of police commissioner’s office was shut for sanitisation as per protocol after staff working there were treated as primary contacts. The office per se has not been sealed contrary to ‘reports’ doing rounds in social media, he said. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said the district reported two deaths — one late on Tuesday and the other during the day. The victims are a 57-year-old man and 32-year-old youth. Two of the 183 cases were secondary contacts, 25 were cases of influenza like illness, four cases of SARI, one a case of inter district travel, two with interstate travel, five with international travel history, 22 random samples and five pre-surgery samples. Udupi district recorded 31 new cases taking the total positive cases recorded as on date to 1,421. Discharge of 1,189 patients meant that Udupi has 229 active cases. Meanwhile, Kota Shrinivas Poojari, minister for fisheries on Wednesday inaugurated the Covid-19 lab at district hospital in Udupi. Karkala MLA Sunil Kumar inaugurated ambulance monitoring system to ensure expeditious transfer of infected patients to designated treatment centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-witnesses-record-spike-of-183-cases-2-fatalities-push-death-toll-to-28/articleshow/76862267.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 9, 2020||Vadodara||Unable to pay house rent, girl forced to vacate house||Vadodara: An 18-year-old BSc student from Rajkot studying forensic science at a private university here had a harrowing experience when she was asked to vacate her rented home on Waghodiya Road as she could not pay the rent and electricity bills. The student’s father in Rajkot had lost his job due to lockdown due to which she could not pay the electricity bill and three months’ rent. The house owner allowed the first year student to stay only after she approached the 181 Abhayam helpline for women. “The student was warned by the house owner a few times to pay the money, but when she could not, he gave her a deadline to vacate the house by July 6 night,” said an Abhayam official. The student then contacted the helpline as she had nowhere to go in the city. “Our counsellors reached there and talked to the house owner. We told him that in these difficult times everyone in the world is facing problems,” said Chandrakant Makwana, Abhayam project coordinator. The house owner then agreed to allow the girl to continue staying when she paid one month’s rent and promised to pay the remaining amount later. “The house owner also agreed to pay the electricity bill on behalf of the girl,’’ added Makwana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/unable-to-pay-house-rent-girl-forced-to-vacate-house/articleshow/76861378.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Surat||Rs 133cr insurance claim payout by Surat ECGC in first quarter||Surat: The Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India (ECGC) Ltd’s Surat branch made claim payment to the tune of Rs 133 crore to the banks under the Export Credit Insurance for Banks (ECIB) in the first quarter of the current financial year. Official sources said that this was the highest ever claim payout by the ECGC’s Surat branch to the bank. ECGC is essentially an export promotion organization, seeking to improve the competitiveness of the Indian exporters by providing them with credit insurance covers.Sources said that ECGC provides a range of credit risk insurance covers to exporters against payment losses in export of goods and services with the objective of promoting exports from the country by providing credit risk insurance and related services for the export. A senior officer of ECGC’s Surat branch said, “Exporters take export credit from the commercial banks, which are covered under the ECIB scheme. In case of payment losses, defaults or NPAs, the banks claim insurance from the ECGC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rs-133cr-insurance-claim-payout-by-surat-ecgc-in-first-quarter/articleshow/76861017.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Rise in symptomatic cases a positive sign: Karnataka govt, experts||BENGALURU: There’s shift in the battle against Covid-19 in Karnataka with the number of symptomatic cases increasing over the past two weeks. Till Tuesday, symptomatic cases comprised 37.5% of overall positive cases as against 2% recorded just over a month ago. The change comes as a breather for the government which has come under the scanner for its scattershot strategies that have failed tp plateau the number of cases. Unlike asymptomatic persons who could be silently transmitting the virus to others, those with symptoms (symptomatic) head straight to hospital or isolate themselves and don’t spread the virus. While symptomatic cases in the state were a meagre 2% of overall positive cases reported till June 5, they increased to 15% on June 20 and touched 37.5% on July 7. Though some argue that an increase in symptomatic cases when testing is low may not be a correct marker to assess the virus spread, the government claims that an increase in symptomatic cases will not overwhelm the health infrastructure as only the seriously ill will seek medical help. Medical education minister (in-charge of Covid issues) K Sudhakar told TOI: “It is definitely a positive development as patients are voluntarily reporting and getting the swab test done early and thereby getting quarantined sooner. If we look at the pattern of cases this month, there are more patients coming to hospitals with symptoms like headache, throat discomfort, loss of taste and smell instead of taking over-the-counter medication.” He pointed out that the state’s testing capacity is being ramped up. “If more number of people with symptoms are reporting and getting tested, it’s a good sign that people have become aware of the pandemic and not scared to get tested,” he added. Why are the symptomatic cases increasing by the day? Dr Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and member of ICMR’s Covid-19 taskforce group on research and surveillance, said: “Tthe virus or illness or severity of infection has not changed suddenly. This only means that symptomatic cases are mostly likely to get tested and diagnosed to have Covid-19”. He added: “Earlier, contact tracing was strict resulting in several asymptomatic contacts testing positive. This was possible earlier due to the low burden. We are now increasingly testing Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) patients, who, to start with, are symptomatic. At this stage of the epidemic, we need to increase the frequency of ILI survey and isolate everyone tested positive. Concurrent contact tracing and quarantine will decelerate the spread.” Doctors also point out that changes in testing protocols could have triggered a decline in the number of asymptomatic cases. “Most asymptomatic patients were inter-state returnees. Now, as per the government testing protocol, not all inter-state returnees are getting tested and they will be tested only if they develop symptoms,” Dr Manohar KN, consultant physician, Manipal Hospitals, said, adding that the virus could be losing its potency. Dr Manjunath CN, nodal officer, labs and testing, Covid-19 taskforce, also feels the increase in symptomatic cases is a good development. “When there are symptoms, patients seek medical help immediately and they get isolated. Hence, the spread of the virus gets restricted. Seeking early medical intervention is the best,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rise-in-symptomatic-cases-a-positive-sign-govt-experts/articleshow/76862663.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Mysuru||Villagers ask outsiders to enter with medical certificate||Mysuru: The pandemic having spread to some of the remotest corners of the state, with many villages far from urban centres also reporting Covid-19 cases, residents in rural areas have decided to take a few drastic measures to keep the novel coronavirus at bay. One of these is erecting of hoardings at the entrance to villagers asking those who are not residents to stay away. In both Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts, village elders and leaders of communities have convened meetings, where measures to arrest the spread of the pandemic have been discussed and decisions arrived at to safeguard the residents. Non-residents are being allowed only if they have fulfilled their 14-day quarantine, and can produce a medical certificate. Villagers said that scores of people from Mysuru, Bengaluru and other urban centres were returning to their homes, which increased the chances of residents being infected. Some of the village elders pointed out that the idea was to get people who were coming to villages to adhere to the safety guidelines so as to minimise chances of the transmission of the novel coronavirus. Among other fears, residents in rural areas point to the lack of good roads to transport infected patients to hospitals in the nearest towns. Uppinamole gram panchayat member Madesha said that the villagers were extremely afraid of the infection. “It was the prevalence of the fear that prompted a few youngsters to erect the hoarding,” he said. Former Chamarajanagar district in-charge minister C Puttaranga Shetty said that outsiders would be allowed only if they could furnish a document attesting to a clean bill of health. Chamarajanagar deputy commissioner MR Ravi said that he had not been informed of instances wherein outsiders were being levied fines by insiders. “But villagers are being very cautious as far as containing the virus is concerned,” he added. ||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/villagers-ask-outsiders-to-enter-with-medical-certificate/articleshow/76862544.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hubballi||Complaint lodged against absconding Covid patient||Kalaburagi: Officials of the health department in Kalaburagi have lodged a police complaint against a woman, who despite testing positive for novel coronavirus, has been absconding from Wednesday morning, with her daughter and granddaughter in tow. The patient in question was to be admitted to the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), the designated Covid hospital in Kalaburagi. Kalaburagi district health officer (DHO) Dr AM Jabbar said that the woman had been undergoing treatment at a private hospital for her fractured leg. “She had actually undergone the Covid-19 test before going to the private hospital. But her test reports confirming her infected arrived after she had been discharged and had returned home. Health department workers went to her house on Tuesday evening so she could be taken to GIMS. However, the woman said she could not walk, and our workers told her that they would come the next day and take her to the hospital,” Dr Jabbar told TOI. The patient’s neighbours said that the patient, daughter and granddaughter, who lived in a rented house, had been absconding since the early hours on Wednesday. There are rumours of the trio having been forced to leave the house after the landlord asked them to vacate when the old woman was confirmed to have Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/complaint-lodged-against-absconding-covid-patient/articleshow/76862419.cms||Mouneshwar Sonnad
July 9, 2020||Mysuru||Chamarajanagar DC says district prepared to tackle Covid-19 surge||Mysuru: Chamarajanagar deputy commissioner Dr MR Ravi on Wednesday said the district administration had made all preparations to take care of the spike in Covid-19 cases in the district as 750 beds have been added at the Covid care facilities. The administration has also put additional beds at medical, engineering and polytechnic colleges, he added. “Measures have been taken to start Covid care centres in private hospitals. Works on converting the Santhemarahalli Community Care Centre as Covid-19 hospital is under progress,” he said. “For respectful burial of Covid patients, the district administration had identified two acres of land separately for the purpose in case any community refuses to perform the funerals of their community members. A dedicated team of workers has been constituted to perform the last rites of such patients,” he said. The district administration has also decided to recruit 40 staff nurses on a six-month contract to address the pandemic and interested youths may utilize the opportunity, said Ravi. Meanwhile, after a week, Chamarajanagar did not report any fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/chamarajanagar-dc-says-district-prepared-to-tackle-covid-19-surge/articleshow/76861971.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Bengaluru||With hospital ICU shut, HIV+ve Covid patient battles for her life||Bengaluru: A 45-year-old woman infected with Covid-19, who also happens to be HIV+, is in a critical condition at KC General Hospital, Malleswaram, where the ICU remains shut for sanitisation since Monday after several of its staffers were found infected. Admitted to KC General Hospital on July 2 almost 36 hours after testing positive for Covid-19, the woman was put on high flow oxygen on Sunday. She now has to be shifted to any other hospital with a ventilator facility, and the hunt for a bed has been on since Tuesday night when her condition worsened. Dr BV Venkateshaiah, medical superintendent of KC General, said the patient’s condition is critical and the hospital’s ICU is closed currently. “Some of the staffers working in our ICU have been infected with Covid-19 and several others have been asked to quarantine themselves. The ICU is temporarily closed for sanitisation,” he told TOI. The central critical team is working on finding a bed for the woman, the doctor added. The woman’s son was allowed to be with her in the ward on Tuesday. “I wore a PPE kit and was with my mother. On Wednesday morning, I stepped out to get her juice and since then I’ve not been allowed inside again. Doctors say it would be a huge risk to let me in again. My mother has not spoken since July 5,” he said. The patient’s two other children, a daughter and a son, are at home. Her ordeal has sparked panic among those living with HIV/AIDS. “Even the HIV infection didn’t scare us as much as Covid-19,” said a member of Bangalore HIV AIDS Forum, an NGO. “Most of our members are not going out for work as they fear we are more vulnerable to Covid. The government has not provided any nutrition kits on the lines of Telangana. With no income and fear of the infection, many are worried,” another member said. However, Dr Glory Alexander, director, ASHA foundation and HIV/AIDS specialist, said that people living with HIV are more vulnerable to Covid-19 than the general population only if they are not on antiretroviral therapy (ART) and if their CD4 count is not within 500-1500 units. CD4 count is a prognostic indicator and the higher it is, the stronger the immune system. “It’s important to ensure that HIV-positive persons are on regular ART drugs and to check their CD4 count periodically. Patients who are in touch with us are also given Vitamin-C supplement,” said Dr Alexander.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-hospital-icu-shut-hivve-covid-patient-battles-for-her-life/articleshow/76862700.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Student transporters seek govt help||AURANGABAD: The state association of individuals involved in transportation of school students has sought a monthly aid of Rs 11,000 from the state government to deal with the ongoing financial crisis arising out of the current pandemic situation. In a memorandum submitted to the state government, the association has said that those who are involved in transportation of school students were facing survival issues owing to no income for the past few months. “Different vans and buses are involved in transportation of school students. We started feeling the heat of Covid 19 well before the lockdown as schools started to shut down at the very beginning. Our members have no income at all,” association president Madhav Kulkarni said. Among different demands, owners of the vehicles involved in school transportation have demanded school fee waiver for their wards. “We are an integral part of the education system and serve to the commuting need of lakhs of students every year. As we are unable to pay the fees of our children due to financial crisis, the government should provide us waiver,” Kulkarni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/student-transporters-seek-govt-help/articleshow/76861084.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chennai||Woman slaps SI||Villupuram: A video of a woman slapping an SI after the latter allegedly assaulted her husband at Anathur village in Villupuram has become viral on social media. The video starts with a farm worker, with a bloodied face, arguing with two cops attached to Tiruvennainallur police station in Villupuram, followed by his wife slapping the SI. Villagers said the woman slapped the SI after he assaulted her husband. The incident took place on Saturday when the SI, Thangavel, and another constable from Tiruvennainallur police station went to Anathur village to settle a dispute between a contractor and a farm worker. A revenue official from Tiruvennainallur BDO office said, “V Muthuraman, 26, the farm worker lives with his wife Sarathi, 24, and two children at Anathur village in Tiruvennainallur. The family, who lives in a thatched roof hut, were shortlisted under the government’s free house scheme under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana mission. A private contractor, Subash Chandra Bose, 28, appointed by the Tiruvennainallur block development office was taking care of the construction work.” A police officer, on condition of anonymity, said, “Muthuraman and Subash Chandra Bose had a dispute during the construction of the house. Muthuraman, claiming that Subash had cheated him of his money, had seized his two-wheeler. Based on a verbal complaint by Subash, two police personnel, including SI Thangavel, went to the spot to conduct an inquiry. Muthuraman, who was drunk, did not answer the police properly. In a fit of rage, the SI assaulted him, inflicting injuries on his face. In retaliation, Sarathi slapped the SI. Meanwhile, Muthuraman snatched the mobile phone of the constable and the two-wheeler key of the SI.” As the villagers started supporting the couple, the policemen fled from the spot abandoning their two-wheelers and alerted their seniors. On information, Villupuram DSP Nallasivam and Tiruvennainallur station inspector Pandiyan, along with revenue officials, came to the spot and conducted a peace talk with the villagers and released the two wheelers. Speaking to TOI, inspector Pandiyan said, “The issue was settled after holding talks with the villagers. No case has been registered.” When TOI contacted Villupuram SP S Radhakrishnan, he said, "We came to know of the incident only on Tuesday. We have formed a team headed by DSP Nallasivam to make an inquiry and submit a report. Appropriate action will be taken based on the report.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/woman-slaps-si/articleshow/76855077.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha makes a U-turn on recruitment process||BHUBANESWAR: Facing backlash from the opposition parties regarding the freeze on government appointments as part of its austerity drive in the light of Covid-19, the state finance department on Wednesday issued a clarification saying all on-going recruitment process will continue. State finance secretary Ashok Meena said the temporary restriction has been imposed only on creation of new posts in any department. Meena said the vacant posts in the government will also be filled up as usual even as Tuesday’s order on austerity measures said redundant posts, which have been lying vacant for five years, will be abolished. Earlier, the government decision to freeze recruitments came in for criticism from opposition parties, which urged the state to reconsider its decision. Odisha Congress president Niranjan Patnaik said the state government decision will lead to severe unemployment in the state. “The unemployment situation in Odisha is very grim. Lakhs of educated youths, engaged as migrant workers, have recently returned to the state. At this moment, the state government should not have taken such a decision. We urge the government to reconsider its decision,” Patnaik said. Youth and student Congress workers staged protest against the state government decision by polishing shoes at Master Canteen square. Senior BJP leader Pradipta Naik, also the leader of opposition in the assembly, said the decision to freeze recruitment is unfortunate. “Thousands of posts in education and health sectors are lying vacant in the state. The state government has never showed seriousness in fulfilling the vacant posts. Now, freezing recruitment in the pretext of Covid-19 pandemic is unfortunate,” said Naik. Job aspirants also reacted sharply to the government decision to freeze recruitment. “Such a decision will have a negative impact on the youths. What will be the condition of those who are at the last stage of applying for government jobs if there is no recruitment for two years?” asked Chintamani Moharana, an aspirant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-makes-a-u-turn-on-recruitment-process/articleshow/76862426.cms||Sujit Bijoy
July 9, 2020||Mumbai||IB schools told to request re-marks via EuR services||MUMBAI: The International Baccalaureate has asked world schools to request re-marks of students’ work in the May 2020 session through the Enquiry Upon Results (EuR) services, a kind of a revaluation facility. On Wednesday, TOI had reported about a global petition filed by students who were shocked at receiving lower-than-expected scores. Students claimed that there was a vast difference between predictive grades and the actual final score received on the marksheet. Terming that the IBO had done “injustice”, the community of students, parents and school principals feel that final scores were computed by ignoring the predictive grades given by their respective schools. The IBO said to TOI, “Since the release of DP and CP results yesterday, the IB has listened to its global community of IB students, teachers and IB World Schools and understands there have been mixed emotions and disappointment expressed by some. The decision to cancel the May 2020 examinations due to the Covid-19 pandemic was incredibly difficult, and as the IB responds to these exceptional circumstances, it has endeavoured to be as transparent as possible.” The final grades were based on the student’s coursework throughout the two-year programmes, predicted grades provided by schools, and historic assessment data. For the subjects where students would normally sit exams, historic data was analysed to determine the global relationship between coursework marks, predicted grades and final subject marks. Vinayak Sudhakar, IB India spokesperson, said that schools need to directly contact the board’s EuR facility on behalf of their students. “There are some changes to the EuR services in this exceptional session due to the fact that marks have been calculated in the absence of examinations in some subjects, and these have also been communicated to IB World Schools,” noted the IB board in its response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ib-schools-told-to-request-re-marks-via-eur-services/articleshow/76863289.cms||Hemali Chhapia
July 9, 2020||Surat||Surat: Lajpore jail inmates get online teaching to prepare for board exams||SURAT: There is some good news for the prisoners of the Lajpore Central Jail (LCJ) in Surat, who want to complete their studies despite being locked down for their criminal actions. At least 63 inmates of LCJ, who enrolled in Class X this year will get online education starting this week. The jail authorities have worked out an arrangement for online classes facility for these inmates. Surat-based P P Savani School will provide online coaching to the prison inmates who will attend lectures inside the jail premises. The school is already conducting online classes for their own students. Now the school will also allow the prisoners to attend the lectures. The online education program for board students in jail was announced on Wednesday during an event at LCJ. “We have the infrastructure for video conference and the school offered to give us a link to their online lectures. This will help our Class X students to study,” said Manoj Ninama, superintendent of LCJ. A prisoner can watch and hear a live lecture on a television screen and also interact with the teacher during a question-answer session. Those inmates who have enrolled for Class X are supposed to attend the lectures as per the schedule prescribed by the school. Once in 15 days, the school will also arrange a special session on one of the subjects to clear doubts. “The board students need continuous guidance and we have already started online classes for our students. To provide the same video link to jail inmates is not much of a problem. They already have infrastructure there,” said Mahesh Savani, owner of P P Savani School. During Wednesday’s event at LCJ, Savani was felicitated for his initiative by his former school teacher Savji Paghdal, one of the 14 accused in Takshashila Arcade fire, who is currently lodged in LCJ. Paghdal is one of the developers of the building, who also runs schools and coaching classes in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lajpore-jail-inmates-get-online-teaching-to-prepare-for-board-exams/articleshow/76861059.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 9, 2020||Hubballi||Jarkiholi, Maha water minister agree to inter-state panel for flood management||Belagavi: It appears as though a few lessons have been learnt from the devastating floods that ravaged Karnataka and Maharashtra last year. Determined to avoid a tragic encore, the governments of Karnataka and Maharashtra on Wednesday decided to constitute joint flood management and monitoring committees. Karnataka minister for water resources Ramesh Jarkiholi, accompanied by the secretary of the department, on Wednesday flew to Mumbai from Belagavi, to confer with his Maharashtra counterpart Jayant Patil. Their meeting, which started around 4.30pm lasted more than three hours, concluding only around 7.45pm, during which both Jarkiholi and Patil evinced their mutual interest in seeing the joint committees being set up at the earliest. The two ministers reportedly also sought to end the impasse on the contentious issue of release of water from the Maharashtra dams in the summer months. In 2018, Maharashtra government had stopped release of water during the summer, and had asked Karnataka to come around to a water exchange agreement. Karnataka had been paying money for around two to 3tmcft of water that was released by the neighbouring state every year. A source privy to the details of the discussion confirmed to TOI that Jarkiholi had been most keen on devising a mechanism that could help mitigate the damage wrought by floods. The meeting comes amid the monsoon intensifying in both states and inflow to all reservoirs witnessing a sharp spike. R Rudraiah, advisor to Jarkiholi, said that a high-level committee headed by ministers and secretaries would be constituted, to which would report a panel comprising deputy commissioners of the flood-prone districts in both the states. “The DCs will receive inputs from a committee of field-level officers. These panels will decide on the amount of water to be released during the summer and the monsoon by constantly monitoring the water level in the reservoirs,” Rudraiah said. However, no timeline has been specified for the constitution of these panels. Interestingly, the idea of the inter-state committee was first mooted by Maharashtra in the wake of the 2019 floods. Rudraiah added that the Maharashtra minister had sought release of 4tmcft water from Karnataka during the monsoon in exchange for the release of the agreed upon quantum of water in the summer months. “Jarkiholi has listened to all these demands, but a decision will be taken only after it is deliberated on by all the stakeholders in Karnataka,” he said. Activist in Belagavi Ashok Chandaragi, who has been a vociferous proponent of the inter-state panel for prevention of floods, was elated to hear of the development. “There will be many more meetings and more deliberation before headway is made. Chief ministers of both states must sit across a table and resolve this longstanding issue,” Chandaragi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/jarkiholi-maha-water-minister-agree-to-inter-state-panel-for-flood-management/articleshow/76861092.cms||Shreyas HS
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad grapples with black marketing of critical drugs||HYDERABAD: Much like other metro cities, Hyderabad too is reeling under a severe shortage of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab two critical drugs being used for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Doctors say, despite placing bulk orders they are being sent only small batches of these drugs and that too after waiting for long periods of time. Worse, the shortage has led to black marketing, with dealers selling the drugs for five (or more) times the usual price. For instance, while the actual value of Remdesivir is Rs 5,500 it is being sold in the black market for anywhere between Rs 30,000 and Rs 40,000. Similarly, Tocilizumab too is being sold from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1.5 lakh. The actual price is about Rs 40,000. “I was trying to source Tocilizumab for a friend and realised nobody is willing to sell it at less than Rs 80,000. In fact, one dealer told me that I’d have to cough up Rs 1.2 lakh if I wanted it immediately,” said Kiran S, a businessman from the city. Incidentally, the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) has also raised concern over black marketing of these drugs and asked all states and UTs to maintain strict vigil to prevent this ill-practice. “Although six Indian companies recently got permit from the parent American company Gilead Sciences to manufacture and sell the generic version of Remdesivir in India, there is still an acute shortage of both these drugs in all metropolitan cities, including Hyderabad,” said Dr P Raghu Ram, president, Association of Surgeons of India. Dr Bhaskar Rao, president, Telangana Super Specialty Hospitals Association, corroborated the claim. “Especially Remdesivir is not vailable at all. Though we ordered for 3,000 vials we got only 300 or 400. We are told it’ll get resolved over a period of time,” he said Given the increasing number of patients requiring ICU care due to the pandemic, doctors say that the Centre should step in to plug this gap. “It must address this issue urgently and make these potentially life saving medications available freely at the lowest possible price,” added Dr Raghu Ram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-grapples-with-black-marketing-of-critical-drugs/articleshow/76863270.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
July 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Social worker received threat call: Police||BHUBANESWAR: Social worker and philanthropist Aditya Dash (27), who was found dead along the railway track near Lingaraj station here on Tuesday, had allegedly received a threat from an anonymous source a few months ago, police said. The government railway police (GRP) has come to know about it from a diary, which was recovered from his home in Sundarapada area here on Wednesday. Though police strongly suspected Aditya committed suicide by jumping in front of a running train, the recovery of the diary with the threat content may give a spin to the investigation. Police said most of the contents in the diary were dull and sorrowful. “It was written that there was a threat to his life as he spearheaded an anti-liquor movement in the city recently. The diary further read if anything happened to him, his volunteers should carry forward the agitation,” a GRP officer said. Railway superintendent of police (Cuttack) Ashok Biswal said the investigation was in progress. “We will send the diary to the handwriting bureau for verification. As of now, we do not sense any foul play behind his death,” said Biswal, who on Wednesday visited the spot where Aditya’s body was found, his house and old-age home. Police said Aditya and his wife Bidyashree, who were married last month, had an altercation on Monday evening. “Aditya was into social activism and philanthropy. But his wife wanted him to take up a job. She too was looking for a job. On Monday evening, Aditya was aggrieved when his wife again insisted him for a job. He shouted at her and asked her to leave the home. After sometime, Aditya left home in a huff and did not return that night. Next morning, his body was found along the railway track,” Biswal said. Bidyashree denied there was any discord with her husband. It was a minor argument. “We understood each other very well,” she said. Police said they were examining the call detail records (CDR) of the couple. Aditya’s father Nandakishore Dash said his son might have been murdered. “My son was not a coward. He was showing the path of life and happiness to the pessimists. He could not have committed suicide,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/social-worker-received-threat-call-police/articleshow/76862430.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
July 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Late detection, reckless attitude lead to coronavirus spread, say doctors||KOLKATA: Another round of lockdown in pockets of Kolkata should not just trigger an alarm but serve as a reminder that safety norms needed to be followed more strictly, felt experts. A major reason behind Covid numbers rising in pockets was the fact that the patients are not being treated or monitored early enough, according to a section of city doctors who are at the frontline. They also held a section of Kolkatans responsible for the spurt in numbers, pointing out that they have been ‘reckless’ ever since the unlocking started. TimesViewCitizens should cooperate to make this phase of the lockdown a success. Policing is important but self-policing is much more important and effective.While home isolation was the best option under the prevailing circumstances, patients and their kin still need to be conscious enough to recognize a change in condition and seek medical intervention immediately, felt Fortis Hospital pulmonologist Raja Dhar. “Over the last few weeks, we have had plenty who sought treatment when it was too late. These patients could have been managed at home had they been more conscious. Not only did they occupy hospital beds, denying treatment to others who needed them more, they might have also spread the virus to others,” said Dhar. AMRI Hospitals consultant Debashish Saha pointed out that lockdown norms were not diligently obeyed by many. “Masks and sanitizers were not used by a substantial number. And the moment unlocking started, there was a scramble to get out on to the road that led to a spread. This has happened not only in the slum areas but in high-rises as well. Even though many remained confined to their complexes, they continued to socialize at home, which helped the spread,” said Saha. While Covid cases reached a peak much faster in most affected countries, in India it has been more staggered, pointed out Dhar. “In most other nations, more deaths have occurred but they have managed to flatten the curve quicker. We are reaching the peak slower and may be able to flatten the curve by year-end. At the present rate, we will also see a drop in numbers in a more staggered way. So, the numbers will rise in pockets despite measures,” he added. An infectious diseases expert felt the satellite healthcare centres set up around hospitals would be the key, apart from home isolation. “Hospitals would not be able to cater to every Covid patient. Now that the numbers of asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic are rising, we need to ensure that they are treated and isolated. This is the best that we can do to control the numbers. Micro-containment zones will not make a huge difference,” he said. Dhar pointed out that home isolation was often being taken too lightly. “There are many who have a low oxygen saturation rate but are rarely breathless. So, they need to be monitored. The later we treat a patient now, the lower will be the chance of survival,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/docs-late-detection-reckless-attitude-lead-to-virus-spread/articleshow/76862429.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
July 9, 2020||Chennai||SC notice to TN Speaker on plea to disqualify OPS, 10 others||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked why the Tamil Nadu Speaker had kept disqualification petitions against deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and 10 other MLAs pending for more than three years though he had disqualified 18 AIADMK MLAs in 2017 within a month of filing of similar petitions. Appearing for petitioner and DMK leader R Sakkrapani, senior advocate Kapil Sibal told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R S Reddy and A S Bopanna that the inexplicable delay by the Speaker was unfair in a democracy. “The SC in a Manipur MLA’s disqualification case had recently fixed an outer limit of three months for the Speaker to decide such petitions,” he said, adding that the SC’s guideline was not being followed by the TN Speaker. The bench issued notice to the Speaker’s office and sought response within four weeks. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the AIADMK, protested issuance of notice and said he wanted to argue on this point. The bench said, “We have decided to issue notice without hearing you. You can argue to your heart’s content when the matter is heard after four weeks.” Sibal sought an early hearing date saying the assembly’s term would end in May 2021. The SC said, “May 2021 is far away.” Sakkrapani’s petition, filed through advocate Amit Anand Tiwari, said OPS became chief minister in December 2016 immediately after J Jayalalithaa’s death but had to resign in February to make way for Edappadi K Palaniswami. The two factions of the AIADMK led by EPS and OPS were at loggerheads and the OPS faction with 11 MLAs voted against the trust vote sought by the EPS government in the assembly on February 18, 2017. Disqualification petitions filed before the Speaker against the 11 are still pending, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sc-notice-to-tn-speaker-on-plea-to-disqualify-ops-10-others/articleshow/76862500.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Rajkot||Jamnagar GG Hospital’s resident doc donates plasma||Rajkot: A third-year resident doctor of the state-run GG Hospital in Jamnagar has become the first recovered Covid-19 patient in Saurashtra to donate his plasma.Dr Priyank Batra, 28, who got infected while treating Covid patients two months ago, said he decided to donate plasma as it could help other patients recover.Plasma therapy has been recognized for treatment of Covid-19 patients now. The anti-bodies in the blood are transferred to critical patients. “I was mildly symptomatic and discharged after a few days of hospitalization. I donated plasma to give new life to the people who have a weak immune system,” he added.Blood bank in-charge Dr. Jitendra Vachhani said, “We are encouraging recovered patients to donate plasma and we have sophisticated machines for the procedure. Patients aged between 18 years to 60 years with weight more than 55kg can donate plasma after completion of 28 days of recovery.” Dr. Deepak Tiwari, medical superintendent of GG Hospital said, “We are following all ICMR guidelines in plasma donation. The recovered patient has an opportunity to give back something to society.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jamnagar-gg-hospitals-resident-doc-donates-plasma/articleshow/76861095.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chennai||THEATRE ARTISTS LOOK FOR 'DAILY' JOBS TO SUPPORT THEIR FAMILIES||Chennai: Suthan Raj is a Guinness world record holder for directing the “longest play”, but these days this theatre artist works as a painter to support his family. G Vijayakumar, another theatre artist, has started working as a ‘helper’ at his friend's catering unit. Lockdown has made many such talented theatre artists look for daily jobs to support their families. “I managed to survive for almost a month since the lockdown began, but then it became difficult. I had to take care of my parents. I started taking up painting jobs. I get Rs700 every day. I can manage the expenses with that money now,” said Suthan, who directed a play lasting 28 hour, 30 min and 43 seconds, performed by the PG department of human rights and duties education of the Ethiraj College for Women which won the Guinness world record for the “longest play” in 2019. An alumnus of the school of performing arts in Puducherry, Raj said, “I never thought I would land up in such a miserable phase in my career. It’s not only me, many of my friends are facing a difficult patch. Finding a job every day is difficult due to lockdown. And that’s my only worry.” G Vijayakumar, who has been working as a theatre artist for more than 20 years, said the lockdown has destroyed his dreams. Vijayakumar had organized a book launch ceremony (for a compilation of plays) and a special play as part of the world theatre day on March 27 in Thanjavur. He had booked a hall and all arrangements were made. “Lockdown spoiled everything. I incurred a huge loss. Some friends helped me, and that’s how I survived for two months,” said Vijayakumar of the Uthiri Theatre Land in Thanjavur. Since Vijayakumar is well known as an artist, finding odd jobs has been difficult. “I have directed many plays. People here respect me as a theatre director. I know only this job. But it’s difficult to survive. The last play I did was in February. I have started going to my friend’s catering unit as a helper. It will help me run my family,” he said. Dharani Dharan has been working with many prominent theatre troupes in Tamil Nadu for 11 years. A couple of months ago, lockdown abruptly put an end to his professional career. But this 31-year-old is hopeful. He got a land in Anaikatty, a village bordering Tamil Nadu and Kerala, for lease where he is planning to start farming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/theatre-artists-look-for-daily-jobs-to-support-their-families/articleshow/76855114.cms||M T Saju
July 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Not a single Covid-19 death in Maharashtra's Hingoli so far||AURANGABAD: Hingoli, which is one of the backward district in the state, has not reported any Covid-19 death so far. All 300 Covid-19 positive cases reported in the past 109 days were placed in quarantine and there has been no community transmission. The district also has doubling rate of 42.11 days. The administration has data of every person who entered the district from red, orange or green zones in the district. They have carried out contact tracing of 30 persons per positive case. Officials said that lack of proper health infrastructure, which remains a big concern, prompted them to prepare much before the government announced lockdown and laid down guidelines. District collector Ruchesh Jaywanshi told TOI that Hingoli was the first district in the state to compile data of comorbidity patients. “From the total population of 12 lakh, we gave 1.20 lakh people with co-mobidity,” he said. Jaywanshi, an IAS of 2009 batch, said that having all the data helped them ensure institutional quarantine for all those arriving in the district. “We started door-to-door survey for collecting data of comorbidity patients on February 15 and it has helped us” he said. During the lockdown, they amped up the healthcare facilities. From just 50-bed covid ward in civil hospital and 400 quarantine beds, the district now has 2,000 beds in quarantine facility, 22 covid care centres with 1,500 beds, five DCHCs with 350 beds and oxygen facility, two DCHs with 210 beds and central oxygen supply including 28 ventilators based ICU beds.  Rapid Response Teams comprising sarpanch, village development officer, talathi and all the representatives of the administration were formed to track every person entering the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/not-a-single-covid-19-death-in-hingoli-so-far/articleshow/76861126.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 9, 2020||India||Vikas Dubey’s nephew killed, key aide & 3 others recaptured||KANPUR: Stepping up the heat on the Vikas Dubey gang with two encounters in six hours and multiple arrests, UP Police on Wednesday shot dead a nephew of the fugitive don who was known to be his shadow and recaptured another aide and three others when they tried to shoot and scoot during a search for an ammunition dump inside a forest close to where eight cops had been killed last Friday. Later in the day, the STF picked up Dubey’s brother-in-law and childhood friend Raju Khullar, alias Gyanendra, from MP’s Shahdol. Khullar’s son, Adarsh, had been picked up days ago but the arrest wasn’t made public until after his father was detained. Amar Dubey, the most-wanted gangster’s nephew and bodyguard, was killed during a shootout at Hamirpur in UP’s Bundelkhand region, bordering MP, ADG Prashant Kumar said. An STF member and a constable were injured in the exchange of fire that took place on Maudaha Road, where Amar had been intercepted based on a tip-off by three accomplices nabbed from a hotel in Haryana’s Faridabad late on Tuesday. Married nine days ago to a girl whose family gave their consent at gunpoint, Amar had been on the run since the ambush on a police contingent that had gone to Bikru village near Kanpur on Friday to arrest his boss and uncle. There was a reward of Rs 50,000 on Amar’s head. On Tuesday, police had released posters and sketches of Amar and 14 other wanted gang members. Amar is the third relative and aide of Dubey to be hunted down since the guerrilla-style ambush on the police contingent. Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul Dubey, both uncles of the don, were shot dead in the Shivli forest near Bikru within hours of the attack on the cops in which an officer of DSP rank was among the casualties. Amar’s mother Kshama and two others, including a domestic worker, were arrested on Monday on charges of complicity in the ambush. In the second encounter of the day, Dubey’s henchman Shyamu Bajpai was chased down along with three accomplices involved in a brief exchange of fire deep inside the Shivli forest. The quartet was guiding a police team to an ammunition dump when Bajpai picked a pistol kept hidden in a ditch and opened fire, an official said. As he was fleeing, Bajpai was shot in the leg and nabbed. A .315 bore pistol and several cartridges were seized from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vikas-dubeys-nephew-killed-key-aide-3-others-recaptured/articleshow/76864694.cms||Faiz Siddiqui
July 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai colleges grapple with online classes||MUMBAI: Barely a week into online lectures for Class XII, St Xavier's College, Fort, suspended three students for indiscipline. They had shared the log-in ID and password for their lectures with outsiders, leading to duplication. While unauthorised access to non-Xavierites was not a problem, the ones logging in with proxy user names were disrupting the class by posting spam. The new normal in the teaching-learning process is posing a new set of challenges for city colleges, which have been forced into uncharted waters due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Online abuse, network issues worry teachersRajendra Shinde, principal of St Xavier’s, said, “We wanted to set an example by taking strict disciplinary action against these students right at the beginning. Teaching a few extra students was not a problem, but these ones were creating a nuisance. This may turn out to be a serious challenge in online teaching. We may have to even seek help from the cyber crime department if things get out of hand.” The college now plans to come out with a code of conduct for e-classes and is also looking at ways to authenticate every student’s attendance. The students were identified since the outsiders used the same user names. While several colleges are yet to start their academic session in accordance with the university calendar, some are allowing students and teachers to get acquainted with the online platform by conducting a few lectures. Many have already started with Class XII sessions. A teacher from a college in a western suburb said, “In an hour’s lecture, the teacher cannot keep a check on authentic users in a class of 100. While some platforms provide features to authenticate users, some do not. Some platforms are paid and not all colleges can afford them. Lecture ID and password are being shared and the outsiders who are attending our lectures are not worried about disciplinary action as they are not enrolled in the college.” There are fears about people getting abusive too. Another teacher, though, said abusive users can be blocked and colleges can opt for safer learning management solutions too. Meanwhile, several teachers are facing network problems, especially in the monsoon, while conducting live online classes. Jai Hind and KC colleges plan to have a stand-by teacher for every session. “If one teacher goes offline during a lecture due to a technical glitch, the second teacher can take over. It is also easier to keep a check on disciplinary issues if two teachers are logged on to the same session,” said Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind College. The college is currently engaging students in extracurricular activities. KC College started a few sessions online this week for second- and third-year students. “While a regular timetable will be followed from next month, we wanted students and teachers to get acquainted with the new platform. Our senior students are helping us with technical support. The stand-by teachers will ensure classes are not disrupted midway,” said principal Hemlata Bagla. Students have been asked to join the e-class without using the video and voice options, and use the chat box to ask questions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-colleges-grapple-with-online-classes/articleshow/76864695.cms||Yogita Rao
July 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP reports 1,062 Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday registered 1,062 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths. The cumulative caseload has risen to 22,259 while the toll stands at 264. Altogether, 1,356 people were discharged from various hospitals on Wednesday, the highest number of single-day releases far in the state. The cumulative recoveries went past the 11,100 marks, translating into a recovery rate of almost 50%. There are currently 10,894 active cases, of which about 2,370 people are being treated at the Covid Care Centres. The state has discharged about 4,100 people since July 1. Chittoor has emerged as a concern as the district reported the highest single-day cases of 255 infections, followed by Guntur 173 and East Godavari 125.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-1062-cases-12-deaths/articleshow/76863287.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||NMC loss in water supply Rs70cr, OCW profit Rs8.23cr||Nagpur: From a profit of Rs3 crore per annum in 2010-11 from drinking water supply, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is today facing financial loss of around Rs70 crore for 2018-19. At the same time, the profit after tax of NMC’s private water operator Orange City Water Private Limited (OCW) has increased to Rs8.23 crore in 2018-19. NMC data shows the payments made to OCW were increased for the seventh time in January. This has come to fore as NMC’s special purpose vehicle — Nagpur Environmental Services Limited (NESL) — started reconciliation of payments made to OCW in 2019-20. Mayor Sandip Joshi, who is also NESL chairman, did not respond to TOI’s calls. A NMC official told TOI, “OCW’s rate was Rs12.01 per unit of water supplied in 2018-19 and revised to Rs13.926 per unit. The revision is as per the agreement, which provides for increase in payment with rise in wholesale price index and consumer price index by the central government.” OCW’s payment was Rs109.59 crore in 2018-19 and increased to Rs137.24 crore. Since 2012-13, the payment has increased by 75%. NMC’s budget shows the expenditure of the civic body on drinking water supply is over Rs210 crore and revenue was Rs140 crore in 2018-19. As per data obtained under RTI Act by NCP state vice-president Vedprakash Arya in the past, NMC earned a profit of Rs3 crore in 2010-11 from water supply. OCW was engaged from March 1, 2012. Despite the water tariff being Rs5 per unit, NMC had approved payment at the rate of Rs7.90 per unit to OCW in 2012. Thus, NMC started to incur financial loss immediately. Now, the loss has increased to over Rs70 crore per annum. As per the financial statements submitted by OCW to the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the operator had faced loss of Rs6.49 crore in 2013-14. The loss had decreased to Rs1.81 crore in 2014-15. Since 2016-17, the operator is registering profits, Rs4.73 crore in 2016-17, Rs6.03 crore in 2017-18 and Rs8.23 crore in 2018-19. The operator is yet to upload documents of 2019-20 with MCA. Since OCW got the contract, this is the first time its financial statements have come to fore. Some days ago, Arya had lodged a complaint with home minister Anil Deshmukh demanding an inquiry into OCW’s payments. He had claimed NMC had gone from earning Rs3 crore per annum profit to loss of Rs600 crore since OCW was roped in. Accordingly, Deshmukh had forwarded the complaint to municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe for necessary inquiry and action. In 2019-20, NMC had approved one time settlement (OTS) scheme for OCW in which the cash-strapped civic body incurred a loss of Rs374 crore. NMC had even disbursed Rs73 crore of OTS to OCW even though the revised agreement was yet to be signed. NMC is also approving payment and bills to OCW without any third party checks for last 16-17 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-loss-in-water-supply-rs70cr-ocw-profit-rs8-23cr/articleshow/76875147.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 9, 2020||Delhi||Earthquake threat: 25 buildings identified in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With a series of tremors rocking the national capital in the recent past, New Delhi Municipal Council has woken up to the need to improve seismic stability of several iconic buildings in its jurisdiction. On Wednesday, the civic agency informed Delhi high court that it had identified 25 NDMC buildings as high risk, including Yashwant Place, Palika Bazar and Palika Bhawan, and started work to make these structurally safe in case of a big earthquake. In an affidavit filed, NDMC said it has also issued showcause notices to 63 high-rise buildings in its jurisdiction. These include Hotels Taj Mansingh, Maurya, Ashoka, Janpath, Shangri La, Primus Hospital and other well-known buildings like Indian Oil Bhawan and Jeevan Deep Building. It said these properties have been asked to submit structural safety certificates. “...There are various high-rise and high-risk buildings owned and maintained by the central government, various state governments, autonomous bodies, etc. Consequently, communications have been addressed to the heads of departments of the institutions of such buildings namely to director, AIIMS; medical superintendent, Safdarjung Hospital; medical superintendent, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital; medical superintendent, Lady Hardinge Medical College,” the NDMC added in its reply filed before a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan. The high court, however, adjourned the hearing for July 29, in a plea seeking implementation of an action plan related to seismic stability of Delhi building after some of the agencies failed to file their affidavits in terms of the last order. Earlier, the bench had shown its displeasure with the response given by the state government and other civic bodies and had directed all commissioners of civic bodies to file affidavits explaining what the plan to deal with an earthquake is and how it is to be implemented on an urgent basis. The court is hearing an application filed by advocate Arpit Bhargava where he sought directions to the government and civic agencies to act in a time-bound manner and apprise this court of the steps taken and intended to be taken in case a major earthquake strikes Delhi in the near future. Watch Earthquake threat: 25 buildings identified in Delhi as NDMC works to improve seismic stability||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/quake-threat-25-buildings-identified/articleshow/76863301.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 9, 2020||Goa||Rising cases in Verna Ind estate keep medics busy||Margao: Concerns were raised withing medical circles on Wednesday after several Covid-positive cases from South Goa over the last few days had links with the Verna industrial estate - the patients are either employed at industrial units or suspected to have had some association with the industrial area. Sources said two cases were detected in Rassaim on Saturday and subsequently one in Nuvem – all of whom were employed at Verna industrial estate. While at least one more case in the area is believed to have links to the estate, health authorities are probing the case to ascertain any such link. Contact tracing and testing of the index patients in Rassaim, however, have so far not led to detection of any positive cases in the village, sources in the Loutolim primary health centre said. Of the 123 samples drawn from the area, reports of 73 returned negative, and those of the rest are awaited. What has raised concerns among stakeholders is that as most of the workers in the industrial estate come from nearby as well as far-flung villages, the outbreak could be widespread if not contained in time. The collection of throat swab samples is already under way in the Verna industrial estate at a samples collection kiosk. A three-member medical team from the Sancoale ESI dispensary which is manning the kiosk for nearly three months has been on the frontline keeping a close watch on the situation in the Verna industrial estate. Workers are encouraged to get their swab samples tested at the kiosk in case they develop symptoms. The Verna Industries Association has also put in place several measures in case of spike in cases among the industrial workers. Goa Small Industries Association (GSAI) president Damodar Kochkar told TOI that the Verna Industries Association has set up a disaster management cell which has drawn up a standard operating procedure (SOP) in dealing with workers showing Covid-19 symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rising-cases-in-verna-ind-estate-keep-medics-busy/articleshow/76863941.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Chennai||Ramadoss up against Centre’s creamy layer plan||Chennai: PMK leader S Ramadoss on Tuesday urged the National Commission for Backward Classes to reject the recommendation of the Union government to include ‘salary’ in the ‘income list’ to decide OBC creamy layer. In a letter to NCBC chairman and members, Ramadoss said he was shocked to read a report in TOI recently that NCBC had resolved to accept the Centre’s recommendation. “The proposal of the Union government to include salary in deciding creamy layer is not acceptable,” the PMK leader said. The NCBC, Ramadoss said, had not shown any evidence that it engaged various stakeholders before arriving at the highly controversial decision. The commission failed to fulfil its constitutional obligations. The efforts of the NCBC should be to ensure full utilisation of 27% reservation. If the commission accepted the recommendation of the government to include salary in determining OBC status, it would be a big blow and make the reservation useless, Ramadoss said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ramadoss-up-against-centres-creamy-layer-plan/articleshow/76855149.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Former corporator dies of Covid-19||AURANGABAD: A day after a former Sena corporator died of Covid-19 in Aurangabad, another former corporator also succumbed to the contagion on Wednesday. The 50-year-old man was admitted to a private hospital where he breathed his last. A health official informed that the former corporator had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 23. “He was admitted to the Covid centre of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). However, he was later shifted to the super speciality private hospital,” the official said. The day also witnessed an MLA and his son from Latur district testing positive for Covid-19. Latur district collector G Sreekanth said, “The MLA started showing symptoms following which he was admitted to a hospital and his swab samples were collected for testing on Tuesday. The MLA and his son have tested positive but their conditions are stable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/former-corporator-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/76861168.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 9, 2020||Cuttack||Nurse murdered by hubby while on vaccination duty||CUTTACK: A 35-year-old nurse died after being allegedly stabbed by her husband while she was on vaccination duty at Mahura School in Cuttack’s Niali area on Wednesday. Police are yet to ascertain the motive behind the murder. The deceased has been identified as Priti Pradhan, 35, who was working in Mahidharpada Community Health Centre under Cuttack Sadar police station limits. Eyewitnesses said, “The man reached the school while Pradhan was engaged in vaccinating pregnant women. Both had a heated argument following which the man stabbed her multiple times with a sharp weapon. He also slit the woman’s throat and held her body on his lap for around 45 minutes.” Locals detained him and informed the police. “We have detained her husband Akhaya Sahoo, who is 40 years old,” said IIC of Sadar police station Sudhansu Jena. The accused is being interrogated to ascertain the motive behind the crime. The nurse’s body has been sent for postmortem, added Jena .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/nurse-murdered-by-hubby-while-on-vaccination-duty/articleshow/76862448.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Kanpur||Suspended Chaubeypur SHO, SI arrested for fleeing encounter site||Kanpur: After the complete staff including 68 police constables were shunted to Police Lines from Chaubeypur police station on Tuesday, suspended Chaubeypur station house officer (SHO) Vinay Tiwari and a sub-inspector were arrested on Wednesday on charges of fleeing the encounter site in Bikru village wherein eight policemen were trapped and killed by gangster Vikas Dubey and his 60 aides. The action comes in the wake of evidences emerging that many of the policemen were hand-in-glove with the gangster. “Vinay Tiwari and beat in-charge of Bikru K K Sharma, who were suspended soon after the encounter, have been arrested on charges of fleeing the encounter site and putting the lives of other policemen in danger,” senior superintendent of police (Kanpur) Dinesh Kumar Prabhu said. Both the suspended SHO and sub-inspector were detained for questioning and later arrested, he said. “An FIR in this regard has been registered at the Chaubeypur police station against Tiwari and Sharma for allegedly fleeing the encounter site,” said a senior police official. It also came to fore during preliminary findings that both the SIs allegedly tipped off gangster Vikas about the police raid, he added. “SHO Vinay Tiwari and SI KK Sharma have been subsequently taken into custody and interrogated by sleuths of STF as their allegiance with gangster was established during the preliminary round of investigations and probe in this regard is still continuing,” said an STF official. To recall, the slian deputy SP Devendra Mishra had written a letter to the then SSP Anant Deo, exposing SHO Vinay Tiwari’s nexus with gangster Vikas Dubey and that went viral on Monday. In the letter, Mishra had sought action against SHO of Chaubeypur police station, Kanpur, Vinay Tiwari but Anant Deo Tewari had allegedly ignored the complaint. The latter was originally recovered from officers suitcase during scrutiny of documents after his death allegedly by his elder daughter Vaishnavi. Later, DIF STF Anant Deo Tewari was transferred from his present post after a controversial letter of slain Dy SP Devendra Mishra surfaced.Vinay Tewari was earlier suspended, allegedly for passing on information about the police raid on Vikas Dubey’s house. Two more sub-inspectors including KK Sharma and a constable were also suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/suspended-chaubeypur-sho-si-arrested-for-fleeing-encounter-site/articleshow/76862441.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 9, 2020||Rajkot||Illegally hoarded wheat worth Rs 51L seized||Rajkot: An illegally hoarded wheat supply worth Rs 51.46 lakh was seized from a godown in GIDC plot-10 on Mahuva-Somnath Highway on Wednesday. “The wheat supply was allegedly hoarded by Ghanshyamsinh Gohil. We raided his godown after receiving a tip-off,” said an official from Bhavnagar district administration.“We have booked Gohil under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/illegally-hoarded-wheat-worth-rs-51l-seized/articleshow/76861135.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: NGO offers free Covid-19 service in Old City||HYDERABAD: A city-based NGO is offering a free Covid emergency service in the Old City to reach out to middle class families, who hesitate to visit government hospitals owing to fear of negligence there. “Many middle class families in the Old City are afraid to go to government hospitals and opt for home care. These people need guidance and support to save precious lives. Acute shortage of oxygen cylinders and shortage of beds in private hospitals is adding to the problem,’’ Mujtaba Hasan Askari of Helping Hand Foundation told TOI. The NGO ensures free supply of 65kg oxygen cylinders at the doorstep along with pulse oximeters for medically prescribed Covid suspected patients and those who tested positive but advised home isolation. It also ensures free refilling and there is no security deposit.  Also, patients are provided inflammatory markers’ test, if advised, at their doorstep. To avail the facilities, one can contact on the numbers 8897867726 or 8977898706. “ Twenty oxygen cylinders have been dropped at Tolichowki, Hakimpet, Chanchalguda, Yakutpura, Dabeerpura, Rakshapuram, MM Pahadi and Nampally areas,’’ Imran Mohammed, operation manager of HHF told TOI. Apart from this, ambulance services fitted with oxygen is also made available in the containment zones between 6 pm and 12 am. People can call on 603540864/9490810914. Mujtaba said for pregnant women facing difficulties in seeking treatment, the NGO is offering services at the Government Maternity Hospital, Petlaburj, government community centre, Barkas and Government Area Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngo-offers-free-covid-service-in-old-city/articleshow/76863311.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Mumbai||BMC to pay contractors Rs 37 lakh per day to manage 612 ICU beds in 5 Covid centres||MUMBAI: The municipal corporation has appointed two contractors for managing its 612 ICU beds at five jumbo Covid care centres that have been set up in open spaces and exhibition centres anticipating an increase in patient load. The two agencies will be responsible for arranging doctors, nurses and other staffers along with the facilities required for the 250 ICU beds at Nesco in Goregaon, 112 at BKC ground, 100 each at Mulund and Dahisar and 50 at NSCI in Worli. The BMC will pay the contractors Rs 6,000 per bed a day, which comes to nearly Rs 37 lakh daily if all 612 beds are occupied. For an empty bed, the BMC will pay a lesser amount. Civic officials said the agencies will be expected to manage the ICU beds facilities for six months, or till the pandemic subsides. For better management, the ICU beds have been arranged into units with up to ten beds each. For each 10 ICU bed set, the contractor has to arrange one senior medical consultant, one associate medical consultant, six resident medical officers, 10 nurses, eight workers and two technicians in shifts. Along with the beds, these facilities also have oxygenated beds and regular beds for non-critical patients. The BMC had decided to outsource the operation and maintenance of these ICU units as the city is facing a shortage of doctors and health staffers and with monsoon-related diseases increasing gradually, there was a need to reduce the Covid-19 treatment burden on civic peripheral hospitals. “We have been struggling to arrange for additional doctors and health staffers for these field hospitals. As ICU beds require dedicated staff so we decided to outsource the operation and maintenance of these ICU units to those with expertise in the healthcare sector,” said a civic official. Last week, the BMC had invited expression of interest and had shortlisted the two lowest bidders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-to-pay-contractors-rs-37l-per-day-to-manage-612-icu-beds-in-5-covid-centres/articleshow/76863302.cms||Vijay V Singh
July 9, 2020||Kolhapur||No evidence of community spread, says head of task force as cases crosses 1k mark||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur district has now recorded 1,000 Covid-19 cases but there has been no evidence of community transmission, said Arti Ghorpade, dean of Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Civil Hospital and head of district covid task force. Officials said it took 50 days to record 100 covid cases and then just 12 days to add 400 more cases. From 500 to 1,000, it took 38 days. According to the data, 95% of the cases are people who returned from red zone areas, while 4.5% are those who are contacts of those infected. About 0.5% patients came from abroad. The 4.5% cases, which roughly translates into 60 cases, did not have any travel history. Ghorpade said that these may be cases of local transmission and cannot be termed as community transmission. “Since the start we adopted strict measures to break the chain of spread and we have succeeded in that. We ensured early detection of cases by isolating people with travel history. So far, there is no evidence for community spread,” she said. The recovery rate of covid cases in Kolhapur is also one of the highest in the state and the death rate is low. One member of the task force, requesting anonymity, said that the recent spike in cases in Ichalkaranji was due to negligence on the part of health staff and locals. “We are suggesting changes required at the ground level. More focus is needed for persons with co-morbidity. We have increased testing. Now, we will launch rapid testing with the help of antigen kits for timely isolation and treatment,” said Ghorpade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-evidence-of-community-spread-says-head-of-task-force-as-cases-crosses-1k-mark/articleshow/76861218.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Goa||This Van Mahotsav, state introduces seed bombs||Panaji: Launching seed bombs into open land is easier as compared to the labourious process of digging the earth and individually planting seedlings. The state forest department has prepared 20,000 seed bombs for distribution among the public this week as part of the annual Van Mahotsav programme. “The seed bombs will be distributed at all wildlife territorial areas and range forest offices. This plantation system is very effective since its one of the easiest method of afforestation. The target is to increase the green cover by way of seed bombing,” range forest officer, Vishwanath Pingulkar said. Wrapped up in little lumps of compost, dung and fertile soil, the seeds are hurled into the air like bombs only to land in areas that are sometimes physically challenging to access. The compost and clay in the seed bombs act as a carrier for the seeds so they can be launched into long distances. At times, they are also placed at potential places as a substitute for planting. This initiative of aerial reforestation was taken up at the range forest office of Valkini in Sanguem wherein it took the manpower of 30 people over a course of two weeks to prepare the seed bombs. The Valkini nursery has a total of 117 medicinal plants and fruit bearing saplings which will also be distributed this month for Van Mahotsav. A total of 2,25,000 plants will be distributed as part of the celebrations. The responsibility of monitoring the growth of these seed bombs has been given to the individual range forest offices in the jurisdiction of which these are being placed in. Germinated seeds of jamun, amla, bamboo, jackfruit, kokum, among others have been used to prepare the bombs, plant nursery in charge Ashok Velip said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/this-van-mahotsav-state-introduces-seed-bombs/articleshow/76864187.cms||Nida Sayed
July 9, 2020||Varanasi||PCS officer’s suicide: Maniyarpanchayat chairman, staff booked||Varanasi: Maniyar Nagar Panchayat chairman Bhim Gupta, tax clerk Vinod Singh, computer operator Akhilesh, executive officer Sikandarpur Sanjay Rao, a driver and some unidentified persons were booked and a case of abetment of suicide was lodged against them at Kotwali police station in Ballia on Wednesday, a day after PCS officer Manimanjari Rai, 30, was found hanging in her flat. Kotwali inspector Vipin Singh said Vijayanand Rai, brother of the deceased officer, filed a complaint after which FIR was lodged under Section 306 of IPC and investigation started. In his complaint, Rai alleged that MNP chairman Bhim Gupta, some contractors and office employees were pressuring Manimanjari Rai, executive officer, to adopt unfair means in allotting contracts of development works and payments. “As my sister opposed them, these people were unhappy with her. Feeling pressure, Manimanjari met the district magistrate and requested to attach her with the district headquarters. However, when she resumed the charge after three months she came to know that many payments had been made by forging her signature,” alleged Rai. “Tenders had to be floated for development work of Rs 2 crores, but the MNP board did not pass a proposal in this regard and the tender process could not be initiated. However, the chairman prepared proposals for 35 works and started pressuring her to issue orders for their execution without following tender process. Of these, 18 were given to one contractor. When she complained to the district magistrate Hari Pratap Shahi in this regard, Rao also started pressurising her in the favour of chairman.” He alleged that Manmanjri’s driver was also hand in glove with the chairman and his men. Many anonymous calls were made to Manmanjari to pressurise her. “The chairman and his accomplices put intense pressure on her. She was subjected to excessive harassment that compelled her to commit suicide,” he alleged. He demanded action against those responsible for compelling her to end her life. Manmanjari was found hanging in her room in Awas Vikas Colony on Tuesday morning. After her post-mortem, her body was handed over to her family. Manmanjari was posted as executive officer of MNP in 2018. It was her first posting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pcs-officers-suicide-maniyarpanchayat-chairman-staff-booked/articleshow/76861199.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||SUM Hospital to study genome sequence of novel coronavirus||BHUBANESWAR: The Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital, which has been chosen as a clinical trial site for the Covid-19 vaccine, has taken up the most advanced next generation sequencing study of SARS-CoV-2 virus in collaboration with the Delhi-based Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB). The IGIB is a part of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, India. “Keeping the pandemic situation in mind, the project’s objective will be to understand the Covid-19 molecular structure and the transmission pattern in the state,” Dr Jayashankar Das, director (research) of IMS and SUM Hospital, said. The genome study is considered to be the most advanced one for any therapeutic and diagnostic development. It requires highly-skilled personnel for the analysis,” Das added. Dr. Das, the lead investigator of the project, further said the SARS-CoV-2 genome sequencing would be carried out to not only understand the transmission ability, mutation and evolution of the virus, but also for developing quick strategies for effective screening and new diagnostics. “Six clusters of human coronavirus were randomly found in India. Of them, the presence of four has been confirmed in different parts of Odisha. We propose to conduct the sequencing of 500 viral genomes to understand the mild, moderate and critical coronavirus cases, along with its transmission capabilities,” Das added. “The research, which has received the approval of the Institutional Ethics Committee at the hospital, will try to isolate the genes responsible for the transmission of the virus as it was fast spreading,” Das said. Das added that the focus would be to understand the genomic evolution, transmission pattern and infection capabilities of SARS-CoV-2. It will help in bringing improvement in existing molecular diagnostic kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sum-hospital-to-study-genome-sequence-of-novel-coronavirus/articleshow/76862476.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Bareilly||Quack sedates, rapes Dalit woman at clinic in UP’s Sambhal, films act||BAREILLY: A Dalit woman, mother of two children, who visited a clinic run by a "quack" in Mandi Kishan Das Sarai area of Sambhal district with a stomach ache was allegedly administered a sedative and raped after she passed out. The accused also threatened the woman to release the video of the act on social media if she disclosed the matter to anyone, the police said. Following the complaint lodged by the woman’s husband on Tuesday, three days after the crime, an FIR was registered at Sambhal kotwali against Faisal Ahmed under sections 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 376 (punishment for rape), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and also under relevant sections of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Information Technology Act. The accused was arrested on Tuesday night. The complainant stated that on Saturday, his wife, in her 30s, complained of stomach ache, following which he told her to get medicine from Ahmed, who had treated her earlier, too. But, as she went there, the accused administered her sedative and raped her after she passed out and filmed the act, alleged the husband. The husband further alleged that the accused threatened her not to disclose the matter to anybody, or else he would circulate the video. Sambhal circle officer (CO) Arun Kumar told TOI, "The woman had visited the clinic in the afternoon of July 4 and she was raped. The crime was reported to Sambhal kotwali three days later and by then the accused had absconded. Police conducted raids at several places, including at his residence and the clinic, to nab him and also warned the accused’s family that his house would be demolished if he did not surrender to police. Later, he was arrested from his residence on Tuesday night." The accused, however, rejected all charges levelled against him, saying that he had the woman’s consent, the CO said. The CO added that based on the video clip, police registered a case and sent the woman for a medical examination, the report of which is awaited. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/quack-sedates-rapes-dalit-woman-at-clinic-in-ups-sambhal-films-act/articleshow/76861198.cms||Maria Khan
July 9, 2020||Goa||Pvt hospital in Candolim shuts after visitor tests +ve||Calangute: A 47-year-old man from Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 in Candolim late Tuesday night, prompting a private hospital in the village that he had visited to shut down and send its staff into isolation. Medical officer at the Candolim primary health centre Dr Roshan Nazareth, said the man had arrived from Mumbai on June 23 with a Covid-negative certificate and was staying at a friend’s apartment in Candolim. He had come to Goa to care for an elderly person who was having health problems. The man visited a private hospital in the village along with the senior citizen for a check-up on June 27. As he complained of a mild fever, he was tested and found to have malaria. His condition, however, worsened over the next few days, prompting him to get tested for Covid-19 on July 4. The report, which was received late Tuesday night, indicated that he was positive. Nazareth said the man was immediately shifted to the Covid hospital in Margao. Following the late-night development, the hospital’s management shut down the entire facility and sent staff who had come into contact with the infected person into quarantine at the hospital itself. There were no other patients admitted at the time. The Candolim panchayat has made arrangements to deliver food packets to the hospital as the kitchen on the premises has been closed as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pvt-hospital-in-candolim-shuts-after-visitor-tests-ve/articleshow/76863949.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Three held with psychotropic drugs worth Rs 1.20 crore||SURAT: The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized a consignment of tramadol hydrochloride tablets, declared as psychotropic substance, valued at Rs 1.20 crore, from Hazira port and arrested three persons on Wednesday. Acting on specific information, the DRI sleuths raided the port and seized two containers consisting of about 15 lakh tramadol hydrochloride tablets of 225 mg being exported to Guna in Africa. Three persons from two healthcare companies involved in manufacturing and distribution of the tablets were arrested and taken to the New Civil Hospital (NCH) for the Covid-19 test in the evening. The accused have been identified as Harshal Desai, Mehul Desai and Shameshwar Patil—all residents of Surat. Official sources said that the tablets were manufactured in Patil’s unit located in Mangrol in Surat district. Earlier too, these three were arrested for illegally exporting about 45 lakh tramadol tablets valued at Rs 3.60 crore to an African country few years ago. Sources said that the trio was arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act and they will be produced in the court on Thursday. On April 26, 2018, department of revenue, ministry of finance, through its notification had declared tramadol as a psychotropic substance to control its abuse and misuse. As a result, the sale and distribution of tramadol is under the supervision and control of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-held-with-psychotropic-drugs-worth-rs-1-20-crore/articleshow/76861204.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Use nets in drains to stop waste from entering sea, says Green tribunal||MUMBAI: The National Green Tribunal’s principal bench has directed the use of nets in drains as an intermediate measure to arrest the flow of solid waste into the sea. It has also directed the state pollution control board and the divisional forest officer to suggest remedial measures for reducing coastal pollution. The order was issued on Tuesday in a plea filed by NGO Vanashakti asking NGT to direct urban local bodies, like BMC, to not discharge untreated sewage and solid waste into stormwater drains and water bodies. The NGO pointed out that periodic beach cleaning activities by citizens was not a solution, instead the BMC must implement segregation of waste and treat sewage before discharging it into the drains. And till the BMC is unable to treat its waste, it asked for nets to be installed in drains and plastic could be prevented from entering the mangrove areas and sea. The government has declared 4,000 acres of mangroves in Mumbai as reserved forests which in the suburbs had increased from 43 sq km to 64 sq km. The mangrove conservation cell informed the NGT that it has removed 8,000 tonnes of garbage from mangrove areas. The NGT then observed, “The removal of accumulated waste alone will not help in finding a lasting solution to this problem. Segregation of waste at source is necessary. Till this happens, the measures suggested by the applicant (Vanashakti) can serve as an intermediate and partial solution to the problem.” The next date of hearing is on October 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/green-tribunal-use-nets-in-drains-till-local-bodies-segregate-treat-solid-waste/articleshow/76863358.cms||Clara Lewis
July 9, 2020||Trichy||Fin firm owner, 8 others booked||Trichy: City police booked the proprietor of a finance firm and eight others for allegedly attacking a 30-year-old investor for asking him to return the investment amount of Rs 45 lakh, here on Tuesday. The Cantonment police registered a case against S Elfin Raja, 41 the owner of Elfin-E-com Pvt Ltd in Trichy, his brother S Ramesh Kumar, 37, Elangovan, P Pon Murugesan – founder of Makkal Marumalarchi Kazhagam, N Prabakaran, 45 of state deputy secretary Thozhilalar Viduthalai Munnani, Balraj, Arivumani, Babu and Shahul Hameed on charges of rioting with weapons, wrongful restrain, verbal abuse, voluntarily causing hurt, criminal intimidation and cheating. A case was booked based on the complaint of N Rajkumar, 30 of Amburani in Pudukottai district. According to his complaint, he had invested Rs 45 lakh in Elfin E-com as the company promised to give him the returns of Rs 90 lakh in ten months. Raja had given him 10 cheques each to the value of Rs 9 lakh to Rajkumar towards maturity amount of his investment. However, Rajkumar was in need of money. So, he asked Raja to return his investment. As the company refused to return the money, he lodged a complaint. The complainant alleged that the accused called him for peace talks. When he was on the way to the office, they waylaid and assaulted him with wooden logs at Mannarpuram on June 20. Rajkumar alleged that they also threatened him with dire consequences. The police said that there was no injury to Rajkumar in the attack. Though the alleged incident took place more than two weeks ago, the complainant brought the issue to the Cantonment police only recently following which the police registered a case against the nine persons. None of them was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fin-firm-owner-8-others-booked/articleshow/76863319.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Mysuru||Won’t ban tourists: Shivamogga DC||Shivamogga: Unlike the district administrations in Uttara Kannada and Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga has refused to ban tourists. The district has been receiving plenty of rain over the past few days and with Jog Falls and other tourist hotspots in full monsoon glory, visitors are beginning to trickle in. Movement of vehicles in the Ghat section has increased following the rain and tour organisers and bikers’ clubs are arranging trips to the district. Locals are apprehensive tourists could spread the virus in their villages, but KB Sivakumar, district deputy commissioner, insisted he will not ban visitors. He said the government has not issued an advisory or order on restricting movement of tourists, while also pointing out that the number of tourists coming into the district is comparatively low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/wont-ban-tourists-shivamogga-dc/articleshow/76861253.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Delhi||More illegal houses razed in east Delhi||NEW DELHI: The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) and Public Works Department (PWD) demolished around 90% of houses allegedly constructed illegally on public land in East Laxmi Market (near Angad Nagar) on Wednesday. It was the third day of the drive carried out in the presence of a large police force, on the direction of Delhi high court, after a petition filed by the residents for staying the demolition drive was rejected. Residents said that they have filed a fresh petition in the high court on Tuesday and are expecting a hearing on Thursday. A senior EDMC official, however, said that the matter of construction of houses on right of way (service lane) along the nullah road in east Delhi has been going on in the court for a long time and residents were aware that the decision came last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/more-illegal-houses-razed-in-east-delhi/articleshow/76863327.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 9, 2020||Nagpur||Citizen questioning govt SOP for online edu acting against nation: HC||NAGPUR: Disposing of a challenge to Maharashtra government’s Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) of June 15 for regulating e-learning in schools, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court tersely observed that if it encourages online education, any citizen questioning its intentions and purposes, would only be acting against the interests and well-being of his own country. “A citizen of India may come across some issues in SOP’s effective implementation. But his duty would be to point out those to the concerned authority, so that necessary corrective measures are taken,” a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Shreeram Modak said. Contending that the SOP has created a digital divide between students in urban and rural areas, petitioner Imran Israel Sheikh through counsel Sumeet Bodhalkar charged the government with miserably failing to consider multiple factors, including difficulty faced by students from weaker sections. He said it’s a known fact that corporation schools as well as those situated in rural areas lack infrastructure in terms of access to internet and digital literacy among teachers as well as students. Refusing his prayers, the judges, however, clarified that they’re of prima facie impression that the plea represents only a regressive step in the field of education. “The petition doesn’t point out any inherent contradictions, defects and lacunae in SOP, so as to term it arbitrary, irrational or unreasonable and hence amenable to interference by HC on the ground of violation of any fundamental right to education. All the issues attempted to be raised, basically relate to SOP’s implementation. If there are any difficulties, they could be sorted out by the state, and if required also by the centre, provided they are appropriately pointed out.” The bench further pointed out that the petitioner hasn’t approached any government for removal of the lacunae. “Today, we’re in 21st century where the world is being governed digitally in a greater way. Therefore, the SOP which prescribes e-learning and promotes digital and virtual methods of learning can be hailed as a big progressive measure by the government in making digital position of India stronger and firmer in the Comity of Nations.” Adding that the difficulties pointed out by petitioner are factors external to policy, the judges said when those can be corrected, it can’t be termed as defective or unconstitutional. “It’s only when there are inherent defects or lacunae in the policy or the external factors are of nature which are irremovable or beyond repairs, then only it could be blamed as the one inherently defective and hence, adversely affecting the fundamental right to education.” WHAT HC SAID * Today, we’re in 21st century, where world is being governed digitally in a greater way * SOP can be hailed as big progressive measure in making digital position of India stronger & firmer * Citizen’s duty is to point out discrepancies to authorities, so that corrective measures are taken * Prima facie impression is petition represents only a regressive step in field of education * It doesn’t point out any inherent contradictions, defects & lacunae in SOP of June 15 * Petitioner should first approach concerned authorities for what he sees as defects or lacunae||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citizen-questioning-govt-sop-for-online-edu-acting-against-nation-hc/articleshow/76863318.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Active cases in Kolhapur stand at 242||KOLHAPUR: The tally of Covid-19 in Kolhapur district on Wednesday increased to 1,028 with addition of 24 new cases. Two deaths were also reported, taking the death toll to 18. According to a health official, the active cases stand at 242 and of the 18 deaths, 8 have been reported from Ichalkaranji. Of those who tested positive on Wednesday, five were from Kolhapur city while three are the relatives of a man from Rajopadhyenagar who had tested positive for the contagion on Tuesday. Nikhil More, deputy commissioner of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation, said, “We are tracing contacts of the new cases. The containment zones have been declared in three localities of the city. Currently, there are 13 active containment zones.” Meanwhile, Sangli district reported 21 new cases following which the tally has gone up to 562. There are 259 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/active-cases-in-kolhapur-stand-at-242/articleshow/76861273.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Trichy||Pregnant girl ends life after protesting delay in arresting lover||Trichy: Frustrated over the delay in arresting her lover who impregnated her on the promise of marriage, a 17-year-old girl committed suicide by consuming poison on Wednesday near Manapparai.Police said the girl and the 17-year-old boy, a relative, were in love and had sexual relations. After she became pregnant for six months, the girl lodged a complaint against the boy with the all women police station on May 25. She said the boy had gone back on his promise to marry her. The police registered a case against him under sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act on May 29. However, they could not arrest him as he was absconding. Seeking action against him, the girl brought the issue to the notice of higher officials also but to no avail. On Monday, she protested in front of the AWPS police station demanding his arrest. However, the boy obtained an anticipatory bail. On getting the information, the girl consumed an insecticide kept at her house. Her parents rushed her to government headquarters hospital in Manapparai where she was declared dead. The foetus also could not survive. IGP central zone Jayaram, DIG Z Annie Vijaya and SP Zia Ul Haque visited the All women police station in Manapparai. IG Jayaram said the girl was stressed over the refusal of the accused to marry her. He told reporters that the girl’s mother had lodged a complaint with the police to take action against the boy who she held responsible for the suicide. He said DSP of Manapparai will look into the case. The police arrested the boy later in the day for abetment of the girl’s suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pregnant-girl-ends-life-after-protesting-delay-in-arresting-lover/articleshow/76863332.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Trichy||Nurse gets abused by man for referring Covid test on wife||Trichy: The Samayapuram police are on the lookout for a man from Vaippur village near Samayapuram, who was booked for abusing and threatening a government village health nurse (VHN), for referring his wife for Covid-19 test. Accodring to police, the man’s wife was in her full term pregnancy. Last month, she had gone to the Pudhur Uthamanur primary health centre (PHC) for routine check-up. Santhosa Mary, 35, who was the VHN, referred her to visit the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy for undergoing Covid-19 test as a prerequisite. The woman visited the hospital and gave her nasal swab. The lab results revealed that she was infected with Covid-19. Mary informed the pregnant woman about the infection and asked her to be ready to get admitted to the MGMGH. However, the health workers visited the house, she and her husband were unavailable. On June 29, the woman herself got admitted to the MGMGH. After that, the man kept calling up the VHN daily and abused her besides threatening her with dire consequences for putting his wife through Covid-19 test and eventually leading to her admission in hospital. Acting on the complaint filed by the nurse on Wednesday, Trichy collector S Sivarasu instructed the police to register a case against the man. Police booked him on charges of verbal abuse, deterring public servant from discharging duty and criminal intimidation. Police said that once he is arrested, he would be put through Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nurse-gets-abused-by-man-for-referring-covid-test-on-wife/articleshow/76863325.cms||---
July 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara village committees empowered to fine violators||KOLHAPUR: Satara district collector Shekhar Singh has empowered village and urban-level committees to take action against people found violating lockdown rules. The committee members have been authorised to recover fines for violations like spitting in public places, not wearing masks, not maintaining social distance etc. The collector, in an order, has said offences should be registered against violators if they refuse to pay the fine. The Satara district identified 46 new patients in the first half on Wednesday. The district also recorded three deaths. While two of the deceased men are from Patan and Jawli tehsil, one 28-year-old youth died in the Satara civil hospital. He had come from Mumbai. Officials said 27 patients were discharged and five of them are children below the age of 10. The district has now 498 active patients. Solapur rural, meanwhile, recorded 20 new cases on Wednesday. There were three deaths too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-village-committees-empowered-to-fine-violators/articleshow/76861291.cms||---
