July 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Kovid Mittal’s next film delves into treatments at mental health facilities||It isn’t really a pleasant coincidence to share the same name as the disease during a pandemic, but model-turned-actor Kovid Mittal seems undeterred. “Hopefully, I’ll be one of the last few people to have this name,” he says. Kovid is currently busy with his latest film, ‘Kanke Mental Asylum’, the plot of which focuses on the ‘ill practices’ in mental health hospitals. “It’s a three-part film – the first part runs for 20 minutes, the second for 45 minutes and the third for 80 minutes. The first two parts are ready for release and the third one is in the making,” says the actor, who has also co-written the script for the mystery-thriller. So, is it the heightened risk of anxiety and depression amid the outbreak that served as an inspiration for the film? “We actually happened to come across a real-life incident that involved an unethical practice at an asylum, which is now shut. One thing led to the other, and we ended up doing quite a bit of research on the age-old methods of treatment in mental health facilities across the world,” says Kovid, adding, “This felt like an inspiration to tell a story concentrating on some of the procedures used to heal people, and that’s how the movie happened.” Directed by Sanjana S, the main cast of the film includes Bengaluru-based theatre actors Amrita Roy, Pooja Tripathi and Imran. Having been in the industry for the past decade, Kovid has worked in quite a few short films, apart from his modelling assignments, and has also had a stint in fashion designing. He is quite buoyant about his upcoming documentary project, which will see him filming his expedition to the peak of the Kang Yatze mountain in the Himalayas. “If not the lockdown, this trip would have begun around this time. Now, I am looking forward to completing it in 2021, hopefully,” the actor sums up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kovid-mittals-next-film-delves-into-treatments-at-mental-health-facilities/articleshow/76880455.cms||Reema Gowalla
July 10, 2020||Business||Yes Bank case: ED attaches Rs 2,200cr assets of Kapoor, others||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has provisionally attached assets worth Rs 2,203 crore of Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, his family members and the promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) group — brothers Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan — in a money-laundering case linked to defrauding the bank. The present market value of these assets is over Rs 2,800 crore. The attached properties of Kapoor and the related entities is valued at Rs 792 crore — the current market value is Rs 1,400 crore. The assets include a residential building at Cumbala Hill, three duplex flats at Napean Sea Road, a flat near NCPA, eight flats in IndiaBulls Blue, Worli, and a bungalow at 40 Amrita Shergill Marg in Delhi, which is worth around Rs 685 crore, stated an ED release. The attached assets belonging to the Wadhawans and their related entities are worth Rs 1,411.9 crore. These include 12 flats in Khar (W), one flat in New York, two flats in London, two plots in Pune and Mulshi, one commercial property in Australia, five luxury vehicles and 344 bank accounts. Earlier, the ED had attached bank deposits of Rs 115 crore of Kapoor’s various companies and had also seized jewellery worth nearly Rs 22.9 crore and seven high-end luxury cars worth Rs 12.6 crore belonging to the Wadhawans. The ED had initiated a probe based on an FIR registered by the CBI. Between April and June 2018, Yes Bank had invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of DHFL, for which Kapoor and his family members had allegedly received Rs 600 crore as kickback in the garb of loan to his daughters’ company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yes-bank-case-ed-attaches-rs-2200cr-assets-of-kapoor-others/articleshow/76882325.cms||Vijay V Singh
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-safe certificate for stigmatised coolies of Chandigarh railway station||CHANDIGARH: Coolies at the local railway station are now tested for Covid-19 before the arrival of any train and given a certificate of health to let the passengers know they are safe to hire.The station officials took the initiative because travellers, not knowing who might carry coronavirus, have started to stigmatise the porters. Station superintendent Anil Aggarwal said: "Since the train service resumed, passengers aren't letting porters touch the luggage. I observed it for a few days before we found a solution."Coolies carry stigma instead of luggageFor visibility, the next plan is to pin a batch on the porters that they don't have Covid-19. Last month when the railways decided to let two trains pass Chandigarh, the station's 30 coolies found a new hope after surviving all April and May on their savings. However, they found passengers were avoiding them.Till mid-March, the station had 40 porters but 10 went to their home states during the lockdown to avoid starving in the city. Porter Vijay Singh Meena said: "Even this monitoring of symptoms hasn't given some passengers much confidence. The coolies now work in small shifts to reassure them and have any hope of earning. For the morning train, eight porters go to the station and seven report to work in the evening. Next day, the other 15 do the same shifts. They work alternately.Three coolies older than 60 are off duty on government's instructions. Rakesh Kumar, a second-generation porter working for 15 years, said: "I tried to look for some other work but there was none. If by the month-end, things don't improve, I'd return to my village in Uttar Pradesh. We don't get any work as all trains stop at Platform Number 1, from where it is easy for the passengers to carry their own luggage. They can even make two rounds to the parking lot."Before the lockdown, porters' daily income was Rs 500 to 700 in the travel months, and Rs 300 to 500 in the off season. Post lockdown, they are lucky if they make even Rs 150 to 200 a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-safe-certificate-for-stigmatised-coolies-of-chandigarh-railway-station/articleshow/76881514.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 10, 2020||Guwahati||With 5 more deaths, Assam’s Covid-19 toll increase to 27||GUWAHATI: Assam’s Covid-19 deaths increased to 27 following five more fatalities with comorbidities on Thursday. Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma informed that three deceased persons are above 60 years of age, while one is 56 years old and the other person is 38 years old. “A 72-yer-old patient with lymphoma died at Assam Medical College and Hospital, a 68-year-old man with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and a 38 –year-old woman with diabetes died at Mahendra Mohan Choudhury hospital here. Anotehr 70 year-old of Beltola in Guwahati and a 56-year-old man of Karbi Anglong admitted at GMCH succumbed to their critical infections this morning. Both were on invasive ventilation,” Sarma said. Assam had reported six COVID-19 deaths on Wednesday night and two on deaths on Tuesday. The state has so far reported 14,032 COVID-19 cases out of which 5,279 are still active while 8,726 patients have been discharged following their recovery. Informing the test status of the state, Sarma tweeted, “As we continue our fight against the pandemic there are some milestones that need to be celebrated. I am very proud of my team for having achieved the 5 lakh #COVID19 testing mark today. My compliments to the team of doctors, health department officials and support staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/with-5-more-deaths-assams-covid-19-toll-increase-to-27/articleshow/76882384.cms||Prabin Kalita
July 10, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Traders wish to open shops six days a week citing operational costs||MUMBAI: A traders' federation has requested the state government to permit all shops to ply their business six days a week, irrespective of which side of the road they are located. At present, shops on either side of the road are allowed to open on alternate days, that is three days a week, owing to Covid-19 lockdown restrictions. Their owners are finding it difficult to pay shop rent, electricity bills, staff salaries and overhead costs with limited business. Viren Shah, president of FRTWA (Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association), said, "Shops are effectively working just 12 days a month, which is impractical to sustain operational costs. We have written to CM Uddhav Thackeray, Aditya Thackeray, Sharad Pawar, Aslam Shaikh and BMC commissioner IS Chahal to allow us to reopen shops properly under Unlockdown 2. Mumbai is the financial capital and Maharashtra contributes 60% by way of GST. By not allowing shops to ply on all six days, the advantage is going to e-commerce businesses." Consumers are also perplexed as to shops on which side of a road will be open on which day. "I only know about my locality but not about other markets a little distance away. One cannot possibly travel the distance only to return empty handed," said Four Bungalows resident Sarita Shyam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-traders-wish-to-open-shops-six-days-a-week-citing-operational-costs/articleshow/76882388.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
July 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Liquor prices slashed by 35% in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: Liquor will be available at cheaper prices from Friday as the state government slashed the ‘special Covid fee’ on the maximum retail price (MRP) from 50% to 15%. The excise department said they revised the Covid fee after taking stock of the liquor prices in other states. “We verified the MRP of liquor in other states, especially in the neighbouring West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. We found that liquor prices are relatively cheaper in the neighbouring states. Apprehending illegal flow of the non-duty paid liquor from other states to Odisha, we decided to revise our MRP of the liquor by rationalizing the rate of special Covid fee,” an excise official said. The department said the existing 50% special Covid fee on the MRP (2019-20) of all types of liquor has been brought down to 15%. “The brand wise revised MRP of the liquor products will be available in the website of Odisha state beverage corporation (www.osbc.co.in),” the official said. While introducing online/home delivery of liquor on May 25, the state government levied the special Covid fee and increased the prices of all types of foreign liquor and beer by 50% of the MRPs of 2019-20. Sources said the government earned around Rs 200 crore revenue from the special Covid fee on liquor. Liquorshops, which were shut in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic since March 22, were allowed to sell the alcoholic beverage only through online booking and home delivery from May 25. “We had been incurring loss as our sale went down following imposition of 50% special Covid fee on the liquor. People, who had been earlier purchasing costly brands, subsequently became choosy and went for less expensive bottles. Now, we hope the buyers will find no problem with 15% hike on the 2019-20 MRPs,” Ranjit Sahoo, a liquor store manager said. From July 1, the state government allowed counter sale of liquor in addition to the existing online/home delivery system. The sale of liquor across the counters is being allowed only between 7 am and 6 pm. Bars, however, have not been allowed to reopen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/liquor-prices-slashed-by-35-in-odisha/articleshow/76882518.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
July 10, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 39 positive cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, tally mounts to 1,140||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported 39 cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, including 33 from Solan district, 3 from Shimla district, 2 from Una district and one from Mandi district. The state also saw 13 recoveries, including one from Hamirpur district and 6 from Kangra district, 5 from Solan district and one from Una district. The state has registered a recovery rate of 74.93%. There are 1,140 positive cases in Himachal, of which 283 are active. A total of 833 patients have recovered, 13 have migrated out of the state, nine have died of Covid-19 while two deaths of positive patients from Chamba and Shimla district occurred due to other reasons. A total of 62,553 persons were placed under surveillance in the state till Thursday. Of them, 42,328 have completed their 28-day surveillance, while 20,225 are under active surveillance. So far, 94,720 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of which 93,132 have been tested negative while results of 448 samples were awaited. Bilaspur district has total 48 positive cases of which 11 are active while 37 have recovered, Chamba district has total 58 positive cases of which 10 are active while 47 have recovered while death of a positive patient has occurred due to non Covid reason, Hamirpur district has total 268 positive cases of which 53 are active, 212 have recovered while 3 positive patient have died, Kangra district has total 298 positive cases of which 61 are active, 233 have recovered while 2 have died and Kinnaur district has total 34 positive cases of which 27 are active, while 7 have recovered. Kullu district has total 7 positive cases of which 2 are active while 5 have has recovered, Lahaul-Spiti district has 4 positive cases and all four are active, Mandi district has total 38 positive cases of which 10 are active, 26 have recovered while two have died, Shimla district has total 52 positive cases of which 12 are active, 37 have recovered while one has died of Covid-19 another positive patient has died of non Covid reason. Sirmaur district has total 41 positive cases of which 5 are active while 29 have recovered and 7 have migrated out of state, Solan district has total 159 positive cases of which 59 are active, 96 have recovered while four have migrated out of state and Una district has total 133 positive cases of which 29 are active while 104 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-reports-39-positive-cases-of-covid-19-on-thursday-tally-mounts-to-1140/articleshow/76881561.cms||Anand Bodh
July 10, 2020||India||43% of Covid-19 deaths in India in 30-59 yrs age band||NEW DELHI: While people in age groups above 45 continue to be more at risk from Covid-19 in terms of fatalities, as many as 43% deaths have taken place in the relatively younger age bands of 30-44 and 45-59, official data said. As has been the trend, people above 45 years of age — comprising 25% of India’s population — are most at risk from coronavirus infection, accounting for 85% of Covid-19 deaths so far. Within this age group, most deaths (71%) are among those in 45-74 age group, health ministry data showed. But the data also showed that people between 30-44 years and 45-59 years — comprising 37% of the population — registered 43% of Covid deaths. The percentage of deaths with respect to age groups has not changed significantly since May 21, when these statistics were last shared by the ministry. However, in terms of absolute numbers, the deaths have increased with rise in overall fatality. According to the ministry’s daily update, out of the over 7.67 lakh cases, around 4.76 lakh have recovered while over 2.69 lakh remain active in the country. With more Covid-19 patients recovering, the gap between the number of recovered and active cases has increased by 2 lakh. Deaths were at 21,129. “Gap between active cases and recovered cases is progressively increasing. This is significant because it helps us ensure that our healthcare system is not unduly burdened,” official on special duty in the health ministry Rajesh Bhushan said. With a focus on effective clinical management, the current recovery rate has improved to 62.09%, up from 47.40% on May 31 and 26.59% on May 3, the data showed. Bhushan emphasised that while analysing the Covid-19 scenario, the population of the country must be taken into account. He said India’s deaths and cases per million were among the lowest in the world. “Cases per million population in some countries are at least 16-17 times more than what it is in India. We have 15 deaths per million population whereas there are countries where it is 40 times as much.” Watch New data shows 43% of Covid-19 deaths in India in 30-59 yrs age band||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/43-of-covid-19-deaths-in-india-in-30-59-yrs-age-band/articleshow/76882684.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh to write to PM Narendra Modi for cancellation of university, college final term exams||CHANDIGARH: Terming the Covid situation in the state non-conducive to holding of examinations, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday said he will write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah seeking cancellation of exams in universities and colleges for the safety of students. Amarinder said he would seek revocation of the July 6 MHA orders for compulsory conduct of final terms exams in the universities and colleges by September, and withdrawal of the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines in this regard. Covid cases in Punjab are increasing every day and are projected to peak in September, Amarinder pointed out, adding that he is not ready to risk the lives of the students in these circumstances. "How can we take the risk of exposing students by bringing them together for exams at this juncture?" said Amarinder at a meeting of the education department to discuss the issue. He further said that the exams could not be held in online mode, which the UGC had suggested as an option, since a large section of students in Punjab, especially in rural areas and among the backward communities, do not have access to affordable and uninterrupted internet connectivity. Technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi expressed agreement with the CM's view.Pointing out that seven other states have already raised their concerns on this count with the Centre, Amarinder said all Congress-ruled states have decided to approach the Union government in this regard. Amarinder asks VCs to write to UGCThe chief minister asked higher education minister Tript Singh Bajwa to write to his counterpart in the central government on the issue and also urged the vice chancellors of various institutions to write to the UGC for the cancellation of the exams. Education secretary Rahul Bhandari said he has already written to the UGC chairman for reconsideration of the UGC guidelines issued on July 6 for conducting terminal semester exams. He pointed out that most of the university and college hostels have been evacuated and are being used as Covid Care Centres and regular train and bus services have not been operationalised so far, making it infeasible for students to travel for their exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-to-write-to-modi-for-cancellation-of-university-college-final-term-exams/articleshow/76882833.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana woman donates portion of liver to save father-in-law||CHANDIGARH: At a time when the incidents of elders being overlooked by their children is a growing concern, a 30-year-old woman from a village in Narwana of Jind district has donated a portion of her liver to her father in law, who was battling with liver cancer. Monika, a resident of Belarkhan village in Jind, donated a portion of her liver to Ajmer Singh, 53. In May this year, doctors had told Ajmer that he would not survive beyond one-and-half months unless he arranges a donor, who can donate a portion of his liver for him. The blood group of both sons of Ajmer and his wife were different from his and the family did not have time to wait for a prospective donor. It was then that Monika, a mother of two, who had the required blood group, offered to donate a portion of her liver to save her father-in-law's life. After the necessary formalities, a part of her liver was transplanted to Ajmer Singh on June 25 at a private hospital in Gurgaon."I did not think twice while offering the organ to my father-in-law, who is a very kind person. We are a joint family and I had seen him taking care of us selflessly. When his blood group did not match with others in the family, I volunteered thinking that a precious life should not be lost just for want of a portion of my organ, which doctors said will regenerate in 3-4 months," Monika told TOI. Ajmer said, "In a village, a father-in-law hardly interacts with his daughter-in-law due to the social set-up. But when she volunteered for donating her organ, I bowed to her parents for the teachings and values given to their daughter."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-donates-portion-of-liver-to-save-father-in-law/articleshow/76882834.cms||Ajay Sura
July 10, 2020||Shimla||HP to ensure early completion of Bilaspur-Leh railway line||Manali: Himachal has assured the Centre of all possible cooperation in land acquisition, forest and revenue related formalities to complete the Bilaspur-Manali-Leh railway line as soon as possible, an official said. During a video conference meeting of transport and forest department officials with northern railway staff in the presence of deputy commissioners of Bilaspur, Una and Solan districts, discussions were held on under-construction and future railway projects in the state. The meeting was presided over by transport minister Govind Singh Thakur. Railway projects discussed during the session included Bhanupalli-Bilaspur-Beri, Kalka-Solan-Shimla and Pathankot-Jogindernagar railway lines. "Expanding railways in Himachal is important from the strategic point of view. An international agency has conducted 22 surveys through satellite image system for 475-km-long Bhanupalli-Bilaspur-Manali-Leh railway line. Another survey will be conducted with the help of a radar. Ropeway and Rapid Transport System Development Corporation (RTDC), which looks after ropeway works in the state, has been given the responsibility of looking after the project," transport minister Govind Thakur said. He added that the Centre has given Rs 157 crore for DPR of the project, which will have a cumulative cost of Rs 85,000 crore. "Preliminary survey of the project is complete. Final location survey and land acquisition is continuing in four phases. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has made PM Modi and railway ministry aware of the present situation and assured all possible help from the state in land acquisition and other requirements for early completion of the project," he said. Information on all railway projects of the state was sought from railway officials from Delhi, Ambala, Chandigarh and Ferozepur through video conference. The minister directed them to complete formalities, including land acquisition, soon. Thakur also directed officials of the railways and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to conduct a joint survey to prevent falling of debris over Kalka-Shimla heritage line, which is part of world heritage. He also directed officials to complete formalities like land acquisition and forest clearance for the Una-Talwara railway line. Officials were asked to repair the old railway line and speed up cutting of dried trees. On completion, the railway line will be the highest in the world. It will be an engineering marvel with 74 tunnels, 124 large bridges and 396 small bridges. The longest tunnel will be 27 km long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-to-ensure-early-completion-of-bilaspur-leh-railway-line/articleshow/76882836.cms||Suresh Sharma
July 10, 2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling: Diplomat involved, says accused; NIA gets case||NEW DELHI: The home ministry on Thursday ordered a probe by National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the Thiruvananthapuram airport gold smuggling case — relating to the recent seizure of 30 kg of the yellow metal from a diplomatic cargo addressed to the UAE consulate-general office in the Kerala capital — on the ground that the “organised smuggling operation may have serious implications for national security”. The NIA case, according to sources, will be registered under Section 15, 16, 17 and 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 2004, which essentially relate to a terrorist act and terror funding. “NIA probe will ensure a thorough investigation since the case involves an organised racket with international linkages, and was deemed appropriate given the implications for national and economic security of India,” said an officer. NIA sources said it will start the probe right away. The case has created a flutter in Kerala owing to alleged involvement of a former staffer of UAE consulate-general Swapna Suresh who during her stint there was often seen moving in key social, political and bureaucratic circles. In fact, after it emerged that she had alleged connections with principal secretary to Kerala chief minister, M Sivasankar, the latter was removed from the post on Tuesday. Swapna Suresh is absconding. She filed for anticipatory bail in the Kerala high court, claiming that she had contacted the airport officer regarding the cargo on the alleged directions of top diplomat in the UAE consulate-general office, Rashid Khamis Al Shameli. She said she was still working with the consulate under “work on request” basis. What has made the seizure, estimated to be worth Rs 15 crore, particularly interesting is that the gold was hidden in diplomatic cargo, which need not be subjected to routine Customs examination. The cargo was listed as bathroom fittings, noodles, biscuits and dates. But the Customs had advance inputs about the concealed gold. Sarith Kumar, who was earlier local PRO in the consulate-general office, turned up to claim the cargo saying he was still with the consulate. The consulate, however, told Customs before this that Kumar had been removed as local PRO a year back and was not assigned for claiming the cargo. The Customs did not release the cargo, but opened the consignment in the presence of the UAE consulate officials. Customs officials suspect the role of a well-orchestrated smuggling lobby operating in the West Asia behind this incident. Watch Diplomat involved in Kerala gold smuggling case, says accused||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-gold-smuggling-diplomat-involved-says-accused-nia-gets-case/articleshow/76882852.cms||Bharti Jain
July 10, 2020||India||Dubey's run of 5 states & 1500km ends with Ujjain temple arrest||UJJAIN/INDORE: Dodging police in four states, fugitive UP gangster Vikas Dubey on Thursday surfaced unarmed at Ujjain’s famed Mahakaal temple and did a darshan along with other unsuspecting devotees before he was spotted on CCTV, “identified” by a man selling puja items and arrested by MP police to end a six-day hunt following the killing of eight UP police personnel in a Maoist-style ambush by his gang. In the evening, the UP Special Task Force took custody of Dubey from MP police without producing him in court for transit remand. Ujjain SP Manoj Kumar Singh said the UP police had left the city with Dubey and would produce him in court there within 24 hours. “We have provided a police escort to the team after exchanging custody.” For a most-wanted man with a reward of Rs 5 lakh on his head, Dubey seemingly didn’t try too hard to conceal his identity. He turned up at the temple with face mask pulled down, asked for directions and bought a VIP ticket at the counter, prompting the Congress to allege it was a case of “shelter and surrender”. Fugitive UP gangster Vikas Dubey defied the mobile phone ban to take a selfie-video of him doing aarti and readily gave his phone number to a policeman after he was identified and challenged. Ujjain SP Manoj Kumar Singh told reporters that Dubey was first identified by a man selling puja items outside the shrine. “Shopkeeper Suresh Mali had seen Vikas Dubey’s face on TV channels over the last few days. He informed the private security guards at the temple, who, in turn, alerted the police,” he said. Constable Vijay Rathore was the first cop to arrive — at 8.45am. He grappled with Dubey and pinned him down until reinforcements arrived, the police said. As the don was being led to a police vehicle, he shouted out to passers-by: “Mein Vikas Dubey hun, Kanpur wala (I am Vikas Dubey of Kanpur).” Rathore slapped him on the head and screamed: “Shut up.” A video of this has since gone viral. Around 10am, MP home minister Narottam Mishra announced the arrest. “We have caught Vikas, and he is in our custody. He is a cruel killer. What he did was reprehensible. We have informed UP Police. It’s a big achievement for MP police." UP CM Yogi Adityanath spoke with his MP counterpart Shivraj Singh Chouhan after the arrest. “The legal formalities will be done and Dubey will be handed over to UP police,” Chouhan tweeted, adding: “Those who think that they can wash away their sins by visiting Mahakaal don't know anything about Mahakaal. MP police won’t spare any criminal.” A few hours before Dubey was caught, two more of his aides were shot dead. His right-hand man and nephew Amar Dubey, had been gunned down in the Bundelkhand region bordering MP on Wednesday. Sources said Dubey would have realised that he was running out of hiding places and time, prompting him to head for Mahakaal because he knew there wouldn’t be an encounter inside a temple. After his arrest, the gangster’s mother said he would visit the Mahakaal temple every year. If that were true, why did he go around asking shopkeepers and priests about directions to the temple, and where he could buy a ticket? Also, if he was a regular, he would have known that mobiles are banned inside the temple and that he would be noticed on CCTV if he took a video of the aarti. Curiously, Mahakal police station in-charge inspector Prakash Waskale and the temple police checkpost's incharge, inspector Asha Solanki, had been transferred and replaced by two other officers on Wednesday evening. Senior officers called it a routine transfer. Police sources said Vikas reached Ujjain two days ago and checked into a hotel using fake documents. Police have detained six members of a family in the Nagjhiri area. They are believed to be related to the don and have been living in Ujjain for 15 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dubeys-run-of-5-states-1500km-ends-with-ujjain-temple-arrest/articleshow/76883120.cms||Salil Mekaad
July 10, 2020||India||PLA begins Pangong pullback ahead of army talks next week||NEW DELHI: Chinese troops have now also pulled back from the confrontation site at Pangong Tso, though they are still to vacate the heights, setting the stage for the next meeting between Indian and Chinese corps commanders early next week to take forward the stepwise disengagement process under way in eastern Ladakh. PLA soldiers and their vehicles have now completely withdrawn from “the base” of Finger-4 eastwards to Finger-5 (mountainous spurs) on the north bank of Pangong Tso, as was agreed in the June 30 meeting of the corps commanders, said sources on Thursday. Though PLA is yet to vacate the ridge-line that dominates the Finger-4 area, the over 800-metre pullback at the base is a “positive signal” for the completion of phase-I of the de-escalation plan decided between 14 Corps commander Lt Gen Harinder Singh and South Xinjiang Military District chief Major Gen Liu Lin, said sources. But PLA troops still remain in the Finger-5 to -8 area. India contends that the Line of Actual Control (LAC) runs north to south at Finger-8. “We will wait and watch over the next three to four days if the PLA also vacates the heights at Finger-4, where they have built several defences like pill-boxes, as was agreed in phase-I. It will obviously figure in the meeting of the corps commanders next week,” said a source. Indian soldiers have also pulled back “a suitable distance” westwards towards their Dhan Singh Thapa post between Finger-2 and 3, in consonance with the plan to disengage at all the friction points to reduce chances of a clash between the rival troops. The two armies over the last few days have pulled back troops by 1.5 to 2-km each at Patrolling Point-14 (PP-14) in Galwan Valley, PP-15 and PP-17A in the Gogra-Hot Springs area, as was reported by TOI. But the troop confrontation at Pangong Tso, the brackish water lake situated at an altitude of 13,900 feet across the Changla Pass, seemed the most intractable. Since early May, over 3,000 PLA troops have occupied the 8-km stretch from Finger-4 to 8, building a large number of fortifications as well as occupying the ridge-lines. “The fourth round of talks (after June 6, 22 and 30) will also focus on the next phase of de-escalation like withdrawal of heavy weaponry from the vicinity of the four friction points with specified time-lines and modalities,” he added. Lt-Gen Singh will also take up the blocking of Indian patrols at PP-10, 11, 12 and 13 in the Depsang Plains area, a strategically-located tabletop plateau to the north of Galwan, after PLA troops intruded deep into what India considers its territory, as was earlier reported by TOI. “India will reiterate its patrols should not be blocked from reaching their PPs in Depsang (India overall has 65 PPs along the LAC in eastern Ladakh). This will help towards overall reduction in tensions,” said the source. The primary aim in phase-I of the de-escalation plan was to reduce the chances of violent clashes by creation of temporary no-patrolling zones at the confrontation sites, with both sides suspending all activities there to cool down tensions and rebuild trust that was shattered by the bloody skirmish on June 15. “It has nothing to do with acceptance of claims lines or a new LAC. There is no loss of any territory or patrolling rights, perceived or otherwise. The moratorium on patrolling to our PPs is temporary. It will be resumed once the disengagement is over,” said the source. Watch PLA begins Pangong pullback ahead of army talks next week||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pla-begins-pangong-pullback-ahead-of-army-talks-next-week/articleshow/76883374.cms||Rajat Pandit
July 10, 2020||India||14-year-old was on boat when Italian marines shot 2 dead||NEW DELHI: On February 15, 2012, Italian marines aboard the oil tanker Enrica Lexie opened fire at an Indian fishing boat 20 nautical miles off the southern Kerala coast. They had mistaken it for a pirate skiff and their gunfire killed two of the 10 fishermen on board. More than eight years later, it has emerged that there was a 14-year-old boy, too, on that boat, according to his family. Prijin A never recovered from the trauma of that incident and never received any compensation because, officially, he was never on the boat. He finally took his own life on July 2, 2019, a little more than seven years since he saw his friends die. From Kanjampuram, in Kanyakumari district of Tamil Nadu, Prijin was an apprentice and cook on the St Anthony. On the day of the incident, he saw his close friend and neighbour Ajeesh Pinku die in a hail of automatic gunfire from the Italian vessel. The Enrica Lexie incident attracted international attention, briefly sparked a diplomatic stand-off between India and Italy, and saw protracted litigation till the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague on July 2 this year removed the case from India’s jurisdiction but also ruled that the surviving fishermen’s families be compensated adequately by Italy. Prijin was the sole breadwinner for his family. On July 6, his mother and seven sisters wrote to the Centre demanding that Prijin’s posthumous rights as a minor be protected as per international child rights law and the Indian Constitution, and that Rs 100 crore compensation be obtained from Italy. After the high-seas shooting at around 4.30pm, Enrica Lexie allegedly tried to speed away and the St Anthony turned back for Neendakara. Mid-sea, Prijin was shifted to another fishing boat as its captain Fredy John Bosco, originally from Prijin’s native village in Kanyakumari, feared that he would be hauled up for child labour. As the matter moved to the courts, Fredy often visited Prijin and his family, convincing them to keep Prijin’s presence on the boat a secret and assuring them that he was doing everything to get them justice and proper compensation. The family’s plea — accessed by TOI — to the Centre, moved through advocate Yash Thomas Munnally, claims that for a long time, due to the trauma of the firing incident, Prijin was afraid to venture out to sea, or to even do minor fishing-related jobs. He became visibly disturbed, was unable to sleep and suffered from nightmares, the plea said. The seemingly endless wait for compensation also pushed Prijin into a deep depression and his mental condition worsened, his relatives claim. He took his life on July 2, 2019. His mother and sisters have now alleged that a fair investigation was not carried out and that Prijin was denied hs rights as a minor as per international child rights law and the IndianConstitution. Citing the $2.6-million compensation deal following a collision between the USS Greeneville and Ehime Maru in 2001, his relatives are seeking a total compensation of Rs 100 crore (around $13.35 million). Rs 70 crore is being demanded as damages for mental, physical and emotional suffering, and Rs 30 crore for wrongful violence, loss of livelihood and violation of child rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/14-year-old-was-on-boat-when-italian-marines-shot-2-dead/articleshow/76883589.cms||Mahir Haneef
July 10, 2020||India||Row over syllabus a bid to create false narrative: Pokhriyal||NEW DELHI: There has been an “uninformed commentary” on exclusion of certain chapters from the CBSE syllabus for 2020-21 to create a “false narrative”, HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal said on Thursday. Countering criticism in certain quarters over deletion of topics such as nationalism, secularism, democracy etc, the minister said selectively choosing certain topics deleted from political science while overlooking exclusion across subjects in view of academic losses due to Covid-19 crisis smacked of a motivated agenda. “Misinformation has circulated to create sensation and a false narrative. In biology, topics such as mineral nutrition, digestion and absorption have been excluded. Are these topics excluded with malicious intent? What about topics like balance of payments deficit in economics and heat transfer in physics?” asked the minister. “While it is easy to misconstrue exclusion of three to four topics like nationalism, local government, federalism, etc and build a concocted narrative, a wider perusal of different subjects will show that this exclusion is happening across subjects,” Pokhriyal said in a series of tweets. He reiterated that the exclusions from the syllabus is a one-time measure taken in view of the pandemic. The comments by the minister came following a controversy with the opposition alleging that chapters on India’s democracy and plurality had been “dropped” to propagate a ‘particular ideology’. CBSE on Tuesday announced up to 30% reduction in syllabus across subjects for Classes IX to XII and these will not be part of any internal assessment or Board exams of the 2020-21 academic session. “The only aim was to free the students from stress in these trying times,” Pokhriyal said, adding, “the exercise has been carried out following the advice and recommendations of experts and suggestions from educationists and teachers.” “All reduced topics are being covered under the academic calendar during Covid-19 prepared by NCERT,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/row-over-syllabus-a-bid-to-create-false-narrative-pokhriyal/articleshow/76883657.cms||---
July 10, 2020||India||No community spread of Covid-19 in country: Govt||NEW DELHI: Despite a high number of cases, the government said there was no community transmission of Covid-19 in India as there was a “localised outbreak” in some geographical areas and underlined that with 80% of active cases reported from 49 districts, there was no case for a wider community spread. Stating that the conditions for community transmission had not been fulfilled, the health ministry said with regard to active cases, 80% of close contacts of positive cases could be traced within 72 hours with the given protocols. “After the GoM meeting on Thursday, health minister Harsh Vardhan has clarified that community transmission stage is not there in India... We must not forget that in our country, 49 districts alone account for 80% of Covid cases. So, in a country with more than 733 districts, if only 49 districts are depicting over 80% cases, talking of community transmission is perhaps not justified,” Rajesh Bhushan, officer on special duty in the health ministry, said. WHO hasn’t issued any standard definition of community transmission or localised outbreak but has given the right to member states to assess the situation and report on it, Bhushan added. Data showed that eight states, including Maharashtra, TN, Delhi, Karnataka and Telangana, accounted for around 90% of active cases. Six states — Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, TN, UP and West Bengal — accounted for 86% of Covid deaths. In all, 32 districts accounted for 80% of fatalities, the health ministry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-community-spread-of-covid-19-in-country-govt/articleshow/76883875.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 10, 2020||Patna||Heavy rain in Nepal sets alarm bells ringing in Bihar||PATNA: The catchment areas of four rivers received heavy rainfall in Nepal on Thursday, but still there is no immediate flood threat to north Bihar districts. The DMs concerned have been put on high alert, though, the water resources department (WRD) said. The four rivers that received high rainfall in their catchment areas in Nepal are Kamla, Bagmati, Gandak and Kosi, the WRD flood bulletin released on Thursday said. “The rainfall has been heavy, but the situation is under control. The WRD is monitoring the situation constantly and the DMs have been put on high alert to meet any eventuality,” a WRD official said, adding there is thick cloud cover in Nepal and entire north Bihar. While Kamla received rainfall in the range of 30mm to 67mm, it was in the range of 39.8mm to 101.4mm for Bagmati at four places. Similarly, the catchment areas of Gandak received rainfall in the range of 33mm to 97mm at three places, and also in the range of 138.40mm to 152.8mm at three other places. In the catchment areas of Kosi, the rainfall was in the range of 47mm to 96.40mm at three places and 143mm at one place. In the Bihar plains, Bagmati is flowing 137cm above the danger level at Runnisaidpur in Sitamarhi district, and Gandak 10cm above danger level at Dumariaghat. Meanwhile, the water discharge through the Birpur barrage across Kosi was 1.32 lakh cusecs and 99,800 cusecs through the Valmiki Nagar barrage across the Gandak river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/heavy-rain-in-nepal-sets-alarm-bells-ringing-in-bihar/articleshow/76882329.cms||Abhay Singh
July 10, 2020||Patna||Bhagalpur markets wear deserted look amid curbs||BHAGALPUR: Major market areas wore a deserted look as the additional seven-day lockdown was enforced in Bhagalpur district from 6.00am on Thursday. Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar had on Wednesday issued an order for lockdown in the district for four days, but considering the increase in the number of Covid-19 patients, fresh orders of extending the lockdown by three more days was issued in the evening. The lockdown order to restrict public activities in areas under the Bhagalpur Municipal Corporation (BMC), Sultanganj Nagar Parishad, Nagar panchayat of Kahalgaon and Naugachia will be in effect till the morning of July 16. The lockdown exempts essential services such as government offices, BMC offices, banks, ATMs, medicine shops, grocery shops, milk-booths and fruit shops, whereas four wheelers and two wheelers can be used with permission from district authorities. Grocery shops have been asked to open shops from 6.00am to 10.00am in the morning hours only in order to restrict movement of common people on roads throughout the day on the pretext of grocery shopping. Pan shops, tea stalls and small roadside eateries will remain closed. Residents, however, were seen violating the restrictions and lockdown norms at vegetable markets, including at mohalla vegetable souks. Many people were seen without face masks while some were seen wearing nonstandard masks. The BMC, meanwhile, has undertaken emergency steps to sanitize city areas from Thursday. Civic officials hired fire-tenders to use them for sanitizing roads, by-lanes and other areas that saw a sharp increase in Coronavirus cases. “We are strictly enforcing the emergency lockdown as announced by the district administration. Earlier also we had decided to close the business establishment by 5 PM in view of the rise in Corona cases and assist the district administration,” Eastern Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries president Ashok Bhiwaniwala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-markets-wear-deserted-look-amid-curbs/articleshow/76882318.cms||Kumar Rajesh
July 10, 2020||Patna||MLA’s kin booked for ‘detaining’ truck driver and cleaner||PATNA: Police rescued the driver and cleaner of a truck, who were allegedly held captive by a JD(U) MLA’s kin and his associates at the official residence of the lawmaker under Kotwali police station in the state capital late on Wednesday night. SHO of Kotwali police station Rama Shanker Singh said the police swung into action and rescued the truck driver, Lallu Kumar Yadav, and his assistant, Sunil Kumar Yadav, from Chhajubagh after some functionaries of the Bihar Truck Owners’ Association led by its vice-president Guddu Khan informed them about the matter on Thursday. Sources said the driver and cleaner were confined in a room, which was locked from outside. The truck, which had hit the car belonging to the MLA’s relative Amit, was also parked outside the residence of the legislator. The driver, who had suffered injuries in his hand, was later admitted to a hospital. The SHO said a complaint was lodged against Amit, the MLA’s grandson, and some unknown people for wrongful detention of the driver and the cleaner. The complaint was lodged on the statement of the driver, a resident of Nawada district. The trouble started after the car of the MLA’s kin was hit by a truck carrying stone chips from Kodarma in Jharkhand to Patna. The car was partially damaged in the mishap, which occurred around midnight on the Chiraiyatand railway overbridge in the city. The occupants of the car allegedly assaulted the driver and the cleaner and made them hostage. The JD(U) MLA, Panna Lal Patel, told media persons that he was not travelling in the car. “They had taken the car to provide help to an ailing person,” he added. Amit, on the other hand, said they were waiting for the arrival of the owner of the truck, who had asked the driver and the cleaner to stay there. “The matter was settled around 2am, but suddenly the owner of the truck took a U-turn and reported the incident to the office-bearers of the association,” said a close aide of the MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mlas-kin-booked-for-detaining-truck-driver-and-cleaner/articleshow/76881826.cms||Ramashankar
July 10, 2020||Business||Cognizant India MD quits within a year of taking over||BENGALURU: Top level exits at Cognizant is no longer news. But this one will surprise many. Cognizant India chairman & MD Ramkumar Ramamoorthy resigned on Thursday, less than a year into this role. Ramamoorthy – or Ram as he is fondly called by the IT and media fraternity – spent over 22 years with the Nasdaq-listed firm, serving multiple roles including in branding and academic outreach. As India chairman, he was also a member of the company’s global executive leadership team. Ramamoorthy was a data man, reeling out balance sheet numbers, not only of Cognizant but even of rivals, with ease. He often went beyond what his role required to position Cognizant’s growth story – and it was a great growth story, until a couple of years ago. In a LinkedIn post on Thursday, Ramamoorthy said, “For more than 22 years, Cognizant was the world to me. All of you made that world so beautiful that I was eternally in awe of it. In the past few months, I felt a strong desire to double down on my abiding passion (also my first calling!)—education, skilling and mentoring entrepreneurs. I am all set to explore that world again from July 17.” Cognizant CEO Brian Humphries, who took over last year, has been shaking up the top deck and has made a slew of internal changes in an effort to steady a company that was till a few years ago a darling of Wall Street. Executive vice president Pradeep Shilige, a 24-year Cognizant veteran who headed global delivery, has resigned too. He will stay on till September to ensure a smooth handoff. Humphries, in a communication to employees, said former Accenture senior MD Andy Stafford will replace Shilige. Stafford spent nearly two decades with Accenture where he rose to senior MD responsible for the firm's global delivery network for technology, an organization of 100,000 professionals operating in more than 20 countries. After he left Accenture in late 2013, Andy held a variety of executive positions that include COO of Computacenter and global head of services and delivery for Unisys. “Globalizing Cognizant goes beyond our geographic revenue mix, the number of countries we operate in, the diversity of backgrounds and locations of our leadership teams, or how well known our brand is around the world. It also requires us to have a global delivery network that is robust and resilient enough to ensure continuity of service for clients no matter what’s happening in the world,” Humphries, said in an email. Humphries said Cognizant needs a global delivery network that is robust and resilient enough to ensure continuity of service for clients no matter what’s happening in the world. “I’ve asked Andy to take a fresh look at our delivery organization and refine our operating model to achieve world-class effectiveness,” he said. Responding to the Cognizant changes, Phil Fersht, CEO of US-based HfS Research, said this is not a time to bury one's head in the sand and hope good times will return – “the only course of action is to make swift, and often painful changes, to stay in the preferred provider mix for key clients.” Fersht said this pandemic and ensuing recessionary crisis could well prove to be advantageous to Cognizant -- the playing field has been levelled for top tier IT services firms, allowing Humphries to complete the internal changes and market positioning he views essential to place the firm back where it was performing 3-4 years ago. “Moreover, a supportive Board will allow the firm to pivot away from legacy outsourcing practices, where other India-heritage providers are struggling.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cognizant-india-md-quits-within-a-year-of-taking-over/articleshow/76882321.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||City has received 35% of season’s rainfall||Ahmedabad: The city on Thursday received heavy rain for about two hours in the afternoon. The city on Thursday received an average of 12.4mm of rain (from 6am to 9pm) taking the total rainfall this season to 285.3mm, or about 35% of the annual average of 798mm. The city has had its best start to the monsoon since 2015. The previous best amount of rain received by July 9 in the last five years was 183mm in 2017. The officials said that this spell of rain, unlike in the past, was not too heavy but was moderate and spread out. On Thursday, the busy Ashram road was blocked after a huge tree fell near the old RBI building. Three vehicles, a car, tempo and a pedal-rickshaw were crushed. According to the AMC control room, no injuries were reported. In order to ensure smooth movement of vehicles, traffic was diverted on to the riverfront road. In all, six trees were uprooted in the city on Thursday. Of these, two each were in the Central and West zones while one each fell in the North West and North Zones. The AMC control room said that the fire department was working till late in the night to remove the fallen trees. The AMC control room also received six complaints of waterlogging from the North Zone. Most of the northern part of the city had received heavy rain in the night. The areas of Gota, Memco, Maninagar, Danapith and Usmanpura received rain in the night. To maintain water levels in the Sabarmati, 7,790 cusecs was released into the Fatehwadi canal as the river received 592 cusecs from the Narmada canal. The weathermen have forecast light to moderate rain or thundershowers for the city. The city had recorded a maximum temperture of 34.4 degree celsius on Thursday, while the minimum temperature was 26.2 degree celsius, 0.1 degree below normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-has-received-35-of-seasons-rainfall/articleshow/76882284.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Business||Companies brand their employees’ masks||MUMBAI: Every employee is now a brand ambassador for the company’s products, quite literally. A mask displaying the brand name of the company has become part of the dress code at some workplaces. On-field staff of quick-witted marketers are sporting masks embossed with their brands. At times, the masks also prominently display the catchphrase associated with the brand. The strategy is said to be not only attracting eyeballs, but is also generating interest of passersby in the brands. Up to 500 salespeople of Harsh International, the maker of the Rs 100-crore Woosh detergents, are out in the market sporting masks embossed with ‘Woosh’ and ‘Woosh kare khoosh’. Such masks are also being distributed by Woosh’s salespeople to retailers they frequent for their store staff to wear. Harsh International MD Yogesh Jain said, “A mask conceals the face. But if a mask has the brand name on it, it gets a good recall. The impact has been good for our brand.” Woosh, which has been endorsed by actor Kajol, is a mass brand in laundry, competing with the likes of Ghari. The company claims to have a market share of 15% in Punjab, where the brand is said to be performing well. Dynamic Conglomerate, which came up with ‘Fingers’, a new-age consumer electronics brand, is another firm that has provided its employees in the field with masks displaying the brand name. “A mask is a prominent place to display a brand. People may miss out on a logo or brand name on your T-shirt or sleeve, but they cannot miss seeing it on a mask. It’s certainly a conversation starter,” said Dynamic Conglomerate CEO Sandeep Parasrampuria. Fingers, which was launched a year ago, sold one million products in seven months. Like most others, the brand hit a Covid-hurdle during the lockdown, but Parasrampuria said demand for the product is returning with people working from home and making online purchases. “The situation does not look so scary now,” he added. According to Samsika Marketing Consultants founder-CMD Jagdeep Kapoor, there are four advantages that come out of such a strategy — brand recognition, safety & hygiene, brand recall in the retail market, and enhancement of the salesperson’s self esteem. “A branded mask does the task,” said Kapoor, who has recommended the branded mask strategy to all his clients. It has also been adopted by firms planning to launch a new product or campaign. Mahak Group CEO & MD S K Jain said, “We recently launched a mint variant for our ChocOn brand of candy and we are using the mask strategy as part of our below-the-line activity. Since the mask is at the eye level, the visibility among shoppers on seeing the retailer wearing our brand of mask is good.” AMA Herbal Laboratories, a Lucknow-based natural dyes maker, which is getting into health, hygiene and immunity booster products, has been able to ensure its employees stand out in the crowd of other salespeople when they visit a shop to market their products, with the masks highlighting the brand name and the tagline of the company. “The recognition of our sales people is certainly faster with the branded masks. This has provided an edge to our company,” said the company’s founder-CMD Yawer Ali Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-brand-their-employees-masks/articleshow/76882040.cms||Namrata Singh
July 10, 2020||Business||China doesn’t play by rules: PolicyBazaar||BENGALURU: PolicyBazaar CEO Yashish Dahiya has become the first CEO among India’s most valued internet companies to speak out openly against China. Dahiya said the neighbouring country has “not played by the rules” as its economy is not open to companies across the world, while it has business opportunities globally. He added that if China’s Tencent, which owns a 10% stake in PolicyBazaar’s parent co EtechAces, so wants, the company is willing to buy back its shares amid the border tensions with India. “My view is that The Chinese government has strategically tried to gain market share and access across the world. But opening access to its own economy...It has to be quid pro quo. They have not played by the rules for 30 years and that is why they have built up all this capital,” he said. “Why should we give equity in our fast-growing companies, data and revenue streams to them (China)? Give to others, like Americans, Japanese, Britishers (who reciprocate).” He backed the government’s decision to screen investments from China. But he said the government should come out with rules making a distinction between what is considered an investment and what threshold of shareholding is considered control so that local companies don’t get hurt in a potential backlash. Dahiya is the first CEO of India’s unicorns (private tech companies valued at over $1 billion) to speak out openly about China. Many other large companies like Paytm, Zomato and MakeMyTrip have come under fire on social media and Google Play Store for having investments from Chinese corporations like Ant Financial and Ctrip. He said that Tencent had purchased existing shares from another investor, US-based Tiger Global Management, and had not invested fresh capital in the company for business expansion. “They have been a good shareholder. I don’t think it is a fair thing to ask. If they were willing, we would be happy to buy their shares. The company has the cash flows to buy it back. The company has $200 million in the bank and they bought the shares for $150 million,” said Dahiya, whose company is valued at $1.5 billion. He added that the transaction was done last year when India and China had friendly relations. He added that back when the stand-off in Doklam was going on in 2017, PolicyBazaar had walked away from an investment by another Chinese conglomerate, Fosun. “Eventually, one has to look at who has control and whose house are you breaking. Are you breaking your own house or your enemy’s house? Any smart business person knows that a 10% shareholding means nothing. A 40% shareholding means significant control and 100% means full control. If I had a 40% shareholding, then I may have something to hide,” said Dahiya.Dahiya’s rare stand among new-age entrepreneurs also comes as four generations of his family have worked in defence services. He said that the business of EtechAces, which includes insurance portal PolicyBazaar and lending services portal Paisabazaar, has been doing well despite the Covid-19 pandemic. Its overall insurance business is up 50-60%, given increasing awareness and need for both life and health insurance. The lending business, which was hit in May due to the collapse of economic activity, has also registered a 4x growth in June and has started recovering. Last week, TOI reported that Japan’s SoftBank Vision Fund has invested another $130 million in the company, taking its shareholding to over 15%. The company’s other major shareholders include Singapore’s Temasek and Info Edge, which owns portals like Naukri and 99acres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/china-doesnt-play-by-rules-policybazaar/articleshow/76882183.cms||Madhav Chanchani
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Waterlogging doesn’t persist at Shivranjani, AEC Crossroads’||Ahmedabad: The issue of certain spots in the city getting waterlogged perennially, even with just two inches of rainfall, was discussed at the standing committee meeting of the civic body on Thursday. The administration informed the elected wing that the waterlogging at these places recede within an hour, once the rain stops. AMC standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said the civic body’s internal survey shows that the waterlogging in spots like Shivranjani and AEC Crossroads does not stay long. However, these areas were prone to quick waterlogging due to slopes in surrounding areas. Bhatt pointed out that this year there haven’t been many instances of underpasses being closed due to rain. It doesn’t happen without sufficiently heavy rain, Bhatt said. The AMC has already begun resurfacing and repairing damaged roads with the help of jet patcher machines, though such work is usually begun only after monsoon recedes, Bhatt said. Bhatt said he was satisfied with the pre-monsoon activity of the civic body which, was evident by the lack of major waterlogging complaints. A senior AMC officer said that 1,290 CCTV cameras on road are also used to keep an eye out for waterlogging. Apart from 150 spots considered prone to waterlogging, the nine underpasses are also monitored through CCTV from the main control room set up at Tagore Hall in Paldi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/waterlogging-doesnt-persist-at-shivranjani-aec-crossroads/articleshow/76882265.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Patna||Surging Covid cases, politicos testing +ve raise query on polls||PATNA: With Covid-19 cases surging with each passing day in Bihar and a number of politicians and party workers testing positive for Covid-19, questions are being raised about the conducting of the assembly polls as scheduled. On Thursday, even deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi’s office in the main secretariat building was sealed after his personal secretary and three other employees tested positive for Covid-19. Apart from them, three other staff deputed at SuMo’s residence have also tested positive. Apart from state legislative council acting chairperson Awadhesh Narayan Singh and state minister Vinod Kumar Singh, some other senior leaders to have tested positive for coronavirus, include BJP MLA from Jale Jibesh Kumar Mishra, Congress MLA Anand Shankar Singh and RJD MLA Shahnawaz Alam. Senior RJD leader and former parliamentarian Raghuvansh Prasad Singh had also tested positive, however, he has recovered. Even former parliamentarian Putul Kumari had tested positive in Delhi. Sources said 10 BJP workers also reportedly contracted the virus after attending a virtual meet of the party. While interacting with the media at Sadaqat Ashram on Thursday, Congress Rajya Sabha MP and state in-charge Shaktisnh Gohil said the Election Commission (EC) should do its analysis and decide. When asked if his party also wanted the election to be deferred like RJD, Gohil replied, “We have never said so. People are fed up of this government and want a change.” However, Gohil demanded traditional way of campaigning and was against the use of ballot paper. “What if someone forces a person who is casting a vote through ballot paper. Also, BJP has money and can do virtual rallies, but the Constitution talks of equal opportunity to all the parties and candidates.” Gohil said small gatherings with arrangement of masks and sanitizers by EC should be held. Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has already said the election should be deferred. He had questioned the government over its preparation for election, while neglecting health issues. However, ruling JD (U) seems to be in the mood of contesting this election. State spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said, “It has to be finally decided by EC. However, preparation for election began only after the EC held meeting with all the political parties. We are ready for it. Our government is even working to tackle Covid-19 cases.” BJP state spokesperson Nikhil Anand did not confirm the news regarding his nine party workers getting infected after attending a virtual rally. “This is a propaganda by the opposition. Virtual rallies are the safest, cheapest and easiest way of interaction with people. Deferment of election dates, or its schedule are the sole prerogative of EC.” Nikhil said those political parties which were not ready to face the election, were actually demanding it to be deferred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/surging-covid-cases-politicos-testing-ve-raise-query-on-polls/articleshow/76881331.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 10, 2020||Patna||Assembly polls: LJP shortlists candidates for 94 seats||PATNA: Amid rumours of a rift between the ruling JD(U) and LJP, the two NDA partners in the state, the latter’s state parliamentary board on Thursday proposed two candidates each for 94 of total 243 assembly seats in Bihar. A list containing names of the proposed candidates was submitted by party’s Bihar unit parliamentary board chairman and MLA Raju Tiwari to party’s national president Chirag Paswan in the meeting of the state parliamentary board. The meeting was held at Chirag’s residence in New Delhi. Incidentally, LJP had contested 42 seats in 2015 assembly elections in Bihar and won only two seats. As of now, seat-sharing arrangement for the upcoming assembly polls has not been finalised by the two major allies in the ruling NDA – BJP and JD(U). BJP has, however, put a stamp on Nitish Kumar as the NDA’s CM face. Chirag has already asked his partymen to make preparations on all 243 assembly seats, though he has maintained that it will be beneficial for the alliance as a whole.  “I have submitted the list of two candidates along with booth committees for 94 assembly segments to party’s national president in the meeting of state parliamentary board. We will soon submit the list of booth committees for remaining 149 seats as well,” Tiwari told TOI. Meanwhile, LJP’s founder and patron Ram Vilas Paswan said on Thursday that his son and present president of the party Chirag Paswan is authorised to take all decisions of the party. Ram Vilas said he stands with Chirag in whatever decisions he takes. Paswan, the Union food and consumer protection minister, went on to say that he does not have much say in the affairs of the party anymore. “Party now runs according to its national president and parliamentary board,” the senior Paswan told reporters in New Delhi. Meanwhile, LJP’s Bihar unit president and Samastipur MP Prince Raj told a news channel that it would not be good to conduct elections in the prevailing scenario. “One of our MPs has tested positive for Covid-19 and the number of Covid cases is increasing steeply in Bihar. Given the risk and fear of this pandemic, it won’t be wise to conduct the elections. However, the party will go by whatever the Election Commission decides,” Prince said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/assembly-polls-ljp-shortlists-candidates-for-94-seats/articleshow/76880351.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 10, 2020||Patna||Coronavirus testing suspended at Gaya hospital||GAYA: Covid-19 testing has been suspended at the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH). Consequently, the daily bulletin with details like number of samples collected, nature of reports, active cases and hospitalization was not issued on Wednesday evening. Additional district magistrate-cum-nodal officer of the anti-Covid cell of the administration, Naresh Jha, told this newspaper on Thursday, “Testing has stopped temporarily on account of non-availability of the kits required for the procedure. However, all efforts are being made to procure fresh ones and resume testing at the earliest.” ANMMCH principal Dr H G Agrawal claimed that the kits were not even available in Patna. “Contrary to popular opinion, RT-PCR test is not being conducted in Gaya. Another method called RdRp is used to determine whether a person is Covid positive or not. It is done through an additional attachment in the TrueNat machine,” Dr Agrawal said, adding that the TrueNat result was provisional and had to pass through a confirmatory test for authenticity. The RT-PCR test is done in the virological lab of the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna. Expressing concern at the suspension of Covid test, Indian Medical Association (Gaya chapter) president Dr Ram Sewak Prasad Singh pointed out that immediate efforts were required to resume and speed up testing for creating “the right strategy to combat the pandemic”. Principal secy writes to hosp authorities: Principal secretary (health) Uday Singh Kumawat has written a letter to the principal and the superintendent of the ANMMCH, asking the authorities to ensure that “treatment is done under the direct supervision of associate professor-rank doctors”. “In case of comorbidity, services of the experts concerned should be requisitioned,” read the letter. The medical college authorities have also been directed to get every Covid-related death reviewed or audited by a medical board comprising senior doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/coronavirus-testing-suspended-at-gaya-hospital/articleshow/76880716.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Patna||Patna: Lockdown triggers ‘panic buying’ for essentials in stores||PATNA: Following the district administration’s announcement on Wednesday evening to impose a seven-day lockdown from June 10, residents thronged shops and markets across the city on Thursday to stock up on essentials, especially grocery, fruits and vegetables, medicines and hygiene products. As per district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi’s order, shops dealing in groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk products and meat will remain open. Fruits, vegetables, meat and fish shops are, however, allowed to open between 6am and 10am and from 4pm to 7pm only. Besides, all kinds of e-commerce and home delivery are allowed. Local wholesalers, retailers and shop-owners claimed the demand for groceries especially foodgrains and spices witnessed a massive increase just after the district administration issued notification on lockdown. Anand Sharma, an executive at a supermarket in Boring Road said: “Residents are stocking up foodgrains, cooking oils and spices amid concerns over unavailability of food items owing to the lockdown. Apart from these, masks, hand washes and sanitizers are also finding many takers.” Pintoo Gupta, owner of a local grocery shop in Nahar Khagaul Road said more that 50 people visited his shop for buying groceries on Thursday. “Despite knowing that my shop would remain open during the lockdown as per orders from the district administration, residents in huge numbers visited the shop for buying food items, including flour, rice, biscuits, potato, noodles and garlic. Packaged food items like ‘Poha’, ‘Dahi Vada’, ‘Gulab Jamun’ and ‘Dosa’ were also sold in huge quantities,” he said. Attributing fear of products going out of stock as the main reason behind people thronging shops, Akash Kumar, owner of a wholesale grocery shop said: “People are actually intimidated by the lockdown that was imposed in March. We had to increase the prices of several items as we were getting them at higher prices too.” Even online retail food chains are experiencing a massive surge in demand of food items. An executive at an online retain chain said that the number of orders has quadrupled in the last one day. “We are trying to serve as many people as possible,” he said. Residents, on the other hand, are scared that the lockdown might get extended. “From grocery items to medicines and luxury items to hygiene items, I have stocked every essential commodity for the next two months. I don’t want to face hassles due to the ongoing pandemic,” said Amit Sinha, a resident of Saguna More. Ayushi Khetan, a resident of Kadamkuan said there are several rumours are making rounds on social media about the lockdown in Patna, which caused panic among the residents. “However we still bought the essential things for next seven days,” she said. A resident of Lohanipur, Kislay Suman said people had forgotten about the social distancing norms as large crowd was seen inside and outside the shops and vegetable markets. Md Sonu, a shopkeeper at Sabzibagh said the notification of lockdown triggered panic buying as people are purchasing the items in bulk. “Since Wednesday, we have re-stocked several items almost three times. Although, we have ensured the customers that the essential items are available in good quantity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-triggers-panic-buying-for-essentials-in-stores/articleshow/76882274.cms||Archi Rani
July 10, 2020||Surat||Three-doc panel to monitor sale of tocilizumab injections||Surat: A three-doctors’ committee has been formed by Surat district collector Dr Dhaval Patel to allocate ‘Tocilizumab’ injection (Actemra) to critically-ill Covid-19 patients in the city. State government officials said that the decision was taken to rationalise distribution of scarce resources, particularly injection like this which was being sold in the city’s ‘black market’ at exorbitant prices. According to sources, the relatives of Covid-19 patients in the city are being forced to purchase this injection paying more than Rs 1 lakh for a 400 mg vial of the drug. The committee consists of Dr Samir Gami, Dr Alpesh Parmar and Dr Deepak Shukla. Talking to media, principal secretary (health), Jayanti Ravi said that after knowing about private practitioners misusing ‘Tocilizumab’ injection (Actemra) in Covid-19 treatment, the government decided to form the committee to ensure that patients who really need it get it.“The committee will provide ‘Tocilizumab’ injections as per ICMR guidelines to critical patients. Any private hospitals requiring the particular injection will have to apply to the committee with all prescriptions, investigation report and case papers. Based on these documents, the committee will decided whether the particular case needs ‘Tocilizumab’ and how many,” Dr Dhaval Patel, collector, said in a statement. “After the assessment of the requirement, the committee will recommend to the superintendent of New Civil Hospital in the city for it,” the statement added. One of the committee members who made a special video message on the use of the injection, Dr Samir Gami said, “Not all Covid-19 patients need this injection and doctors must use it judiciously.” Earlier on Wednesday, Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA) carried out a raid in Surat city and arrested Uma Kejriwal, owner of Sarthak Pharma, who was found selling Actemra 400 mg without prescription at Rs 57,000, whereas the MRP is Rs 40,545 per piece. The authorities also seized two Actemra 400 mg from Kejriwal and launched further investigation. Meanwhile, in a missive sent to health commissioner Jay Prakash Shivhare, Navsari MP C R Patil has urged ensuring enough supply of the injection for the treatment of critical patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-doc-panel-to-monitor-sale-of-tocilizumab-injections/articleshow/76880430.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Business||Freshworks acquires Flint||SaaS firm Freshworks on Thursday announced that it completed a key acquisition with Flint- an IT orchestration and cloud management platform for an undisclosed sum to help with the transition to remote working. Flint’s co-founders Ankur Gakkhar and Abhishek Pande would lead the automation and cloud management product teams and the platform and technology integration verticals respectively. “We felt the pressure of today’s remote environment as we went from 13 workplace. s to 3,000+ home offices in a matter of days. With the addition of Flint’s intelligent automation, Freshworks takes the legwork out of tedious, repeatable tasks so IT teams can focus on high impact work while providing an exceptional employee experience,” said Prakash Ramamurthy, CPO at Freshworks. “As part of Freshservice, the acquired Flint technology will also enable insight across infrastructure and apps, maintain service health and optimize cloud delivery and spend,” said Abhishek Pande, co-founder, Flint. The acquisition is Freshworks’ third in the past year, following two other startups Natero and AnsweriQ.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/freshworks-acquires-flint/articleshow/76882306.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Patna||‘Lockdown violators to face action’||PATNA: Patna DM Kumar Ravi tells Faryal Rumi that the administration has formed different teams to effectively enforce the seven-day lockdown from Friday to break the chain of Covid-19. Excerpts: What steps are being taken to ensure proper enforcement of lockdown in Patna? We will ensure that there is no crowd on roads and markets. Different teams have been formed in town area and all 23 blocks to enforce lockdown. Local police stations have been asked to ensure maintenance of social distancing. The traffic police will regulate movement of vehicles. Those travelling to airport and railway stations will have to carry tickets. What is the reason behind re-imposing the lockdown in the district? The main reason is that people are not following the social distancing norms. They are not using face masks at the public spaces. As a result, Covid-19 cases are on rise in the district, especially in the urban areas. Will the seven-day lockdown break Covid-19 chain in the district? It will definitely help in flattening the curve. In next seven days, we will see the decline in number of cases. Contact tracing will also be done during the lockdown period. Samples of all the contacts will be tested so that they don’t infect others. Are steps being taken to keep supply chain of vegetables and other essential commodities intact? Two additional district magistrates (supply) have been asked to ensure hassle-free supply of essential commodities. It is not going to be like the previous lockdown, because shops and markets in other parts of the country are open. What about those violating lockdown norms? They will face action under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act. Your appeal to residents I’m hopeful that people of Patna will support lockdown by following rules and minimise their movement on roads. I wish people remain inside their homes and follow the social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-violators-to-face-action/articleshow/76882298.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Patna||Five-day lockdown in Khagaria from today||KHAGARIA: In the wake of a rise in Covid-19 cases, the Khagaria district administration will implement a five-day lockdown from July 10 to 14. A decision in this regard was taken at a high-level meeting attended by several senior officials. As part of the lockdown, public activities in areas falling under the jurisdiction of the Khagaria Nagar Parishad, Gogri Nagar Panchayat and Alouli, Beldaur, Chauhan, Mansi and Parbatta blocks of the district will be restricted. According to district magistrate (DM) Alok Ranjan Ghosh, emergency and essential services like shops selling ration, groceries, fruits, vegetables, dairy products and animal fodder will be exempted from the lockdown. “The movement of private vehicles will be allowed only after seeking the district administration’s permission. Besides, smaller commercial vehicles like e-rickshaws will also ply on the roads,” Alok told this newspaper. Meanwhile, in a press statement released on Thursday, Khagaria Chamber of Commerce secretary Ashok Sarraf urged the business community to abide by the directives of the district administration. Altogether 412 cases, including 59 active ones and three deaths, were reported in the district till Thursday. DM urges people to wear masks: DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh, SP Meenu Kumari and several other officials marched through the main thoroughfares of Khagaria town on Thursday and urged people to wear face masks and follow social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/five-day-lockdown-in-khagaria-from-today/articleshow/76882307.cms||N P Thakur
July 10, 2020||Business||At 4,572 crore, digital payments surpass govt’s target for FY20||BENGALURU: Digital transactions in the country jumped to 4,572 crore, or close to 46 billion, surpassing the target for fiscal 2020, according to a letter from the ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) sent to bank chiefs last week. Overall transactions grew 46% over the previous year, reiterating the focus on digital payments, which the government has been pushing since demonetisation in 2016. The target set by the government for fiscal 2020 was little over 40 billion transactions, which was exceeding by 14%. The target for the current fiscal is over 46 billion transactions, according to a person aware of the matter. This is largely due to the effect of the pandemic, which has already impacted remittances even though payment networks like Unified Payments Interface (UPI) have bounced back to pre-Covid levels, while other instruments like IMPS are also staging a steady comeback. Meity, which also shared a ‘scorecard’ on the performances in terms of digial payments, said the top five lenders were ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Yes Bank, IndusInd Bank and Fino Payments Bank. Fino is the only payments bank among the top league of banks. For the private bank majors, all three — ICICI, HDFC and Yes Bank — are top banking partners of leading payments platforms on UPI like Google Pay and PhonePe. UPI has recorded 1.34 billion transactions in June. Amid the social-distancing norms, digital payments are expected to see wider adoption. However, the payments industry has been reeling under pressure with the government making the merchant discount rate (MDR) zero. MDR is a fee to facilitate online payments and industry executives said it is critical to keep this charge to build sustainable businesses. Last week, National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) chief Dilip Asbe said they had initiated a discussion to bring a reasonable charge on the payments network. Digital payments cover card-based transactions, IMPS, digital wallets, UPI, national automated clearing house (NACH) and Aadhaar-enabled payment system (AePS). Last year, regulatory bodies like the RBI, Irdai, and Sebi had proposed regulatory sandboxes to work and test new technologies in the market to scale up digital payments. Watch At 4,572 crore, digital payments surpass govt’s target for FY20||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/at-4572cr-digital-payments-surpass-govts-target-for-fy20/articleshow/76882096.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 10, 2020||Business||RBI likely to cut rates by 50bps: BofA||Mumbai: The RBI is expected to cut rates by 50 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) by October 2020 on the back of falling inflation, according to a report by Bank of America (BofA) Securities. The report also said that the RBI needs to infuse $35 billion (Rs 2.62 lakh crore) of durable liquidity and has suggested that the RBI’s valuation surplus can be used to recapitalise public sector banks. Presenting a report on the Indian economy, DSP Merrill India chief economist Indranil Sengupta said that every month of lockdown could shave off between 100 and 200bps from the GDP. Assuming that the economy opens up in August, he said the GDP contraction for the year could be contained at 3%. However, if the lockdown extends, the contraction could be around 5%. Sengupta added that credit growth is crucial to ensure that the slowdown does not become structural. This would require a recapitalisation of public sector banks. According to him, even with a very modest credit growth, banks will require capital in the range of $7-15 billion depending on the Covid-19 impact. One way to do this is the traditional method of using recapitalisation bonds, where banks invest in government bonds and the government uses the borrowing to capitalise banks. Another option is in the form of RBI’s $139-billion revaluation surplus. Sengupta said the government will see its fiscal deficit as a percentage of GDP expanding to 6.6% or Rs 13.66 lakh crore, which is likely to be funded through the RBI’s open market operations, he said. This is despite savings of nearly Rs 1 lakh crore on fuel subsidy. However, despite the widening of the fiscal deficit, Sengupta did not expect a rating downgrade as the fiscal expansion was something that was done by governments across the world in the wake of the pandemic. The economic slowdown would bring down the country’s current account deficit and result in a surplus prompting the RBI to purchase dollars up to $45 billion to prevent the rupee from firming up. Although forex reserves are at an all-time high, the RBI will need to purchase more to ensure that there is enough to cover foreign portfolio investments, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-likely-to-cut-rates-by-50bps-bofa/articleshow/76882203.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 10, 2020||Vadodara||HR professionals’ Covid lessons in 2020 will come in book form||Vadodara: An entire human resources (HR) team of one of the country’s popular online e-commerce company delivering groceries pan-India was busy convincing its workforce to keep the wheels running during the lockdown. But delivery boys raised their hands after one of them was severely beaten up by cops during the initial days of lockdown.Even as restrictions are being eased globally, a Dubai-based chain of hotels is continuing to pay salaries to its staff virtually without doing any business.When the Centre had started announcing relaxation, with workplaces operating with 10 to 33% staff only, the HR professionals in a majority of firms were faced with an unprecedented off-the-texbook challenge. While there were the usual layoffs, terminations and other restructuring of salaries etc to handle.Such case studies of these challenging times that HR professionals globally are having to face are being compiled by the Vadodara HR Forum. The top 30 case studies will be published in special edition book that will be circulated to various corporates, B-schools and universities.“Initially, all industries/ offices were closed. But even when companies that were falling in essential services segment received permission, the challenge was to get people to work amidst fear of getting infected or worse, getting beaten by cops. The complete absence of public transport and government directives that were frequently getting revised were adding to woes,” said Sudhir Sethi, president of the forum. The forum has launched the unique HR case study competition giving professionals a chance to showcase how they kept their companies operations working during and post Covid-induced lockdown. “We have already received 35-odd case studies including three international firms for the competition including those from manufacturing, pharma, e-commerce, IT, hospitality and medical device manufacturing firms,” said Bharat Sharma, executive member and co-ordinator of the competition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hr-professionals-covid-lessons-in-2020-will-come-in-book-form/articleshow/76880127.cms||Prashant Rupera
July 10, 2020||Patna||IMD ‘red alert’ for heavy rainfall in N Bihar districts||PATNA: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a ‘red alert’ on Thursday for thunderstorms and heavy rainfall in north Bihar over the next three days. The IMD issues colour-coded warnings in ascending order green, yellow, orange and red being the most severe alert, which stipulates the authorities to take mitigation steps for extreme weather conditions forecast. The districts for which red warning has been issued for Friday and Saturday are West Champaran, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Supaul and Araria among others. The expected downpour has been attributed to the position of monsoon trough line along the foothills of Himalayas. The trough line is an elongated low-pressure area, which stretches from west to east, and the monsoon rainfall normally hinges along it. Meteorological experts explain that heavy rainfall is witnessed in the foothills spread across either side of the India-Nepal border when the trough line is situated along the Himalayan foothills. It was the position of the trough line close to the foothills that the Terai region in Nepal and border districts in Bihar received torrential rainfall between July 11-14 last year, which led to floods in 12 districts. A special bulletin issued by the IMD with regard to intense rainfall over the northern parts of India stated that till July 12, in addition to the position of the trough line, there will be a convergence of south westerly and southerly winds from the Bay of Bengal over north-east and east India leading to widespread rainfall along with isolated very heavy rainfall in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and other north-eastern states. A red warning has been issued for heavy to extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places in Bihar till Saturday. The state disaster management department has also alerted districts in north Bihar to remain watchful of heavy rainfall and rise in water level. Instructions have also been issued to engineers and local officers of the water resources department to remain on alert to take necessary steps if water level in rivers rises. Bihar State Disaster Management Authority vice-chairman Vyasji said the Nepal government has already issued an alert for heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of several rivers in the foothills of the Himalayas. State water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha told TOI that the state government is keeping a close watch on the situation. “As on Saturday, the weather forecast indicated more rainfall in eastern parts, thus we are keeping more focus on rivers like Mahananda and Kamla over the next three days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/imd-red-alert-for-heavy-rainfall-in-n-bihar-districts/articleshow/76880837.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 10, 2020||Patna||Police HQ ready with alternate plan||PATNA: With many police officers contracting Covid-19, the state police headquarters has chalked out contingency plans to deal with leadership crisis in districts. In one such example, the SP of a district neighbouring Patna was tested positive for Covid-19. Later, the sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) of the district, who was at the helm of the police force, also tested positive. Earlier, SSP of a north Bihar district had also tested positive for Covid-19. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said the police headquarters is prepared with a plan to handle leadership crisis in districts. “In case of such situations, senior officers like IG and DIG at the range level would guide the subordinates posted in districts to handle additional charge,” the ADG said, adding that when the SP of the north Bihar district was tested positive, the City SP handled the district under IG’s guidance. The ADG said in case of police stations located in containment zones, the SP or SSP concerned would have to establish a temporary police station. “The senior most police officer in the district would make temporary deployment in case all police personnel of a police station getting infected or quarantined due to Covid-19,” he said. Kumar said the SP of the district neighbouring Patna has fully recovered. “Till now, 258 police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state. Of them, 163 have recovered while one had died,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/police-hq-ready-with-alternate-plan/articleshow/76880748.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: To dip into plasma bank, hospital must provide donor||NEW DELHI: In the wake of high demand and low supply of plasma, Delhi government has made it necessary for hospitals requiring plasma from the recently opened plasma bank for the treatment of Covid-19 patients to arrange voluntary replacement donors. The government believes that with many patients recovering every day, it would not be difficult for the hospital to arrange donors. After plasma therapy yielded encouraging results in the case of four serious Covid patients, including two admitted in the intensive care unit at Lok Nayak Hospital, it has been tried on many patients, including Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. The recovery of many led the government to establish a plasma bank at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in Vasant Kunj. The medical superintendents or doctors in-charges of government Covid hospitals and private hospitals treating Covid patients have been asked to appoint nodal officers for coordination with the plasma bank. “The nodal officers of the hospitals requisitioning plasma will be required to provide voluntary plasma donors, including replacement donors, keeping in view the projected requirement of plasma and the scarce availability of this meagre resource,” the government order issued by Vikram Dev Dutt, principal secretary, health, said on Wednesday. The plasma bank is overwhelmed with requests from government and private hospitals though the number of donors hasn’t gone up. Donors are recovered Covid patients whose blood plasma is collected from after 14 days of full recovery for its antibodies. “Only around 100 people who have recovered have so far donated plasma at the bank,” disclosed an ILBS official. Since the plasma bank began operation, patients were given plasma without replacement. The government order tries to establish a balance between the demand and supply. “Plasma will be issued on a first-come-first-serve basis, subject to availability with the understanding that there will be no commercial intent in its usage and that the issued plasma will be available to the patient free of cost,” the order stated. Plasma for Covid patients is issued only on a signed request of an authorised person from the hospital raising the request. A blood sample of the patient is also needed for analysis as is a patient information sheet from the treating physician and countersigned by the nodal officer. Over 78,000 persons have recovered from the corona infection. The plasma bank was inaugurated by the chief minister on July 2, but in the past eight days, only around 100 persons have come forward to donate plasma. A doctor said misconception prevailing among some recovered persons discourages them from donating plasma. “Some think that it will cause weakness and loss of immunity. Others think it involves a painful process because plasma is extracted from the blood,” the doctor said. Dr Meenu Bajpai of ILBS was emphatic that plasma donation does not cause any weakness or loss of immunity. “Only plasma, not the B-cells the produce antibodies, is taken from the blood. The person’s body starts creating antibodies again after plasma donation,” explained Bajpai. Watch Delhi: Hospital to provide donor before dipping into plasma bank||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/to-dip-into-plasma-bank-hospital-must-provide-donor/articleshow/76882927.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 10, 2020||Pune||Each district needs 5,000 remdesivir vials: Maharashtra minister||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said Cipla and Hetero Laboratory have sought more time to start suppling remdesvir. Each district may require 4,000-5,000 vials for their patients. A patient needs six vials and the demand is definitely high in the state, the minister told TOI. He said that he is in talks with the pharma companies and they have assured the supply to the state as soon as possible. “District collectors and divisional commissioners can procure the vial depending on the necessity from these companies. The rate will be finalised as per those procured by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation or Thane Municipal Corporation. The lowest rates will be decided and the state can procure the same for a limited two months. The rates can be further reduced, later,” Tope said. Early this week, the Drug Controller of Government of India directed its officials to keep a watch on sale and distribution of remdesivir to prevent black marketing. In a letter to enforcement agencies, the office has said that they have received “complaints regarding black marketing and over pricing of Remdesivir by certain unscrupulous persons” and that “action taken in the matter may please be intimated to this office at the earliest.” ‘We have a huge number of cases and therefore the requirement is huge. The Mumbai civic body has procured some vials and we will not allow black marketing,” Tope said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/remdesivir-supply-soon-each-district-needs-5k-vials-says-minister/articleshow/76882914.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: White Board helps special kids grasp online lessons||KOCHI: When the online class programme, First Bell, was launched by the education department on June 1, Muhaseena Abdul Jabbar, an intellectually-disabled Class VII student of Kayamkulam GHSS, too attended them through Victer’s channel. However, she hardly gained anything from the session as her disability challenged her comprehensive power. But now, like thousands of differently-abled students in the state, she is able to grasp the online sessions as the government has tailormade classes to suit their disabilities as part of its inclusive education initiative — White Board. “We never thought online classes would help our daughter due to her intellectual disability, but White Board made the process simple. She is happy as she can grasp the lessons now,” said Abdul Jabbar, Muhaseena father. The White Board project, which envisages providing lessons to the differently-abled kids through various media suitable to overcome the physical or mental challenges each of them face, is now helpful for around 1,25,000 differently-abled students in government/ aided schools across the state. It is implemented with the help of around 2,500 resource teachers in 168 block resource centres (BRC) under Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) in association with schools. The lessons cater to the students belonging to six kinds of disability categories — visually impaired, hearing impaired, special learning disability, cerebral palsy, intellectual disability and autistic spectrum. These videos are uploaded on the YouTube channel of SSK White Board and the links are shared by respective resource teachers in WhatsApp groups of differently-abled student allotted to them in each BRC. “The use of graphics and animation make the videos more interactive and comprehensible. The project has been successful in making the online education inclusive,” said S Y Shooja, IEDC state programme officer and coordinator of Whiteboard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/white-board-helps-special-kids-grasp-online-lessons/articleshow/76889059.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
July 10, 2020||Patna||Two Covid-19 care coaches deployed at Patna Junction||PATNA: The Indian Railways has deployed two Covid-19 care rakes each comprising 21 coaches on platform number 6 and 7 at Patna Junction on Thursday. Railways promptly initiated the step after East Central Railway (ECR ) general manager L C Trivedi had a consultation with Patna DM Kumar Ravi on Wednesday. No passengers will now be allowed to pass through these two platforms. ECR chief public relations officer ( CPRO ) Rajesh Kumar said that each coach has 16 isolation beds to quarantine corona patients . “Railways will provide 640 isolation beds to the district administration at the Patna Junction. There are 13 sleeper coaches, seven general coaches and one AC-III coach in each rake. One cabin will be reserved for the doctors, nursing staff and storage of medicine as well,” he said. Railways has also provided three types of dustbins in each coach and disposable linens are also available inside isolation beds for disposing medical waste . “Altogether 268 coaches have been converted into isolation beds in the ECR jurisdiction. Railways has now provided 16 berths in one coach instead of eight earlier announced. Altogether 4,288 berths will be used to quarantine corona suspects after conversion of 268 coaches into isolation wards,” the CPRO said. He added, “In coaches converted into isolation wards there is a separate provision for storing life saving medicines, mini pathology, oxygen cylinders, masks, hand gloves and other equipment to cater to the needs of Covid-19 patients. The middle berths of sleeper coaches have been removed to make more space for the patients during quarantine.” The railways has also trained 80 healthcare staff in Danapur division alone to take care of Covid-19 suspects in the isolation wards. “At least 100 doctors of Danapur rail division are ready to extend their services in any emergency for covid patients,” the CPRO said. He added: “The greatest advantage of the ‘hospital on wheels’ is that it could easily reach any part of the state even in remote places to help corona patients. There are 219 beds for isolation or quarantine purposes at the Danapur railway hospital, while a few beds have been reserved at the railway super specialty hospital at Karbighaiya end for Covid-19 patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-covid-19-care-coaches-deployed-at-patna-junction/articleshow/76880672.cms||Kumod Verma
July 10, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: White Board helps special kids grasp online lessons||KOCHI: When the online class programme, First Bell, was launched by the education department on June 1, Muhaseena Abdul Jabbar, an intellectually-disabled Class VII student of Kayamkulam GHSS, too attended them through Victer’s channel. However, she hardly gained anything from the session as her disability challenged her comprehensive power. But now, like thousands of differently-abled students in the state, she is able to grasp the online sessions as the government has tailormade classes to suit their disabilities as part of its inclusive education initiative — White Board. “We never thought online classes would help our daughter due to her intellectual disability, but White Board made the process simple. She is happy as she can grasp the lessons now,” said Abdul Jabbar, Muhaseena father. The White Board project, which envisages providing lessons to the differently-abled kids through various media suitable to overcome the physical or mental challenges each of them face, is now helpful for around 1,25,000 differently-abled students in government/ aided schools across the state. It is implemented with the help of around 2,500 resource teachers in 168 block resource centres (BRC) under Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) in association with schools. The lessons cater to the students belonging to six kinds of disability categories — visually impaired, hearing impaired, special learning disability, cerebral palsy, intellectual disability and autistic spectrum. These videos are uploaded on the YouTube channel of SSK White Board and the links are shared by respective resource teachers in WhatsApp groups of differently-abled student allotted to them in each BRC. “The use of graphics and animation make the videos more interactive and comprehensible. The project has been successful in making the online education inclusive,” said S Y Shooja, IEDC state programme officer and coordinator of Whiteboard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/white-board-helps-special-kids-grasp-online-lessons/articleshow/76880972.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
July 10, 2020||Patna||North Koel project to be completed soon||Aurangabad: The remaining work of the North Koel Reservoir project in Jharkhand will be completed soon. With the commencement of this project, irrigation facility will be available on 1,24,000 hectares of land in Jharkhand as well as Bihar. Instructions to speed up the work of North Koel project were given to the officials at a meeting of the 27th Technical Evaluation Committee held on Thursday. The meeting was held under the chairmanship of member, Central Water Committee (CWC). Members of Technical Evaluation Committee, chief engineer CWC, New Delhi, senior joint commissioner (finance ministry), chief engineer, state water resources department (WRD), Medininagar, and chief engineer irrigation creation, WRD, Aurangabad, among others were present in the meeting. The main agenda for the meeting was providing necessary security by the government of Jharkhand for commencement of work at the dam site, status of land acquisition by the state governments of Jharkhand and Bihar, status of progress of various campus components of the balance work of the project, including dam and appurtenant works and barrage works among others. These issues were discussed in detail. Superintendent engineer Sanjay Kumar Srivastava and chief engineer Shamim Akhtar Malik of North Koel Project said that the construction of sluice gate in Kota is now in the final phase and it has been sent for final testing. North Koel canal project has been pending for more than 40 years. About 25 lakh farmers will be benefited after completion of this project and the water-level of the area will also improve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/north-koel-project-to-be-completed-soon/articleshow/76881438.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Patna||US diktat on ‘online classes’ leaves Bihari students shaken||PATNA: It came as a bolt from the blue for the international students community in the US when the Donald Trump administration announced that those taking online classes at American universities because of the coronavirus pandemic must return to their home countries. The sudden announcement left students from Bihar pursuing their American dreams stunned, leaving them panicking over whether their visas would be cancelled and they would be deported because they opted for online classes due to the pandemic. Rivam Raj from Katihar, who is studying astrophysics at the University of California, Berkley, said he would lose his visa if he continues with the online classes. “The Covid situation is not good here and it is impossible to attend classes in person,” he added. No wonder many of them are now wondering if they should switch to in-person classes. Sanjeet and Vidisha Bharti, who are studying at the University of Utah, are among those exploring this risky in-class option for fear of losing their visa. However, Nishant from Patna, who is doing his masters in business analytics from Drexel University in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, told this newspaper that they are waiting for more clarity in the announcement made by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (IEC). “These are all tactics for the upcoming elections in the USA,’ he added, sounding a little less shaky than others. Utpal Mukherjee, a resident of Boring Road in Patna, whose son Indranil is studying at the American University of Antigua’s College of Medicine was disheartened with the decision to revoke the visas of students attending online classes. “Kids pursuing degrees in the USA will face two problems under the ICE policy. First, they would be deprived of the study environment of the US, won’t be allowed to utilise the library and other study material. They have to do online classes from native country and they will not be allowed to stay in US,” Utpal said. He added, “Secondly, students who are going to get some internships in the US will not be able to get it if they are deported to their native places in India.” Arvind Mishra, whose son Abhishek is doing his PhD at the University of Buffalo, New York, also expressed the same concern. “We are still hoping that the situation would get better as two renowned universities- Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology have sued the Trump administration over the order,” he said. Mishra said he spoke to his son regarding the announcement and the Covid- 19 situation, which is turning worse. “Right now, the institute is conducting online classes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/us-diktat-on-online-classes-leaves-bihari-students-shaken/articleshow/76880774.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 10, 2020||Patna||Sanitisation still a far cry for people in containment zones||PATNA: With Covid-19 cases rising, the number of containment zones in Patna district has increased to 86. Some of the residential areas in the city like Patna City, Paliganj, Agamkuan and Phulwarisharif have also been declared containment zones. People living in these containment zones are, however, facing harrowing times as they find it difficult to get medicines and essential commodities like milk, fruits, vegetables and foodgrain. With ATMs too running dry in these localities, people are badly affected. Some alleged that the district administration has taken no step for mass Covid testing and contact tracing. Poor sanitation and unhygienic condition in these areas have added to the woes of residents. Sukriti Yadav, a resident of Khajekalan, said the area was sealed a week back and even sanitation workers have stopped collecting garbage from households. “Some people drop garbage in vacant plots outside their homes. Leaking pipes flood the roads and create foul smell. The administration should take steps to ensure cleanliness in the containment zones at a time when the number of Covid cases is on rise,” she said. Many residents complained about waterlogging due to rains in the areas. Bhavna Ranjan, Ram Swaroop and Mukul Kumar, all residents of Bari Path, said they are facing problem in stepping out of homes to buy essential commodities due to waterlogging. “No one collects garbage from households or sanitise the area,” they said. “It has been four days since our locality was declared a containment zone, but sanitisation work has not started yet. We are deeply concerned about our health with the rise in Covid cases. No swab testing has been done till now either,” said Abhay Kumar, a resident of P C Colony. Ananya Kashyap, a resident of Bakerganj, said, “There is no essential commodity shop in this area and we can’t go out due to restrictions. We have no other option but to depend on our relatives and friends from other colonies to get essential commodities.” Patna DM said there are altogether 86 containment zones in the district as of now. “All the SDOs have been asked to make proper arrangements of food and other essential items in the containment zones. People can also avail home delivery of essential commodities,” he said. A Patna Municipal Corporation official, on the other hand, claimed that the workers sanitise the containment zones whenever they receive complaint from locals. GFX: Number of containment zones: 86 Major areas: Patna City, Paliganj, Agamkuan, Kumhrar, Buddha Colony, P C Colony and Phulwarisharif. Problems faced by people: Lack of supply of essential medicines and essential commodities like milk, fruits, vegetables and foodgrain ATMs running dry No mass Covid testing and contact tracing No garbage collection from households Waterlogging due to rain No sanitisation Administration’s suggestion: Contact the ward councillor to maintain hygiene and local police and SDO for essential services||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sanitisation-still-a-far-cry-for-people-in-containment-zones/articleshow/76880693.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal govt pads up, hikes Covid bed count at 2 hospitals||KOLKATA: The Bengal government on Thursday stepped in to add 300 Covid beds by scaling up the number in Sanjiban Hospital and help create a 100-bed Covid facility in Narayana Hospital’s Old Building, both in Howrah. Sanjiban Hospital in Phuleshwar was acquired by the state to function as a Covid hospital. The hospital has been treating patients from the first week of April with 100 beds. This was subsequently enhanced to 300. In a notification on Thursday, the state indicated that the bed strength was now being increased to 500. In addition to patients from Howrah, one of the four-most affected districts, the hospital also has referral cases from other places. “We will fulfil whatever responsibility the government has asked us to take up to the best of our abilities. We have increased our manpower to deal with the patient load and the state has assured us of providing additional manpower,” said Subhasis Mitra, chairman Sanjiban Hospital. Currently, the hospital has about 66% bed occupancy. “As ours is a referral hospital, we are getting many serious cases. Nearly 50% of our patients are serious cases,” said Mitra. Narayana Multispecialty Hospital, the erstwhile West Bank Hospital, was initially functioning as a 100-bed, level-2 Covid hospital only for suspected patients who were shifted to a Covid hospital on test-ing positive. “Observing a rapid increase in the daily Covid case count, we are dedicating Narayana Multispecialty Hospital at Chunavati as a dedicated Covid-care centre. The health department has requested us to operate it as a level-4 Covid care centre and all efforts will be made to ensure suitable facilities and services are available. Considering the immense resources required to run such a facility, we have requested the DHS’s office to render support in terms of manpower and logistics, which they have agreed to help us with,” said R Venkatesh, regional director east, Narayana Health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-pads-up-hikes-covid-bed-count-at-2-hospitals/articleshow/76882174.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 10, 2020||Kolkata||Didi beats virus, donates liver, gives fresh lease of life to younger sister||Kolkata: A 13-year-old girl from Panskura who was suffering from a rare genetic liver disease got a fresh lease of life after a transplant surgery in Delhi. But the tale of the life-saving surgery is woven around nail-biting situations amidst the lockdown and the ongoing Covid crisis as the patient’s elder sister, the donor, had tested positive prior to the procedure. Now out of the crisis, the family is waiting for flight services to resume from Delhi to Kolkata so they can come home. “The girl had Caroli’s disease, a rare genetic liver condition. What makes this transplant surgery different from others is that the donor is a cured Covid patient. It was also an ABO incompatible transplant where the blood groups of donor and recipient do not match,” said Subhas Gupta of the Max Centre for Liver & Biliary Sciences who conducted the surgery. Gupta is originally from Asansol. Disha Samanta was rushed to a nursing home in Midnapore in mid-February from where she was shifted to one in Kolkata. When doctors suggested that she needed a transplant, the family booked a flight to Hyderabad, but the girl collapsed at the airport. “From Kolkata airport, we took her to Indian Institute of Liver and Digestive Sciences (IILDS) in Sonarpur, where Dipankar Mandal and his team saved my daughter,” said her father Asim Samanta, an LIC agent. Disha was admitted to the Liver Foundation Hospital for the next 12 days before they decided to go to Delhi for the transplant. “This is a life-long disease to which transplant is the cure. The family wanted to go to Delhi and we got them connected with Gupta,” said hepatologist Abhjit Chowdhury, secretary, board of governance, IILDS. Disha’s parents, along with her sister Lisa, 21, flew to Delhi in the first week of March. During the preparation for the surgery, the lockdown was enforced, halting the process. But as Disha was in a serious condition, doctors decided to conduct the surgery on April 15. During the pre-op test, Lisa tested positive for Covid. “We were losing hope, but Lisa promised that she would beat Covid and come back to save her little sister,” said the girls’ father. Lisa, a student of microbiology, was admitted to a Delhi hospital where she recovered from Covid. But doctors had to wait for a few more days and finally conducted the surgery on May 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-beats-virus-donates-liver-gives-fresh-lease-of-life-to-younger-sister/articleshow/76882111.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 10, 2020||Kolkata||Govt to Cov units: Stick to protocol||Kolkata: A Bengal government expert committee on Thursday suggested that state Covid facilities should have separate isolation wards for Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Covid suspects. The committee said these patients should not be admitted to general wards. The committee, which has been visiting several Covid facilities, “noted certain discrepancies in practice which need urgent rectification”. The panel also suggested that immunosuppressive drugs, which are not recommended in the government guidelines, should not be given on any experimental basis. An advisory issued by the state said for patient management, “it is advisable to stick to protocol”. Dose of steroid and anti-coagulation therapy should be adjusted according to the management protocol issued by the state, the advisory said. The health department advisory mentioned that use of antibiotics should be stopped. “Since this is a viral infection, justification for prescribing antibiotics must be documented if it is considered essential. We need to avoid indiscriminate and prolonged use,” the advisory said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-to-cov-units-stick-to-protocol/articleshow/76882224.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Patna||Boost use of local goods in villages, BJP workers told||PATNA: State BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal on Thursday appealed to the party workers to go to the villages and make people aware about PM Narendra Modi’s plan of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ or Self-reliant India by promoting swadeshi and help fuel demand for local goods. Jaiswal said that PM Modi’s call is to focus on economy, infrastructure, system, demography and demand. Apart from announcing a special economic package of Rs 20 lakh crore, including Rs 3 lakh crore as loans for MSMEs which will also benefit Bihar, the PM had said that this was the time to become vocal for our ‘local’ products and make them global, with emphasis on land, labour, liquidity and laws. “This will also help in revival of the economy of the state, where the government has already amended the state industrial incentive policy and announced tax exemptions for investors willing to go for investment in establishing new units,” said the BJP state chief. He said that the state government is providing online facility for smooth transfer of land to upcoming entrepreneurs through the Bihar Industrial Area Development Authority (BIADA). Jaiswal, who made this appeal from the party state headquarters, was also accompanied by party’s functionaries Rajib Ranjan, Suresh Rungta, Akhilesh Singh, Ashok Bhatt and Rakesh Kumar Singh, among others. He said that PM Modi has special liking for Bihar and he has accordingly included 36 of the state’s districts in the list of total 116 districts where ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Yojana’ has been launched to boost livelihood opportunities in rural India. The BJP chief also said adding that ‘Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana’ has been extended till November which will help the poor families in tiding over food crisis, especially during the festive season like Dussehra, Diwali and Chhath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/boost-use-of-local-goods-in-villages-bjp-workers-told/articleshow/76881387.cms||Abhay Singh
July 10, 2020||Patna||Burglars break open two Gaya ATMs, loot Rs 15 lakh||GAYA: In two separate incidents about 12 km apart, burglars broke open ATMs of PNB and Axis Bank and stole at least Rs 15 lakh from the first ATM and an unspecified amount from the second one. According to reports reaching the district headquarters, the burglars struck at Dobhi and Sherghati around the same time in the wee hours on Thursday. From the Dobhi ATM of the PNB, the burglars, said to be three in number stole about Rs 15lakh. The Axis Bank ATM got burnt through the gas cutter used by the burglars. Confirming the two incidents, Sherghati SDPO Ravish Kumar said the burglars could not succeed in Sherghati. Some half-burnt currency notes were recovered from Sherghati. About the Dobhi incident, the SDPO said that the transactions were being reconciled to ascertain the exact amount stolen. PNB sources put the estimated amount figure around Rs 15lakh. According to PNB security officer Santosh Kumar, CCTV footage of the burglary has been shared with the police. In the footage, three burglars can be seen, said the security officer. Asked about the amount stolen, the security officer said the exact amount was being verified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/burglars-break-open-two-gaya-atms-loot-rs-15l/articleshow/76881362.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Gurgaon||Climate change could lower wheat, rice yields in Haryana in 15 yrs: GJUST study||HISAR: If the drastic changes in the weather continues, in about 15 years, the yield of wheat will be reduced by 8% and rice by 11% and by 2095, the yield of wheat will fall by 57% and rice by 34%. A study by environmental science & engineering department of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology had concluded this. Titled ‘climate change: does it really matter for Haryana?’ the study was conducted by Sohan Lal, a research scholar of the department under the supervision of professor Narsi Ram Bishnoi, dean of research, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology. According to agriculture statistics of 2017, Haryana is fourth in wheat cultivation and 10th in rice production in the country. For the study, Haryana was divided into three climate zones — dry sub-humid, semi arid region and arid zone. The Marskim DSSAT weather generator meteorological data tool was used for forecasting temperature and rainfall from 2010 to 2095. According to the study, in Ambala district, which falls under dry sub-humid, baseline temperature was 25.58 °C (degree celsius) with baseline rainfall 827.3mm in 2015 and it shows temperature increase from 0.49-0.91°C by 2035, 0.80-2.94°C by 2065 and 0.80-5.25 °C by 2095. Similarly, the rainfall is found increasing up to 21.6-50mm by 2035, 28.9-63.9mm by 2065, and 36.5-90.30mm by 2095. In Karnal district, which comes under semi arid, baseline temperature observed was 25.41°C with baseline rainfall 675.6mm in 2015 and it shows temperature increase from 0.52-0.91 °C by 2035, 0.85-2.91 °C by 2065 and 0.84-5.22 °C by 2095. Similarly, the rainfall is found increasing up to 14.7-51.7mm by 2035, 33.9-71.5mm by 2065, and 36.1-94.70 mm by 2095. In Hisar district, which is taken as an example of arid region, the baseline temperature was 26.19°C with baseline rainfall 418.2mm in 2015 and it shows temperature increase from 0.49-0.85°C by 2035, 0.86-2.92°C by 2065 and 0.87-5.34°C by 2095. Similarly, the rainfall is found increasing up to 3.3-31mm by 2035, 3.7-28mm by 2065 and 1.4-55.9mm by 2095. The rise in temperature will cause reduction in wheat yield — up to 8% with 1°C rise, up to 22% with 2°C rise, up to 38% with 3°C rise, and up to 57% with 5°C. Similarly, the reduction in rice yield has been studied up to 11%, 23%, 30%, and 34% with the rise in temperature around 1°C, 2°C, 3°C, and 5°C, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/climate-change-could-lower-wheat-rice-yields-in-hry-in-15-yrs-gjust-study/articleshow/76882918.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Business||BP pays RIL $1 billion for 49% in fuels JV||MUMBAI: BP has paid Reliance Industries (RIL) $1 billion for a 49% stake in the retail and aviation fuels joint venture (JV), concluding an agreement the two companies inked last year. The JV — Reliance BP Mobility, in which RIL holds 51% — will operate under the ‘Jio-bp’ brand. It has received the marketing authorisation for transportation fuels, among other necessary regulatory and statutory approvals. The JV will begin selling fuels and Castrol lubricants with immediate effect from its existing retail outlets, which will be rebranded to Jio-bp in due course, the two companies said in a joint statement. Castrol is a brand owned by BP. The UK-based energy player is a majority shareholder of the Mumbai-listed Castrol India. The announcement comes two days after RIL said that its digital unit, Jio Platforms, has received Rs 43,574 crore from Facebook for a 9.99% stake in the company. Reliance BP Mobility aims to become a leading player in India’s fuels and mobility markets. The JV plans to ramp up its fuel retailing network to 5,500 sites within five years from the current 1,400 outlets. It also aims to increase its presence to 45 airports in the coming years from the existing 30. “India is a country that will require more energy for its economic growth and, as it prospers, its needs for mobility and convenience will accelerate,” said BP CEO Bernard Looney. “This new venture is a unique opportunity to build a leading, fast-growing business that can help meet India’s demands and create exciting new digital and low-carbon options for the future.” The JV’s aggressive expansion plans will quadruple employment at service stations to 80,000, the two partners said. It will leverage RIL’s fuel retail network and its millions of consumers through Jio Platforms, while BP will bring its global experience in high-quality differentiated fuels, lubricants, retail and advanced low carbon mobility solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bp-pays-ril-1bn-for-49-in-fuels-jv/articleshow/76882122.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Bareilly||Prof uses FB theme with Pak map, booked for ‘obscenity’||Bareilly: A professor from Bareilly was on Wednesday booked for using a Facebook theme with Covid-19 safety messages that also had a Pakistan map. “I had chosen a Covid-19 theme which had a green map. I did it in a hurry and had not noticed the map was that of Pakistan. After a friend asked me about it, I deleted it and apologised. It was not intentional,” the professor at Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Rohilkhand University told TOI. While he did delete the theme, a screenshot of his profile was widely circulated. Members of RSS affiliate Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) sent a memorandum to the university vice-chancellor demanding action against him. “We want him to be suspended,” ABVP city organisational secretary Rahul Chauhan said. Another RSS umbrella organisation, Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), filed a police complaint against the professor. “An FIR has been filed under Section 67 of the IT Act,” Baradari station house officer Shitanshu Sharma said. The section deals with transmission of obscene material. The vice-chancellor, in response to the outfit, asked the professor for an explanation. “He has filed his reply. We will bring this up at the executive council meeting. The council will take a call on what is to be done,” vice-chancellor Prof Anil Shukla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/prof-uses-fb-theme-with-pak-map-booked-for-obscenity/articleshow/76877504.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 10, 2020||Varanasi||Covid tally jumps to 487 after highest one-day spike of 50 cases||Prayagraj: Prayagraj district’s novel coronavirus (Covid-19) tally registered a new record as 50 persons were diagnosed with the disease — the highest single-day spike in cases till now — on Thursday. With the new cases, Prayagraj’s tally rose to 487. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “The patients were between the age group of 23 and 73 years. Most of them contracted the disease after coming in contact with other patients. Sahai said that te new patients included a 56-year-old resident of Shanktinagar Colony. “The man is asymptomatic and came in contact with Covid-19 positive staff nurse at Lucknow’s SGPGI. Besides, a 23-year-old man from Dhokari village in Phulpur) was also tested positive for novel coronavirus. He was also asymptomatic and has been shifted to Covid-19 Level One hospital for treatment.” A 27-year-old man from Neem Sarai, who had been running a fever since the past eight days, also tested positive for infection. A 73-year-old diabetic man from Karanpur was diagnosed with the disease after he complained of breathlessness. A 54-year-old woman from Mirganj tested Covid-19 positive after she came in contact with a patient. She had complained of hypertension. Besides, a 52-year-old man from Lukerganj also tested positive for the disease. “The new cases reported on Thursday included a 45-year-old man from Mahutaar in Handia. He was diagnosed while being admitted to a local hospital after complaining of breathlessness. Besides, a 29-year-old pregnant woman from Awas Vikas Colony Yojna 3 in Jhunsi also tested positive for Covid-19.” A 26-year-old man living on Nawab Yusuf Road also tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. He is asymptomatic and came in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient. Two men from Subedarganj and Kalindipuram — 60 and 38 years old respectively — were among the Prayagraj residents who tested positive for the infection on Thursday. Both of them came in contact with the same novel coronavirus patient. Sahai said that a 45-year-old man from Chowk in Rani Mandi and a 33-year-old man from Baghambari Housing scheme in Allahapur were also diagnosed with the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-tally-jumps-to-487-after-highest-one-day-spike-of-50-cases/articleshow/76880626.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Patna||Curbs in other districts as well||PATNA/MOTIHARI/BETTIAH: With a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, the authorities of many districts have decided to impose lockdown, again. While lockdown came into effect in East and West Champaran on Thursday, several curbs will be imposed in Vaishali district from July 11 to 16. According to sources, Purnea and Kaimur have announced lockdown between July 10 and 16. Other districts like Nawada and Buxar will be under lockdown from July 10 to 12. The authorities in Muzaffarpur, Aurangabad and Supaul are also considering the implementation of lockdown to restrict the movement of people. East Champaran district magistrate (DM) Shirshat Kapil Ashok had issued an order on Wednesday for imposing lockdown between 6pm and 7am from Thursday. He had also ordered that all shops would remain shut on Thursdays and Sundays till further orders and only essential services would be allowed. In West Champaran too, DM Kundan Kumar had declared a complete lockdown between 5pm and 7am from Thursday. “With reduced working hours, shops and establishments will be open for business between 11am and 5.30pm,” district public relations officer Rashmi Kumari had said in a press release on Wednesday. SP Nitasha Gudiya had ordered her force to set up police barriers at all major road intersections to ensure compliance of the overnight lockdown and adherence to safety norms during the day. In most districts facing lockdown, government offices and public corporations will remain shut. All private and commercial establishments will also be closed. However, shops selling ration, dairy products, vegetables and meat will be open between 6am and 10am and from 4pm to 7pm. Besides, places of worship and religious congregations will come under the purview of the lockdown. The authorities have been asked to encourage home delivery to minimize the movement of people outside their houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/curbs-in-other-districts-as-well/articleshow/76882257.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Patna||704 fresh cases take Covid tally to 13,978||PATNA: Coronavirus claimed eight more lives in the state, taking the toll to 118 even as 704 fresh cases were registered on Thursday. With this, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state has increased to 13,978. Some officers and employees at deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi’s office and residence were also tested positive for the virus. A JD(U) MLC has also contracted the virus. The health department has officially confirmed 109 deaths so far. With 9,792 recoveries, active cases stood at 4,075 in the state on Thursday. Seven patients died at AIIMS-Patna, Covid-19 nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said. Two of the deceased were from Patna and one each from West Champaran, Vaishali, Muzaffarpur, Siwan and Begusarai. A 50-year-old woman from East Champaran died at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Thursday, said Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell). In Patna, 132 new cases were registered on Thursday. Sources said one of the infected persons is personal secretary of the deputy CM and two others are associated with his cell. Three other employees were deployed at Modi’s residence, including a gardener and two security men, the sources added. As per the information shared by the state health department, Covid-19 cases were recorded in 36 districts on Thursday with Patna once again topping the chart with 132 cases followed by Vaishali (73), Bhagalpur (63), Begusarai (44), Nalanda (42), Muzaffarpur (39) and Khagaria (37). State health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 251 people have recovered in past 24 hours, taking the number of total recoveries to 9,792. The state’s recovery rate is 70.05%. Lokesh said 6,505 samples were tested in past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/704-fresh-cases-take-covid-tally-to-13978/articleshow/76880647.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Two arrested as police bust cricket betting ring||JAIPUR: Unearthing a cricket betting racket, the CST team of Jaipur police commissionerate on Thursday arrested two persons for betting in T20 European Cricket Leauge. Police have also seized papers related to the transactions of lakhs of rupees, 10 mobile phones and laptops. The arrested were inviting online cricket betting over matches. Police commissioner Anand Srivastav said after cricket matches started being played in some parts of the world, there were regular inputs on the activities of betting. Thus, a team of senior police officers under additional commissioner of police (first) Ajay Pal Lamba was constituted. “There was a specific inputs that some people in a house were into betting at Tiupati Nagar, Ramnagaria. Our team raided the house and found that a few people were betting over T20 cricket matches of European cricket league,” said a senior officer. The arrested were identified as Kapil Soni (34) and Amit Gupta (41). “We have also seized a register having betting transaction of nearly Rs 10 lakh, 10 mobile phones, laptops and calculators,” the officer further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-arrested-as-police-bust-cricket-betting-ring/articleshow/76882916.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kolkata||Non-nCov services to resume at MCH||Kolkata: A day after Mamata Banerjee’s meeting with health officials and officials and doctors of Medical College Hospital, Kolkata, the college has decided to start indoor and outdoor services for non-Covid patients. On Thursday, the college principal came out with an official notification to start these services and also to improve facilities in the Covid wards. The resident doctors who had been demanding the resumption of non-Covid services, along with Covid care, have ceased their agitation. Another notification from Swasthya Bhawan on Thursday identified four buildings at the hospital to be utilized for education and training of PG and post-doctoral trainees for medicine and surgery and other allied subjects, based on the expert committee report. Non-Covid patients will be admitted and treated in the four buildings, while another block — CB Building — has been earmarked for treatment of Covid patients. This is in addition to the two existing Covid wards in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/non-ncov-services-to-resume-at-mch/articleshow/76882211.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 10, 2020||Patna||Patna district braces for lockdown from today||PATNA: Patna is set to enter the fifth phase of the Covid-19 lockdown on Friday. District magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi issued an order in this regard after a spate of corona cases. Divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal held a meeting with the DM, the SSP and several other senior officials on Thursday to review the steps being taken to ensure strict implementation of the lockdown from July 10 to 16. “Lockdown 5.0 will be implemented strictly across the district. Only shops selling essential commodities like medicines, groceries, vegetables and fruits will remain open. The officials concerned will keep a strict vigil on the residents, commuters as well as market owners,” Agarwal told this newspaper. He added, “Since we do not want passengers travelling to or returning from other cities or states to face any problem, we have allowed the use of public transport during the lockdown. However, the movement of private vehicles will be prohibited and only those commuting for essential services will be allowed on roads.” Asked about issuance of passes to private vehicle owners travelling to other districts, Agarwal replied, “Passes are not required for inter-district movement.” City SP (West) Jitendra Kumar said proper deployment of police personnel would be done across the district to keep tabs on the people violating the new norms. Besides, all central and state government offices with some exceptions as well as private offices will be shut from Friday. An official of the general administration department said, “The offices that will remain open during the lockdown will work with limited staff to curb the spread of the virus.” Religious places will also remain closed for a week to avoid public gatherings. Mahavir Temple Trust Committee secretary Kishore Kunal hailed the DM’s order, but pointed out that the curbs should also have been imposed on other establishments like hotels. “Human life is definitely more important than religious rituals. However, instead of locking the main gate of the temple, the outer gate should have been closed and the entry of worshippers restricted,” Kishore said. Meanwhile, traders and shopkeepers, who had already been reeling under a financial crisis due to lesser footfalls, are disappointed. “Most traders and shop owners are heading towards a financial crisis. However, during the monthlong unlock period, they realized that saving their lives is far more important than earning money,” Bihar Industries Association president Ram Lal Khaitan said and added that the government should ensure strict vigil at places that would remain open amid the curbs. Altogether 1,613 corona positive cases have been reported in Patna so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-district-braces-for-lockdown-from-today/articleshow/76882230.cms||Archi Rani
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Viral fight: Sero survey results likely on Friday in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The results of the serological survey carried out in Delhi recently are likely to be shared on Friday. Though the authorities are tight-lipped about the results, sources said the presence of antibodies in samples collected were “adequate” enough to be a good sign for the city where the total Covid-positive cases had crossed a lakh. The survey was started in two districts on June 27 and was completed before time on July 4. In total, 22,823 blood samples were collected from all 11 districts cutting across different demographics by around 200 teams. The survey was carried out by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Delhi government to assess the spread of Covid-19 and gauge the development of immunity to the virus in the community. “We are trying our best to share the report on Friday even though it is very detailed,” a senior NCDC official said. “The survey was completely random but uniform, and areas were chosen as per the proportion of population. In all, 30% blood samples collected were paediatric because around that much of the population comprises minors. The total number of samples collected were around 0.1% of Delhi’s population,” he added. The blood samples were analysed in different laboratories to find out if people were infected by Covid-19 and had developed antibodies against the virus. “The initial results show that the prevalence of antibodies in the samples collected in Delhi are higher than the positivity rate, which is around 10%, as seen in other tests. In fact, in some districts the percentage of people who have developed antibodies is distinctly higher than the average positivity rate,” the official said. “The final results will reveal if a large section of the population has developed antibodies or not, which will help in breaking the chain. If the result finds good antibodies in the community in an adequate amount, the chances of further spread of the virus and it taking a more lethal form will be less in the future,” added the official. To ensure that the survey was completely randomised, blood samples were collected from every fifth house in an identified area. The teams collecting samples comprised auxiliary nurses and lab technicians of mohalla clinics supported by dispensary staff and ASHA workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/viral-fight-sero-survey-results-likely-today/articleshow/76883473.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 10, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Infection low in tribal areas||KOCHI: Covid is spreading fast in urban areas of Kerala. However, in tribal hamlets where the risk of infection is high due to overcrowding and difficulty in access to major hospitals, the spread of infection is low, with just six confirmed cases in the state. Of these, five cases were reported from Wayanad and one case is from Kannur. No Covid deaths have been reported amongst the tribal population. Of the 4.84 lakh tribal population in the state, about 1.5 lakh people are in Wayanad. “With 18% of total population in the district being tribal communities, Wayanad has the largest proportion in the state. They include primitive tribal groups like Kattunaikka and Cholanaikka. They reside in small and overcrowded hamlets, increasing the risk of rapid spread of infections like Covid,” said Dr A Sukumaran, former state epidemiologist, who has come out of retirement to work at Covid control room at Wayanad. In Wayanad, the five who tested positive were imported cases (returned from Karnataka). None of their primary or secondary contacts were infected. Health department along with tribal leaders have designed strategies in tribal colonies that include risk categorization, based on known health indices, identifying returnees from neighbouring states like Karnataka and Tamil Nadu where they go for labour. All high-risk primary contacts are subjected to testing, either from a stationary centre or in remote areas through mobile units. Special health workers are identified among the educated youths of these communities and trained to support the health field staff. “We are aware of the harm Covid can cause. We are extremely cautious within the hamlets and don’t allow in anyone from outside. There are complaints but the will to overcome the infection is greater,” said tribal worker K A Ramu. “They may be educationally backward and poor, but they understand that Covid can cause greater damage and loss of life than floods or other diseases. Everyone in these hamlets wear masks and ensure social distancing,” said Rajendra Prasad, president of Tambu, an NGO which works amongst tribals in Attapadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/infection-low-in-tribal-areas/articleshow/76880991.cms||Preetu Nair
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana gives relief to roadways staff for strike period||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has decided to consider the strike period of contractual employees of other departments, who had joined the strikes organised by the employees of Haryana Roadways to protest against the Kilometer Scheme, as “leave of kind due”. The protest programmes by the contractual employees included mass leave on October 26, 2018, strike on October 30-31, 2018 and a national strike on January 8, 2020. The leave of kind due, or the leave of a different kind, is granted retrospectively for absence from work, at the sole discretion of authorities. The employees of Haryana state transport department had gone on strike from October 16, 2018 over the issue of hiring of around 700 private buses by the state transport department. They were claiming that the decision of hiring private buses is against the interest of public as well as the employees. However, on November 2, 2018, on persuasion of a division bench of the high court headed by then chief justice Krishna Murari, the roadways employees had agreed to withdraw the strike. The HC had also ordered to suspend all the orders/ decisions taken by the Haryana government against the protesting employees and to allow them to join their duties immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-gives-relief-to-roadways-staff-for-strike-period/articleshow/76882923.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Hubballi||Heavy rain wreaks havoc in Karwar||Karwar: Heavy rain lashed Karwar and surrounding areas on Thursday, throwing normal life out of gear. Public and private property got damaged due to the rain. The entire 30 km stretch of NH-66 got completely submerged between Karwar and Ankola towns. Water entered houses in the low-lying areas of Karwar city and surrounding places. The weather department has warned that it will continue to rain for two more days. The area beside the newly expanded NH-66 witnessed chaos due to flooding, and in some places people were brought to higher ground with the help of ropes. In Ankola taluk, several cars were damaged, after trees fell on them. In the area surrounding the INS Kadamba naval base in Arga and Chendia villages, the residential areas got flooded, due to which many residents got trapped. The authorities rescued several people from these areas. The Karnataka Power Corporation has warned people living on the banks of the Kali River to move to safer places, as they may release water from 5 dams built across the river. There is heavy rain in the Kali catchment area and Kodasalli, Bommanahalli dams built across Kali River are almost full, due to which the water will be released any time, said officials. Mallapur township belonging to Kaiga Nuclear Power station is flooded. The highest rain of 199 mm was recorded at Mallapur township in the last 24 hours, according to KSNMDC. The average normal rainfall recorded for this region on Thursday is 32.3mm, but in the last 24 hours, Uttara Kannada has recorded almost double the rainfall at 62.3 mm. The high-rise buildings in the township are surrounded by water, and the residents are trapped inside. People in Hinduwada in Mallapur, who got trapped due to flooding, were later rescued by the authorities. People said that large logs are being washed away in the Kali River, which can endanger the lives of the people who are using boats to get to safer areas. In Karwar city too, the low-lying areas are flooded. By Thursday evening, the water level in different areas receded, as there was some respite from the rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/heavy-rain-wreaks-havoc-in-karwar/articleshow/76880985.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Man with severe bullet injuries saved after 8-hr surgery||New Delhi: A 32-year-old man, who had allegedly been shot at point-blank range by a friend, was saved by doctors at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital after a gruelling eight-hour surgery. The bullet had pierced the man’s liver, gallbladder and perforated the stomach, leading to intense blood loss. He is now stable and has been discharged from the hospital, doctors said. The shooting had occurred on June 5 around 11pm. The man was first taken to a nearby super-specialty hospital, but after being turned away his family members brought him to Sir Ganga Ram. He was in a critical condition and bleeding profusely from a bullet wound in his abdomen. “The patient was brought to us around midnight. By that time, we were prepared for surgery. Blood was ready and he was immediately rushed to the operation theatre. The bullet had injured his liver, gallbladder and perforated the stomach and duodenum, leading to a lot of blood loss,” said Dr Ushast Dhir, consultant, department of surgical gastroenterology and liver transplantation, who was also the surgeon. Dhir added that the bullet had also shattered the man’s right kidney, which was constantly bleeding. “Around 1.5 litres of blood had accumulated in his stomach by the time he reached the hospital. The challenge was to save every organ injured by the bullet. The surgery was performed wearing specialised PPE kits in the wake of the prevailing pandemic,” said the doctor. The surgery involved complex repair of each injured organ, which took over eight hours. The specialised kits had to be changed twice along with the masks for the entire team. “We began the surgery around midnight and finished at 8.30am. Since the patient was relatively young, we didn’t want to remove any organ. We spent time meticulously mending each organ and removed the 1.5 litres of blood accumulated inside his stomach. The patient was then shifted to post-operative ICU. He has been discharged and a follow-up has also been carried out,” said Dhir. Despite the prevalence of Covid-19, hospital officials said no patient suffering from any wounds was being turned away and immediate care was being provided to life-threatening injuries. “The way doctors operate has changed due to Covid-19. Surgeries have become more complicated, but our teams have been handling every critical case with the same priority as the viral disease,” said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-with-severe-bullet-injuries-saved-after-8-hr-surgery/articleshow/76901634.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 10, 2020||Kanpur||Vikas Dubey’s lieutenant who drove him to Faridabad shot dead||KANPUR: Hours before the dramatic arrest of gangster Vikas Dubey in Ujjain’s Mahakal temple, two of his key aides were shot dead in separate encounters in a two-hour span before dawn-break on Thursday. While Prabhat Mishra alias Kartikeya, who drove the gangster from his hideout in Shivli forests near ground zero to Faridabad, was gunned down on outskirts of Kanpur, the other aide, Ranveer alias Bauwa Dubey, was shot in an encounter in Etawah. Both Kartikeya and Bauwa were among the 14 henchmen on UP Police’s hit-list and carried bounties of Rs 50,000 each. The duo was accused of trapping and killing eight policemen, including a DSP in Bikru village on July 2. Kartikeya was picked by police from a Faridabad hotel, minutes after the gangster slipped out of the dragnet on Wednesday night. The aide had provided vital clues during interrogation, including details of how Dubey lay holed up in Shivli forests near Kanpur for 48 hours before he drove him through Auraiya highway and crossed over to Delhi and then veered the car towards Faridabad. Kartikeya was shot by the STF personnel en route to Kanpur when he tried to flee, said police. “We were bringing Kartikeya to Kanpur from Faridabad on transit remand when a tyre of a police vehicle was punctured in Panki area. When cops alighted to fix the tyre, the accused snatched a firearm from a STF personnel and opened fire, injuring two men. Our team members opened fire in self-defence. After a while, we found Kartikeya’s body at a distance,” said ADG law and order, Prashant Kumar. The second encounter took place at Etawah early Thursday when Ranveer alias Bauwa Dubey, was shot dead in a chance encounter on the highway near Mahewah. “Cops received an input about goons speeding on a stolen Swift Dzire car. At Kachaura Road barrier, the SUV smashed through traffic barricades and collided against a tree with cops on hot chase. While three criminals fled in the cover of darkness, one of them was shot after a heavy exchange of fire. The dead goon was later identified as Dubey aide, Bauwa. A pistol, a rifle and cartridges were recovered from the car,” said ADG Law and Order Prashant Kumar further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dons-lieutenant-who-drove-him-to-faridabad-shot-dead/articleshow/76883467.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 10, 2020||Goa||K’taka should use its own ports to import coal, says Cortalim MLA||Vasco: Cansaulim villagers objected to an inspection of railway tracks by officials of the South Western Railway (SWR) on Thursday morning, saying that no one, including the local MLA, was informed about the inspection. The inspection has now been scheduled on July 7. On being informed of the incident, Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha rushed to the Cansualim railway station where the inspection was being carried out by SWR officials. Saldanha, who was upset that she was not officially informed about the inspection, said, “I was at Mapusa and my driver had to drive like a mad man so that I don’t miss this inspection.” She said a few days back she was assured by the chief minister that she would be informed in advance about any inspection regarding the double tracking of railway tracks in south Goa. “The SWR has to tell us the quantum of coal to be transported on this track and its effect on the health of people,” Saldanha said, while adding that since Karnataka has its own ports, “selecting this dot-sized state for such a destructive project is unacceptable”. “Karnataka should use its ports to import coal for its projects,” she said. The Cortalim MLA said a few days back the chief minister had directed her to write to the deputy collector for a re-survey of houses, but within two days the cabinet had passed the project, which is unacceptable. “It is easy for the cabinet ministers to sit in a hall and pass projects when their property, their health and their houses will not be affected. But, they have to think about the people who have voted for them,” Saldanha said. Olencio Simoes, an activist, who was among those present at the station, said, “Former chief minister Manohar Parrikar had assured the people of Cortalim that no double tracking of railways would take place. Chief minister Pramod Sawant should keep the former chief minister’s word.” Simoes added that the SWR officials were showing no respect to the local MLA, and “came charging at the locals” when they asked the officials to wait for Saldanha to arrive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktaka-should-use-its-own-ports-to-import-coal-says-cortalim-mla/articleshow/76759307.cms||Ruvina Khan
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar man gets life for raping 70-year-old woman||ALWAR: POCSO court no. 3 of Alwar on Thursday convicted a 32-year-old man to life in jail for raping and killing a 70-year-old elderly woman. The court has also imposed a fine of Rs 30,000 on the convict. The woman was sleeping in her house at Sammanpur village under Noganwa police station area of Alwar on June 28, 2018 when Joginder Sharma barged inside and raped the woman. He also hit him with sticks while she resisted. She was was admitted to hospital the next morning from where she was referred to Jaipur in a critical condition. During treatment, she succumbed to injuries.Police arrested Joginder and filed a chargesheet on August 2, 2018. After this the matter was shifted to POCSO court no. 3. Additional public prosecutor Rajkumar Gangawat said, “On the basis of testimonies and statements of witnesses, the court sentenced Joginder to life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 30,000. We have submitted the FSL report and other relevant evidences to get conviction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-gets-life-term-for-raping-killing-woman/articleshow/76882929.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Top cops visit those in quarantine||KOZHIKODE: Those undergoing house quarantine in Wayanad after arriving from foreign countries or from other states can expect senior police officers to come calling to their homes. In a unique initiative, senior police officers, including district police chief and seven DSPs, are paying surprise visits to people under home quarantine to ensure full compliance of regulations and for feedback about their experience. Senior police officers are making inquiries on whether personnel from local police stations and ward-level committees visit them during the first 24 hours of quarantine and if they are making phone calls frequently. Also, the senior officers are taking note of experiences of those under quarantine during their arrival at the border facilitation centre and at airports. The top officers made surprise visits at around 40 houses in three days which started last Friday and will be continued. As an outcome of the home visit programme, police decided to introduce colour-coded stickers since people entering the state experienced long waiting hours at border points. “We want to know how systems are working on ground and so all senior officers from DSP level called around 30 persons each under home quarantine over phone to ask about their quarantine experience and the support they were receiving from local police and ward-level committees. Of the 240 people we called over phone, each senior officer visited five houses each,” Wayanad district police chief R Ilango said. He said that as quarantine was a restriction of people’s movement and liberty, they wanted to find out whether a change was needed in the system at local level and which all areas need improvement. “It was a learning process for us. Based on feedback, we could know that every person coming to Wayanad has been visited by a police personnel within 24 hours of their arrival. There are 2-3 areas where police and some places where Asha workers need to do a bit more,” Ilango added. Many under quarantine were happy to see senior officers visiting them. “Some of them wanted to know if they did something wrong that senior police officers had to visit them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/top-cops-visit-those-in-quarantine/articleshow/76881015.cms||K R Rajeev
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Districts working on plan to screen service providers, house workers||NEW DELHI: A day after Delhi government revised its Covid response plan and asked the district administrations to screen house workers, drivers, self-employed service providers and daily wagers, an official said a detailed strategy was being worked out to ensure 100% compliance with the orders. While the officials of East district said a module was being prepared and orders issued to all service providers to get screened at the nearest Delhi government dispensary, the other districts said deliberations were on to prepare a plan. Expressing concern that a significant number of “isolated” Covid-positive cases were emerging in all the districts from areas falling out of the containment zones and hotspots, the directorate general of health services (DGHS) on Wednesday issued an order asking district surveillance units to categorise daily workers as ‘special surveillance groups’ (SSG) and screen them along with high-risk group within a week. The SSG comprises drivers of rickshaws/auto, taxis and commercial vehicles, house workers, daily workers such as electricians, plumbers, mechanics, carpenters, and daily suppliers of food, grocery, posts and parcels. The district officials said in absence of a database, it was difficult to identify and enlist these people and screen them in such a short duration. “We have decided to issue orders asking people to turn up at the nearest government dispensaries and get themselves tested with rapid antigen kits,” said Arun Kumar Mishra, DM (East). In North district, officials said a detailed plan was being worked out to ensure targeted group was properly screened. “The officials are already on the job to prepare a plan. We have a meeting of all the stakeholders on Friday to finalise the strategy,” said Deepak Shinde, DM (North). In the Central district, the sub-divisional magistrates have been asked to coordinate with the municipal agencies for the identification of people who were required to be screened. The district also has a large number of bastis and camps where these service providers live. “We are targeting such bastis with the help of civic agencies. The market and RWAs will also be roped in,” said Nidhi Srivastava, DM (Central). The officials in other districts also said the plan would be ready by Friday. For high-risk group, which comprises people above 60 years and those with comorbidities, the district teams were already carrying out regular screening and testing. They added that the Japanese machines owned by Delhi Jal Board would be used to spray disinfectants at transport hubs, rickshaw, taxi and auto stands and other places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/districts-working-on-plan-to-screen-service-providers-house-workers/articleshow/76883009.cms||Atul Mathur
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||Tax evasion of Rs 5 crore unearthed by SDRI||Jaipur: In a joint operation the State Revenue Intelligence Directorate (SDRI), Jaipur in association with the Transport and Mines Department of Nagaur District on Thursday have unearthed a tax evasion of royalty of nearly Rs 5 crore by mines owner of Bhojas in Nagaur district. According to the information received, the directorate received complaints of illegal mining in the masonry stone mines allotted by the Department of Mines in village Nimbijodha in Didwana tehsil. “After the primary verification of the complaint a surprise inquiry was taken at the said mines. Investigations found that even in the gap area mining was done. In the gap area, mining work was found to be about 30 meters in width, 77 meters in length and 12 meters in depth. The total extracted stone was found to be 72072 metric ton. As per rules, the royalty including the penalty of the said mineral comes to about 2 crores. Including the compounding amount of two lakhs, this amount becomes about 2 crore 2 lakhs. Thus a notice from the Department of Mines was sent for the recovery,” said a senior officer of SDRI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tax-evasion-of-rs-5-crore-unearthed-by-sdri/articleshow/76882932.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Lucknow||Race for KGMU VC on as UP guv finds no applicant suitable||LUCKNOW: The race to become the next vice chancellor of King George’s Medical University (KGMU) has restarted with governor Anandiben Patel finding “no applicant suitable for the appointment as vice chancellor.” The new applications have to be sent in by July 20 to the governor’s office. The first advertisement seeking applications to the post was published on February 3 but names put up by the search committee for final selection did not qualify. A new notice for the same was thus released by the governor house on Thursday. Currently, Prof MLB Bhatt is the medical university’s VC on extension. As per the notice, the VC will be selected from a panel recommended by the search committee. The post will be held for three years or till 68 years of age, whichever is earlier and only those who have not attained 65 years of age will be eligible. As the VC is the principal executive and academic officer of the university, the notice calls for a person with the highest level of competence, integrity, morals and institutional commitment. The job description also seeks a person with sound administrative acumen besides being a distinguished person in the field of medical research, medical relief or medical education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/race-for-kgmu-vc-on-as-up-guv-finds-no-applicant-suitable/articleshow/76883482.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia invites investors to ‘the city of opportunities’||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday invited retail and e-commerce players to invest in the national capital. Speaking at Invest India Exclusive Investment Forum, Sisodia said Delhi was a city of opportunities with world-class infrastructure, a young consumption-driven economy and a government with a proven track record of governance making it a compelling destination for investors. The investment forum was attended by leading retail and e-commerce players from across the country and Sisodia, who also holds the portfolio of finance department, addressed them from his office through videoconferencing. He talked about a plethora of opportunities offered by the national capital for retail and e-commerce firms to invest in its economy, Delhi government said in a statement. According to officials, the aim of the forum, organised by Invest India, a national investment promotion and facilitation agency of the government of India, was to bring the state government and potential investors on a common platform to share ideas and to showcase favourable policies, ready infrastructure and other details of the industrial ecosystem of Delhi. Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructural Development Corporation managing director Vikas Anand also attended the meeting. The forum was attended by investors from 30 countries. About 20 industry sectors, including apparels, automobiles, e-commerce healthcare and sportswear, from countries across the world, such as the USA, Japan, Germany, the UK, Switzerland and Australia, participated in the webinar. Addressing the event, Sisodia accepted that the adverse financial impact of Covid-19 pandemic would be more long-lasting than its health effects. Delhi was gearing up to revive its economy despite facing many challenges, he added. “Delhi is a city of opportunities. Our state GDP has doubled in the past seven years and we have a per capita income of Rs 3,89,000, which is three times the national average. We also have an effective people-centric government under the leadership of CM Arvind Kejriwal,” Sisodia told the potential investors. Sisodia added that Delhi had substantial land bank for investment in sectors, such as tourism and hospitality; automobile parts; handloom and handicrafts; gems, jewellery and perfumes; packaged foods; leather goods and garments; steel fabrication; e-commerce; retail and information technology. “The upcoming industrial hubs in Ranikhera, Mundka, Baprola and Kanjhawala, along with the Mundka North warehousing cluster, have ample capacity available and they make Delhi an ideal destination for companies looking to set up retail or sourcing operations,” the deputy chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-invites-investors-to-the-city-of-opportunities/articleshow/76883484.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kochi||10 Mannar policemen in isolation||Alappuzha: At least 10 police personnel of Mannar police station in Alappuzha have been asked to go on quarantine on Thursday as the woman, found dead in a rented house at Chennithala here on Tuesday, tested positive for Covid-19 in the primary test, said Chengannur DSP P V Baby. He said that as per information they received from health officials, the deceased woman tested positive for Covid-19 in the first-round test. “At least 10 policemen, who conducted legal examinations of the body, have been asked to observe quarantine,” he said. Jithin, 30, a native of Pandalam and his wife Devika Das were found dead in a rented house at Chennithala on Tuesday. Jithin tested negative for Covid-19 and the source of Devika’s infection remains unknown. According to police, Jithin, a painting worker, was found hanging and his wife was found dead on the cot inside their home. They got married in May. On Tuesday, Jithin did not reach the worksite. So his contractor came checking at his house and found them both dead. There were blood stains over the face, neck and hands of the woman. Her body is kept in the morgue of Alappuzha general hospital. Meanwhile, 22 more people tested positive for coronavirus in Alappuzha on Thursday. Of them, 10 people contracted the disease through contact. While 10 had come from abroad, two came from other states. Those who contracted the disease through contact include six relatives of a pregnant woman hailing from Pallithode who tested positive for Covid-19 on July 4. Of the six, two are children. A 46-year-old native of Bharanikavu, who tested positive on Thursday, is a relative of the fish vendor from Kuruthikkad who tested positive last week. A 55-year-old fish vendor at Kayamkulam market, a 49-year-old employee of a seafood company at Ezhupunna, a young man from Pattanakad, who is an employee at Chellanam harbour, also contracted the disease through contact. As Covid-19 cases increased in coastal areas, district collector A Alexander issued an order banning fishing and sale of fish along the coast in the district till July 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/10-mannar-policemen-in-isolation/articleshow/76881031.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||Police arrest duo with stolen cars||Jaipur: In a crackdown on illegal sale and purchase of stolen vehicles, the CST team of Jaipur police arrested two persons for preparing fake registration papers of vehicles stolen from other states. The duo was involved in getting high-end cars and SUVs from vehicle thieves of Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh for selling it in Rajasthan. Senior officers said for a long time they were getting some inputs that some people were facilitating vehicle thieves of Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh.“Two persons identified as Shyam Singh Rathore and Bhanu Pratap Singh were arrested by our team. We have also seized five luxury vehicles and one power bike. Also some fake registration papers were seized,” said an officer. Police said during interrogation the accused said they use fake number plates and fake papers to sell off these stolen vehicles. “It was also found that they are master in hacking the system of the vehicle and can make a fake remote of the vehicle to unlock it,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-arrest-duo-with-stolen-cars/articleshow/76882945.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||NSUI opposes UGC exam decision||Jaipur: NSUI members of Rajasthan University staged a protest on the varsity campus against the decision of UGC to conduct final exams of higher educational institutes.The Rajasthan government had already decided to cancel all the exams of higher education, but UGC a day after released the guidelines to conduct exams in September. This has now created confusion amongst students who are still not clear whether the exams will be conducted.NSUI spokesperson Ramesh Bhati said the higher education exams should be cancelled and the government must issue guidelines to evaluate students. “We want clarity on whether exams are being cancelled. It is dangerous to appear for exams when the number of coronavirus cases is rising. There is immense fear among students. So, the government must cancel the exam for the safety of students,” Bhati said.The Rajasthan government said that they will have a discussion with UGC to let them take a call on holding college and university exams.Academicians of the state, however, said that it is necessary to conduct exams for final year students or it will affect their future later on. “If you promote students in final year without exams, it will have a negative impact on their future. UGC has already declared to conduct exams, but if the state government somehow goes ahead with promoting students without exams, it will be difficult to get a job in other parts of the country. Hence, for final year classes, exams must be held.”“There should be a mechanism to mark students as anyone can be affected by coronavirus. It is necessary to keep the decision of cancellation of exams,” Bhati added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nsui-opposes-ugc-exam-decision/articleshow/76882941.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Mysuru||Lovers attempt suicide by slitting throat, rescued||MYSURU: A teenage boy, who on Thursday attempted suicide by slitting throat with a knife along with lover, is battling for life at a hospital here. The girl is under treatment, but is out of danger. The lovers are Kavya and Avinash, both 18 years old PU students. Opposition to their alliance by their family members is said to have driven them to almost take the extreme step. Ullahalli police said Kavya , a Lingayat, and Avinash , a scheduled caste, fell in love while studying in college. They both tried to kill themselves by slitting the throat near the girl’s house at Duggalli in Nanjangud taluk. Her family members were away when the incident happened around 10am. Though the villagers spotted them gasping for breath with blood oozing out, they did not rush to help them fearing Covid-19. A villager said Hullahalli police sub-inspector B Surendra arrived on time and rescued the lovers. SI Surendra said they rushed both of them to KR Hospital in Mysuru along with a police team so that they get timely medical help. The girl is doing fine, while the boy’s condition is critical, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/lovers-attempt-suicide-by-slitting-throat-rescued/articleshow/76881043.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kanpur||Slain Vikas aide’s ‘dead’ father held from Bikru||Kanpur: Sanjiv Dubey alias Sanju, father of Amar Dubey who was declared “dead in a road accident” by his family seven years ago, was Wednesday found alive, police said. The bizarre incident unfolded after the police arrested him from a hideout in his native village Bikru. “Sanjiv was arrested when he came out from hiding after learning about his son Amar Dubey’s death, who was killed following an encounter with STF in Hamirpur district on Wednesday. During questioning, he told investigators that he had only lost one of his leg in the road accident seven years ago,” said the police. According to police, Amar’s father Sanjiv had 12 cases including attempt to murder, extortion and loot against him at Chaubeypur police station. “In order to get all his cases closed, after the mishap, he went into hiding and asked his family members to spread fake information about his death among people,” said police further. However, on Thursday, when the police reached Bikru village to informed family members about Amar’s death in an encounter, they got information through an informer that his father Sanjiv, who was declared “dead in a road accident” by his family members, is alive. And finally the police found Sanjiv from a hideout in Bikru village and arrested him, added police further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/slain-vikas-aides-dead-father-held-from-bikru/articleshow/76883253.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kanpur||Vikas escaped through secret foot over-bridge over Pandu||Kanpur: Gangster Vikas Dubey had used the ‘secret foot over-bridge’ he got constructed over Pandu river that divides Kanpur Nagar from Kanpur Dehat to make good his escape and reach Shivli and further to Hamirpur and then to Ujjain via Faridabad. It was alleged that the criminal had used the fund released against the RCC road for getting the secret foot over-bridge constructed over Pandu river. Villagers said that the gangster is known to have constructed several hideouts, including a bunker and escape routes in the house in Bikru village that was demolished by police soon after the killings of eight policemen. “There were several secret exit doors, besides a bunker which he uses to evade arrest whenever police swoop down on him,” said a villager preferring anonymity. It has long been part of crime folklore that it’s almost impossible to arrest Vikas from his fortress-like residence in Bikru village. “On many occasions, cops have not been able to arrest him from his house. Every time the police tried to nab him up from there, he got wind of it and escaped, using secret doors that have been specially built for the purpose,” said a village elderly. He further told that Vikas had used more than Rs 12 lakh from his wife’s Richa, who is a member of district panchayat, official fund. A police official said, “The are some escape routes behind his house including the secret foot over-bridge that directly lead as far as Kanpur Dehat.” After the murder of cabinet minister Santosh Shukla in 2001 when the cops went to Bikru village to arrest Vikas, they could not find him. Later, Vikas was even acquitted in the case — much to the embarrassment of the entire police team that was present at the time of murder. Not only is Vikas known to have a strong information network, his loyalists even block the path of the cops. Like on the day of the encounter, policemen’s path was obstructed by placing a JCB by his aides. “Even this time, while we were busy conducting checking drive at various approach roads connecting his village, they all had escaped through rear side of the house via the secret bridge,” said Inspector Billhaur Santosh Awasthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/vikas-escaped-through-secret-foot-over-bridge-over-pandu/articleshow/76883326.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||BJP accepted its ideology was at fault, says Dotasra||Jaipur: School education minister Govind Singh Dotasra on Thursday said the Centre’s decision to remove chapters on secularism, nationalism, citizenship and demonetization, which were the basis of recent election campaigns in the country, from the school syllabus shows that the BJP has accepted that its own ideology was at fault.Dotasra was talking about the decision of CBSE for reduction of 30% syllabus which includes chapters of secularism, nationalism, citizenship, federalism. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that with the help of demonetization, he will curb the flow of black money but by removing these chapters he has proved the point what Congress and Rahul Gandhi was making all these years. We have said that demonetization, CAA and GST were drafted to create chaos in the country and for vote bank. Modi do not want children to learn about their failures,” said Dotasra.The state government on Wednesday appointed a committee to look into the matter of reduction of syllabus from Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) books as well.Dotasra said, “As the number of classroom teaching has been reduced, we have to think about reducing the syllabus. We have created a committee that will look into the matter about the number of days we will have in hand and a decision will be taken soon.”Due to coronavirus, online classes are going on in the state in government and private schools. However, it seems to be difficult to complete the entire syllabus this year as the classroom teaching hasn’t begun yet. As the number of cases is rising, it is expected that classes will begin after two months.The government has already announced that till July 31, schools will remain shut and further decision will be taken later on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-accepted-its-ideology-was-at-fault-says-dotasra/articleshow/76882950.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Lucknow||Markets to reopen partially from Monday||LUCKNOW: The district administration on Thursday re-introduced some barriers to slow down the pace of the unlock phase and arrest the spread of Covid-19, which has seen a surge of cases in July. As thoroughfares were witnessing huge crowds and implementing social distancing was becoming difficult, the revised order on the unlock issued by district magistrate Abhishek Prakash has imposed an odd-even formula for opening of establishments in markets including malls, shopping complexes and eateries with 10 or more shops. The timing of operations has been reduced by an hour. Now, in every market, alternate shops will be marked with orange and green stickers and open on alternate days. On weekly offs, the entire market will be sanitized. The system will be put in place from Monday. Further, timings for opening of shops will now be from 9am to 8pm. Earlier, it was from 9am to 9pm. All shops selling essential items like medicines, grocery, dairy products and fuel will remain exempted from the new order. The district administration had implemented a left-right scheme in May in which shops on the left and right sides of a road opened on alternate days. It was, however, scrapped in June. In the new order, shop owners have been directed to cover all items with transparent polythene sheet. Customers will not be allowed to touch the items. They will be handed over to the buyers after final purchase. Only limited number of customers will be allowed entry at a time in the shop after sanitizing hands. It will also be essential for the employee packing items for home deliveries and delivery boys to wear masks, head cover, gloves and shoe covers. As earlier, no activity will be allowed in containment zones. Penal action will be taken against those not following orders under the Epidemic Act, the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/markets-to-reopen-partially-from-mon/articleshow/76883489.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Smart City Limited plans to shift temples after public consensus||JAIPUR: With one side of Chandpole Road closed down for the construction of smart road, discussions are on about shifting the five small temples on the stretch. Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL) has proposed that if the public comes to a consensus, then they will initiate the process to shift the temples. In a meeting between JSCL and Chandpole Bazaar Vyapaar Mandal, the issue was raised and the authorities have left it completely upto public wish. One senior JSCL officer said, “There were discussions regarding the shifting of temples. We will act upon the will of the people. If the public and the Vyapaar Mandal agrees upon it, then we will shift the temples or else we will construct the road as per the current pattern.” There are five temples in the 900 metre-stretch from Chhoti Chaupar to Chandpole Gate that can affect smooth flow of traffic on the road. When TOI contacted Chandpole Bazaar Vyapaar Mandal president Subhash Goyal, he said that they have no objections regarding it. “We will soon give it in writing to the JSCL authorities that they can shift the temples. Just to be clear, temples will not be removed but shifted. There is lot of space on dividers so we want them to be shifted over there so that traffic can function smoothly. JSCL should construct the new temples where the idols can be shifted. A little change in the size can be acceptable, just the idols should be kept intact,” said Goyal. A flank of Chandpole Road has been closed for construction of smart road by JSCL from 10pm on June 22. The decision was taken after JSCL reached an agreement with Chandpole Market Association to complete the work within 70 days. JSCL has already completed work on another side of Chandpole Road — from Chhoti Chaupar to Chandpole Gate. There will be a footpath, parking space, green lane for non-motorized vehicles, once the smart road is complete. At present, Kishanpole is the only smart road in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jscl-plans-to-shift-temples-after-public-consensus/articleshow/76882948.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Varanasi||High court allows engr Yadav Singh’s plea, orders his release||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has allowed the habeas corpus petition filed by the former chief engineer of Noida, Yadav Singh, and directed him to be released forthwith on fulfilling of conditions to be laid down by the CBI court. Rejecting the plea of the CBI counsel that there was delay in filing of the chargesheet within the stipulated period due to closure of courts due to corona pandemic, a division bench comprising Justice Pritinkar Divakar and Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav, the court observed, “It is not the case of the CBI that during lock own period, no offence had taken place in the country nor any arrest or remand has been made. Therefore, the CBI is not justified in citing the closure of the courts and the general extension of the limitation period for filling of chargesheet.” The CBI had arrested Yadav Singh on February 10, 2020, in connection with an FIR registered against him, alleging therein that he had awarded a contract in favour of seven persons, flouting all the rules including prevalent market rates, and thereby had caused big financial losses to the government. In the petition, it was alleged that CBI has not filed chargesheet within the time limit, which is 60 days. Therefore, either he should be granted bail or be released from the CBI custody forthwith.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/high-court-allows-engr-yadav-singhs-plea-orders-his-release/articleshow/76880655.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Trade officials to pass Covid duty baton to teachers||NEW DELHI: With economic activities now resumed, the government has asked district magistrates to relieve the trade and taxes officials currently given various Covid-19 related tasks in their areas and let them join their parent department with immediate effect. To replace these officials, the government has deputed teaching staff, librarians and other employees working in various language academies and asked them to join the districts with immediate effect. The special CEO of Delhi Disaster Management Authority late on Wednesday released a list of about 150 staff members of language academies and put them at the disposal of DMs of 11 revenue districts apart from some other important departments that are working on the frontlines to fight the pandemic. With no economic activity taking place and all commercial establishments including shops and factories closed for almost two months due to coronavirus-induced lockdown, Delhi government had deputed various trade and taxes department officials — assistant commissioners, tax inspectors and senior and junior assistants — to various districts and other crucial departments. These officials were deployed to oversee containment zones, manage Covid care centres, and supervise various surveys and other such exercise related to the prevention of the spread of the infection. “With all businesses start functioning, the workload in trade and taxes department has also increased and we need these officials back,” a senior Delhi government official said, requesting anonymity. The district officials, however, said that the trade and taxes department officials were given some crucial jobs and relieving them at this crucial juncture would affect the day-to-day working of various activities. “The new set of officials that has come as replacement will have to be trained accordingly, which will take time. In some areas we will have to reshuffle the officials and move them from one activity to the other. It will definitely affect the routine work,” said a district administration official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/trade-officials-to-pass-covid-duty-baton-to-teachers/articleshow/76883496.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Two booked for cruelty to animal||PATIALA: The police on Thursday registered a case against a mother-son duo from Kuda village in the district for tying a female dog to their motorcycle and dragging it on the road, which led to the animal’s death. Mangal Singh and his mother were booked after local animal activists took up the matter with former Union minister and animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi. The activists said the brutal incident took place a day after the female dog delivered four puppies on July 4. Later, Mangal had thrown the body into the village pond, which was recovered by the animal activists. The Patiala police said an FIR has been registered under Section 427 (mischief causing damage) of the IPC and under the provisions of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act against Mangal Singh and his mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-booked-for-dragging-causing-dogs-death/articleshow/76882967.cms||Manish Sirhindi
July 10, 2020||Vadodara||No trace of six policemen||Vadodara: Three days after they went missing, the city police haven’t been able to trace the six cops accused of causing death of a 62-year-old man in police custody. “Mobile phones of all the accused cops are switched off. But we are trying to track them down by going to every possible place they might have visited. There is no clue about their whereabouts yet,” said B A Chaudhary, ACP (B division). A police team is also expected to visit Palitana in Bhavnagar that is native of one of the accused cops, D B Gohil. Sources in the police department said that the crime branch too has been asked to help in tracking down the accused cops who were booked on July 6 for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Apart from Gohil, PSI Dasrath Rabari and LRD jawans Pankaj Mavjibhai, Yogendrasinh Jeelansinh, Rajesh Savjibhai and Hitesh Shambhubhai, are accused of torturing Sheikh Babu Nishar who died in Fatehgunj police’s custody. All the accused are also suspected of disposing off Nishar’s body and destroying evidences of him being taken to Fatehgunj police station in December last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-trace-of-six-policemen/articleshow/76880233.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Hubballi||Three police stations sealed in Hubballi||Hubballi: With some staff or accused testing positive for Covid-19, three police stations in the twin cities were sealed down on Thursday. Town police station, Suburban police and the one at Ashok Nagar were sealed down as a precaution to contain the spread of the virus. At the suburban police station, a lady constable attached and an accused in a theft case tested positive. A head constable at Town police station and an accused in a cheating case in Ashok Nagar police station also tested positive forcing authorities to seal the three stations. Town police station inspector MS Patil told TOI, “A 45-year-old head constable in our station tested positive two days ago. His contact tracing is under way. We have sealed down the station and are sanitising it now.” “Entry of public has been banned for the time being. We are attending to emergency cases and taking complaints from outside. Swab samples of all the staff who are primary and secondary contacts of the constable, were sent for a testing and results are awaited,” he said. SK Holeyannavar, the inspector at Suburban police station said, “After an accused in a theft case tested positive last week, seven-eight staff who were primary and secondary contacts of the accused remained in home quarantine and their results came negative. However, a 38-year-old woman constable tested positive on Wednesday evening. We immediately sealed down the station and sent the swabs of around 15 staff for tests and results are awaited.” Ashok Nagar inspector Ravichandran said an accused wanted in a cheating case was brought to Hubballi from Bengaluru for inquiry. “His swab results came positive while he was being sent back. We have sealed down the station and attending only to emergency cases. Of the 40 staff here, 17 were home quarantined and the results of all the staff are awaited,” he added. “We are doing our regular patrolling and attending to cases from outside but are not visiting police stations for the time being,” said a constable of a sealed down station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/three-police-stations-sealed-in-hubballi/articleshow/76881084.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
July 10, 2020||Surat||Surat AAP leader attacked||Surat: Aam Adami Party (AAP) leader Ram Dhaduk was allegedly attacked at his party office at Yogi Chowk on Thursday afternoon. Dhanuk, who is admitted to SMIMER Hospital, has accused BJP leaders of attacking him. According to AAP spokesperson Yogesh Jadvani an unidentified person called Dhaduk informing him that 30 people want to join AAP and wanted to meet him. “After five minutes, about five people barged into AAP office and attacked Dhaduk with a knife. They threatened that if he wrote anything about BJP leaders and junior health minister Kumar Kanani, they would kill him. We believe that BJP leaders are behind the assault,” Jadvani said in a statement. Jadvani alleged that the state government had failed in managing of the pandemic and the ruling BJP was rattled by the rise of AAP in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-aap-leader-attacked/articleshow/76880723.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||12 mobiles, 3 dongles recovered from Nabha jail||Patiala: The police in Patiala claimed to have recovered 12 mobile phones, three dongles, two phone batteries, 14 chargers and eight headphones from a barrack in Maximum Security Jail, Nabha where prisoners sentenced under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act had been lodged. In a joint search operation by the prison authorities and the police on Wednesday evening, the mobile phones were recovered from Barrack No. 6 of the jail. The police said these prisoners were sitting on a protest inside the jail against the shifting of some prisoners to other jails of Punjab following the pandemic outbreak. They wanted the shifted accused back to the Maximum Security Jail. The police have also released a video of the recovery of mobile phones, which shows that the phones and their accessories had been hidden under the earth and in the walls of barrack. SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said, “We have registered a case under the provisions of Prisons Act against some prisoners. Around 16 accused were sitting on fast and the phones were recovered from their barrack. The accused will be identified soon as our cyber cell team will work on the recovered phones to retrieve the call details.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/12-mobiles-3-dongles-recovered-from-nabha-jail/articleshow/76882975.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Varanasi||HC seeks clarification on Dhananjay’s bail plea||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court, while hearing a bail application filed by mafia-turned-politician and ex-MP Dhananjay Singh, has directed the state counsel to verify whether the explanation given in respect of criminal history of the applicant is correct or not. Hearing a bail application filed by Dhananjay, Justice Dinesh Kumar Singh-1 has fixed July 15 as the next date of hearing. Former Bahujan Samaj Party MP Dhananjay Singh was arrested on May 11, 2020, in connection with alleged kidnapping of an Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam project manager with the intent to grab a contract of material supply in construction of sewage treatment plant in Jaunpur. Earlier, his bail application was rejected by the sessions judge, Jaunpur, on May 20, 2020. Hence, he filed the present bail application before the high court. UP Jal Nigam project manager, Abhinav Singhal, had registered an FIR against ex-MP at Line Bazaar police station of Jaunpur on May, 10, 2020. As per the FIR, the informant, Abhinav Singh, was given some type of threat and abuses were hurled on him by the accused applicant Dhananjay. It is alleged that some projects for the purpose of construction of a special treatment plant (STP) was going on in which complaints were received of supplying sub-standard material. The informant was allegedly threatened by the accused applicant due to supply of sub-standard material, as per court’s order. The ex-MP’s counsel has stated that the statement of the informant, which has been recorded, the informant has not supported the prosecution version as he has clearly stated that no pressure was exerted upon him nor was he abducted when he had approached the accused and had talked to him. He had given assurance that he would do quality work and he was dropped at the same place from where he was picked up. Further, it is argued that the accused has a criminal history of 38 cases and out of these 38 cases, in 24 cases, he has been acquitted, in one case, he has been discharged, in four cases, final report has been submitted and three cases against him have been withdrawn. At present, five cases are going on in which he has been granted bail except in the present case. But no bail orders/aquittal order/discharge orders in support thereof were annexed by him in his petition, the order stated. During the course of hearing, the state counsel opposed the prayer of grant of bail and stated that the applicant is an ex-MP. The state counsel has expressed that these cases may be verified by the state. Accepting the submissions made by state counsel, the court directed him to verify by the next date as to whether the explanation given in respect of criminal history mentioned in applicant’s application is correct or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/hc-seeks-clarification-on-dhananjays-bail-plea/articleshow/76880637.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Newborn assumed dead found alive, succumbs later waiting for ambulance||UDAIPUR: In a bizarre incident, a newborn, who was assumed to be dead, was found alive when the family members were about to bury her at a village here, on Thursday. The baby’s relatives have alleged gross negligence on the part of the medical staff of the PHC, while the medical officer said that the staff had not declared the baby dead. Since the baby did not cry, those accompanying the newborn’s mother assumed the baby to be dead and took her away without information, the officer said. Later when the newborn was brought back to the hospital, her condition deteriorated and while the staff waited for ambulance to take her to the district hospital, the infant died. The district Reproduction and Child Health Officer (RCHO), Dr Ashok Aditya told TOI that an inquiry has been initiated at the instructions of higher officials and he himself would go to the village to look into the matter on Friday. The incident took place at model primary health centre, Padavali Kala in Gogunda block of the district, where a woman Lalita in labour was brought in an ambulance on Thursday. She then gave birth to a baby girl. Lalita’s mother-in-law said that one of the nurses Ganga, who held the delivery, covered the baby in a polythene bag and gave her to her claiming the newborn was dead. The family members said they were too shocked by the news that they didn’t check the baby themselves and believing the nurse’s words, they took her away for burial. The baby’s father and another relative were digging a pit when they heard the infant crying. They were overjoyed and rushed back to the hospital. Sanjay, the medical officer at the PHC, said that it was a premature and pre-term baby and in such cases, sometimes, the crying is delayed. The nurse who was on a night shift, had held the delivery and handed over the baby to the mother. While she went away to brief the case before handing over the charge to the morning staff, the patient’s companions allegedly took away the baby from the mother’s bed. “When the medical officer came on duty, the patient told him the infant had been taken away to be buried. He immediately called the men and asked them to bring back the baby to the hospital. The child died later as she was serious and the ambulance took 1.5 hours to arrive, as stated by the medical officer in his factual report,” the RCHO told TOI. He further said, he would speak to the family as well as the PHC staff to get complete details of the case and find out whether it was a case of negligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/newborn-assumed-dead-found-alive-succumbs-later-waiting-for-ambulance/articleshow/76882984.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kanpur||Kin of slain DySP questions gangster Vikas’s arrest||KANPUR: Family members of the slain deputy superintendent of police Devendra Mishra have raised questions over the arrest of gangster Vikas Dubey by MP police from Mahakaleshwar temple in Ujjain on Thursday morning. Kamalkant, the DySP’s brother-in-law, said the “way the entire drama has unfolded, it has become clear that Vikas was saved from death deliberately”. “There are many criminals who are running their empire from jail. It (gangster Vikas’s arrest) all happened in a well-planned manner. About 12 hours ago, he was spotted in Faridabad, then in 12 hours he reached Mahakal temple (Ujjain), and the police who had gone to arrest him were accompanied by the media. You all must have seen many such encounters or arrests. You can better understand as you all are sharp people,” questioned Kamalkant while talking to reporters on Thursday. On police’s role in the arrest, he said, “Don’t accuse only the police, as police is my department, Devendra Ji was in police and we can’t tolerate anything bad against it. But yes, there are many black sheep in the organisation who are not dispensing their duty with honesty. And when criminal-police-politicians are hand-in-glove, then the fate of any honest officer could be like deputy SP Devendra Mishra, whose leg was chopped off with an axe in a very brutal manner.” Kamalkant further said that he (gangster Vikas) kept moving around even as a strong army of police was deployed across check-points in four states to make the arrest of criminals possible. “Now tell me, in such a situation, a criminal would run for his life or would go for a `darshan’ of Mahakaal,” he questioned the media persons. “One is free to cook any story, but is this the way arrest of any dreaded criminal is made? The matter should be investigated in a very fair manner and those who were or are hand-in-glove with the gangster, and had helped him right from the Bikru incident till his arrest, should be exposed.” To recall, gangster Vikas Dubey was arrested when he had arrived for ‘darshan’ at the famous Mahakal temple in Ujjain in MP on Thursday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kin-of-slain-dysp-questions-gangster-vikass-arrest/articleshow/76883267.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 10, 2020||Lucknow||Covid surge continues, 85 more in virus grip||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 surge continued unabated in the city on Thursday with 85 new cases being detected, and even Lucknow Police Commissioner had to isolate himself at home after a clerk in his office tested positive. Among the new cases, there are 10 employees of the 108 ambulance service, three Railway Protection Force (RPF) jawans and five health workers of RMLIMS. The city’s Covid case tally reached 1,847, with an average of 75 new cases being detected daily in July so far. “First floor of the office has been sealed for sanitisation his contacts quarantined,” said police commissioner Sujeet Pandey. “I have quarantined myself and am working from home,” he added. With 10 more cases, total 15 employees of 108 service have been found infected so far. Officers have made alternate arrangements to carry out work of both services. The three RPF personnel diagnosed with the disease were contacts of those tested positive earlier. Till now, 10 RPF constables have tested positive. Three staff nurses, a ward boy and a sweeper at RMLIMS found infected had come in contact with health workers of gastroenterology department who tested positive on Wednesday. Four more residents of Omaxe Residency on Sultanpur road were also diagnosed with the disease, taking the number of cases in the housing society to eight. Other cases included six members of a family in Vrindavan Yojana and seven of a Rakabganj family, said CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-surge-continues-85-more-in-virus-grip/articleshow/76883504.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||Cong to organize online campaign||On the call of All Indian Congress Committee (AICC), the party state unit will organize an online campaign on Friday #Speak up for students from 10am. Deputy CM Sachin Pilot said the campaign is aimed at promotion of students to next year based on previous years’ performance without exams in the light of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-to-organize-online-campaign/articleshow/76882976.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||Decision on state board SSC, HSC syllabus cut likely this wk||Nagpur: Good news is coming this weekend for lakhs of SSC (Std X) and HSC (Std XII) students, as the plan for syllabus reduction is almost ready. With CBSE reducing its syllabus by 30%, anticipation of a similar announcement by state education department has naturally increased. Maharashtra State Council for Educational Research and Training (MSCERT) director Dinkar Patil confirmed to TOI that the decision would be taken this week itself. Patil said, “You will get to hear an official statement within two to three days. Our group of experts has been working on this for almost a month. There are many things to consider and detailed analysis on every subject is being done.” As per protocol, SCERT’s role is limited to preparing the syllabus reduction plan. Patil said, “Our suggestions will be submitted to the state government and it will be implemented after its approval.” Ever since the CBSE announced the plan, many people mistakenly started contacting the state education board to know about Maharashtra’s plan. Ashok Bhonsale, secretary of the board, said, “Since 2017, SCERT has been made the competent authority for this. It’s their jurisdiction and once the suggestions are accepted by the state government, we will ensure its implementation through our divisional board offices.” School principals hope the syllabus reduction will be more than that of the proportion done by the CBSE. Madhusudhan Mude, principal of Major Hemant Jakate School & Junior College, said, “Many of our students don’t have access to online education, unlike those from CBSE. Hence, ideal syllabus reduction should be 50%.” Ashnarayan Tiwari, principal of Adarsh Vidya Mandir, too said that reduction can’t be of the same level as CBSE. “Around 40% of the syllabus must be reduced. Also in Vidarbha, session starts late as compared to rest of Maharashtra and the core teaching period between July-October has been lost due to Covid-19.” He added that rather than reducing topics, entire chapter must be deleted. “When you reduce topics within a chapter, students will get confused as to what is to be left out,” claimed Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/decision-on-state-board-ssc-hsc-syllabus-cut-likely-this-wk/articleshow/76882348.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 10, 2020||Kanpur||Don Dubey’s run of 5 states & 1,500 km ends at Ujjain shrine||Ujjain/Indore: Dodging police in four states, fugitive UP gangster Vikas Dubey on Thursday surfaced unarmed at Ujjain's famed Mahakaal temple and did a darshan along with other unsuspecting devotees before he was spotted on CCTV, "identified" by a man selling puja items and arrested by MP police to end a six-day hunt following the killing of eight UP cops in a Maoist-style ambush by his gang. In the evening, the UP Special Task Force (STF) took custody of Dubey from MP Police under Section 57 of the CrPC without producing him in court for transit remand. Ujjain SP Manoj Kumar Singh said UP police had left the city with Dubey and would produce him in court there within 24 hours. “We have provided a police escort to the team after exchanging custody." The drama of Dubey's arrest had several subplots. For a most-wanted man with a reward of Rs 5 lakh on his head, the gangster seemingly didn't try too hard to conceal his identity. he turned up at the Mahakaal temple with his face mask pulled down, bought a VIP ticket at the counter, defied the mobile phone ban to take a selfie-video of him doing aarti and readily gave his phone number to a policeman after he was identified and challenged. Ujjain SP Manoj Kumar Singh told reporters that Dubey was first identified by a man selling puja items outside the shrine. "Shopkeeper Suresh Mali had seen Vikas Dubey’s face on TV channels over the last few days. He informed the private security guards at the temple, who, in turn, alerted the police," he said. Constable Vijay Rathore was the first cop to arrive — at 8.45am. He grappled with Dubey and pinned him down until reinforcements arrived, the police said. As the don was being led to a police vehicle, he shouted out to passers-by: "Mein Vikas Dubey hun, Kanpur wala (I am Vikas Dubey of Kanpur)." Rathore slapped him on the head and screamed: "Shut up." A video of this has since gone viral. Around 10am, MP home minister Narottam Mishra announced the arrest. "We have caught Vikas, and he is in our custody. He is a cruel killer. What he did was reprehensible. We have informed UP Police. It’s a big achievement for MP police." UP CM Yogi Adityanath spoke with his MP counterpart Shivraj Singh Chouhan after the arrest. "The legal formalities will be done and Dubey will be handed over to UP police," Chouhan tweeted, adding: "Those who think that they can wash away their sins by visiting Mahakaal don't know anything about Mahakaal. MP police won’t spare any criminal." The arrest triggered a political controversy, with Congress calling it a "game of shelter and surrender" and former CMs Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh demanding a high-level investigation. Home minister Mishra refused to explain how the gangster was identified or if he was arrested from inside the temple, saying these were "intelligence matters and should not be revealed right now". A few hours before Dubey was caught, two more of his aides were shot dead. His right-hand man and nephew Amar Dubey, had been gunned down in the Bundelkhand region bordering MP on Wednesday. Sources said Dubey would have realised that he was running out of hiding places and time, prompting him to head for Mahakaal because he knew there wouldn’t be an encounter inside a temple. After his arrest, the gangster's mother said he would visit the Mahakaal temple every year. If that were true, why did he go around asking shopkeepers and priests about directions to the temple, and where he could buy a ticket? Also, if he was a regular, he would have known that mobiles are banned inside the temple and that he would be noticed on CCTV if he took a video of the aarti. Curiously, Mahakal police station in-charge inspector Prakash Waskale and the temple police checkpost's in-charge, inspector Asha Solanki, had been transferred and replaced by two other officers on Wednesday evening. Senior officers called it a routine transfer. "A UP police team arrived in Indore and Dubey was handed over to them after recording the procedure," SP Singh said, evading queries on how the gangster arrived in Ujjain and if anyone assisted him. "It’s a very sensitive case, and we are being very careful with paperwork and collection of evidence. Since it involves two states, we are approaching the case with caution," he said. Police sources said Vikas reached Ujjain two days ago and checked into a hotel in the Dewas Gate area using fake documents. Police have detained six members of a family in the Nagjhiri area. They are believed to be related to the don and have been living in Ujjain for 15 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/don-dubeys-run-of-5-states-1500-km-ends-at-ujjain-shrine/articleshow/76883442.cms||Salil Mekaad
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||ED attaches 12 windmills of Nirav Modi’s kin in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) confiscated 12 windmill units in Jaisalmer district belonging to the brother of jailed diamond merchant Nirav Modi under the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act on Wednesday. The windmills were installed by four companies — Diamond RUS, Solar Exports, Michelle Merchandising Pvt Ltd and Stellar Diamond. Each company has three windmill units of 800 kw, totalling to 9.6 mw at Akal Jodha area and near Bhoo Keeta village in the district. Enercon India Ltd set up the 12 windmills for the four companies belonging to Neeshal Modi, brother of Nirav Modi, by spending Rs 52.80 crore in 2011. The power generated by the 12 windmills is worth Rs 3 to 4 crore and was purchased by the Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam. The special ED team from Mumbai photographed the 12 units and attached them on Wednesday. ED official sources confirmed this and shared information on their official twitter account. Official sources confirmed that windmill number DRUSAK -01, 02 & 03 of Diamond RUS, number NMPLAK – 01, 02 and 03 of Michelle Merchandising Pvt Ltd., number SDAK -01, 02 and 03 of Stellar Daimond, SEAK – 01, 02 & 03 of Solar Exports were seized. Jaisalmer ADM Om Prakash Vishnoi said that the administration did not have any information of the special team of ED coming to Jaisalmer and they did not contact the district administration and or informed the police. Sangarh SHO Karan Singh said that ED team did not ask for any kind of help for attaching the windmills and even did not inform the police station. Nirav Modi had defrauded the Punjab National Bank through forged Letter of Undertaking (LOU) in connivance with the bank officials. The CBI booked him for the fraud and based on that the ED investigated him for money laundering. Currently, he is in a UK jail and the Indian government is trying to extradite him. The ED had filed an application on July 10, 2015 before a special court to declare Nirav Modi a fugitive economic offender and confiscate his properties valued at Rs 1,396 crore across the nation. Thereafter, the special court on December 5 declared Nirav Modi a fugitive economic offender. The special court directed ED to attach the properties belonging to Nirav Modi and his companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ed-attaches-12-windmills-of-nirav-modis-kin-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/76882994.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||2 Pak youths reach RBSE for verification of papers, detained||Ajmer: The Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education has alerted the Civil Lines police station after two Pakistani migrant youths visited its office for verification of their documents on Thursday. Police interrogated both the youths and informed senior officials.According to sources, the documents of the two youths were from the education board of Pakistan and when the RBSE officials inquired, they revealed their identity and said they had been living in Jodhpur for the last six years and even provided government documents.Later, the two were taken to Civil Lines police station. Police sources said that both are around 20 years and they came to the board to verify their documents. Their education and other documents were from the Pakistani education board and they were seeking verification from the education board to apply for higher education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-pak-youths-reach-rbse-for-verification-of-papers-detained/articleshow/76883003.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||HC suspends work after judge’s staff tests positive in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Work at the Rajasthan high court’s principal seat here was suspended after the personal secretary of a judge tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The entire high court premises was sanitised. The main gate of the high court was shut and all the advocates were asked to vacate the premises for sanitisation. The high court administration ordered screening of all staff members and officials as many had contacted the infected PS. The registrar general of the high court issued a notification stating that many staff members have come in contact with the affected person, which has mandated further sanitisation of the entire court premises and taking of other preventive measures by the medical team. “So, the chief justice has directed for suspension of court and office work for the entire day at the principal seat of the high court on Thursday,” the notification read. Keeping the threat in view and worsening condition of the virus spread in the city, a meeting of all the judges, advocate general, additional solicitor general and representatives of the Bar associations will be held on Friday afternoon through video conferencing from both Jodhpur and Jaipur benches of the court to discuss the court functioning under the prevailing situation arising out of Covid-19 outbreak. Covid-19 has spread its tentacles in the city in the past three days at an alarming proportion. As many as 351 positive cases have been reported in the first three days of this week in the city from almost all the areas of the city and also from some rural areas. Around 41 cases have been reported on Thursday itself by afternoon taking the tally close to 400. Among all these cases, close to 50 are those who had attended weddings in the past few days reaffirming the fact that the pandemic has reached the stage of community spread. With this spread, the virus has started affecting organizational establishments, both government and private. Half a dozen bank employees have also been reported positive in the past two days while two employees of an auto company reported positive on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-suspends-work-after-judges-staff-tests-positive-in-jodhpur/articleshow/76882999.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||Cases up in Barmer, 7-day lockdown to end on July 10||Jaisalmer: The Covid-19 cases in Barmer city are increasing despite complete lockdown. A doctor at Gadra Road dispensary and a compounder tested positive on Thursday. Thirty three positive cases, including 30 in the city, have been reported in the district so far.District collector Vishram Meena has ordered to reopen the market from 10am to 4pm from July 11 as the 7-day lockdown will end on July 10.In last few days, large number of marriages took place and people invited guests which led to spike in positive cases. The government has issued orders for home quarantine of positive patients in Balotara. The SDM has made vigilance committees in 46 wards.Barmer SP Anand Sharma said an important meeting has been called in which a report from SDM has been about people who violated the rules and cases will be filed accordingly.Three persons were booked under the Rajasthan Epidemic Disease Act 1957 and the Rastriya Apda Prabandhan Adhiniyam 2005 for violating rules of having more than 50 people at marriage functions. A penalty of Rs 15000 has been imposed on each one of them.In Shastri Nagar area of Barmer, 18 people were found infected on Thursday and in last five days, 25 patients were infected in an area of 100 metre of this locality.A meeting was held under the chairmanship of district collector Meena to review the situation and over the arrangements for the coming days. Collector in the meeting said that from July 11, the Krishi Upaj Mandi can be opened from 5am to 11am.He said that in Barmer city, the market can be opened from 10am to 4pm. Looking at corona positive cases, Purani Sabji Mandi will not be opened.For following the new guideline of keeping corona patients at homes, Balotara SDO Rohit Kumar called a meeting and discussed the matter with medical officers and formed committees for 45 wards. The committees in their wards will go to the house of corona positive patients and will check about the availability of separate room, bathroom and toilet for patient and will submit the report. If the patient has basic facilities, then the neighbours will be apprised about the corona infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cases-up-in-barmer-7-day-lockdown-to-end-on-july-10/articleshow/76882990.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Mangaluru||ASHA worker assaulted with a log in Bantwal||MANGALURU: That ASHA workers, who are spreading the message of safety among the public, are themselves without adequate protection against miscreants and anti-social elements in Karnataka is a cause for grave concern. An ASHA worker who was assaulted with a log on Thursday in Halepaddi Moondottu village in Bantwal taluk in Dakshina Kannada district yanked the spotlight yet again on the danger that the foot soldiers in the state’s battle against Covid-19 are exposed to. Mamatha Gatty, an ASHA worker from Vamadapadavu Community Health Centre, as part of her daily routine, was in Halepaddi Moondottu, where she called on Kantappa Poojary around 10am on Thursday. Mamatha alleged that no sooner was she at Poojary’s house that she was assaulted with a wooden log. The ASHA worker sustained injuries on her hand and arms, and is currently undergoing treatment at the health centre. Dr Umesh Adantyaya, who heads the Vamadapadavu health centre, has lodged a complaint against Poojary at the Punjalkatte police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/asha-worker-assaulted-with-a-log-in-bantwal/articleshow/76881114.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Lucknow||Asymptomatic but Covid positive? You can now isolate in a hotel||LUCKNOW: Now Covid-19 patients who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms of the disease will get the option to choose to quarantine at three-star or five-star hotels in Lucknow or government hospitals. The cost of staying in the hotels will be borne by the patients themselves. Medical teams from the health department will be present at the location to monitor them. The decision, taken by the district administration in consonance with the district health team on Thursday evening, enlisted five hotels to be treated as Covid care centres (CCC) with a total of 447 rooms. These are situated in Gomtinagar (200 rooms), Hazratganj (66 rooms), Kanpur Road (100 rooms), Chinhat (36 rooms) and Husainganj (45 rooms). “The hotel isolation for asymptomatic patients will be entirely voluntary. Some patients have been complaining about hospital services, in which case, they are free to stay in these CCC. Our focus is isolating them from their homes and society,” said district Covid surveillance officer (DSO) Dr KP Tripathi. He added, “This will also help in the poor getting beds at government facilities.” Dr Tripathi also said that medical teams on shift basis as per CCC protocol will be assigned to each hotel centre and patients will be managed accordingly. “We will bring about some form or mobile application for the process to go smoothly,” he said. According to district magistrate Abhishek Prakash’s order, the hotels overtaken as CCCs will have to ensure cleanliness, water, food and other facilities to the patients. Refusal to follow the order will invite punishment under the Disaster Management Act of 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/asymptomatic-but-covid-ve-you-can-now-isolate-in-a-hotel/articleshow/76883529.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to raise testing capacity to 50,000 per day: Health minister||AJMER: Medical and health minister Raghu Sharma claimed that Rajasthan is ahead in the country in testing for coronavirus. He said that at present, about 41,500 tests are being conducted daily and that the number will be increased to 50,000 per day. Sharma had come to his assembly constituency Kekri in the district and was briefing the media here on Thursday. He said that Rajasthan is ahead in whole country in the recovery rate of coronavirus patients and the average of mortality rate is also lower than the average of mortality rate of the country. He said now, there are more asymptomatic corona patients and the state government is increasing the testing capacity in the state. At present, 21 districts of the state are testing for coronavirus. The minister claimed that health infrastructure is turning strong and the state government has increased beds, ventilators, oxygen and other equipment. The government is trying to control the infection and therefore, the common man has to support these efforts. People have to wear face masks, have to wash hands and do not have to spit in public places. He praised chief minister Ashok Gehlot and said that in the leadership of Gehlot, Rajasthan is fighting the battle against coronavirus with all strength and thus the state is being praised throughout the country. He added that Rajasthan initiated plasma therapy and is now combating coronavirus through different campaigns and by bringing in latest machines from America. The minister listened to the problems of the people in Kekri and directed the officials to provide facilities to the people so they do not have to gather at government offices and maintain social distancing. He also met the local leaders and discussed the coronavirus situation in Ajmer district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-to-raise-testing-capacity-to-50k-per-day-health-min/articleshow/76883019.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Noida||Govt gives CPs more powers amid BJP calls for review of commissionerates||NOIDA: The UP government on Wednesday increased the powers of the police commissioners of Noida and Lucknow, the only two districts in the state with a commissionerate system. The move comes amid calls by local BJP functionaries for a review of the system. Among additional powers for the two commissioners, they will now head the district security committee. The panel was earlier being headed by the respective district magistrates. This committee is tasked with providing gunners or guards to politicians and other such persons who feel the need for security cover. The decision followed a cabinet meeting on Wednesday evening. Among the decisions taken there, one pertained to policies regarding security cover for politicians. The cabinet note said a person seeking security would be given cover for two months initially. “Upon finding justification for providing security to the applicant, the latter will be provided security for two months at first which can be extended for a period of two months twice. In this manner, the security can be provided for at least six months,” the note read. The security committee will have to mention details of the number of personnel provided to each person, the duration for his cover and the expense it will incur. “The administration will have to make efforts to reduce the threat perception to reduce/negate the threat over which a person has been provided security for six months,” the note said. The committee will also be responsible for taking decisions on extending the security cover. Before a person’s cover is scheduled to lapse, the panel is supposed to provide a report to the government on whether it should be extended or not. The district magistrate can now either choose to continue to remain a part of the committee or nominate an ADM-level official on his behalf. Additional DCP (law and order) Ashutosh Dwivedi said they had heard about the cabinet decision, but were yet to receive a copy of the order. “The changes have come as the commissionerate sought a clarification on this matter from the state government,” he added. However, a group of local BJP functionaries has been demanding that the commissionerate system be reviewed. Led by Noida president Manoj Gupta, a group of BJP workers, including the eight mandal presidents of the party, had met industrial development minister Satish Mahana last Wednesday and claimed that the commissionerate system was not getting the desired results. “There was a feeling among party workers that the commissionerate system was not providing the results that were expected from it. We had met the minister and conveyed to him our demands for a review of the system. We did not ask that the system be done away with,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/govt-gives-cps-more-powers-amid-bjp-calls-for-review-of-commissionerates/articleshow/76883037.cms||Shikha Salaria
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||Four engineers of discoms on APO for poor performance||Jaipur: The energy department has started cracking the whip on poor performing engineers. Principal secretary Amitabh Sharma after a review meeting has put four engineers of discoms on awaiting posting orders after they were found wanting in their work. Close on the heels of two engineers of Jodhpur discom were put on APO on Wednesday, two assistant engineers of Ajmer discom were placed on awaited posting orders on Thursday. They are assistant engineer Kuchaman city Sunil Kumar and Kirorial , assistant engineer Bagidora. Executive engineer, operation and maintenance Nokha, Bhura Ram Faroda and assistant engineer Hatundi, Ramsukh Dudi of Jodhpur discom were put on awaited posting orders on Wednesday for poor performance.Sharma took the decision after reviewing the progress made in various projects and schemes including quality of power supply and consumer services. Sharma directed that to increase the level of consumer satisfaction, supply of quality electricity to all categories of consumers and their billing and other problems should be addressed on priority. Instructions were also given to ensure fixed block hours’ power supply to farmers and replace the faulty meters with immediate effect. Sharma while reviewing the vigilance checking campaign, directed officials to act against power theft and register FIRs in cases at special power theft prevention police stations and to speed up the arrests of the guilty. He also directed to prioritize the work of recovery of VCR dues. He said for electrification of non-electrified houses, the work of sanctioning the schemes sent to the Centre for approval should be expedited.While reviewing projects to reduce power transmission and distribution losses, he directed that power supply on feeders where the losses were very high be monitored and regulated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-engineers-of-discoms-on-apo-for-poor-performance/articleshow/76883015.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||78 persons brought dead to hospitals tested positive for Covid in Rajasthan in 3 months||JAIPUR: Gopal Singh (45), who hails from Sujangarh but stayed with his parents at Chandpole, will never forget the lockdown days. His 81-year-old mother was one of the 78 people who were declared brought dead in hospitals and later tested positive for Covid-19. While narrating his ordeal, Singh recalls the days when his mother complained of fever in April last week. “Since it was lockdown, I decided to give her antipyretic medicines and some antibiotics. But, when she did not find any relief, I took her to a government hospital where the doctors saw her casually and sent her back home after prescribing some medicines. But when she did not get any relief even after eight days, I checked her blood sugar levels and was horrified to see it at 350. I rushed her to SMS Hospital on May 1,” said Singh, who is a farmer in Sujangarh. The hospital declared her brought dead and took her samples which later tested positive. “My father and I tested negative but my mother tested positive. Initially, I did not take her to SMS Hospital as there was a fear of Covid-19,” said Singh. From March till July 5, 375 people died during treatment for Covid-19 while 78 were brought dead to hospitals. Out of 453 deaths due to the virus in the state till Sunday, 78 were those who were brought dead to hospitals. The state health department made it a protocol to conduct tests on all those who are brought dead to the hospitals. The department’s death audit report shows that 375 persons died while undergoing treatment. “We are doing social audits of all the 78 persons who were brought dead to hospitals. As of now, the audit in the process. So far, we have found that 10 families had taken late decision for treatment,” said a health department official. However, the health department is investigating other reasons like delayed treatment, which has been detected in five cases. Five persons who committed suicide were later found positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/78-persons-brought-dead-to-hospitals-tested-positive-for-covid-in-state-in-3-months/articleshow/76883034.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
July 10, 2020||Varanasi||NGO’s proved belief no onesleeps hungry in this city: PM||VARANASI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday lauded the efforts of some NGOs based in his parliamentary constituency in providing relief to the needy during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, saying they have proved the adage that “no one sleeps hungry in this city of Maa Annapurna and Baba Vishwanath”. The PM, who interacted with the representatives of these NGO’s via video conferencing, praised their efforts and enthusiasm and said “he had been continuously getting information how people are supporting the needy with a sense of servitude and courage”. He said he was receiving information on various steps being taken to prevent the infection, the condition of various hospitals, quarantine arrangements and the welfare of migrant workers. Highlighting an old belief that nobody in Kashi would sleep hungry as the city is blessed by Maa Annapurna and Baba Vishwanath, the PM said this has been proved true. “It is a great privilege for all of us that this time God has made us the medium of service to the poor,” he said. “Despite a halt on various religious activities in the holy city, the people of Varanasi have proved that they are second to none in the fight against corona and supporting the poor and needy with continuous food and medical supply,” the PM said while praising the efforts of the NGOs for working in tandem with the government and local administration. He said, “Creating an extensive network of food helplines and community kitchens in a short span of time, developing helplines, taking the help of data science, making full use of the control and command centre of Varanasi Smart City... everyone has full potential to help the poor at every level.” The PM also elaborated how the postal department came forward to help the district administration when it ran short of vehicles for distribution of food. Stating that several experts questioned India’s capabilities in fighting the pandemic owing to its high population and many other challenges, the PM said: “The fear about Uttar Pradesh with a population of 23-24 crore could not mitigate the infection has been allayed due to the cooperation and hard work of the people of the state.” He expressed satisfaction that the pace of infection in Uttar Pradesh has not only been controlled, but those who have corona are also recovering fast. The PM said the Central government is providing various facilities to the needy and around 80 crore people are going to benefit from the schemes which are not just providing free ration, but also free LPG cylinders. He said that India, with twice the population of America, is serving its people without taking a penny from them. And now this plan has been extended till the end of November. He said that efforts are being made to alleviate hardships being faced by various craftsmen, especially weavers, along with traders and businessmen of Varanasi. Various infrastructure and other projects worth Rs 8,000 crore are being implemented at a fast pace, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ngos-proved-belief-no-onesleeps-hungry-in-this-city-pm/articleshow/76882395.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: SEC decision today on municipal and panchayat polls||JAIPUR: The state election commission (SEC) may take a decision on polls to 129 urban local bodies and remaining panchayati raj bodies on Friday. The health department has submitted a report on the Covid-19 situation in the state to the SEC. “The meeting, which will be attended by local self-government (LSG), panchayati raj, police and health and home departments, will discuss the future course of action as far as elections to the remaining panchayati raj bodies and municipalities are concerned against the backdrop of the Covid situation in the state,” said deputy secretary Ashok Kumar Jain. The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the state election commission to complete the remaining panchayat elections by October 15. The bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde gave the order on an application by the state election commission. Elections to 3,859 village panchayats, 352 panchayat samitis and 33 zilla parishads are pending. The court had earlier asked the state election commission to hold the polls in April, but were postponed due to Covid. The elections to the 129 urban local bodies are scheduled to be held in August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sec-decision-today-on-municipal-and-panchayat-polls/articleshow/76883036.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: You may test -ve for Covid, but still be infected, says doctors||NEW DELHI: A person can have Covid-19 and he or she may still test negative for it. Therefore, it is important to observe the clinical symptoms and treat accordingly instead of waiting for test reports, advise doctors from AIIMS. The advice comes in the wake of instances where a patient who tested negative twice or thrice for Covid-19 was confirmed positive for the infection the third or fourth time. The latest such case involved an 80-year-old woman, who had fever, dry cough and shortness of breath—classic symptoms of Covid-19. However, according to Dr Vijay Gurjar, an assistant professor in the department of geriatric medicine at AIIMS, when she was tested for Covid-19 using RT-PCR method, the results came negative. “X-ray and CT scan of the chest were suggestive of atypical infection. So, Covid-19 test was repeated twice again. Both times, it came negative only. But we continued to manage the patients on the basis of clinical symptoms and order another antibody test which confirmed Covid-19,” the doctor said. Dr Gurjar added that doctors should treat the patients and not the reports. “In many cases, patients who have symptoms of Covid-19 keep waiting for test results to decide whether they require admission. This should be avoided as it has been observed that condition can deteriorate suddenly, especially if the patient is elderly or has pre-existing illnesses,” the AIIMS doctor said. “Tests can throw false negatives if the viral load of the patient is very low or the sample has not been collected properly,” said a senior virologist. The resident doctors’ association of AIIMS on Thursday wrote to the ICMR for forming an expert committee for professional inquiry into unexpected, unexplained deaths among healthcare workers during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Last week, Dr Abhishek Bhayana, a junior resident at Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) died after developing Covid-19 symptoms suddenly. But because his tests came negative for Covid-19, Dr Bhayana’s family has been denied compensation. This should be reviewed,” the resident doctors have demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/you-may-test-ve-for-covid-but-still-be-infected-docs/articleshow/76883049.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 5.5% less rain in 1st monsoon spell, normal showers in 15 districts so far||JAIPUR: The first spell of the southwest monsoon has not been fruitful for the state as it received 5.58% less rainfall compared to 2019. Of the 33 districts, merely seven have got excess rainfall, 15 received normal, while 11 districts are in the category of deficit rainfall. In the first spell so far, Sikar got the highest 111mm of rainfall till Thursday, followed by Churu 104mm and Karauli 100mm. “As far as divisions are concerned, Kota and Udaipur divisions have got good rainfall so far, while others including, Jaipur, Ajmer and Bharatpur divisions, are yet to receive good rainfall,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. According to Met office, districts which get 20 to 59% more rainfall compared to 2019 are placed under the category of excess rainfall. “These districts include Churu, Jhalawar, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand and Sikar,” said an officer. Monsoon has also surprised weather experts as places like Churu and Nagaur, which used to get deficit rainfall, have received excess rainfall. “Also, in the first spell only 11 districts have got deficit rainfall, which are likely to get their share of monsoon rainfall till September 15 when monsoon will retreat,” said an officer. As far as state capital Jaipur is concerned, rainfall of 83.26mm has been received so far compared to 86.66mm during this period in 2019. “ Jaipur has received good rainfall in the past two days, though most of the rainfall activity was confined to the outer areas. The city is yet to get even 20mm of rainfall,” said an officer. Meanwhile, mild to moderate showers in some parts of the eastern and western Rajasthan continued on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-5-less-rain-in-1st-monsoon-spell-normal-showers-in-15-districts-so-far/articleshow/76883047.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 10, 2020||Bareilly||Nine months after pregnant woman ‘killed for dowry’, FIR filed against seven accused||Pilibhit: Nine months after a pregnant woman was allegedly tortured and killed by her husband and in-laws for dowry, police booked seven accused, including three women, on Thursday following orders by the chief judicial magistrate in Pilibhit. The incident took place on October 2, 2019, and the woman’s family approached court on November 22 as police had then refused to lodge an FIR in the matter. SHO Shrikant Dwivedi of Pilibhit Kotwali police station said the deceased’s husband and his parents, two sisters and two brothers have been booked under section 304B (death of a woman is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs other than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage), 498 A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband or his relatives), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of IPC and section 3, 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act. According to the deceased’s father, Mohammad Sayeed Khan, a resident of Masjid Pathani locality under Pilibhit Kotwali police station, his daughter Arfa Khan was married to one Akram Khan of Bhoore Khan locality on March 9, 2013. Sayeed said his daughter was subjected to physical torture by her husband and in-laws for dowry. Sayeed Khan said he then purchased a flat in his daughter’s name in Pilibhit city in October 2013 and also transferred a sum of Rs 1 lakh into the bank account of his son-in-law a few months later. He claimed that his daughter continued to suffer as demands for dowry kept on growing. Sayeed Khan said that on October 1, 2019, his daughter informed him that she was being beaten up brutally by her husband and in-laws and that she was kicked in her abdomen despite being pregnant. Sayeed was in Delhi at that time and he was returning to Pilibhit the next day when he was informed that his daughter had died. end||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nine-months-after-pregnant-woman-killed-for-dowry-fir-filed-against-seven-accused/articleshow/76878883.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||Covid active cases breach 5,000-mark||JAIPUR: Covid-19 active cases continue to surge across the state with the total touching 5,002 on Thursday. On the casualty front, the virus claimed nine more lives taking the fatalities to 491. Elsewhere across the state, 500 new fresh infections took the tally to 22,563. While three people each died in Pali and Jodhpur, Udaipur, Nagaur and Jaipur each reported one death. In the last six days, the state has reported 3,511 new infections with an average of 585 cases per day. On Wednesday, the state had 4,715 active cases, 4,357 on Tuesday, 3,949 on Monday and 3,780 on Sunday. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (112), Nagaur (55), Barmer (53), Jaipur (48), Bikaner (43), Ajmer (34), Bharatpur (29), Alwar (21), Sikar (16), Udaipur (15), Churu (13), Dausa (11), Jhunjhunu (8), Karauli (7), Pali (7), Sirohi (7), Dholpur (6), Rajsamand (3), Baran (3), Kota (2), Bhilwara (1), Sriganganagar (1), Jalore (1), Pratapgarh (1), Tonk (1) and two from other states. As many as 204 persons have been cured of Covid-19 in the state taking the tally of recovered cases to 17,070. Jaipur reported 48 cases from 21 different places including Ajmer Road, Amer, Chaksu, Chandpole, Civil Lines, Durgapura, Jagatpura, Jaisinghpura, Johri bazaar, Malviya Nagar, Murlipura, Purani Basti, Triveni Nagar, Sanganer, Shahpura, Sitapura, SMS hospital, Nirman Nagar, Vaishali Nagar and Vidhyadhar Nagar and migrants travelled from other countries under Vande Bharat. Activists demand removal of RUHS superintendentJAIPUR: Jan Swasthya Abhiyan (JSA), an organisation of social activists, demanded that the superintendent of RUHS Hospital Dr Sushanshu Kakkar should be immediately removed from his position alleging sheer incompetence in managing the facility. Chhaya Pachauli of JSA Rajasthan said in a span of three weeks two alleged cases of suicides were reported from the facility with the latest one being reported on Wednesday when an elderly man, who was under observation and whose Covid-19 test report was awaited, allegedly jumped from the second floor of the hospital building and killed himself. JSA Rajasthan had written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday again following its previous letter sent on June 30 demanding improvement in facilities for Covid-19 patients at RUHS Hospital. Doctors remove pacemaker implanted 27 years agoJAIPUR: City doctors removed an infected pacemaker implanted in a patient 27 years ago without an open heart surgery on Thursday. Phoolchand Meena (name changed) from Jaipur was put on pacemaker 27 years ago at an age of 14 due to low heartbeat. His pacemaker’s battery was replaced twice in this time span. A few months ago, patient developed swelling and pus at the pacemaker’s implanted spot. He consulted doctors at a private hospital where after some tests it was found that his pacemaker and wire had an infection. This process, called as lead extraction, was a complicated case as the patient could have died if there had been a slight error in removing the wire. The doctors used a new technology and device called a lead locking and tight rail device, said Dr Jitendra Singh Makkar, interventional and electrophysiology director of a private hospital.Woman goes home with newbornJAIPUR: A 30-year-old woman, who was pregnant and tested positive for Covid-19 in Bhilwara district hospital, was discharged along with her infant baby on Thursday. She was admitted to the hospital on June 30. She was the first cesearean section case of a Covid-19 patient in Bhilwara. The hospital staff took care of the baby until her mother tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-active-cases-breach-5000-mark/articleshow/76883042.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Business||Govt asks 59 Chinese apps to answer 70-odd questions||NEW DELHI: As they seek an urgent meeting with the government, the 59 Chinese apps ordered blocked by India have been served with an exhaustive list of questions to which they need to respond within three weeks. The questions are understood to have been served to firms such as TikTok, Helo, and Xiaomi and seek details around a variety of issues, including data management practices, sources told TOI. India-China standoff: Complete coverageThe questionnaire is understood to have around 70 questions, and among the various queries are those that seek details about “unauthorised data access” by the companies to having weak security features leading to espionage/surveillance through unauthorised data access, the sources added. The questions have been sent by the IT ministry and dashed hopes of the companies to seek an immediate meeting with senior government functionaries to put up their point of view. Asked for a response, a spokesperson for ByteDance-owned TikTok said: “We have received a communication from ministry of information and technology and are working to respond to them within the stipulated timeframe. Ensuring data sovereignty, security and privacy of our users has always been and will continue to be a top priority for us.” After the order to block them, ByteDance had said it would meet officials to clear their stand on the government’s charges. An official said the set of questions “have been crafted to get a clear response from the firms on a variety of issues, including their structure, data collection processes, and how they harvested data/information of Indians.” The questions also cover aspects such as getting details about the companies’ financial structure, and also about their organisation. The responses are keenly awaited by top government functionaries and would be considered by a high-level panel that has members from the intelligence bureau, internal security, cybersecurity wing, DoT and the IT ministry. TikTok to change corporate structure?As it battles a ban on its services in India, TikTok said it is considering changes to the company’s structure. “As we consider the best path forward, ByteDance is evaluating changes to the corporate structure of its TikTok business … We will move forward in the best interest of our users, employees, artists, creators, partners, and policymakers,” a spokesperson told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-asks-59-chinese-apps-to-answer-70-odd-questions/articleshow/76884034.cms||Pankaj Doval
July 10, 2020||Ajmer||2,100 aspirants clear RAS mains 2018 for 1,051 vacant posts||AJMER: Rajasthan Public Service Commission on Thursday evening declared the results of Rajasthan Administrative Service and Allied Services (RAS) main exams, 2018. In all, 2100 candidates cleared the mains and will be called for interviews for 1,051 posts. The interview dates have has not yet announced yet. The preliminary examination was held on August 5, 2018 followed by the mains on June 25 and 26, 2019. The matter later went to the high court after a petition was filed against the results of RAS preliminary exam related to some questions.  The high court recently cleared the pending cases following which the results were announced. Around 18,000 candidates had sat for the mains. RPSC said against 1,014 posts of Non-TSP, there were 1,953 candidates who qualified for the next step. Similarly for 37 posts of TSP, the RPSC declared 57 candidates eligible for the interview. RAS exam 2018 was initiated with the 1,017 posts in different departments of the state government but later the posts were increased to 1,051. Initially, there was 1 per cent reservation for MBC candidates but was later increased to 5 per cent. Sources said in coming days, the interview date will be announced as the RPSC at present is conducting interviews of sub-inspectors and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/2100-aspirants-clear-ras-mains-2018-for-1051-vacant-posts/articleshow/76883054.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara doctor succumbs, 68 more test nCov positive||Vadodara: Covid-19 claimed the life of a doctor in Vadodara on Thursday. He used to practice in he Waghodiya Road area and was admitted in a hospital in a nearby locality where he had tested positive for the deadly virus. Physician Dr Amit Shah was admitted to the hospital on Waghodiya Road earlier this week. He was later tested for Covid-19 and the results turned positive. Shah was kept on a ventilator later and died at the same hospital on Thursday. Sources said that Shah was well-known in his area and was the preferred physician of many in the area. Covid-19 meanwhile continued to make new spikes in the city and district. Since Wednesday evening, 68 persons tested positive which is the highest so far. With the fresh cases, the number of affected persons since the pandemic began went up to 2,853 in the city and district. The 68 cases were detected from 461 samples tested since Wednesday evening. The north zone of the city had the highest number of new cases as 16 there tested positive. This was followed by east zone where 12 tested positive. Eleven cases were detected in the west zone and 10 in the south zone. As many as 18 cases were found in the rural areas of the district outside Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits. These included cases from Dabhoi, Dashrath, Sevasi, Vemali, Padra, Ranu and Gavasad. A patient from Rajkot also tested positive in the city. With 13 more persons being discharged, the total number of persons under treatment stood at 764 including 37 on ventilator or BIPAP machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-doctor-succumbs-68-more-test-ncov-positive/articleshow/76880281.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Lucknow||High court allows Yadav Singh’s habeas corpus plea, orders release||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has allowed the habeas corpus petition filed by the former chief engineer of Noida, Yadav Singh, and ordered his release forthwith on fulfilling conditions to be laid down by the CBI court. Rejecting the plea of the CBI counsel that there was delay in filing of the chargesheet within the stipulated period as courts were closed due to corona pandemic, a division bench comprising Justice Pritinkar Divakar and Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav, observed, “It is not the case of the CBI that during lockdown period, no offence had taken place in the country nor any arrest or remand has been made. Therefore, the CBI is not justified in citing the closure of the courts and the general extension of the limitation period for filing of chargesheet.” The CBI had arrested Yadav Singh on February 10, 2020, in connection with an FIR registered against him, alleging therein that he had awarded a contract in favour of seven persons, flouting all the rules including prevalent market rates, and thereby had caused big financial losses to the government. In the petition, it was alleged that CBI has not filed chargesheet within the time limit, which is 60 days. Therefore, either he should be granted bail or be released from the CBI custody forthwith. However, the counsel appearing for the CBI had informed the court that courts had been closed due to Covid-19. Since the Ghaziabad court, where CBI court is located, opened on June 8, 2020, the CBI has filed chargesheet there. Hence, the CBI counsel pleaded that the delay in filing the chargesheet was not intentional. Therefore, the petitioner is not entitled to get any relief on this ground. According to CBI counsel, the petitioner has taken the main plea of delay in filing of chagesheet, therefore his petition should be rejected in view of the above submissions. Rejecting the plea of the CBI counsel, the court observed, “We are not impressed with the argument advanced by the CBI.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/high-court-allows-yadav-singhs-habeas-corpus-plea-orders-release/articleshow/76883566.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||2,100 aspirants clear RAS mains 2018 for 1,051 vacant posts||AJMER: Rajasthan Public Service Commission on Thursday evening declared the results of Rajasthan Administrative Service and Allied Services (RAS) main exams, 2018. In all, 2100 candidates cleared the mains and will be called for interviews for 1,051 posts. The interview dates have has not yet announced yet. The preliminary examination was held on August 5, 2018 followed by the mains on June 25 and 26, 2019. The matter later went to the high court after a petition was filed against the results of RAS preliminary exam related to some questions.  The high court recently cleared the pending cases following which the results were announced. Around 18,000 candidates had sat for the mains. RPSC said against 1,014 posts of Non-TSP, there were 1,953 candidates who qualified for the next step. Similarly for 37 posts of TSP, the RPSC declared 57 candidates eligible for the interview. RAS exam 2018 was initiated with the 1,017 posts in different departments of the state government but later the posts were increased to 1,051. Initially, there was 1 per cent reservation for MBC candidates but was later increased to 5 per cent. Sources said in coming days, the interview date will be announced as the RPSC at present is conducting interviews of sub-inspectors and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2100-aspirants-clear-ras-mains-2018-for-1051-vacant-posts/articleshow/76890729.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Surat||Diamantaires want direct sale of roughs in India||Surat: While the global coronavirus pandemic has prevented the diamantaires from visiting Dubai, Antwerp and Botswana to purchase rough diamonds to keep their units operational, industry leaders have come together to persuade the central government to pave way for moving the rough diamond sales in India. The Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has urged the union government to allow the direct sale of rough diamonds by the miners at the Special Notified Zones (SNZs) in Surat as well as in Mumbai. A presentation in this regard was made by the members of GJEPC to union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman via video conferencing on Wednesday. The meeting was held to discuss various issues pertaining to the gems and jewellery sector. Chairman of GJEPC, Colin Shah told TOI, “Diamantaires in India are the ultimate buyers and we want the rough diamond sales to move here from foreign countries. About 60% rough diamonds are routed through Antwerp or Dubai, which increases the rough diamond cost and need for people to travel.” Shah added, “In the pandemic situation, diamantaires would avoid travelling abroad for rough purchase and the miners want to sell their roughs. For ease of doing business, this is appropriate time to allow trading of roughs in India and make it a trading hub.” At present, the miners can only display the diamonds at the SNZ. According to the SNZ norms, the trading entity is considered as permanent entity (PE), which attracts 40% duty on its turnover. However, selling diamonds in the SNZ is impractical for the miners due to the high tax structure. India currently imports about $13 billion worth of rough diamonds per annum, out of which about 60% or $7 billion worth of diamonds are imported from Dubai and Antwerp from the rough diamond dealers, auctions organised by the diamond mining companies including De Beers and Alrosa. The diamantaires must visit Dubai and Antwerp about six to seven times in a year to purchase rough diamonds. The travel expenses, dealers commission etc. increases the cost of rough diamonds. Chairman of Arjav Diamonds, Ashit Mehta told TOI, “This pandemic has taught us many lessons and we strongly feel that time is ripe for the industry to become ‘Atmanirbhar’. Diamantiares are customers and miners will have to come to India to sell their rough diamonds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamantaires-want-direct-sale-of-roughs-in-india/articleshow/76880749.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Bhopal||Jyotiraditya Scindia donates plasma to help Covid patients, CM lauds initiative||BHOPAL: BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia on Thursday donated plasma to save the lives of Covid-19 patients. Scindia, who shared a picture of his donating plasma on social media sites, said that it was the duty of all to save the life of citizens. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan lauded Scindia for his initiative. Scindia and his mother Madhvi Raje Scindia were admitted to a private hospital, dedicated to Covid-19 patients, in New Delhi on June 9 with complaints of fever and sore throat. After the treatment, Scindia was tested negative for Covid-19 and discharged from the hospital last week. On Thursday, he decided to donate plasma. Praising the initiative, CM Chouhan said that Scindia has presented a unique example of service and dedication by donating plasma. "I am sure that common people will also be inspired by your initiative. Your efforts for public service and welfare are praiseworthy," Chouhan retweeted on Scindia's post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/scindia-donates-plasma-to-help-covid-patients-cm-lauds-initiative/articleshow/76882368.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||Manish Nagar RUB, ROB opening to take time||Nagpur: People living on the other side of the Nagpur-Wardha railway line will have to wait for some months before they smoothly reach Wardha Road. Even though the railway underbridge (RUB) at Manish Nagar is ready, MahaMetro will not open it until the nearby railway overbridge (ROB) and Wardha Road double decker flyover are ready. MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit said that it was not possible when the two structures would be ready as there was acute shortage of skilled labourers. “The deadline for placing the girder atop the railway line in July end. However, we need 22 welders for the work. Right now, we have only five or six welders. This is a specialized job and people with such experience are not available locally. Such welders are mostly from Punjab. They had gone home due to the lockdown. They are returning gradually. So, we can give a timeframe for completion only after we have sufficient workforce,” said Dixit. Brickfitters are also in short supply. They specialize in placing the rollers of the girders. “Had it not been for the lockdown, the three structures would have been opened for public weeks ago,” said Dixit. The structures were to be built by National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) but are being built by MahaMetro on the directions of Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari. NHAI is funding the project. Dixit said that the cost of the RUB and ROB was Rs90 crore, but Metro would do the job in Rs82 crore. “In addition, we have saved Rs220 crore needed for acquiring 14 houses and a big open plot by using innovative design,” he added. The length of the RUB is 600 metre. It’s two-lane and its width varies from 6.5m to 8m. Work on it had begun in 2017. The interior walls of the RUB have been embellished with colourful tiles, which gives the tunnel a unique look. The length of the ROB is 850 m and that of the portion above the railway line is 60m. The length of the double decker flyover is 3.41km. It begins from near Ajni Square and ends near Hotel Pride.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/manish-nagar-rub-rob-opening-to-take-time/articleshow/76882398.cms||Ashish Roy
July 10, 2020||Noida||Gangster, 3 others threaten Haryana businessman, booked||GREATER NOIDA: A Haryana-based businessman lodged a police complaint on Thursday alleging that four men, including dreaded gangster Bhupinder Momnathal, have been trying to forcefully acquire a piece of land that he purchased in 2014. The victim, who did not want to be named, runs a hotel chain in Delhi and Haryana. He alleged that despite having an FIR filed in the matter, the accused is giving him death threats and are forcing him to give up on his property. In his complaint, he alleged that he had bought around 250-300 bigha of agricultural land in 2014. However, the accused Aman Bhati, Shyam Vir Bhati and Harish Bhati, who own the neighbouring plot, started claiming a share of his land. “They are after me for the past six months. Initially, they used to threaten the farmers who I have hired to sow crops and take care of the land. But since January, they started intimidating them with arms,” he said. On June 10, the victim allegedly visited his property. But he was allegedly stopped mid-way by the accused. “They intercepted my car and said I will have to hand over some part of the land to them before selling it, or they would kill me and my family,” he said, adding that a Swift Dzire car followed him for the next three days until he decided to lodge a complaint. The FIR was filed on June 18 at Knowledge Park police station against the three men and Momnathal under sections 386 (Extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 379 (Theft), 427 (Mischief) and 506 (Criminal Intimidation) of the IPC. “The cops even arrested two of them a few days later but they were released on bail. They are threatening me again. I just want to sell the land and give up all my business plans in UP,” he said, adding that the accused even scared two of his potential clients whom he wanted to sell the land after the controversy. Meanwhile, police called it a land dispute. “It looks like both the parties are trying to acquire a government land next to the main road in the village. It has also come to light that they had prior business relations with each other. We are investigating,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, DCP (Zone 3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/gangster-3-others-threaten-hry-bizman-booked/articleshow/76883055.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
July 10, 2020||Bhopal||Take strict action against those who dumped Covid patient’s body: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan once again on Thursday condemned the incident in which a Covid patient’s body was dumped on a pavement in Bhopal on Monday. “It is inhuman. Strict action must be taken against those responsible for dumping a critical patient,” the CM said at review meeting on the coronavirus pandemic on Tuesday evening. Earlier, TOI had reported how a Covid patient was found abandoned on a pavement in front of a hospital, where he was earlier admitted. It’s not known whether he died in the ambulance or after he was abandoned. To further complicate matters, he was buried on Tuesday without autopsy. The incident raises serious questions about the handling of Covid patients, and coordination between hospitals and the administration. The body was left in the open for around an hour, while his family was clueless. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) also took serious cognizance of the incident and sought a report in this regard from principal secretary of health, Bhopal collector and chief medial health officer of Bhopal within three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/take-strict-action-against-those-who-dumped-covid-patients-body-chouhan/articleshow/76882387.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Haj House to be turned into 1,200-bed Covid care centre||GHAZIABAD: In view of rising Covid-19 cases, the district administration is planning to run a 1,200-bed Covid care centre at Ala Hazrat Haj House. On Wednesday, Lucknow administration had decided to convert the Haj House located in Sarojini Nagar into a 1,000-bed Covid care centre. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey on Thursday conducted an inspection of the Haj House located in Arthala and subsequently sent a letter to the state’s minority welfare department with a recommendation to convert the building to a Covid care center, if the need arises in future. “If the approval is given a nod by the minority welfare department, the district administration will soon be able to use Ghaziabad’s Haj House as the Covid care center with at least 1,200 beds. In this way, we will be taking care of a large number of patients in limited resources (doctors and paramedical staff),” the DM told TOI. Moreover, Pandey said he has directed the Ghaziabad municipal commissioner to start making all the necessary preparations in Haj House. “Although we have many engineering colleges and other institutes in the district, the Haj house has been found to be more suitable given its spacious halls. Due to this, a small team of doctors and paramedical staff can keep a tab on a large number of patients. Moreover, this building is located in the centre of the city and easily accessible,” the senior official added. The DM also informed that with the help of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and private hospitals, as many as 10 doctors, 18 nurses and 16 paramedical staff have given their consent to work on a voluntary basis. “They have agreed to join whenever the district administration needs their service. They could be appointed at Haj House also in future,” he added. Meanwhile, state-appointed nodal officer Senthil Pandian C during a review meeting on Thursday directed the health department to intensify the contact tracing of Covid patients. For this, he said the help of local police should be taken by the health as well as the administrative officials. He has directed the administration to constitute police station-wise teams for this purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/haj-house-to-be-turned-into-1200-bed-covid-care-centre/articleshow/76883062.cms||Aditya Dev
July 10, 2020||Varanasi||Plasma therapy for Covid cases begins at BHU||Varanasi: The Banaras Hindu University’s hospital, which is housing level-3 facility for critical Covid-19 cases, has officially started plasma therapy from Thursday. However, the officials could not make it clear whether any plasma donor turned up at the hospital on the inaugural day of this service. The decision for starting the facility of plasma therapy at BHU hospital was taken at a joint meeting of divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal and district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma with BHU vice-chancellor Prof Rakesh Bhatnagar, director IMS-BHU Prof RK Jain and other hospital authorities on Wednesday late evening. Talking to TOI on Thursday, the commissioner said after completion of the basic formalities it was decided to begin the plasma therapy facility at BHU. Appealing the cured patients to come forward for donating plasma, the DM said that as per the Covid-19 protocol, the people who have fully recovered from this infection for at least four weeks can donate plasma. Following necessary test of donated plasma it will be transfused to the critical Covid-19 positive patients, who are on ventilators, to save their life. This facility was started at a time when the Covid-19 cases are jumping sharply and frequency of death due to infection is also on increase. When contacted, additional chief medical officer Dr SS Kanojia said the BHU hospital authorities could not make it clear whether any plasma donor had turned up for donation on Thursday. Apart from the issue of plasma therapy, the commissioner said that many other issues related to Covid-19 treatment facility as well as other services of the hospital were also discussed with varsity officials. He said that regarding outdoor patient department services the BHU authorities said that it will continue tele-medicine service in place of regular OPD by enhancing it. The BHU authorities said that 20 lines for tele-medicine OPD has been started so far. Similarly, all emergency surgeries have also been started. About unavailability of Remdesivir, an antiviral medicine being used in Covid-19 cases, at Amrit and Umang pharmacies of BHU hospital, the DM asked them to apply the orders for it on prescribed formats to ensure it availability at both outlets. Due to its unavailability, the needy patients are bound to procure it from Delhi. Regarding expansion of Covid-19 treatment facilities, the officials asked BHU to utilise super- speciality hospital completely for it. Commissioner said that the varsity officials said that they would assess the requirement of manpower and other resources to expand this services and which they were asked to complete this exercise and raise their demand before local administration to fulfil it. The officials also asked to enhance the capacity of laboratories to avoid delay in testing of Covid-19 samples. The commissioner said the BHU officials were also asked to raise their financial demands in this regard so that it can be met through state disaster relief fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/plasma-therapy-for-covid-cases-begins-at-bhu/articleshow/76882412.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||Stopped from playing mobile games, 2 teens end life||Nagpur: Two teenagers, 13 and 19, ended their life in separate incidents on Wednesday after their parents stopped them from playing video games on mobile phones. Four more persons, all in their 20s, committed suicide in the city and rural areas in the last 24 hours. Prince Khankule, 13, hanged himself at his residence at Nagardhan after his mother pulled him up for playing video games on his father Ravindra’s mobile phone. Police said Khankule, promoted to Std IX, hanged himself in the store room. Ramtek police of Nagpur rural have registered a case of suicide. In yet another incident, 19-year-old Ritik Dhenge ended life at his residence at Old Futala locality. Dhenge, a student of hotel management in Pune, was addicted to video games and also suffered from migraine. The family told police that he kept playing video games despite repeatedly being asked to refrain from it. Ambazari police have registered accidental death. In the third case, Akash Shrivastav, 26, committed suicide at residence at Sanjay Nagar (Pandhrabodhi) after his mother slapped him for not taking back his mobile phone from a friend in the neighbourhood. This incident took place on Wednesday. Ambazari police have registered accidental death. Megha Gajbhiye, 23, was found hanging from the ventilator grill of the bathroom at her residence at New Indora. The reason behind her taking the drastic step is yet not known, said cops. A case of accidental death was registered at Jaripatka police station. In another incident, Rahul Sarware, 24, ended life at his residence at Wadhdhamna on Thursday. He had left home with Rs1,200 and returned after consuming alcohol. It’s learnt that he was a jobless labourer. A case of accidental death was registered at Wadi police station. Sachin Tanpure, 24, hanged himself at IBM Road on Wednesday. The reason behind the suicide is still not know, said cops. A case of accidental death was registered at Wadi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stopped-from-playing-mobile-games-2-teens-end-life/articleshow/76882417.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 10, 2020||Hubballi||Six bridges submerge in Belagavi as rivers swell||Belagavi: Water level at rivers flowing in the district on Thursday rose due heavy spells of rain, leaving six bridge-cum-barrages inundated. This has disrupted normal life in Chikkodi and Nipani taluk. However, flood alert is not sounded yet in the region. There has been a steady increase in the levels of Doodh Ganga and Vedh Ganga rivers, which join Krishna river, following incessant rainfall in catchment areas along the Karnataka-Maharashtra border. According to officials, these bridges submerge during every monsoon, once the inflow into rivers from the catchment surpass the 40,000cusecs mark. Karadaga-Bhoja, Bhojavadi-Kannoora, Aknola-Sidnal and Malikvada-Dattvada bridge-cum-barrages built across Doodh Ganga have been inundated as the inflow has increased up to 60,000 cusecs. The other structures are Kannoora-Baravada bridge built on Vedh Ganda and Yadoru-Kallola barrage built across Krishna river. Chikkodi assistant commissioner Karalinannavar told TOI that there is no need for worry at present as these barrages submerge during monsoon. No dam in Maharashtra has released water as inflow has not reached dangerous levels there. However, constant monitoring of water levels are being done, and alerts will be sounded to officers working on the field depending upon the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/six-bridges-submerge-in-belagavi-as-rivers-swell/articleshow/76881252.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Mind it: Coronavirus can cause brain damage too, say doctors||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 is known to affect the respiratory system, but new evidence suggests that in some cases the disease might also infect the brain. Neurologists at top hospitals in Delhi-NCR, including AIIMS, Fortis, Max and Manipal, among others, said they had come across many patients who had developed inflammation in the brain, delirium, seizures and stroke during treatment. In a few cases, the patients came with neurological symptoms and later developed fever, cough and breathing difficulty, the classic symptoms of Covid-19. Dr Praveen Gupta, director and head of neurology department, Fortis Memorial Research Institute (FMRI), Gurugram, told TOI, “A 28-year-old man was brought to the emergency ward a few weeks ago with sudden unconsciousness and recurrent episodes of seizures. We gave him antiepileptics. The patient didn’t have any history of fever, cough or other flu-like symptoms at the time of admission. But on screening, he was found to be Covid-positive.” “His family didn’t believe us, so we ordered another Covid-19 test and even that came positive. Also, during the course of admission he developed fever and breathing difficulty, among other issues,” Gupta added. The patient was put on a ventilator as his condition deteriorated, but with treatment he improved and was discharged recently, the neurologist said, adding that in the past few weeks he had seen at least seven Covid-19 patients suffering from neurological problems. “Five patients had flu-like symptoms and developed neurological problems, while two first developed neurological problems, followed by flu symptoms,” said Gupta. Dr JD Mukherji, senior director and head of neurology at Max Saket, said about 10% of Covid-19 patients had neurological disorders. “There are some patients who develop neurological problems due to the infection,” he added. Worldwide, scientists are recognising the growing evidence of neurological manifestations of Covid-19 and advising clinicians to identify such symptoms early for timely intervention. Dr Kameshwar Prasad, professor of neurology at AIIMS, said Covid-19 could affect the brain in multiple ways. “First, the viral infection is known to affect lung function, which can cause lack of oxygen in the body. If the brain doesn’t get enough oxygen, it can lead to unconsciousness, confusion and even death. Secondly, Covid-19 is known to cause loss of taste and smell, which means that it affects the olfactory nerve, the shortest of the nerves emerging from the brain responsible for this function. The infection can travel to the brain causing neurological disorders directly through this route,” he added. “Thirdly, there are theories about Covid-19 leaving a long-lasting effect on the brain that manifests into clinical symptoms much later. There is a need to monitor neurological problems in Covid-19 patients for timely intervention,” Prasad said. Research shows the novel coronavirus, which causes Covid-19, can bind itself to the ACE2 receptors — a protein on the surface of many cell types — and reach the central nervous system. “It can cause inflammation leading to encephalitis and meningitis. The inflammation of the brain can cause neurochemical imbalance giving rise to seizure. It can also increase clotting resulting in stroke, which is seen in 5% of patients,” Gupta said. The post-viral immune mediated phenomena associated with Covid-19, the FMRI neurologist added, included Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis, a rare inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mind-it-coronavirus-can-cause-brain-damage-too-say-doctors/articleshow/76883079.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||4,654 plaints flood NMC, sewers remain choked||Nagpur: Sewerage system, it seems, has completely collapsed with complaints of sewage overflow and choked lines flooding the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) from across the city. During the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the NMC received over 4,654 complaints pertaining to choked sewerage network. The highest number of complaints was from Nehru Nagar zone. Here, the NMC’s public health engineering department received 817 complaints, followed by Laxmi Nagar (735). In Laxmi Nagar zone, the problem is more prominent in prabhag numbers 36 and 37, admitted a senior official from the public health engineering department. Residents under Mangalwari zone too have lodged 675 complaints about sewerlines blockages. The problem in this zone is becoming chronic due to choked lines mostly because of slums and unplanned development. As per data, Satranjipura and Gandhibagh zones have ‘lesser’ problems with 146 and 173 complaints, respectively, pertaining to sewerage problems being lodged. For the past many years, the sewerage system was supervised by sanitation department, but in the last three months it has been maintained by the public health engineering department. All corporators are facing public wrath because of the sewage overflow and choked lines. At the same time, residents are also registering complaints about the problem on NMC’s app. Though the public health engineering department claims to have resolved most of the complaints, citizens continue to suffer. Corporators including standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke have been facing public anger in their respective prabhags over cleaning of blocked sewage lines. “Till date, the problem has not been resolved forcing a group of residents to get a broken chamber repaired,” said Zalke. Owing to non-fixing of the problem permanently, dirty water from the sewage lines can be seen overflowing in various areas of the city. The overflowing sewage is not only inconveniencing the residents, but also posing health hazard during the Covid pandemic, especially in congested areas like Khalasi Line, Mominpura, Hansapuri etc. The senior official pointed out that the problem has aggravated as NMC never tried to understand the causes of recurring blockages in the sewerage network. It only cleaned the choked drainage with the help of suction machine and ensured temporary relief. Major cause of the frequent choking is rampant encroachments over sewerlines and nullahs preventing the NMC to adopt scientific way of cleaning sewer network in most parts, leading to crumbling of the sewerage system, the official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4654-plaints-flood-nmc-sewers-remain-choked/articleshow/76882430.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 10, 2020||Meerut||Man fakes his abduction to get rid of wife & stay with lover||Meerut: A man, 28, faked his kidnapping in an attempt to get rid of his wife and family and settle with new-found love interest in Haridwar. But Sandeep’s well thought out plan went bust due to police intervention.A resident of Muzaffarnagar’s Chandpur region, Sandeep worked in a paper factory. He was not on good terms with his wife and other family members. So he hatched the plan to disappear and start a new life in Haridwar. On Wednesday, Sandeep called up his family members and said that he had been assaulted and kidnapped by four men who were taking him in a car, having locked him in the boot.Later, his motorcycle was found near the factory with some blood on it. But, soon police tracked Sandeep and found him in a truck on his way to Haridwar. During questioning, he revealed everything.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Muzaffarnagar, Abhishek Yadav, said, “During questioning, Sandeep revealed he was having an extramarital affair and wanted to get rid of his family and wife. He has been booked under CrPC 151 (Arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) and sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-fakes-his-abduction-to-get-rid-of-wife-stay-with-lover/articleshow/76877775.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 10, 2020||Noida||Two bike-borne men shot at vegetable seller in Greater Noida||GREATER NOIDA: A 34-year-old vegetable seller who had accused a police officer’s son for extortion was allegedly shot in the head on Thursday evening. The victim, identified as Durgesh Kumar, was at his shop outside AVJ Heights Society around 5.15pm when two bike-borne assailants reached there and shot at him. Harish Chander, DCP (Central Noida) told TOI that a police team had immediately reached the spot and rushed the victim to a nearby private hospital. “Durgesh was shot in the head and has been admitted in the ICU,” Chander said, adding that the attack was presumably done over enmity. On May 20, Kumar had filed a complaint at Surajpur police station against the son of a sub-inspector and three of his friends for allegedly beating him up after he had refused to give them Rs 300 for putting up the road side stall. Chander said an investigation has been initiated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/2-bike-borne-men-shot-at-vegetable-seller/articleshow/76883071.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana cases cross 30,000 mark, seventh among worst-hit states||HYDERABAD: Telangana’s Covid-19 case load crossed the 30,000 mark, on Thursday, as the state recorded 1,410 new cases. The total tally in the state now stands at 30,946. Currently, Telangana is at the seventh position in India, with Maharashtra continuing to top the charts with 2,30,599 cases till date. The last 24 hours, meanwhile, also saw seven more patients succumb to the coronavirus in Telangana taking that total death toll to 331. Districts such as Bhadadri Kothagudem, Khammam, Nizamabad emerged as new destinations reporting a spurt in Covid-19 cases, even as Ranga Reddy, Medak, Nalgonda, Karimnagar, Medchal, Sangareddy and Warangal continue to clock high numbers. The GHMC limits, as always, saw the chunk of cases being reported from within its limits. The total number of active cases as on Thursday stood at 12,423. Amid public concern over availability of beds, the official release from the health department yet again emphasised that 91% of the beds in government hospitals treating Covid-19 cases are currently available for patients. Health officials reiterated its appeal to general public to utilize these facilities. “It is informed that the government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid patients. Sufficient beds are available in government hospitals. Beds will be provided and treatment will be given free of cost in government hospitals. Sufficient quantities of PPE and medicines are available in hospitals,” official statement read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cases-cross-30000-mark-7th-among-worst-hit-states/articleshow/76882437.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 10, 2020||Chennai||Technical tangle won’t hamper CBI probe into custodial deaths||CHENNAI: The CBI investigation into the Sathankulam custodial torture and deaths has got entangled in some technicalities, but that won’t stop the Central agency. Highly placed sources in the Central agency in Delhi said CBI has sought legal opinion on whether there should be separate notifications from the state and central governments for the agency to take over the two CB-CID cases or whether it could go ahead with the investigation based on the orders of the Madras high court. “One of our senior officers reached Chennai on Wednesday. He will visit Tuticorin CB-CID office on Friday. Other members of the team will join him soon,” said an official. Based on the state and central notifications, the CBI, as of now, has taken over two FIRs registered by the Kovilpatti east police station regarding the deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks of Sathankulam in judicial custody. They have been registered as cases of suspicious death under Section 176 (1-A) (1) of the CrPc based on complaints from Kovilpatti jail superintendent M Shanker. The CBI FIR also refers to suspected offences like illegal detention, murders and destruction of evidence. The investigation into the custodial deaths, however, has progressed much beyond that as the CB-CID – which was given charge of investigation as an interim measure by the high court — has registered murder cases under Sections 302 and 304 of the IPC against 10 policemen under suspension, including former inspector of Sathankulam, Sridhar, and SIs Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh. All the 10 cops were on duty at the Sathankulam police station on June 19 night, when Jeyaraj and Beniks were tortured in police custody. “In case the legal opinion says we have to secure fresh notifications from the state and central governments, Tamil Nadu will have to issue fresh notification under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, under which the CBI is set up, and the Centre will have to issue yet another notification under Section 5 of the Act to hand over the two CB-CID cases to us,” said the official. “But that does not mean our investigation is going to stop for the time being. We will pursue the probe we have already started. Also, since we have an HC order saying till the CBI takes over the case CB-CID can do the investigation, we are harping on it at present. Our officials will take over the case documents from the CB-CID on Friday to avoid any further delay in probe. If there is a need, we will ask for fresh notifications from the two governments to plug all loopholes,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/technical-tangle-wont-hamper-cbi-probe-into-custodial-deaths/articleshow/76882438.cms||Jayaraj Sivan
July 10, 2020||Surat||13 deaths, 215 new cases; Katargam accounts for 58||Surat: Four doctors and 17 persons associated with the diamond industry were among the 215 people who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials said Covid hotspot Katargam reported highest number of cases at 58 followed by 32 in Varachha (A), 30 in Varachha (B), 28 in central and 21 in Limbayat zone. Nine deaths on Thursday pushed the toll from the virus in the city to 259 so far. The four deaths were one each from Varachha (A) zone, Katargam, Central and West zone in the city. On Thursday, 103 patients were discharged in the city after they fully recovered. Meanwhile, Surat rural crossed the 1,000 mark with reported 96 fresh cases on Thursday. Tne total number of cases in the district reached 1,057. Of the fresh cases, Kamrej reported 27, Choryasi (17), Palsana (15) and Olpad and Mangrol each reported 11 cases. About 33 patients were discharged on Thursday in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/13-deaths-215-new-cases-katargam-accounts-for-58/articleshow/76880677.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Warangal village takes tough steps to contain Covid-19 spread||HYDERABAD: A village in Warangal rural district is raising the bar by enforcing stringent curbs to break the chain of coronavirus spread. If people of Deshaipally step out without a mask, they would be doing so at their own risk as their PDS ration and pensions will be cut for the month. Not just this. No outsider will be allowed into the village. If a villager has some work in Hyderabad, 183 km away, he or she must come back to Deshaipally by 4pm. “It would be better if they do not go there at all,” village sarpanch Posham Poshalu told TOI. But what made the village go into a self-imposed lockdown? “We made the rules strict after a Covid-19 case was detected in a village, 5 km away, recently,” the sarpanch said. “If people are found not wearing a mask, the gram panchayat will impose a hefty fine also,” he warns. Asked if the panchayat has the powers stop pensions or rations, he agreed government benefits cannot be denied. “But, we can take liberty in delaying them if the person refuses to cooperate with the entire village. The name of the person who is not wearing a mask will be given to the person who comes to disburse pensions. We will ask for the person’s pension to be released only after taking an assurance that he or she will follow the rules and wear the mask,” the sarpanch said. Warangal rural was least affected by the pandemic in the entire state with only 48 cases reported from March till June-end. However, the number of positive cases spiked to 67 between July 1-7, sending alarm bells ringing. This has led to villagers and local panchayats to take tough decisions on their own to enforce measures to curb the spread of the virus. “We have to keep our village safe. So, strict measures have to be enforced,” explained former sarpanch B Shoban. Chipping in, the sarpanch said people cannot afford to be negligent as the virus spread had been rapid in recent times. “We are telling the villagers that they won’t get pensions or rations if do not follow the Covid-19 guidelines. But, this is mainly to make them fall in line,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/warangal-village-takes-tough-steps-to-contain-covid-spread/articleshow/76882446.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 10, 2020||Mysuru||Clash in Mandya village over encroachment drive||Mandya: Tension prevailed for a while at Arakere in Srirangapatna on Thursday when Congress functionary and former MLA Rameshbabu allegedly attacked the driver of an earthmover even as Congress and JD(S) workers engaged in a pitched battle over clearing an encroachment the village. There is simmering dispute between Congress and JD(S) workers over taking up road widening work. JD(S) MLA Ravindra Srikantaiah is in favour of road widening work that aims to convert the highway between Mysuru and Kottati into a four-lane stretch. In a meeting held between officers of concerned departments a fortnight ago, it was resolved to clear the encroachment in the village. Accordingly, PWD officers, with the help of police and other departments, started the encroachment drive. While a JCB vehicle was bulldozing the illegal structures, Rameshbabu and his supporters tried to stop the work. They started throwing stones on the vehicle and officers. Meanwhile, Rameshbabu caught hold of the driver and beat him up in front of police personnel. It was only after a while that police personnel went to the rescue of the driver. Cases and counter cases have been registered by Congress and JD(S) workers. Police force has been deployed in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/clash-in-mandya-village-over-encroachment-drive/articleshow/76881323.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Employees’ union demands Covid-19 facilities at Tarnaka RTC hospital||HYDERABAD: Four employees of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) are feared to have died due to the novel coronavirus so far. Another four are undergoing treatment after developing symptoms. Speaking to TOI, Thomas Reddy of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation employees’ union said, “Most of them who have tested positive are being forced to run from one hospital to another due to lack of beds or facilities to treat the patients. They should at least set up an isolation ward so that those Covid patients, who are not critically ill can isolate themselves in the hospital.” Employees also alleged that they are being forced to attend work even though city bus services are yet to resume. “We have been attending work daily and risking our lives to ensure that the corporation does not incur more loses due to the Covid-19 situation. In this situation, isn’t it the management’s responsibility to at least arrange for some medical facilities if their employees contract the virus?” questioned Thomas Reddy. Before the death of assistant clerks from HCU and Miyapur depots, two conductors working at Cantonment and Kukatpally depot have died suffering complication due to coronavirus. The employees also allege that 24 staff members have tested Covis-19 positive so far. When contacted, Telangana State Road Transport Corporation hospital superintendent R Venkatramana said, “We cannot start treating coronavirus patients here because we do not have the facilities or the necessary equipment. We will also require the state government’s permission to start treating coronavirus patients in the hospital.” He added that the treatment for other health ailments is going on as usual. The employees are up in arms against authorities for not utilising the Tarnaka RTC hospital to treat Covid-19 patients or even allowing the hospital to set up an isolation ward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/employees-union-demands-covid-facilities-at-tarnaka-rtc-hospital/articleshow/76882457.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kozhikode||09 KOZ Trap cage set up after tiger which mauled tribal to death returns to same spot||Kozhikode: Following the sighting of a tiger at Kaduvakunnu near Pulpally where it had mauled to death a tribesman three weeks back, the forest department has set up a cage to capture the tiger. According to forest officials, local residents have reported sighting of the tiger near human habitations in the area on Wednesday. Around 15 camera traps have been installed in the area and forest officials are on high alert as there are tribal colonies near the forest fringes. “The tiger had wandered away from the area after killing the tribesman and it had gone as far as 12km away to Pakkam forests near Kuruva. Now residents have spotted the animal near Kaduvakunnu, the area where the tribal youth was killed. We have also found pug marks in the area following which we have set up a cage trap,” said South Wayanad divisional forest officer P Renjith Kumar, adding that forest staff and watchers have intensified patrolling in the area. The mutilated body of 23-year-old tribal youth Shivakumar of Bassavankolly Kattunayakka Colony at Kaduvakkunnu was found on June 17, a day after he had gone to the forest to collect firewood. Two days after that, the forest officials installed a cage trap in the area. However, the tiger had moved away from the area and the cage was removed after some days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/09-koz-trap-cage-set-up-after-tiger-which-mauled-tribal-to-death-returns-to-same-spot/articleshow/76882460.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||679 cases take Haryana past 19k-mark, 5 more die||Chandigarh: With 679 new cases of Covid-19 surfacing in Haryana on Thursday, the total number of cases in the state has reached 19,369. The state also reported five deaths in the past 24 hours, pushing the death toll to 287. With the latest figures, the number of active Covid-19 cases stands at 4,572, while 14,510 patients have been so far discharged on recovery. The doubling rate of positive cases is 20 days. Out of the total cases reported on Thursday, Faridabad led the tally with 182 cases and Gurgaon at number two with 151 cases. Sonepat recorded 85 cases, Rohtak 46 and Ambala 34. The other districts reporting fresh cases included Palwal (24), Karnal (24), Jhajjar (16), Nuh (13), Panipat (21), Panchkula (2), Jind (7), Sirsa (14), Yamunanagar (2) and Kaithal (2). In terms of overall highest number of cases, Gurgaon district is leading with 6,467 cases, while Faridabad is at number two with 5,108 cases and Sonepat is at third place with 1,728 positive cases. Of the 19,369 Covid-19 patients in the state, 12,930 are males, 6437 females and two are transgender. Till Thursday, a total of 342,404 persons in the state were tested for the virus and 48,749 persons are currently under surveillance. As many as 51 patients in the state are on oxygen support and 20 on ventilators. BOX: Covid count Samples tested | 342,404 Found positive | 19,369 Found negative | 317159 Result awaited | 5,876 Total deaths | 287 Under surveillance | 48,749||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/679-cases-take-haryana-past-19k-mark-5-more-die/articleshow/76883077.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Madurai||HC asks CB-CID to submit status report in sealed cover||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Thursday directed the CB-CID to submit a status report in a sealed cover with regard to the actions taken so far in the case of custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district. Before commencing the hearing in the suo-motu proceedings, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice P Rajamanickam appealed the print, visual and social media not to misinterpret or mislead the proceedings or observations of the court. The judges further appealed not to conduct a media trial as it would affect the prosecution as well as the accused. Assistant solicitor general V Kathirvelu submitted that the CBI has registered two cases and a team of seven officials would be reaching Madurai on Friday to investigate matter. He further submitted that the CBI has sent a representation to the state government seeking man and logistical support for their probe. Additional advocate general K Chellapandian informed the court that the CB-CID has booked 10 policemen for murder and arrested them. He said the statements of witnesses were recorded before judicial magistrate, under Section 164 of CrPc. He said all assistance would be provided to CBI for its investigation. The judges said the CBI could take into account the material evidence collected by CB-CID for effective investigation. They also said either the CBI or the CB-CID could approach the judicial magistrate concerned to take the arrested police officials and policemen for custodial interrogation before the expiry of their judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-asks-cb-cid-to-submit-status-report-in-sealed-cover/articleshow/76882451.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 10, 2020||Puducherry||Another worker infected at Raj Nivas; Kiran Bedi, 35 others test Covid-19 negative||PUDUCHERRY: Lieutenant governor of Puducherry Kiran Bedi, whose swab samples were collected after an office assistant at Raj Nivas tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, was tested negative for the infection. Results of a data entry operator hired on contract basis, who was among the 36 others others tested, came back positive. Two patients died of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the toll in the Union territory to 16. A 48-year-old man with renal complications and high blood pressure, who was under intensive care, died at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute (IGMC) while a 60-year-old with acute respiratory ailments died at Karaikal government general hospital. Total reported Covid-19 cases in Puducherry stood at 1,200 including 49 fresh cases reported on Thursday. There are 565 active cases undergoing treatment — 373 at IGMC, 111 at Jipmer, 32 at Karaikal GH, 27 at Covid care centre, 20 at Yanam GH, two at Mahe GH. Thirty recovered patients were discharged on Thursday. The total count of recovered patients is 619 and positivity rate of the samples (772) tested on Thursday stood at 6.3%. Healthcare authorities tracing infection sources found that a palm reader in Karaikal, who was not aware that he was infected, had passed the infection on to 13 people in the past four or five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/another-worker-infected-at-raj-nivas-bedi-35-others-test-ve/articleshow/76882474.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Faridabad||Gurugram ahead of other districts in Haryana in testing||CHANDIGARH: At 36,990 tests per million, district is leading in Covid-19 sampling in Haryana, suggests data from the health department. The population of Gurugram district is around 1.5 million. Two more districts falling in the National Capital Region (NCR), Rohtak and Faridabad, occupy number two and three positions with 21,160 and 20,130 tests per million, respectively. Gurugram and Faridabad have the highest number of around 6,000 and 5,000 Covid-19 cases, respectively. The state’s average testing is around 13,000 per million. Pachkula district is at fourth place with 19,470 tests per million and Sonepat at fifth with 15,760 tests. State’s health and family welfare minister Anil Vij’s home district Ambala is close to Sonepat with 14,970 tests per million. In terms of sample positivity rate, Faridabad district has the highest positivity rate of 13.26% and Gurugram is second at 11.16%. Most other districts have moderate levels of sample positivity. Kaithal, Panckula, Yamunanagar and Jind, however, have the lowest sample positivity rates of 1.21%, 1.37%, 1.39% and 1.40%, respectively. The overall sample positivity rate of Haryana is 5.66%. As far as fatality rate is concerned, Jind, Panipat and Hisar districts are leading with 3.01%, 2.62% and 2.40%, respectively. Some of the districts including Fatehabad, Panchkula, Sirsa, Yamunanagar and Kaithal have recorded 0% fatality. The state’s average fatality rate is 1.06%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/gurgaon-ahead-of-other-dists-in-testing/articleshow/76890331.cms||Ajay Sura
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab crosses 7k mark with 234 cases||Chandigarh: Punjab crossed the 7,000 mark on Thursday as it recorded 234 fresh cases of Covid-19, including five deaths. The overall tally of the state went up to 7,140 cases and the number of fatalities to 183. As many as 117 people were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of people who have recovered from the virus in the state to 4,945. Six health professionals, five police personnel and 12 jail inmates were among those tested positive. Majority of the cases were contacts of positive cases and patients co-infected with influenza like illness (ILI). In nine cases, the source of infection was outside of Punjab. Ludhiana recorded the highest number of cases, 57, of which 19 were contacts of positive cases, while Patiala got 42 cases 72. Of them, in 22 cases history could not be traced. In Jalandhar, 34 cases surfaced while 16 cases were added to the tally from Sangrur. Also, 14 cases were from Amritsar, 10 from Mohali and nine each from Ferozepur and Tarn Taran, eight from Fatehgarh Sahib, seven from Gurdaspur, five from Kapurthala, four from Nawanshahr, three each from Ropar, Moga, Muktsar and Hoshiarpur. Two cases each were from Mansa, Faridkot and Pathankot while one case was from Bathinda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-crosses-7k-mark-with-234-cases/articleshow/76883090.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram ahead of other districts in Haryana in testing||CHANDIGARH: At 36,990 tests per million, district is leading in Covid-19 sampling in Haryana, suggests data from the health department. The population of Gurugram district is around 1.5 million. Two more districts falling in the National Capital Region (NCR), Rohtak and Faridabad, occupy number two and three positions with 21,160 and 20,130 tests per million, respectively. Gurugram and Faridabad have the highest number of around 6,000 and 5,000 Covid-19 cases, respectively. The state’s average testing is around 13,000 per million. Pachkula district is at fourth place with 19,470 tests per million and Sonepat at fifth with 15,760 tests. State’s health and family welfare minister Anil Vij’s home district Ambala is close to Sonepat with 14,970 tests per million. In terms of sample positivity rate, Faridabad district has the highest positivity rate of 13.26% and Gurugram is second at 11.16%. Most other districts have moderate levels of sample positivity. Kaithal, Panckula, Yamunanagar and Jind, however, have the lowest sample positivity rates of 1.21%, 1.37%, 1.39% and 1.40%, respectively. The overall sample positivity rate of Haryana is 5.66%. As far as fatality rate is concerned, Jind, Panipat and Hisar districts are leading with 3.01%, 2.62% and 2.40%, respectively. Some of the districts including Fatehabad, Panchkula, Sirsa, Yamunanagar and Kaithal have recorded 0% fatality. The state’s average fatality rate is 1.06%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurgaon-ahead-of-other-dists-in-testing/articleshow/76883084.cms||Ajay Sura
July 10, 2020||Kochi||Woman helping elderly man wins praise||Kottayam: Appreciations have been pouring in for Supriya Suresh after a video clip of her helping a partially-blind elderly person to board a bus in Thiruvalla town in Pathanamthitta district has become viral in social media. It was on Tuesday that the humane act of 33-year-old Supriya, a saleswoman at a textile shop in Thiruvalla, happened. When Supriya was on her way back home after work, she saw an aged man struggling to get to a bus stop. Supriya then guided the man to a pavement near the bus stop. She then waited with him and when a bus came she waved at the bus, but the vehicle stopped at a distance. The woman ran up to the bus and requested the conductor to wait till she brings the aged man to the bus. Supriya then went back, and holding the elderly man’s hand, she guided him to the bus. She left only after the man boarded the bus. A salesman at a nearby shop captured these events in his mobile phone and shared the video on social media. Soon the video became viral and those who identified her started calling her. “I came to know about the video when some of my friends called and started appreciating me. Usually my husband comes to pick me up after work and on Tuesday, he was late. He asked me to walk towards the direction from which he was coming. I saw the elderly man when I was walking. Initially I thought he could be dropped at the bus stand in the two wheeler of my husband. But the KSRTC bus came in no time,” she said. She thanked the driver and the conductor of the bus for showing the patience to wait for the aged person. The act was also a proud moment for the shop where Supriya works. “Congratulations on your brave and heartfelt deed, dear Supriya. You have made the entire company immensely proud,” said a post on the Facebook page of the company. Supriya’s husband Anoop is a tiles work contractor. The couple have a son and a daughter. With the video going viral, Supriya now has one wish. “I want to meet that old person once again,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/woman-helping-elderly-man-wins-praise/articleshow/76882490.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Shimla||No new case, 5 Covid-19 patients recover in HP||Shimla: In what comes as major relief for Himachal Pradesh, no new positive case of Covid-19 was reported in the hill state till 5pm on Thursday. Five positive patients, including one from Hamirpur and four from Kangra, have recovered. The state has registered a recovery rate of 74.93%. There are 1,101 positive cases in Himachal, of which 252 are active. A total of 825 patients have recovered, 13 have migrated out of the state, nine have died of Covid-19 while two deaths of positive patients from Chamba and Shimla district occurred due to other reasons. A total of 62,553 persons were placed under surveillance in the state till Thursday. Of them, 42,328 have completed their 28-day surveillance, while 20,225 are under active surveillance. So far, 94,723 persons have been tested for Covid-19 and 92,146 have been tested negative. Results of 1,476 samples are awaited. Bilaspur district has 48 positive cases of which 11 are active and 37 have recovered. Chamba district has 58 positive cases of which 10 are active and 47 have recovered. One patient died of non-Covid reasons. Hamirpur district has 268 positive cases of which 53 are active, 212 have recovered and three patients have died. Kangra district has 298 positive cases, of which 63 are active, 231 have recovered and two have died. Kinnaur district has 34 positive cases of which 27 are active while 7 have recovered. In Kullu district, there are seven positive cases, of which two are active while five have recovered. Lahaul-Spiti has four positive cases and all are active, Mandi district has 37 positive cases of which nine are active, 26 persons have recovered and two have died. Shimla district has 49 positive cases, of which nine are active, 37 have recovered while one has died of Covid-19. Another positive patient died of non-Covid reasons. Sirmaur district has 41 positive cases, of which five are active while 29 have recovered and seven have migrated out of the state. Solan district has 126 positive cases of which 31 are active, 91 have recovered while four have migrated out of the state. Una district has 131 positive cases of which 28 are active while 103 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/no-new-case-5-covid-19-patients-recover-in-hp/articleshow/76883106.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||As cases increase, Punjab to set up plasma bank for seriously ill||CHANDIGARH: With the pilot rapid antigen-testing project set to begin in five of the worst-affected districts of the state from Friday, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday approved setting up of a plasma bank to facilitate Covid plasma therapy treatment, which is already being carried out as an ICMR trial project in the state’s government hospitals. Chairing a video conference review of the Covid situation in the state, Amarinder approved the plan for plasma bank under the supervision of Dr Neelam Marwaha, former head of blood bank and transfusion medicine, who is already involved in plasma therapy t rials. The plasma bank would serve as a ready inventory source for seriously ill patients or those at risk of severe disease, and thus will enable a wider range of adults to be treated with convalescent plasma. In this process, blood plasma from people who have recovered from Covid-19 is infused into patients. Plasma is the liquid portion of blood that remains when all red and white blood cells and platelets have been removed. Of the 15 patients who are part of the trial, eight have been given plasma and the remaining seven were placed in control arm as per randomisation by ICMR. Five patients have recovered completely and shall be discharged soon. A total of 11 donors out of the 300 recovered patients have donated plasma so far, the meeting was informed. Health adviser Dr KK Talwar said that Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Mohali and Patiala districts had been identified for the pilot project of rapid antigen testing. The test has a quick turnaround time of 30 minutes for results. On finalization of rates for private hospitals, he said two rounds of meetings had already been held with the hospitals and another was scheduled for Monday, after which the rates can be fixed. While the mortality figures for the state were lower than the national average and for many of the other states, the spread was worrying. Punjab’s mortality rate was currently 2.6% as against India’s 2.8%. He further disclosed that 70.8% of the Covid patients were asymptomatic, 14.7 % mild, 8.8 % moderate and 5.6 % severe. Officials test positive, SOPs on cards Expressing concern at the growing violations of safety norms by political parties, Amarinder Singh said he will write to the presidents of all the registered political parties to seek their cooperation in checking large gatherings. He said he will also appeal to them to avoid any actions that have the potential to spread Covid. Meanwhile, DGP Dinkar Gupta said the police had registered cases against some of the political parties for violations. Pointing out that 258 cases had been reported on Wednesday, with 11 PCS and other senior officers, including CMO Sangrur and judges infected so far, Amarinder stressed the need to raise the guard even further. Office staff, in particular, needs to be very careful, he stressed. He asked chief secretary Vini Mahajan to issue SOPs for government officers’ meetings, visits to other offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cases-up-punjab-to-set-up-plasma-bank/articleshow/76883098.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||Rail unions to oppose privatization of trains||Nagpur: Even as the ministry of railways has started process for private participation in operating passenger train services, the move has been vehemently opposed and dubbed as ‘anti-social’ by railway unions. The unions have warned repeat of historic strikes that shook the railways in 1960, 1968 and 1974 if the Railway Board goes ahead with the privatization of trains. The ministry has already invited request for qualification (RFQ) from private parties for operating train services from 109 origin destination pairs of routes through introduction of 151 modern trains. In a statement, National Railway Mazdoor Union (NRMU) general secretary for Central & Konkan Railway Venu P Nair said, “This fight against privatization is now not limited to employees but people, who are the beneficiaries of train services. The motto of private operators will be profiteering and hence common man will be deprived of concessions and will have to pay hefty fares. We will reach out to all employees to spread awareness.” Citing example of Tejas Express, which runs between Delhi and Lucknow, Nair said, “Travellers are being charged three times more than the fare charged by Indian Railways. The time taken by both private operator and railways to reach destinations is the same.” “On one hand, the BJP government at the Centre praised railway employees and their workshops as Covid warriors for their outstanding performance and output during corona crisis and on the other the same government is promoting privatization and planning to do away with 50% posts, except safety category. The government’s own statements are conflicting,” said Nair. The NRMU leader said such decisions are being taken under the garb of lockdown and providing employment to youth. “The government knows there will be no mass protests due to Covid-19 restrictions,” he said. Vikas Gaur, general secretary of Swatantra Railway Bahujan Karmachari Union, said, “Indian Railways is the biggest public sector undertaking with 13 lakh employees and having potential to provide employment to all sections of the society and its privatization cannot be sustainable by any means.” “We strongly condemn the decision to allow entry to private parties to run trains. Instead, we request the ministry of railways to believe the strength and dedication of railway employees. History has witnessed adverse effects of railway privatization in developed countries like New Zealand, Argentina, and United Kingdom,” said Gaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rail-unions-to-oppose-privatization-of-trains/articleshow/76882482.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Former minister P Ramaswamy passes away||HYDERABAD: Former minister and senior BJP leader P Ramaswamy passed away on Thursday while undergoing treatment in a private hospital here. He was 83. He was popularly known as ‘Gaddam’ (beard) Ramaswamy by partymen. A strong votary of a separate statehood movement, Ramaswamy had vowed that Telangana would be made a separate state in the 1969 movement itself. Known as a “people’s man” in his Maharajgunj (now Goshamahal) constituency, the veteran leader used to roam around on a bullet to meet and talk to people in the consituency. He began his political career as a municipal corporator and then went on to become an MLA twice in 1983 and 1994 elections. Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya, former Maharashtra governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao and Telangana state Bharatiya Janata Party chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar and condoled his death. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/former-minister-p-ramaswamypasses-away/articleshow/76882487.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Mysuru||Two die of Covid in Hassan||Hassan: Two Covid patients died here on Thursday taking the district’s toll to 15. The district’s Covid-19 cases rose to 615 after 21 cases were reported on Thursday. However, there are 210 active cases and four patients are in ICU. Both the deceased were admitted on Monday and their Covid result came a day after their death. A 75-year-old man from Hassan taluk was admitted to the Covid hospital as he had fever. He was also suffering from diabetes, hypertension and kidney disease. Although he was shifted to the ICU on Wednesday, he did not respond to treatment and died. A 76-year-old woman from Holenarsipur suffering from breathlessness and admitted to the Covid hospital on Monday, died on Wednesday. She had hypertension and diabetes for 10 years, said DHO Dr Sathish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-die-of-covid-in-hassan/articleshow/76881355.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Agra||64 canals run dry, paddy cultivation in 40 Agra villages hit, 15k farmers suffer||Agra: With monsoon yet to make headway in Agra district and around 64 canals running dry, more than 15,000 farmers are suffering as there is no water to sow or irrigate paddy crop in the region. Paddy is cultivated over 4,676 hectares in Agra district, where the Kharif crop irrigation plan floundered. With no water supply, the 64 canals that are connected to Fatehpur Sikri branch canal have developed silt. According to the roster plan, 985 cusecs water was proposed to discharge in the Fatehpur Sikri branch canal from June 5 to 12 but, so far, only one-third of it was released. Regional president of Bharatiya Kisan Sangh Mohan Singh Chahar said, “With no water in the canals, farmers of more than 40 villages are unable to sow paddy or irrigate the crop. As the district did not receive the required rainfall for paddy cultivation in June, the sowing and irrigation of the crop are now largely dependent on the canal water. We have been raising the issue for several days, but no action was taken.” Irrigation department executive engineer Sharad Saurav Giri said, “Canals in Agra get water from the Yamuna in Mathura. This time, however, we had an inadequate water supply. We are working on it. The required amount of water is likely to be discharged in the canals by Monday.” District magistrate Prabhu N Singh, meanwhile, said, “The implementation of the water discharge roster plan will be checked and the chief development officer will be asked to find the reasons behind the dry canals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/64-canals-run-dry-paddy-cultivation-in-40-agra-villages-hit-15k-farmers-suffer/articleshow/76881372.cms||Deepak Lavania
July 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Centre to talk to EPS as Tamil Nadu ranks 26th in piped water supply||CHENNAI: With just 955 household piped water connections provided in the first quarter under the Narendra Modi government’s flagship programme Jal Jeevan Mission, Tamil Nadu stands 26th in the country. Telangana tops with 6.38 lakh, followed by Bihar (2.57 lakh), Maharashtra (2.13 lakh) and Madhya Pradesh (2.09 lakh) to provide safe drinking water to every rural household through functional tap connections. The ‘abysmally low’ progress of work is a concern for the Centre that is aiming to improve ease of living and better quality of life in rural areas. “Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat has sought to discuss the matter with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami through video conferencing at the earliest, taking a serious note of the lapse in delivery of service,” said a ministry official, seeking anonymity. The urgency also stems from the fact that the Tamil Nadu government provided only 1.2% of the targetted 13.86 lakh household tap connections last year. The Union government, however, had allotted Rs 1,290.54 crore in the past two years to the state, and the state allotted a matching share. The delay in implementing the programme has surprised the ministry, since five out of 12,525 village panchayats in the state alone lack water supply schemes. Some of the other village panchayts lack last mile connectivity of tap connections, which is not a big deal. It was found that only 17% of the 1.26 crore rural households in the state have tap connections till date. State government sources, however, said the delay was due to the local body elections and thereafter revalidation of baseline data from the districts to implement the scheme. In its annual action plan presented to the ministry on May 15, the state government unveiled its ambitious plan to provide 33.94 lakh this year and the rest in the subsequent years. The officials in TWAD board, the implementing agency, said the state would commence the work in a full-fledged manner from August onwards. “We have allotted Rs 2,264.74 crore to 35 districts, except Chennai, to provide a minimum of 19.74 lakh house connections. Tenders have been called for by the districts and work orders will be issued by this month end,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/centre-to-talk-to-eps-as-tn-ranks-26th-in-piped-water-supply/articleshow/76887542.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 10, 2020||Chennai||Centre to talk to EPS as Tamil Nadu ranks 26th in piped water supply||CHENNAI: With just 955 household piped water connections provided in the first quarter under the Narendra Modi government’s flagship programme Jal Jeevan Mission, Tamil Nadu stands 26th in the country. Telangana tops with 6.38 lakh, followed by Bihar (2.57 lakh), Maharashtra (2.13 lakh) and Madhya Pradesh (2.09 lakh) to provide safe drinking water to every rural household through functional tap connections. The ‘abysmally low’ progress of work is a concern for the Centre that is aiming to improve ease of living and better quality of life in rural areas. “Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat has sought to discuss the matter with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami through video conferencing at the earliest, taking a serious note of the lapse in delivery of service,” said a ministry official, seeking anonymity. The urgency also stems from the fact that the Tamil Nadu government provided only 1.2% of the targetted 13.86 lakh household tap connections last year. The Union government, however, had allotted Rs 1,290.54 crore in the past two years to the state, and the state allotted a matching share. The delay in implementing the programme has surprised the ministry, since five out of 12,525 village panchayats in the state alone lack water supply schemes. Some of the other village panchayts lack last mile connectivity of tap connections, which is not a big deal. It was found that only 17% of the 1.26 crore rural households in the state have tap connections till date. State government sources, however, said the delay was due to the local body elections and thereafter revalidation of baseline data from the districts to implement the scheme. In its annual action plan presented to the ministry on May 15, the state government unveiled its ambitious plan to provide 33.94 lakh this year and the rest in the subsequent years. The officials in TWAD board, the implementing agency, said the state would commence the work in a full-fledged manner from August onwards. “We have allotted Rs 2,264.74 crore to 35 districts, except Chennai, to provide a minimum of 19.74 lakh house connections. Tenders have been called for by the districts and work orders will be issued by this month end,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/centre-to-talk-to-eps-as-tn-ranks-26th-in-piped-water-supply/articleshow/76882508.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 10, 2020||Trichy||Centre to talk to EPS as Tamil Nadu ranks 26th in piped water supply||CHENNAI: With just 955 household piped water connections provided in the first quarter under the Narendra Modi government’s flagship programme Jal Jeevan Mission, Tamil Nadu stands 26th in the country. Telangana tops with 6.38 lakh, followed by Bihar (2.57 lakh), Maharashtra (2.13 lakh) and Madhya Pradesh (2.09 lakh) to provide safe drinking water to every rural household through functional tap connections. The ‘abysmally low’ progress of work is a concern for the Centre that is aiming to improve ease of living and better quality of life in rural areas. “Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat has sought to discuss the matter with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami through video conferencing at the earliest, taking a serious note of the lapse in delivery of service,” said a ministry official, seeking anonymity. The urgency also stems from the fact that the Tamil Nadu government provided only 1.2% of the targetted 13.86 lakh household tap connections last year. The Union government, however, had allotted Rs 1,290.54 crore in the past two years to the state, and the state allotted a matching share. The delay in implementing the programme has surprised the ministry, since five out of 12,525 village panchayats in the state alone lack water supply schemes. Some of the other village panchayts lack last mile connectivity of tap connections, which is not a big deal. It was found that only 17% of the 1.26 crore rural households in the state have tap connections till date. State government sources, however, said the delay was due to the local body elections and thereafter revalidation of baseline data from the districts to implement the scheme. In its annual action plan presented to the ministry on May 15, the state government unveiled its ambitious plan to provide 33.94 lakh this year and the rest in the subsequent years. The officials in TWAD board, the implementing agency, said the state would commence the work in a full-fledged manner from August onwards. “We have allotted Rs 2,264.74 crore to 35 districts, except Chennai, to provide a minimum of 19.74 lakh house connections. Tenders have been called for by the districts and work orders will be issued by this month end,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/centre-to-talk-to-eps-as-tn-ranks-26th-in-piped-water-supply/articleshow/76887546.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Two Chandigarh-based Punjab Civil Service officers test positive||CHANDIGARH: After two Punjab Civil Service (PCS) officers on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19, their families and other close contacts were placed under quarantine. Since these two officers, along with total 26 other PCS officers, had recently attended a meeting at a hotel in Sector 42, the hotel has been sealed. According to information, as 26 of the 28 officers attending the meeting were from outside the city, their respective district administrations have been appraised of the development, so that they could take precautionary measures. The two PCS officers confirmed as Covid-19 patients stay in Chandigarh. While one is currently serving the Chandigarh administration on deputation, the other is working for the Punjab government. The latter had also been on deputation in the Chandigarh administration a few years back. “One of them resides in Sector 19-based government accommodation and the other has been allotted a house in Sector 27. We have home-quarantined all the family members and their health is being monitored by the UT administration’s health department,” said an official. The hotel has been sealed by a team from the Chandigarh municipal corporation and around seven of the hotel staff members present during the meeting have been sent for quarantine, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-chandigarh-based-pcs-officers-test-positive/articleshow/76883116.cms||Deepak Yadav
July 10, 2020||Madurai||Centre to talk to EPS as Tamil Nadu ranks 26th in piped water supply||CHENNAI: With just 955 household piped water connections provided in the first quarter under the Narendra Modi government’s flagship programme Jal Jeevan Mission, Tamil Nadu stands 26th in the country. Telangana tops with 6.38 lakh, followed by Bihar (2.57 lakh), Maharashtra (2.13 lakh) and Madhya Pradesh (2.09 lakh) to provide safe drinking water to every rural household through functional tap connections. The ‘abysmally low’ progress of work is a concern for the Centre that is aiming to improve ease of living and better quality of life in rural areas. “Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat has sought to discuss the matter with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami through video conferencing at the earliest, taking a serious note of the lapse in delivery of service,” said a ministry official, seeking anonymity. The urgency also stems from the fact that the Tamil Nadu government provided only 1.2% of the targetted 13.86 lakh household tap connections last year. The Union government, however, had allotted Rs 1,290.54 crore in the past two years to the state, and the state allotted a matching share. The delay in implementing the programme has surprised the ministry, since five out of 12,525 village panchayats in the state alone lack water supply schemes. Some of the other village panchayts lack last mile connectivity of tap connections, which is not a big deal. It was found that only 17% of the 1.26 crore rural households in the state have tap connections till date. State government sources, however, said the delay was due to the local body elections and thereafter revalidation of baseline data from the districts to implement the scheme. In its annual action plan presented to the ministry on May 15, the state government unveiled its ambitious plan to provide 33.94 lakh this year and the rest in the subsequent years. The officials in TWAD board, the implementing agency, said the state would commence the work in a full-fledged manner from August onwards. “We have allotted Rs 2,264.74 crore to 35 districts, except Chennai, to provide a minimum of 19.74 lakh house connections. Tenders have been called for by the districts and work orders will be issued by this month end,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/centre-to-talk-to-eps-as-tn-ranks-26th-in-piped-water-supply/articleshow/76887544.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 10, 2020||Bareilly||Couple, daughter held for robbing Shahjahanpur family of Rs 5 lakh||Bareilly: A couple and their 23-year-old daughter were arrested by Shahjahanpur police on Thursday for allegedly robbing a family of Rs 5 lakh after mixing intoxicant in their food on March 7. Police recovered the stolen cash and jewellery from the accused’s possession. Describing their modus operandi, police said the Sitapur-based accused would often visit Shahjahanpur and stay in rented accommodation. They would commit robbery after gathering information by working as a maid or driver at the house of their victims, said police. Police said Pappu Khan, his wife Anjum and their daughter Chandni shifted to a rented house in Roza earlier this year. Anjum used to work as a maid in the house of Shahzeb Khan and soon won the confidence of the family. On March 7, Anjum prepared dinner and mixed intoxicant in it, and when all family member fell unconscious after the dinner, Anjum, Pappu and Chandni fled with Rs 5 lakh cash, mobile phones and other valuables, said police. An FIR under sections 328 (whoever administers to or causes to be taken by any person any poison or any stupefying, intoxicating or unwholesome drug, or other thing with intent to cause hurt to such person, or with intent to commit or to facilitate the commission) and 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered following a complaint lodged by the family. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) S Anand told TOI, “The accused were planning to target another family and were looking for a house in Jamuka area when police nabbed them. We have recovered all the stolen articles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/couple-daughter-held-for-robbing-shahjahanpur-family-of-rs-5-lakh/articleshow/76880051.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 10, 2020||Erode||Centre to talk to EPS as Tamil Nadu ranks 26th in piped water supply||CHENNAI: With just 955 household piped water connections provided in the first quarter under the Narendra Modi government’s flagship programme Jal Jeevan Mission, Tamil Nadu stands 26th in the country. Telangana tops with 6.38 lakh, followed by Bihar (2.57 lakh), Maharashtra (2.13 lakh) and Madhya Pradesh (2.09 lakh) to provide safe drinking water to every rural household through functional tap connections. The ‘abysmally low’ progress of work is a concern for the Centre that is aiming to improve ease of living and better quality of life in rural areas. “Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat has sought to discuss the matter with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami through video conferencing at the earliest, taking a serious note of the lapse in delivery of service,” said a ministry official, seeking anonymity. The urgency also stems from the fact that the Tamil Nadu government provided only 1.2% of the targetted 13.86 lakh household tap connections last year. The Union government, however, had allotted Rs 1,290.54 crore in the past two years to the state, and the state allotted a matching share. The delay in implementing the programme has surprised the ministry, since five out of 12,525 village panchayats in the state alone lack water supply schemes. Some of the other village panchayts lack last mile connectivity of tap connections, which is not a big deal. It was found that only 17% of the 1.26 crore rural households in the state have tap connections till date. State government sources, however, said the delay was due to the local body elections and thereafter revalidation of baseline data from the districts to implement the scheme. In its annual action plan presented to the ministry on May 15, the state government unveiled its ambitious plan to provide 33.94 lakh this year and the rest in the subsequent years. The officials in TWAD board, the implementing agency, said the state would commence the work in a full-fledged manner from August onwards. “We have allotted Rs 2,264.74 crore to 35 districts, except Chennai, to provide a minimum of 19.74 lakh house connections. Tenders have been called for by the districts and work orders will be issued by this month end,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/centre-to-talk-to-eps-as-tn-ranks-26th-in-piped-water-supply/articleshow/76887543.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 10, 2020||Salem||Centre to talk to EPS as Tamil Nadu ranks 26th in piped water supply||CHENNAI: With just 955 household piped water connections provided in the first quarter under the Narendra Modi government’s flagship programme Jal Jeevan Mission, Tamil Nadu stands 26th in the country. Telangana tops with 6.38 lakh, followed by Bihar (2.57 lakh), Maharashtra (2.13 lakh) and Madhya Pradesh (2.09 lakh) to provide safe drinking water to every rural household through functional tap connections. The ‘abysmally low’ progress of work is a concern for the Centre that is aiming to improve ease of living and better quality of life in rural areas. “Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat has sought to discuss the matter with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami through video conferencing at the earliest, taking a serious note of the lapse in delivery of service,” said a ministry official, seeking anonymity. The urgency also stems from the fact that the Tamil Nadu government provided only 1.2% of the targetted 13.86 lakh household tap connections last year. The Union government, however, had allotted Rs 1,290.54 crore in the past two years to the state, and the state allotted a matching share. The delay in implementing the programme has surprised the ministry, since five out of 12,525 village panchayats in the state alone lack water supply schemes. Some of the other village panchayts lack last mile connectivity of tap connections, which is not a big deal. It was found that only 17% of the 1.26 crore rural households in the state have tap connections till date. State government sources, however, said the delay was due to the local body elections and thereafter revalidation of baseline data from the districts to implement the scheme. In its annual action plan presented to the ministry on May 15, the state government unveiled its ambitious plan to provide 33.94 lakh this year and the rest in the subsequent years. The officials in TWAD board, the implementing agency, said the state would commence the work in a full-fledged manner from August onwards. “We have allotted Rs 2,264.74 crore to 35 districts, except Chennai, to provide a minimum of 19.74 lakh house connections. Tenders have been called for by the districts and work orders will be issued by this month end,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/centre-to-talk-to-eps-as-tn-ranks-26th-in-piped-water-supply/articleshow/76887548.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 10, 2020||Puducherry||Centre to talk to EPS as Tamil Nadu ranks 26th in piped water supply||CHENNAI: With just 955 household piped water connections provided in the first quarter under the Narendra Modi government’s flagship programme Jal Jeevan Mission, Tamil Nadu stands 26th in the country. Telangana tops with 6.38 lakh, followed by Bihar (2.57 lakh), Maharashtra (2.13 lakh) and Madhya Pradesh (2.09 lakh) to provide safe drinking water to every rural household through functional tap connections. The ‘abysmally low’ progress of work is a concern for the Centre that is aiming to improve ease of living and better quality of life in rural areas. “Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat has sought to discuss the matter with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami through video conferencing at the earliest, taking a serious note of the lapse in delivery of service,” said a ministry official, seeking anonymity. The urgency also stems from the fact that the Tamil Nadu government provided only 1.2% of the targetted 13.86 lakh household tap connections last year. The Union government, however, had allotted Rs 1,290.54 crore in the past two years to the state, and the state allotted a matching share. The delay in implementing the programme has surprised the ministry, since five out of 12,525 village panchayats in the state alone lack water supply schemes. Some of the other village panchayts lack last mile connectivity of tap connections, which is not a big deal. It was found that only 17% of the 1.26 crore rural households in the state have tap connections till date. State government sources, however, said the delay was due to the local body elections and thereafter revalidation of baseline data from the districts to implement the scheme. In its annual action plan presented to the ministry on May 15, the state government unveiled its ambitious plan to provide 33.94 lakh this year and the rest in the subsequent years. The officials in TWAD board, the implementing agency, said the state would commence the work in a full-fledged manner from August onwards. “We have allotted Rs 2,264.74 crore to 35 districts, except Chennai, to provide a minimum of 19.74 lakh house connections. Tenders have been called for by the districts and work orders will be issued by this month end,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/centre-to-talk-to-eps-as-tn-ranks-26th-in-piped-water-supply/articleshow/76887541.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KSEB steps down power generation from Idukki dam||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As the monsoon rains play truant in catchment areas of Idukki hydro-electric project, Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has switched to a conservative mode on using the water in the largest hydel reservoir in the state. The board, which had been generating up to 10mu/day of electricity from the dam, has cut down the generation to below 4mu/day. The water storage in the reservoir as on July 8 is only 31%. “Due to the shortage of rain in the catchment area, there was a 33% dip in the water inflow than the board anticipated for the month. The water usage from the dam is directly linked to the inflow of water and generation of power from there. Unless we prudently use the water in the dam, it would be hard for the state to tide over the next summer,” senior officials said. The officials said the board would be periodically monitoring the water level in the dam and the decision to cut down or ramp up the power generation would be analogous with the rule curve adopted with regard to the permissible water storage level on each given day. Historical data show that Idukki dam generally gets the highest inflow of water during the month of July. If the water level rises up substantially with the increase in the inflow, the board would increase power generation. The average water storage level of KSEB dams in the state is 25%, with most of the dams having its storage below 40%. The only reservoir that has been on alert is Peringalkuthu in Thrissur. Following the heavy flow of water to the dam, the board is releasing 18.8 cusecs/second of water from there and the dam is under red alert. “Following the outbreak of the Covid pandemic and the subsequent restrictions, power consumption in the state has come down. The consumption on July 8 was 62.69mu only. The board currently surrenders close to 2MW of power daily. The power was taken anticipating a much higher consumption pattern,” board chairman and managing director N S Pillai said. Meanwhile, Idukki hydel project is in the threshold of attaining a rare feat of generating over one lakh million units of power. The generating station is supposed to cross the mark in another few days as KSEB is preparing for celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kseb-steps-down-power-generation-from-idukki-dam/articleshow/76882516.cms||B S Anilkumar
July 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Attempt to build temple in park site thwarted||COIMBATORE: District administration officials have thwarted an attempt to build a temple at an open space reservation (OSR) land in Sulur by demolishing the foundation work and fencing the area. Social workers from the area said the 12-cent OSR land at Pallava Nagar, West Arasur, in Sulur was meant for constructing a public park. Local residents had started constructing a temple there last Thursday, said A Ramesh Kumar, of Global Green Revolution, a forum working to preserve OSR sites. “We informed local officials and the district administration on Thursday night. The construction work progressed on Saturday and Sunday. On Sunday, officials stepped in and stopped the work,” he said. Following this, with the order of the district administration, on Tuesday, local officials demolished whatever construction had been done there. “On Tuesday morning, they began to fence the area,” he said. When contacted, a local official from the area said residents must have started constructing the temple. “When we asked them, they feigned ignorance as to who had constructed it. But they asked that the structure be spared. However, we demolished it and are now in the process of erecting a fence around the site. We would keep a sign that it was an OSR site and no one should use it for other purposes,” the official said. Ramesh Kumar said there was also a water tank constructed on the site, which was also a violation. The official, however, said as the structure was constructed for public use, it does not constitute a violation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/attempt-to-build-temple-in-park-site-thwarted/articleshow/76882519.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Hubballi||Seven Covid fatalities in Dharwad||DHARWAD: The Covid-19 death toll in Dharwad district went up to 27, with seven more people succumbing to the disease at KIMS hospital, in the 24 hours from Wednesday evening till Thursday evening. As many as 75 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Thursday in the district, taking the total number of positive cases to 832. A total 17 people who were being treated for Covid-19 were cured and discharged on Thursday, and the total number of active cases is at 512. So far, 293 infected people have been cured. Among those testing positive on Thursday, 33 are women and 42 are men. What is worrisome is that the list has 9 children, including two one-month-old infants. Most of those testing positive are primary contacts of infected patients. The list of those who died, includes six men and one woman. A total 19 people are being treated in the ICU at KIMS hospital. Former mayor infected A former mayor and a former corporator, both from the BJP, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Both are residents of Hubballi, and have been admitted to KIMS for treatment. While the former corporator has no health complications and is responding to treatment, the former mayor has medical complications, and the doctors are trying their best to save him. The former mayor, who is a prominent leader in the BJP, had met senior BJP leaders in Hubballi three days ago, and had also taken part in meetings. Now, after he tested positive, the BJP brass is worried.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/7-covid-fatalities-in-dharwad/articleshow/76881385.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb civil secretariat staff demands min attendance as colleague tests +ve for Covid-19||Chandigarh: With over 25 government employees working in Punjab Civil Secretariat, Chandigarh asked to quarantine themselves at home, employees demanded running of departments with minimum attendance. Many branches of government departments in the state have been temporarily closed and the secretariat has also closed one of its accounts sections which had more than 10 employees. Employees pointed out that it is not possible to practice social distancing in branches like the IAS wing, which has 16 members of staff. “An employee working in the secretariat recently tested positive. Since he was nearing retirement, he recently visited the accounts branch and met other employees. That is why all his contacts have been asked to quarantine themselves,” an employee said. Sukhchain Singh Khehra, general secretary, joint action committee (JAC) of the Civic Secretariat Employees said apart from officials, it is suspected that many employees may be under threat of catching coronavirus infection. “We have submitted a memorandum to chief secretary Vini Mahajan demanding that the departments be asked to operate with minimum staff for urgent work as precaution is the only way to fight the virus,” he said. Employees also complained that they were being asked to get themselves tested for Covid-19 at the government hospital in Phase 6, Mohali, which could also render them vulnerable to the disease. The state government has been asked to make arrangements to get tests done in the secretariat itself. Meanwhile, chief secretary Vini Mahajan tweeted, “We wish speedy recovery to the employees who have tested positive and urge all to exercise necessary precautions in the discharge of their duties, especially wearing masks in closed/crowded spaces.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-civil-secretariat-staff-demands-min-attendance-as-colleague-tests-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/76883118.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Agra||56 new Covid +ve cases in Meerut, one death||Meerut/Agra/Bareilly: In yet another highest single-day jump of Covid-19 positive cases in Meerut, the district recorded 56 new patients, taking the total tally to 1,351, including one found in Kanpur. The positive cases included two jewellers and their two contacts, a tailor and a journalist, according to Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer (CMO). Also, a 50-year-old woman died in Meerut, taking the toll to 71. In Agra district, at least 16 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Thursday, taking the district tally to 1,357. These included two patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three from SARI and a kidney patient. Eight Covid-19 patients were also discharged on Thursday. Of the 1,357 cases, 80.99% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 167 active cases in the district. There were also 14 fresh cases reported in Bareilly on Thursday. The total cases rose to 489, including 286 active ones and 17 deaths. While Budaun reported eight new cases and, of these, were four from the city, three from Ujhani block and one from Dataganj. Active cases rose to 57.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/56-new-covid-ve-cases-in-meerut-one-death/articleshow/76881383.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray wants jumbo Covid centres in 6 MMR areas||MUMBAI: On a day chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took stock of Thane district’s worsening Covid-19 crisis, cases in Thane city and Kalyan-Dombivli hit a new high. Thane breached the 12,000 mark, having added 2,000 cases in just six days, and the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation reported 580 cases on Thursday, its highest for a single day so far. Thane district’s cumulative positivity rate of 33% is the highest in the state. It is followed by Raigad (30%) and Palghar (29%) districts. Thackeray held a video review with the civic chiefs of Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Navi Mumbai, Mira-Bhayander, Bhiwandi-Nizampur and Ulhasnagar and directed them to set up jumbo medical centres like those in Mumbai. He emphasised increased testing, contact tracing and community participation. He said MMR had failed to set up jumbo facilities despite the government insisting on it since March. The CM allayed concerns over the recent transfers of some municipal commissioners during the pandemic. He said it had nothing to do with their performance, but certain quick decisions had to be taken in the face of mounting Covid-19 numbers. Thane city’s cases touched 12,053, with 348 testing positive on Thursday, including an assistant police inspector. With 16 deaths, including that of a constable, the toll now is 446. Thane had crossed the 10,000 cases mark on July 4. Civic officials attributed the 2,000 cases in six days to rigorous testing. Thane police commissioner Vivek Phansalkar urged people with symptoms to get tested at designated centres. The CM’s principal advisor Ajoy Mehta, who attended Thursday’s meeting, cautioned that Thane district’s rising cases were a concern for the state and nation. Kalyan-Dombivli the total cases rose to 10,931. Six persons succumbed on Thursday, taking the death toll of 158. The civic administration has dispersed 10,000 antigen kits to private doctors and non-Covid hospitals to help with rapid testing. Another 25,000 kits are expected soon, officials said. Civic officials said a jumbo facility comprising 25,000 beds is being planned in KDMC. As cases in Navi Mumbai jumped to 8,518 with 239 new positives, Turbhe slum, which is among the worst hit, improved its contact tracing ratio to 1:26. No fresh case has been reported in this slum for the past 10 days. NMMC’s overall contact tracing stands at 1:11. It has now set a target of 1:20 for the city. Nine deaths on Thursday took the toll there to 278. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation area saw 165 fresh cases on Thursday, taking the total to 3,330. Two deaths took the toll to 90. Mira-Bhayander reported 185 new cases, taking its tally to 4,993. Two deaths there took the toll to 178. The civic administration’s plans to stop home quarantine and introduce compulsory institutional quarantine received a setback with 13 hotels refusing to convert their premises into care centres. (Inputs by B B Nayak, Nishikant Karlikar, Shrutika Sukhi, Pradeep Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-wants-jumbo-covid-centres-in-6-mmr-areas/articleshow/76883599.cms||Sandhya Nair
July 10, 2020||Shimla||Five tourists arrested for flouting Himachal’s entry guidelines, 2 booked for fake Covid certificates||SHIMLA: Tourists coming to the hill state seem to be in denial about the Covid-19 pandemic as they flout standard operating procedures of the state government with impunity. A case in point is that of a couple from Delhi booked by the Kangra police for producing a fake Covid negative certificate. The couple tried to enter Kangra district through Kandwal check post in Nurpur sub-division. They told the police that they had taken the Covid test but police did not accept the report they produced and asked them to take the RT-PCR test. On Wednesday morning, the couple reached Kandwal check post again and produced the negative RT-PCR test report. Thereafter, they were allowed entry. The couple had a booking for five days at a hotel in Palampur but they did not stay there and chose to stay at a hotel in Saloh instead. On suspicion, Kangra superintendent of police (SP) Vimukt Ranjan got their medical report checked in Delhi and found it to be fake. Ranjan said a case of cheating, fraud and forgery along with the provisions of Covid and Disaster Management Act has been registered against the couple and further action against them would be initiated on receiving the report of the Covid test, which was conducted again. He also warned tourists of legal action if they resorted to fake tests to enter Himachal. Kullu police arrested five tourists for citing the wrong reason to enter the district. During checking at Bajaura check post, the three women and two men from Noida in Utar Pradesh falsely claimed to have come to Himachal to attend a marriage in Kullu. When police asked them to let them speak to the local residents whose wedding they were going to attend or show the wedding card, they failed to do so. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said a case was registered against them for citing wrong purpose under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with the Disaster Management Act, 2005. He also said people who are refused entry from one route are trying to enter from another route. A tourist from Telangana was turned back from Bajaura but he returned from Mandi taking the Kandi-Kataula route. He was intercepted and sent back again. The SP said alert has been sounded at check points to ensure that those without valid documents are not allowed entry. According to him, 83 tourists have been sent back from Bajaura in the last few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/5-tourists-arrested-for-flouting-himachals-entry-guidelines-2-booked-for-fake-covid-certificates/articleshow/76883119.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kolkata||KMC, cops take telecallers’ help to keep tabs on patients, kin at home||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation, along with help from Kolkata Police, has roped in telecallers to keep tabs on Covid patients kept in home isolation as well as family members of patients advised home quarantine for two weeks. The telecallers, posted at the civic headquarters and at borough offices, are supposed to call up patients and family members twice a week, note down their health condition and pass on the information to civic medical officers working at the ward level. The civic health department has formed another team of health department workers to visit houses, where Covid-positive patients are spending isolation periods. “Be it a stand-alone building, an apartment or a high-rise, our team of health workers will visit each affected household to check whether there is enough space for a Covid-positive patient to live in isolation with the provision for a separate washroom. Based on their feedback, we will take appropriate steps in line with the Covid guidelines framed by the state health department,” said a KMC health department official. While the state administration on Wednesday introduced a stricter policy in the 25 containment zones in the city, KMC and Kolkata Police revised their norms regarding hundreds of homes, where Covid patients are living in isolation, that are not necessarily situated in lockdown zones. Most of these homes, mainly housing people who have contracted the novel coronavirus but have been showing mild or no symptom and families of Covid patients, are in apartments and stand-alone buildings. “Till about four days ago, the city had 1,827 such isolation ‘units’. Many of them are in containment zones, but a large number is still outside. The health department has introduced a new protocol for them and both KMC and police will implement them,” said a senior police officer. According to the new guidelines, a patient can opt to stay at home once his/her Covid test turns positive. “The health department makes the first call when the patient cites his/her doctor’s advice to opt for home isolation. The health department will send a list to KMC and police, who will use telecallers to confirm the patient’s wish. Two KMC officials will visit the house and check whether the affected person has the facility to live in a separate room with a washroom to himself/ herself or not,” said a KMC health official. “If they are satisfied with the arrangement, after taking into account the affected person’s medical history, they will ask to fill forms, asking for home isolation. After final clearance, police and civic officials will ensure the person is at home. No barricade will be put up.” KMC and cops also stepped up vigil on apartments. “We will appeal to allow our men to visit the apartments, carry out random tests and counsel residents,” said Firhad Hakim, chairman of KMC board of administrators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-cops-take-telecallers-help-to-keep-tabs-on-patients-kin-at-home/articleshow/76882521.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 10, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Non-Covid treatment get costlier as hospitals take precautions||CHENNAI: Treatment in hospitals for reasons other than Covid-19 is now expensive. Many such patients are prepared for additional bills including PPEs, Covid-19 test and disinfection costs, some now covered by health insurance, but very few realise they may have to spend at least Rs 8,000 out of their pockets for attendants’ test and four-day stay. Hospitals, like many other industries, are slowly resuming inpatient services including elective surgeries and invasive diagnosis. They now have new standards of practice and many insist that patients and their attendants be tested before admission. Attendants are not allowed to leave the hospital until the patient is discharged. “While most of my bills were covered by insurance companies, I had to pay Rs 3,500 on tests for my wife. She also had to spend Rs 200-Rs 500 a day for food and beverages,” said S Sathyamurthy who was admitted to a private hospital in Mogappair for angioplasty and stenting. Hospital managements and infectious disease experts cite two reasons for this. “The risk of morbidity and mortality can increase by 20% if the patient has the viral infection. The attendant must be tested because he or she is staying in the same room. They can infect the patient or anyone else in the hospital,” said Dr Ilankumaran Kaliamoorthy, CEO, Dr Rela’s Institute of Medical Sciences. “We may have to close down a part or the entire hospital and quarantine dozens of healthcare workers if there is any outbreak. That’s the last thing you want during a pandemic,” he said. Last week, Vijaya Hospital in Vadapalani suspended patient care services after nearly 50 of its doctors, nurses and other paramedics tested positive for Covid-19. The hospital will be subjected to disinfection and other infection-control measures as per government guidelines, managing trustee & chief executive officer B Bharathi Reddy wrote to all doctors and staff on Friday. In the last three months, large sections of the Adyar Cancer Institute, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, Stanley Medical College and Hospital, and Institute of Women and Children had to be closed after patients and healthcare workers tested positive. Some hospitals said they weren’t insisting on attendants being tested but wanted abundant precautions. “Sometimes treatment is delayed because patients can’t find attendants who can stay with them for a week. That could be fatal and we did not want that either,” said Miot Hospital director Dr V Bhaskaran. The hospital decided it would allow attendants in non-covid wards, but bar visitors and attendants of all patients in ICU and Covid wards. “In cases where we suspect risk we admit patients without attendants. But many patients feel they are comfortable only accompanied by a relative,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/non-covid-treatment-get-costlier-as-hospitals-take-precautions/articleshow/76882517.cms||Pushpa Narayan
July 10, 2020||Chennai||Film producers to ask if actors can take paycuts||CHENNAI: Tamil film producers are planning to reach out to star actors and technicians with an appeal to consider reducing their remuneration to reduce the burden of filmmakers impacted by the Covid-19 lockdown. Considering the sensitivity of the issue, the producers are looking to meet some of the stars and technicians to discuss the issue in person, rather than making a demand. With theatres shut down for close to four months and release of new films stalled, Kollywood is in deep trouble. Instead of brooding in silence, various segments of the industry have been holding virtual meetings to chalk out the way forward over the past two days. “Remuneration of leading stars and technicians account for a major chunk of a film’s budget. Leading stars like Rajinikanth, Vijay, Ajith, Surya and Karthi have been working with select producers on their own terms and we can do very little. But there are several other actors and technicians who earn a lot but fall in the secondary category,” a producer, on condition of anonymity, said. At a meeting held on Wednesday, it was decided to appeal to these stars and technicians to reduce their remuneration by 50% to initiate a discussion, the producer said. “In Kerala, the industry is in the process of finalizing a cut in remuneration up to 50%,” the producer said. Actor Vijay Antony has come forward to reduce his salary by 25% and later by 30%. In another meeting held on Tuesday, Tamil film producers, distributors and theatre owners have decided to work together to steer the industry out of this pandemic blow. “We have resolved to take up with the state government all pending issues – abolishing local entertainment tax, single window clearance for converting single theatres into multiplexes, besides reaching out to the Centre for reducing GST to 5%from 18%,” leading distributor cum exhibitor Tirupur Subramaniam told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/film-producers-to-ask-if-actors-can-take-paycuts/articleshow/76882522.cms||D Govardan
July 10, 2020||Salem||92 test positive for coronavirus in Salem, tally touches 1,502||SALEM: The district reported 92 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, of which eight were imported ones. With this, the district’s total number of cases has gone up to 1,502. According to Dr J Nirmalson, deputy director of health services, there are 882 active Covid-19 cases in the district. There are 147 containment zones in the district. Salem collector S A Raman said, “We have sealed 35 areas in Salem municipal corporation limits alone. Other containment zones fall in Attur, Mettur, Kolathur, Sankari, Thammampatty, Gangavalli, Magudanchavadi and Omalur areas.” He said health department officials have been monitoring the containment areas, where disinfectants are sprayed twice a day. “They are also distributing kabasura kudineer, homoeopathy medicines, and zinc tablets to the residents there to boost their immunity.” Dr J Nirmalson said 32 Covid-19 patients were discharged from the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital on Thursday after they tested negative for the virus. Meanwhile, at 56, Dharmapuri district recorded its single day spike in the novel coronavirus cases. At least 19 of them were imported cases. District collector S Malarvizhi said, “Among the indigenous cases are eight people with travel history from Bengaluru, two from Salem, one from Tiruvannamalai, and five from Chennai. Three of the new cases are police personnel and six others are contacts of previous cases. There are 12 other cases with unidentified source of infection.” Among the imported cases is a man from Kyrgyzstan. Others are returnees from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Mumbai and Hyderabad. The district’s Covid-19 tally stands at 209, of which 137 are active cases. Erode district registered 17 new cases, taking its tally to 313. Dr S Soundammal, deputy director of health services, said there were 211 active cases. While four people tested positive in Krishnagiri district, which now has 88 active cases, Namakkal district saw cases spike by 17 to 147. There are 55 active cases in Namakkal now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/92-test-positive-for-virus-in-salem-tally-touches-1502/articleshow/76882541.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt extends all policies till December||GANDHINAGAR: Due to the major effect Covid-19 has had on the state, the Gujarat government has decided to put all draft new policies on hold and extend the terms of all existing policies and incentives to December 31, 2020. The existing policies like the industrial policy, solar power policy, tourism policy and others will stay in force until December 31 this year. State energy minister Saurabh Patel said, “Because of the Covid-19 impact, CM Vijay Rupani has decided to extend till December 31, the solar power policy and all other policies. The decision was taken under the Rs 14,000 crore atmanirbhar package.” Patel added that the decision will boost the business environment and attract investment in solar, renewable, MSME and other sectors in state. The first extension period of the existing industrial policy ended on June 30, which has now been further extended to December 31, 2020. Likewise, the tourism policy and other policies of the state government have also been extended till the year-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-extends-all-policies-till-december/articleshow/76882542.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||Tekdi Ganesh prez, treasurer move HC against removal||Nagpur: The president and treasurer of Tekdi Ganesh Temple here knocked Nagpur bench of Bombay high court’s doors challenging their removal by the other trustees through no-confidence motion. Terming their removal as blatant misuse of numerical strength with mala fide intentions, they contended that it was done to avoid independent scrutiny of their glaring financial irregularities into the temple affairs. A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Shreeram Modak while issuing notices to the respondents on Thursday, and asking them to reply within two weeks, also kept the petition for final disposal at admission stage itself. Praying for quashing their removal orders from respective posts, the petitioners through counsel Shradhanand Bhutada sought court’s interpretation on the trust’s scheme of administration finalized by it in 1986. The bench perused the scheme ‘Advisory Society, Ganesh Temple, Sitabuldi, Fort Area, Nagpur’ framed by the district court which was modified by HC in first appeal No. 182 in 1973. “Prima facie, we find that there is no specific provision made for removal of the elected chairman or elected secretary or elected treasurer by passing a motion of no confidence. The scheme also contemplates that the managing committee’s tenure shall be of five years since it is prescribed in Clause 29 that the election shall take place every five years.” After considering submissions and view taken by the HC’s coordinate division bench as per Hindurao’s case in the Supreme Court, the judges restrained respondents against filling up vacancies of chairman and treasurer until further orders. “In case any election has been held and these posts have been filled up, the elected chairman and treasurer shall not take part in the managing committee meetings until further orders.” Quoting earlier orders of HC, the judges pointed out that in absence any specific provision on removal of the president or chairman by passing vote of no confidence in the scheme, they can’t be removed by the committee members. “The division bench has observed that the election of office bearers and managing committee members is for a specific term. Therefore, there could be no termination of the president through passing of motion of no confidence against him,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tekdi-ganesh-prez-treasurer-move-hc-against-removal/articleshow/76882539.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 10, 2020||Chennai||Central team lays emphasis on contact tracing, death audit||CHENNAI: With the state crossing the one-lakh mark in Covid-19 cases, a Central team headed by Union health ministry additional secretary Arti Ahuja on Thursday stressed on the need to intensify containment management plans, contact tracing and death audit in certain districts where mortality rate is high. The team will meet chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday and discuss the way forward. “The team made some observations that in containment zones, people are still moving around and rules have to be tightened,” a senior official told TOI. “The team said TN should go for broader containment instead of micro management, while we explained the broader containment is difficult to manage,” said the officer. “They said contract tracing has to be stepped up in certain districts, besides a rigorous death audit. Though fatality rate is low, the districts which are having high fatality rate needs to be audited more closely, they suggested,” the officer added. The team, along with chief secretary and DGP J K Tripathy held a four-hour long video conference later with 11 district collectors, Madurai, Chengalpet, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ramanathapuram, Salem, Theni, Ranipet and Virudhunagar, where the case load is high. “The team asked us not to worry about the number of samples and positive cases but checked whether we are really tracking the trend and able to control the spread with proper interventions in the field,” said a district collector. The team expressed concern about the number of deaths in Madurai, which until Thursday reported 95.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/central-team-lays-emphasis-on-contact-tracing-death-audit/articleshow/76882536.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Mysuru||No public ceremonies please, DC tells elected representatives||Mysuru: In a bid to arrest the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, the graph of which has been on an upward spiral for the past month in Mysuru district, deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar on Thursday appealed to elected representatives of the district, including MPs, MLAs and MLCs, not to hold any public ceremonies or gatherings so as to minimise the chances of transmission of the novel coronavirus. Highlighting the imminent need to curb the spread of the virus, Sankar, in his letter, appealed to elected representatives to limit the number of invitees to even important occasions to 20. In the meanwhile, Mysuru district administration has decided to persist with the ban on entry of devotees to the Sri Chamundeshwari temple atop Chamundi Hills, the Jwalamuki temple in Uttanahalli for the auspicious occasion of Ashaada Fridays. Entry of devotees to these shrines will be prohibited on all public holidays and weekends. In a bid to prevent public from trooping to government offices, which may again lead to a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, Sankar directed all the chiefs of government departments in the district to set up Covid-19 kiosks at their offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/no-public-ceremonies-please-dc-tells-elected-representatives/articleshow/76881458.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Surat||Diamond merchants claim SOP for markets impractical||Surat: The Surat Diamond Merchants’ Association (SDMA) has opposed the new standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) to contain spread of Covid-19 and called it impractical. The civic body had issued fresh SOP for the diamond markets located in Varachha and Mahidharpura on Wednesday to allow the diamond markets to reopen after one week of closure starting from July 10. The diamond merchants stated that the SOP has allowed the diamond markets to operate only for four hours starting from 2pm to 6pm. Majority of the trading and transactions are done in the market from 10 am to 2 pm and the merchants and brokers take the lunch break from 2pm to 4pm. President of SDMA, Nandlal Nakrani told TOI, “We can’t operate the business based on the SOP issued by the SMC. Merchants are fuming as they are allowed to keep offices open for only four hours. Also, traders have to keep foot operated wash basin and sanitisers outside their offices, install exhaust fans etc.” According to Nakrani, the SDMA has called for a meeting of its members on Friday to discuss the further course of action with regard to the new SOP issued by SMC. Both the Varachha and Mahidhapura diamond markets have about 4,000 diamond merchants. Majority of the diamond offices are located in the Mahidharpura diamond market from where the trading of rough and polished diamonds is carried out. At the Varachha market, merchants trade the fancy-cut diamonds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-merchants-claim-sop-for-markets-impractical/articleshow/76880814.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kolkata||IIM Calcutta to start online classes from August 3||KOLKATA: The Indian Institute of Management Calcutta will begin second-year classes from August 3 and may start first-year lessons from August 10. “In our MBA programme, we are leveraging our experience of offering online courses to a wide variety of executive programmes. IIM-C has been spearheading this space for a long time, and now we are creating technology solutions for our MBA students to mimic the classroom experience to the extent possible in online mode,” said Peeyush Mehta, chairperson, MBA. The students will be slotted across six sections, each with a class strength of 80. The online classes will be held by IIM faculty using iPearl.ai, a digital learning platform offered by TalentSprint, and this term will be taught on a direct-to-device mode. “We are customizing the learning management system for our MBA programme,” Mehta added. The faculty members will hold an average of four to five hours of total classroom live-contact hours. “Many of our students are devising creative solutions to some serious internet connectivity issues, such as travelling to locations with better link, to attend online lectures. The institute will also help students in various ways, including providing recordings of a missed class, interaction with instructors after class, additional tutorials, and other possible help in academic activities,” Mehta said. Director of the institute Anju Seth said IIM Calcutta was eagerly waiting to welcome the new MBA batch of 2020. “Overcoming the challenges posed by the pandemic, we have put a plan in place to ensure an excellent learning experience through online onboarding and instruction for the incoming batch,” Seth said. IIT Kharagpur is yet to decide on methods to start their academic programme for the 2020-2021 session which will be done in the next Senate meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iim-to-start-online-classes-from-aug-3/articleshow/76882534.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||Audio clip suggests honey trapping plan for two politicians||Nagpur: ‘Game bajana hai DT ka...’ (Need to frame DT), ‘Ladki ka shauq hai jamke.. (He is fond of women), ‘SJ ka bhi ladki ka shauq hai jamke’ (even SJ is fond of women), ‘Ussme kya kar sakte hai, baithke plan banana hai’ (Need to explore options, what can we do), ‘Ek plan hai...’ (I have a plan).These are the excerpts of an audio clip in which conspiracy was being hatched to honey-trap two senior politicians to shield a senior health official under scanner for corruption charges. TOI has forwarded the 8.47-minute audio-clip to the commissioner of police BK Upadhyay and also SP, State Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Rashmi Nandedkar. Inquiries have been stepped up in respective matters. Upadhyay has shifted an offence registered couple of days back against one of the alleged honey-trappers to crime branch and Nandedkar has placed the case of the senior health official under close scrutiny of an inquiry officer apart from cautioning the investigation officer against any slackness in the probe. Another pair of audio and video clips, also forwarded to CP Upadhyay, underlined the fact that one of the police station in-charge too was hand-in-glove with one of the alleged honey-trappers. Prompt decision of Upadhyay to register offence against one of the honey-trappers helped foil their plans against the politicians. The honey-trappers, including one booked last week for threatening doctors, can be heard planning to frame two prominent politicians by involving women on the presumption they would walk into the trap. Apparently, evidence of such randezvous was to be created, to be later used to hold them back from raising voice against the health official. In the conversation, the honey-trappers decide to meet up at a Dhantoli-based hospital to discuss the matter further.‘DT ko kaise lapete mein lana hai, tu plan kar’ (Plan how to entwine DT in a scandal). The so-called conspirator says in the clip that DT was ‘backed by SJ’ to target the health official and the officer for which both need to be pulled into the dragnet. The honey-trapper can be heard telling how he had to ‘spend Rs 2 lakh’ to ensure senior health officials could not be arrested in the corruption case at the ‘last moment’. He also takes name of a judicial official in the clip which is likely to be sent for forensic examination. One of the honey-trappers, known to be close to a former minister and also an incumbent one, mentioned how his manipulations with money helped ensure the investigating officer did not turn up at the court. One of the clips also raises question whether a senior inspector knew about the honey-trappers plan to create ruckus. Upadhyay said all the matters related to the offender in question would be looked into by crime branch that has swung into action.One of the honey-trappers also referred to one ‘NJ’. ‘Kya karna hai NJ ka?’ (What to do with NJ?) According to sources, NJ is a femme fatale having trapped many top politicians and others in her charm including some well-known names.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/audio-clip-suggests-honey-trapping-plan-for-two-politicians/articleshow/76882152.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Goa||Kamat slams govt for police action||Panaji: Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat slammed the government for the police action against three persons for holding a press conference against the proposed IIT project in Melauli, Sattari on Wednesday. “Will@goacm speak on this high handedness?” he questioned in a tweet on Wednesday evening He said that it is the duty of the police to protect the people and not to come under pressure from various power centres. State president of Congress Girish Chodankar has dared the police to arrest him when he is holding a press conference on Thursday. He tweeted saying “Will @DGP-Goa arrest me when I address a press conf at Melauli in support of the people who were arrested on the instructions of the high profile minister? Is @visrane the new home minister?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kamat-slams-govt-for-police-action/articleshow/76863647.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kochi||Girl with rare blood group needs donor||Kochi: A five-year-old girl with rare blood group ‘pp’ or ‘P null’ phenotype, who has been admitted to Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS) for brain surgery, needs a donor. She had fallen from terrace in Gujarat and was brought here for surgery when doctors realised that she has rarest of the rare blood group. Anushka Santhosh’s family has requested globally for a donor to save their daughter.  In 2018, a team of doctors at the blood bank of Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, had identified this rare blood group for the first time in India. A blood type is considered rare if fewer than 1 in 1,000 people have it. A person is said to have rare blood group when he lacks the high frequency antigen or multiple common antigens. “We managed the first surgery by re-transfusing the patient’s blood that was collected before the surgery. But now the child needs another surgery and that is why the appeal. Our team of experts will discuss what needs to be done in such a difficult situation,” said Dr Rajesh Pai, superintendent, AIMS. The girl had fallen from the first floor of the building on July 27, 2019, in Gujarat and sustained intra-cranial bleeding with mass effect. She underwent a surgery on the same day in Gujarat. On March 21, 2020, she underwent another surgery. She had infection on wounds and implant exposure and was brought to AIMS for further management. At AIMS, the girl underwent advanced wound therapy treatment followed by a microvascular surgery to cover the wound. “The surgery was extremely challenging, considering the site and size of the wound with multiple previous surgeries done in that area, age of the child and rarest of the rare blood group. The patient is now in ICU and doing fine,” said an hospital official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/girl-with-rare-blood-group-needs-donor/articleshow/76882533.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Agra||Anti-CAA clashes: Ex-student leader of AMU arrested, sent to jail||Agra: A former student leader of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), Sharjeel Usmani, who was charged with attempt to murder and several other sections of IPC after anti-CAA violent protests in the varsity on December 15 last year, was arrested and sent to jail on Thursday. Usmani’s name had cropped up in four cases and he was evading arrest since then, police said. He was arrested from his Azamgarh residence by UP Police’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) in coordination with local police on Wednesday. Usmani was then brought to Aligarh and was produced before Chief Judicial Magistrate Karuna Singh. The court sent him to 14-day judicial custody, Circle officer of Civil Lines, Anil Samaniya, said. According to police, Usmani was one of those who had led the protests against the CAA and NRC at AMU campus last year on December 15. He was accused of throwing stones at police personnel and of violating prohibitory orders. He was also accused of damaging public property and posting inappropriate posts against BJP leader Lal Krishna Advani on social media. Usmani was booked under various sections of IPC, including 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting) and others. When contacted, Usmani’s father Dr Tariq Mehmood Usmani, who is associate professor in AMU’s geography department, said, “My son is a writer and he can express his views through his writings only. Why should he be part of any violence? I have full faith in the judiciary and I am sure that he will come out clean.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/anti-caa-clashes-ex-student-leader-of-amu-arrested-sent-to-jail/articleshow/76881414.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
July 10, 2020||Chennai||Lookalikes of actors, politicians live on free ration||CHENNAI: A month ago, J Prasath, a lookalike of actor Prakash Raj, began selling snacks in front of his house in Vandalur near Chennai in the mornings and drove a taxi at night. Since the second week of March when they performed at a function in Salem, S Nagarajan and Kumar, lookalikes for MGR and Vijayakant, have been idle and have been subsisting on free rations.  The lockdown triggered by the still raging Covid-19 pandemic has curtailed the livelihood of many such people in the March-July — considered the best season to earn money as it is the time for political functions, festivals and marriages. Prasath, who has been entertaining people for more than 14 years in the guise of the popular actor, says he didn’t know the pandemic would rage for as long as it has. “I do the lookalike of only Prakash Raj, and that was enough for me to run my family. But everything changed since the lockdown. I am now running a small snacks unit in front of my house. At night, I work as a taxi driver,” he says. Most of such entertainers come from the remote pockets of the state and many of them have been surviving on free rations that the government issues every month. “I have been a lookalike for Captain Vijayakanth for more than 15 years. I used to get at least ten progammes in a month. It was more than enough for me to run my family, but today I survive on the free rations that the government supplies,” says Kumar, a resident of Nagapattinam. Nagarajan has been unable to sway to the popular numbers of his hero, former chief minister M G Ramachandran (MGR), because he is upset. “This the best time for us to make some money. I performed last in March. I won’t be able to do any other job now. We are getting free rations and that’s how we survive. If things go on like this, I don’t know how we will manage,” says the 55-year-old, who has been performing such roles for the last 25 years. However, he has not lost hope. “I know my hero (MGR) will soon come and help me. I have faith in him,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lookalikes-of-actors-politicians-live-on-free-ration/articleshow/76882556.cms||M T Saju
July 10, 2020||Agra||Delhi girl thrown out of bus on Agra Expressway over Covid suspicion, dies||AGRA: A 19-year-old girl travelling with her mother on a UP roadways bus from Delhi to Shikohabad on June 15 was allegedly dragged and thrown out by the driver and conductor on Yamuna Expressway after passengers thought she exhibited "symptoms of Covid-19". The girl, Anshika Yadav, died on the road 30 minutes later. The case only came to light after a probe was ordered on Thursday following a notice by the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) to UP Police to file an action taken report on the matter. The family — which had shifted to Delhi’s Mandawali from UP’s Shikohabad two years ago — alleged that they had earlier approached Mathura police which did not lodge an FIR, citing “natural causes of death”. Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover told TOI that the victim’s postmortem listed the cause of death as “cardiac arrest”. He said: "But I have asked the SP (rural) Shrish Chandra to look into the matter.” Vipin Yadav, the girl’s brother who works in Delhi, told TOI, “The driver and conductor threw a blanket over my sister as they didn’t want to touch her and dragged her out of her seat. She was not feeling well as it was very hot that day. My mother pleaded with them but they did not listen and no one helped them.” Yadav added, “My sister was in good health and didn’t have any disease. She had kidney stones earlier but had recovered. How can a healthy individual drop dead just like that?” The two had boarded the bus from Noida on June 15. The girl, a college dropout, died within 30 minutes of being deboarded from the vehicle. An ambulance took the body for postmortem. No Covid-19 testing was conducted on the deceased as "Mathura is not testing the dead for the coronavirus", said a police officer. Delhi Commission’s chairperson Swati Maliwal issued a notice to Mathura SSP asking for a detailed report as well as a copy of the FIR in the matter or reasons for not filing a complaint by July 15. The letter by Maliwal said, “This is a very serious matter and merits urgent attention.” Later, she also tweeted about the incident: “The perpetrators of this heinous murder should be arrested.” Watch Delhi girl thrown out of UP bus over Covid suspicion, dies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/delhi-girl-thrown-out-of-up-bus-over-covid-suspicion-dies/articleshow/76881420.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC declines to drop dacoity charges against CAA protester||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has refused to drop dacoity charges levelled against a Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protester who was booked during a protest in Chhapi town in December last year. Satish Vansola, along with others, was first booked by Banaskantha police for unauthorized protest, illegal assembly, rioting and criminal conspiracy. But later, charges of dacoity under Section 395 of Indian Penal Code were invoked against him for snatching away the keys of a state-run bus and for preventing the driver from moving away from the spot of protest on December 19, 2019 when thousands had gathered to protest against the new citizenship law. Vansola had first challenged the FIR against him, but the HC had refused to intervene on the ground that the investigation was at an early stage. He approached the HC again after the police department filed additional chargesheet against him for dacoity by taking away keys of a GSRTC bus from its driver. The state government opposed Vansola’s petition saying that he had already exhausted his remedy by filing a quashing petition under Section 482 of CrPC in the high court. A charge sheet has been filed and a competent court is yet to frame charges. Vansola can agitate his case against slapping of dacoity charges at the time of framing of charges in the trial court. After hearing the case on Monday, Justice Gita Gopi rejected the quashing petition with observation, “The authority of the court exists for the advancement of justice. If any abuse of the process leading to injustice is brought to the notice of the court, then the court would be justified in preventing injustice by invoking inherent powers in absence of specific provisions in the statute.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-declines-to-drop-dacoity-charges-against-caa-protester/articleshow/76882550.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kolkata||Online bldg plan sanction from Aug 1||Kolkata: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation has set August 1 as the new deadline to roll out the online sanction of building plans as the building department is yet to wrap up the networking job due to the prevailing pandemic. First in January, the civic body’s building department had set a March 1 deadline for the introduction of such a facility. However, the deadline had been extended to July 1 while that new deadline was extended by a month too. According to a KMC building department official, the work of coordinating with the state government agencies could not be done during the ongoing pandemic that had kept most government offices and civic departments shut since late March. As per plans, the KMC building department will introduce a single window clearance for plan sanction that will drastically cut down on time for an applicant. At present, a developer constructing a project whose height is more than 15.5 meter and built up area not exceeding 500 square meter has to get separate clearances from various government departments such as fire services, land (urban land ceiling) environment among others before applying to the KMC building department for plan sanction.  This process takes 18-20 months for an applicant to get a sanction plan. The new system will ensure approval of plans within three to six months, depending on the land and observation of building rules. Under the new system the KMC will integrate its software with that of various state government departments so that an applicant does not face problems to get his/her plans sanctioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/online-bldg-plan-sanction-from-aug-1/articleshow/76882552.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||UoH’s School of Life Sciences gets central grant of over Rs 50 crore||HYDERABAD: The Department of Biotechnology (DBT) under the Union ministry of science & technology has sanctioned a grant of Rs 50.44 crore to the School of Life Sciences, University of Hyderabad (UoH) for five years. The grant, which was sanctioned as part of the ‘Boost to University Interdisciplinary Life Sciences Department for Education and Research (BUILDER)’ programme, will be utilised by the School of Life Sciences to promote inter-disciplinary teaching and research. The varsity will be using the grant to upgrade the central facilities of the School such as proteomics, metabolomics, genomics, greenhouse, animal house, etc. Continuous training programmes will also be organised for the benefit of faculty, masters, and research students working in less equipped remotely located universities. “It’s gratifying to see the School of Life Sciences is once again recognised by the DBT under BUILDER programme with excellent grant support. The steady progress made by the School over the last several years with high-quality research output has been reflected through the top ranking in Nature Index too. With this support, I firmly believe that the efforts by the faculty, post-docs, and the students will further enhance research output and enable the School of Life Sciences to be among the World’s best in the years to come,” said Appa Rao Podile, vice-chancellor, UoH. Under this programme, the school has been sanctioned a budget to improve infrastructure, human resources (faculty, technical officers, post-doctoral fellows, and research fellows) and equipment. The DBT-BUILDER augmented infrastructure facilities will immensely benefit masters and research students, and facilitate high-end research. The support also will be used to offer training programs in advanced areas of biology besides encouraging student interns from other Institutions. The School of Life Sciences was established in 1977 at the University of Hyderabad to serve as a model interdisciplinary academic institution. It currently has a strength of 60 faculty members, around 250 M.Sc/M.Tech/IM.Sc students in various biology and biotechnology disciplines, 350 Ph.D. scholars, and 60 post-doctoral fellows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uohs-school-of-life-sciences-gets-central-grant-of-over-rs-50-cr/articleshow/76882544.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Man tests Covid-19 positive posthumously in Nilgiris||UDHAGAMANDALAM: It is now confirmed that the 65-year-old man, who died on Tuesday, was a Covid-19 case. He was admitted to the Chamraj Estate Hospital near Ooty with chest congestion. There was procedural lapse from the hospital, which did not inform his admission with Covid-19 symptoms to health officials or the control room meant for the purpose. He fell sick after returning from Thangadu-Oranalli village, where he, along with a relative from Mulligoor, went to attend a wedding on June 24. The relative, a 65-year-old woman, had also suffered from fever after return and died on Tuesday. In both the cases, health officials lifted throat swabs from the body. Many villagers had turned up for the funerals. While the test results of the woman are yet to arrive, residents of both the Badaga villages and health department are a worried lot. At least 50 contacts of the deceased have been identified at Thambatty village. Officials have collected throat swabs from senior citizens and primary contacts. At least a dozen villages - such as Kerbetta, Thambatty, Thangadu-Oranalli, Melkouhatty, Manihatty, Kechikatty and Thummanatty – in the district have reported Covid-19 cases. There are all now containment zones. Being a close-knit community, the Badaga tribe often throw social distancing norms to the wind. Villagers usually gather at a common place in the evenings, without wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Health officials are hence apprehensive of virus spread in the area. There are more than 350 Badaga villages that are spread across four taluks in the Nilgiris.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-tests-ve-posthumously-in-nilgiris/articleshow/76882551.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Fresh spurt puts Dakshina Kannada at third place in Covid cases in Karnataka||MANGALURU/UDUPI: A fresh spurt of 167 positive cases catapulted Dakshina Kannada (DK) to third place in the total Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, with 1,709 cases, behind Bengaluru Urban (13,882) and Kalaburagi (1,901), on Thursday. Neighbouring Udupi, with 22 new cases on Thursday, saw its tally of positive cases go up to 1,442. Two more Covid-19 fatalities in DK took the death toll in this coastal district to 30, including five victims from outside the district. “The spurt of 167 cases in DK was driven by 64 primary contacts testing positive, and 42 of them were diagnosed with influenza-like illness (ILI), and the source of how 38 others contracted the virus is being traced. A total 13 pre-surgery samples tested positive, six are cases of severe acute respiratory infection, three on account of international travel and a person due to inter-district travel from Bengaluru, said deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. The two Covid-19 deaths that DK reported on Thursday include a 62-year-old man from Bhatkal, who was diagnosed with SARI, and admitted to a private hospital in the city for treatment. He died on Tuesday, and his reports showed that he was positive on Thursday. The second victim was a 49-year-old resident of Mangaluru with a liver ailment and pneumonia, who was admitted in the ICU of Wenlock Hospital, who died late on Wednesday. In all, seven patients were discharged from both Wenlock Hospital and a private hospital in the district, taking the total of those discharged after treatment to 702. The incidence of new cases meant that the percentage of positive cases to total population of the district crept up to 0.08% , which was 0.07% on Wednesday, and took the number of active cases to 977. A total seven patients are admitted in the ICU in Wenlock Hospital, said Sindhu Rupesh. “The 22 cases that Udupi reported included 12 cases where people with inter-district travel contracted the virus. The source of how six people got infected is being traced, one patient had an inter-state travel history and three are primary contacts,” said DC G Jagadeesha. Udupi presently has 223 active cases, and has discharged 1,217 patients after treatment. The district has also recorded three Covid-19 deaths, the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/fresh-spurt-puts-dk-at-third-place-in-covid-cases-in-state/articleshow/76881429.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 10, 2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank case: ED attaches assets worth Rs 2,800 crore today||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has provisionally attached assets worth Rs 2,203 crore of Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, his family members and the promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) group—brothers Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan—in a money-laundering case linked to defrauding the bank. The present market value of these assets is more than Rs 2,800 crore. The attached properties of Kapoor and the related entities is valued at Rs 792 crore—the current market value is Rs 1,400 crore. The assets include a residential building—Khursidabad—at Cumbala Hill, three duplex flats at Napean Sea Road, a residential flat near NCPA, eight flats in IndiaBulls Blue, Worli, and a bungalow at 40 Amrita Shergill Marg in Delhi, which is worth around Rs 685 crore, stated an ED release. The attached assets belonging to the Wadhawans and their related entities are worth Rs 1,411.9 crore. These assets include 12 flats in Khar (W), one flat in New York, two flats in London, two plots in Pune and Mulshi, one commercial property in Australia, five luxury vehicles and 344 bank accounts. Earlier, the ED had attached bank deposits of Rs 115 crore of Kapoor’s various companies and had also seized jewellery worth nearly Rs 22.9 crore and seven high-end luxury cars worth Rs 12.6 crore belonging to the Wadhawans. The ED had initiated a probe based on an FIR registered by the CBI. Between April and June 2018, Yes Bank had invested Rs 3,700 crore in the short-term debentures of DHFL, for which Kapoor and his family members had allegedly received Rs 600 crore as kickback in the garb of loan to his daughters’ company—DOIT Urban Ventures. Yes Bank had also sanctioned a loan of Rs 750 crore to RKW Developers Group company, beneficially owned by the Wadhawans for their Bandra Reclamation project. It is alleged that the entire amount was siphoned off by the Wadhawans through their shell companies, but not used for the declared purpose. A separate case was registered against Kapoor, Gautam Thapar and others, where it was alleged that Kapoor, then as the bank’s MD and CEO had obtained illegal gratification in the form of a property in Delhi at a price lower than its market value for sanction of a loan to Avantha Realty Ltd and for extending concessions, relaxations and waivers in the already existing credit facilities. The market value of this property is Rs 685 crore. In May, the ED had filed a chargesheet in the case against Kapoor, his wife Bindu, and their three daughters in a special court under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The ED had also named three companies owned by Kapoors—Morgan Credit Pvt Ltd, Yes Capital India Pvt Ltd and Rab Enterprises—in the case. The chargesheet among other items attached also mentioned the Rajiv Gandhi portrait by late M F Hussain, which Kapoor had purchased from Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi for Rs 2 crore. The ED will file a separate chargesheet against the Wadhawans. Presently all of them are in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/yes-bank-case-ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-2800cr-today/articleshow/76883614.cms||Vijay V Singh
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||NRIs in US protest against green card country caps||HYDERABAD: As the American presidential elections near, Indians, who are raising their voice for the passage of a key bill in the US Senate that will reduce the green card backlog, are increasing the intensity of protests. Many have in fact made allegations of racism against a senator for blocking the bill. “Senator Dick Durbin is being racist in blocking this bill. He is the only person opposing its passage in the Senate, while 99 others have agreed to it,” said Shravya (name changed) who hails from Hyderabad. The New Jersey resident says she has been in the US for 15 years and hasn’t got her green card (Legal Permanent residency) yet. “I have been through multiple H1B renewals and am one rejection away from being sent out of the country,” said the mother of two. The bill Fairness for High-Skilled Immigrants Act of 2019 (S386) allows for removing the country cap of 7% on the number of green cards granted per country every year. The House of Representatives have already passed a similar bill (HR1044) with huge bipartisan support. Anger against Durbin is palpable with many saying there is no apparent reason to block the bill except inherent racism. Explains Madhusudhan Koodige, from Dallas, Texas, said: “The senator was the co-sponsor of a similar bill in an earlier Congress which would help Irish nationals also get a green card faster. He also supported Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) which gives relief to unlawful residents who came to the country as children. While he backs these decisions, he is denying lawful taxpayers the right to become green card holders.” Indians are the worst hit in terms of the green card backlog. A 2018 report by the CATO Institute, a think-tank, suggested that there could be “150-year wait for Indian immigrants with advanced degrees”. While calling Durbin discriminatory, Rohit Sharma, who works in Washington, highlighted why Indians are speaking out more now. “The Senate is currently in recess. When it starts functioning again there will be little time left to pass this bill as elections are due later this year. Indians have realised it is now or never’.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nris-in-us-protest-against-green-card-country-caps/articleshow/76882554.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Agra||Ex-IITian in US funds network of volunteers in 4 states to get migrants back to factories||Agra: Mohammad Liyakat Ali was surprised when he got a phone call from a stranger last week. The man on the other end wanted to know if Ali, a migrant labourer who was in Uttar Pradesh since lockdown, was keen to go back to Punjab where he worked as a painter. “I thought someone was playing a prank on me but as we talked I learnt that the man was part of an initiative helping migrant workers return to work,” said Ali. Three days later, train tickets arrived for his family of four. The tickets were arranged by a team of young volunteers spread across UP, Bihar, Delhi and Haryana which is helping migrant labourers go back to work in cities. In the past month, at least 100 migrant workers — painters, tailors, factory workers and street vendors — have been provided a return ticket to their places of work.“I had no money left to arrange for my own fare back to Punjab,” said Ali, who got stuck in his native place in Hardoi in March when lockdown curbs came into effect. Just like Ali, many who were visiting their hometowns had gotten stranded due to lockdown restrictions and had run out of money to go back. Then there were others who had returned from cities after lockdown left them with no income.Now an initiative, ‘Return to Work’, started by an NGO Aam Foundation -- run by Deepak Chopra, an Indian-American entrepreneur and IIT Delhi alumnus -- is funding the workers’ journey. The organisation is being aided in the Rs 7.5 crore project by a network of 20 on-ground volunteers.Mohammed Anees, a volunteer and student at Aligarh Muslim University, said they are reaching out to migrant workers through local councillors and ward representatives. “Local workers help us identify families in need who we then approach.”Another volunteer from Bihar, Pushpa Kumari, who has helped book 14 tickets in a week to enable workers and their families to return to Maharashtra, said, “We have a simple verification procedure we follow and we ask for details such as Aadhaar number.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ex-iitian-in-us-funds-network-of-volunteers-in-4-states-to-get-migrants-back-to-factories/articleshow/76881445.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: As strict lockdown starts, Bidhannagar logs 49 cases||KOLKATA: The latest phase of lockdown in the containment zones of Salt Lake and Kestopur, under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area, was enforced from 5pm on Thursday without much of a problem. Cops fenced off the containment zones, demarcated for lockdown before Thursday afternoon and asked all stores and other small establishments located within the containment zones, to close down by 5pm. The containment zones are Kestopur’s Samarpally under ward 25, four houses in FD Block, three houses in FE Block under ward 33, two affected houses in IB Block, SBI quarters in HC Block under ward 34, a lane inside BE Block from holding number 232 to 249 under ward 31 and Duttabad’s Barpara area on the back side of Tarun Sangha Club under ward 39. As the lockdown was enforced, the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation recorded 755 cases, including 49 fresh cases, which is the highest single-day spike under the civic body’s jurisdiction. Bidhannagar civic authorities said the local civic officials will be keeping an eye on the containment zones for the next seven days. They will also reach out to the affected families the way they were helped during complete lockdown. “The local councillors and police will closely monitor the containment zones and reach out to the affected families to help them,” said Bidhannagar mayor Krishna Chakraborty. Residents who live just outside the containment zones said it was scary to know they were living so close to the affected areas and that the next seven days will be quite tough for those residing inside the containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/as-strict-lockdown-starts-bidhannagar-logs-49-cases/articleshow/76882555.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Musicians seek government help to tune up their lives||COIMBATORE: For musician couple N Gunasekar and G Anushya, life was out of rhythm since the Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown. With no avenues to perform and earn, their livelihood was hit. The couple used to perform for marriages and temple festivals, as part of a troupe, earning anywhere between 1,500 and 2,000 per programme. In addition, they were into conducting music classes that fetched them 300 to 400 per student a month. With temples shut, ban on festivals and gatherings, and marriages becoming low-key affairs, the couple say, there isn’t any platform for them to earn. “We are surviving on free rice from ration shop.” According to him, people who had booked them for marriages and other festivals have taken back the advance amount. And students are not keen on attending classes at this juncture. “We are trained classical musicians, who have been in the profession for decades. We can’t switch professions now. Unless the state helps us with financial assistance, we won’t be able to tide over this hardship,” Gunasekar says. Like them, there are around 2,000 artists, who perform in orchestras, marriages and temples, and conduct classes in the district. Some of them are singers and others, instrumentalists. They are experts in a variety of genres such as Carnatic music, bhajans, devotional music and dance dramas. A Manikavasagam, of Arumuga Goundanur near Perur, who runs a troupe of 15 performers, says they used to perform dance drama ‘Krishna Leela’ and devotional orchestra music in temples. “Since the lockdown, there has been no programmes and no income for us. Usually, we get to perform five ‘Krishna Leela’ and many music programmes in temples in March-June season. But this year, there were no programmes and our artists are struggling.” For a programme, they say, vocalists might get paid a few hundred rupees more than instrumentalists, many of who are skilled at playing more than one instrument. N Thangavel, who plays mrindagam, dholak, tabla and ghatam, says apart from the 1,000 given by the state, free ration rice and help from a few parents of their students, he hadn’t had any other income so far this year. “Earlier, musicians from the district were organized as an association, which is no longer active. We want the state to help us.” Manikkavasagam said they were planning to bring together musicians in the district and perform online. However, they are not sure whether that would help them earn. “We hope the state would provide us financial assistance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/musicians-seek-govt-help-to-tune-up-their-lives/articleshow/76882558.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||20ha reserve forest area destroyed to stake FRA claims||NAGPUR: Instigated by some activists, over 60 villagers from Gantachowki in the buffer zone of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) went on a rampage by felling trees and clearing bushes to encroach forest land under the garb of getting pattas under Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006. There are no rights or claims pending on the said 20 hectares (50 acres) forest land, equivalent to 38 football fields, with sub-divisional level committee (SDLC) and district level committee (DLC) headed by the district collector. Talking to TOI, G Guruprasad, deputy director, TATR (buffer), feared the encroachment bid seems to be a pre-planned move as over 60 villagers, including children and women, started felling trees with axe and clearing bushes in compartment no. 520, which is a reserve forest, on early morning on July 7. “They also deployed five tractors for ploughing the land. By the time our staff reached the spot most of the damage had been done. When we tried to stop them, the encroachers entered into a wordy duel and used women and children as shield,” said Guruprasad. FRA is not a law relating to regularization of encroachments, but rather a law for recognition and vesting of forest rights in genuine claimants existing on December 13, 2005. Any fresh encroachment that comes to the notice of the state forest departments would be treated under applicable provisions of the Indian Forest Act (IFA), 1927, and other state laws. Despite anti-encroachment drive by Tadoba administration against illegal claimants, fresh encroachments continue unabated at the behest of FRA activists. The anti-encroachment drive, which started on June 26, was meted out with stiff resistance from local activists. Ram Nagar police also registered offence against one of the activists, Raju Zode, for preventing government employees from discharging duty. Guruprasad said the villagers claimed their claims were pending. “All records have been verified and there are no claims on the said land neither at SDLC not DLC level,” he said. “Filing false claims under FRA and doing actual encroachment at later date to gain benefit of the Act is criminal. We seized two tractors used in ploughing forest registered offence against encroachers.” Prakash Hake, PI, Ram Nagar police station, Chandrapur, said, “FIR was filed against six persons. Of them two were arrested. Both were remanded to magisterial custody (MCR) by a local court.” According to wildlife conservationists involved in camera trapping exercise in the area, the Gantachowki forest patch is 3km from the Tadoba core boundary. It’s the only corridor towards Kanhargaon proposed sanctuary and further to Kawal. There is also record of resident tigers as the area is close to Tadoba, they said. Since the enactment of FRA, 2006, titles have been granted on 320 hectares forest land to 367 people in Tadoba buffer by the DLC. In core area, 54 individuals have been allotted 62 hectare land under FRA. This is apart from 2000 hectare forest land under encroachments in Tadoba tiger reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/20ha-reserve-forest-area-destroyed-to-stake-fra-claims/articleshow/76882559.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Atrocity case: Gujarat high court grants pre-arrest bail to accused||AHMEDABAD: In an important order, the Gujarat high court has granted anticipatory bail to a person accused under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, because he was unaware of the victim’s identity. The court observed that since the accused did not know the identity of the victim, the bar placed on anticipatory bail in the special law will not be applicable in this case. Justice B D Karia on Monday granted anticipatory bail to one Avinash Satapara in a case of abetment to suicide of one Anil Joshi, who belonged to SC/ST community in Surendranagar district. Satapara was facing charges of deleting CCTV footage at the behest of another accused person Nilesh Parmar. Parmar got anticipatory bail on May 4 from the high court. A month later, Satapara also sought legal protection against the arrest, but Justice Paresh Upadhyay pointed out that this was a case in which charges of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 were invoked. Looking at the recent amendment by the Parliament and insertion of Section 18A in the act, which puts a bar on granting anticipatory bail to an accused under provisions of Section 438 of the CrPC, Justice Upadhyay opined that this was not a case in which he would exercise his discretion, particularly when another bench had granted anticipatory bail to a co-accused in this case. Justice Upadhyay took notice of the order in Parmar’s case and referred the issue to the chief justice with observation that judicial discipline demanded that coordinated benches do not pass contradictory orders. The chief justice then assigned the case to another bench to decide it in light of what Justice Upadhyay had observed in his order. Justice Karia heard the submission on part of Satapara that he did not have knowledge about the identity of the victim at all and hence the restrictions of atrocity charges may not hamper his scope of getting pre-arrest bail. After hearing the case, the HC said, “In such circumstances, I am of the opinion that the complaint does not make out a prima facie case of applicability of the provisions of the SC/ST Act and therefore, the bar created by Section 18 and 18A thereof shall not apply as no prima facie materials exist warranting arrest of the appellant.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/atrocity-case-gujarat-high-court-grants-pre-arrest-bail-to-accused/articleshow/76882557.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Fresh coat of paint for Metro 3rd rail||KOLKATA: The entire 75-odd km third rail of Metro Railways is getting a fresh coat of paint after several years. This is for the first time that the entire stretch is being painted simultaneously. Last time the stretch between Mahanayak Uttam Kumar and Dum Dum had been painted in 2004. The third rail along the elevated stretch between Mahanayak Uttam Kumar and Kavi Subhash was painted five years later in 2009 and the stretch between Dum Dum and Noapara in 2012-13. Tackling the entire stretch has been possible due to suspension of commercial services due the Covid-19 pandemic. “This will reduce corrosion and increase the lifespan of the metal. It will also brighten up the look at stations. We are also replacing the cables that run along the entire stretch for the first time in 34 years. For painting of the third rail, the feeder cable, expansion joints and support insulators were detached. While doing this, all of them could be checked. Repairs or replacements will be done wherever necessary,” said Metro Railway CPRO, Indrani Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fresh-coat-of-paint-for-metro-3rd-rail/articleshow/76882560.cms||Jayanta Gupta
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two booked for protest at CM’s office||HYDERABAD: A day after two Youth Congress activists staged a flash protest in front of the CM’s camp office-cum-residence, Pragathi Bhavan, Panjagutta police have registered a criminal cases against them. Youth Congress activists Kotla Sai Baba and Kotla Hrithik went on a bike and stopped outside the gates of Pragathi Bhavan with a placard, “Where is KCR. He is my CM. It’s my right to know.” His video of the protest went viral on social media. Based on CCTV footage, they were taken into custody by Task Force on Wednesday, and were taken to Panjagutta PS. They were booked under sections 186, 504 and 506 of the IPC. Later, they were granted bail and released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-booked-for-protest-at-cms-office/articleshow/76883622.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Agra||Hang Vikas Dubey publicly, take strict action against traitor cops: Slain constable’s father||Agra: “I want Vikas Dubey to hang publicly for the crimes he has committed,” said Teerthpal Singh, father of slain UP police constable Jitendra Pal Singh, who was shot by the dreaded gangster along with seven other cops in Kanpur last week. On getting to know of Yadav’s arrest in Ujjain on Thursday, Teerthpal could not control his emotions. In Mathura, he told reporters that he would believe that justice had been served to his son only if “Dubey is hanged in full public glare”. “Those who betrayed the administration and their own brothers in uniform also need to be taught a lesson. They have to be made an example, so that no one dares to do what they did,” he said. Similar sentiments were echoed by the family members of another slain constable Babloo Kumar of Agra. His father Mahavir Singh said the gangster “should be made to feel the pain for his sins and must die as violently as the eight policemen in the encounter did”. Two constables from the Agra region were killed in the encounter with the dreaded criminal last week. Constable Jitendra Pal Singh (26) hailed from Mathura’s Barari village and was the lone bread-earner in his family. He was the eldest among four siblings and had joined the police force in 2018. Constable Babloo Kumar was the first in his village in Agra district to get a government job. Hailing from an impoverished family, the policeman was adopted by his physically challenged uncle Chote Lal, who nurtured and educated him—while his siblings became daily wage labourers to support the family. He was the second youngest among nine siblings, including five sisters. (With inputs from Arvind Chauhan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hang-vikas-dubey-publicly-take-strict-action-against-traitor-cops-slain-constables-father/articleshow/76881457.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Residents fret over supply of essentials||HOWRAH: Mullick Phatak, a prominent locality in Howrah, is among 51 containment zones that came under strict lockdown from 5pm on Thursday. Three residents of the area have died of Covid-19 and a score more battling the corona virus at present.  People who live outside the housing estates for senior government officials, are scared of how to procure supplies of essentials, specially perishable commodities, during the next two weeks once stocks they have either finish or perish. Mullick Phatak has three important roads and lanes. These are Dr PK Banerjee Road, Heart Lane and Round Tank Lane. Together, these serve as connectors to two of Howrah’s most important thoroughfares — GT Road and Foreshore Road. The entire 8.25km stretch is a containment zone that came under strict lockdown from 5 pm on Thursday. This stretch houses the IPS quarters of Howrah Police, senior administrative officers’ quarter, the police quarter, Howrah Correctional Home and Howrah morgue. Besides, it also has several high-rise buildings and a garment manufacturing hub. District health department sources said three people residing in high-rise buildings on these areas have died of Covid-19 in the last six weeks. Another 20 residents are presently Covid positive and under treatment. Some of them are in hospitals and the rest at home. With many people — particularly businessmen — hailing from outside the state, chose to return to their country homes in Bihar, UP, Maharashtra and other states. PK Banerjee Road resident Ambuj Sharma, a social worker and central Howrah Nagari Samity convener said, “This road has been badly affected. Many people have fallen ill with the virus since the lockdown in March. There is always traffic of outside residents in this area as it houses a jail and a morgue. This movement won’t stop even during this strict lockdown that has just begun. You can’t stop people from visiting the morgue or the jail.” Howrah Police commissioner Kunal Agarwal said: “We will enforce the lockdown strictly. We will restrict movement of family members of jail inmates and kin of deceased, whose bodies are kept in morgue. Cops also will patrol areas in front of all high-rises.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/residents-fret-over-supply-of-essentials/articleshow/76882566.cms||Rupak Banerjee
July 10, 2020||Agra||Heavy rainfall causes waterlogging in city,weather to remain cloudy till July 15||Agra: Heavy rainfall on Thursday caused waterlogging in different parts of the city. Choked drains caused water to enter shops and houses in half a dozen localities. Mainpuri, Firozabad, Kasganj, Hathras, Aligarh and Etah districts also witnessed rainfall. Temperature in Agra region went below 30 degrees Celsius much to the respite of the people. Driving a two-wheeler in Agra has become dangerous due to major potholes on city roads. Besides, several street lights in municipal wards are also non-functional. Locals have also complained of sub-standard quality of work in many parts of the city where drainage cleaning was conducted. Sanjay Place, Subhash Bazaar, Bodla, Shahganj, Roshan Mohalla, Shastripuram, Bijlighar, Johri Bazaar, Awas Vikas, Albatia road, Dayalbagh, Balkeshwar, Lohamandi, Deewani, Mughal road, Namner, Arjun Nagar, Trans-yamuna, Kamla Nagar are the prominent markets in the city where water entered shops and warehouses. There are 32 large and 400 small drains in Agra which flow through 100 municipal wards and discharge into the river Yamuna. Many of these drains are interconnected, and hence one blockage affects most parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/heavy-rainfall-causes-waterlogging-in-cityweather-to-remain-cloudy-till-july-15/articleshow/76881464.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Indians hold rallies, slam senator for blocking bill||HYDERABAD: Several rallies have taken place over the last few weeks in Illinois, Michigan and Washington demanding the bill to reduce green card backlog be passed in the Senate (S386). More such protests are on the anvil. Among the back-to-back protests, was the one held on July 4 called the Freedom Walk in Springfield, Illinois. Protesters marched past Senator Dick Durbin’s home shouting slogans for the passage of the bill. The placards had a clear message: “Senator Dick Durbin Racist and Cruel”. “Senator Durbin hates Indian immigrants. How can one person block the aspirations of thousands?” said Sushil K (name changed). There are about 700,000 Indians in line to get green cards. The other places where multiple protests took place in the last two weeks were Lansing, Michigan and Downtown Chicago. Protests are planned in Washington and other places in the coming weeks, said organisers who did not want to reveal the details as they were waiting on permissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indians-hold-rallies-slam-senator-for-blocking-bill/articleshow/76882565.cms||Uttara Varma
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Future on line: Indian students in US an anxious lot||NEW DELHI: After hearing about the Immigration and Customs Enforcement order for international students on July 6, Akshata Balghare, a research scholar at Texas Tech University, spent some sleepless nights. Not sure about what would happen to them, the Indian students in her university sent emails to the international advisors. She herself asked the English department if it could make changes to the fully online classes. On the face of it, the order means that international students attending only online classes in US universities will not be allowed to stay in that country. But Indians studying in different universities have been trying to get clarity on what this order means for each one of them. The fall semester in the institutions in the US begins in August. “It was a very stressful period. I did not want to tell my dad, but when I called him he was feeling low, having already heard the news,” Balghare, 27, told TOI. “The big confusion was cleared only after 12 hours. What my department then did was turn my research hours into offsite learning hours. So, I was able to call my parents and tell them not to worry. But there is still no clarity whether ‘offsite’ means international students have to attend classes.” If it means mandatory physical classes in the fall semester, she worries about the risks of Covid infection. A PhD scholar at Yale University disclosed to TOI, “Our university has decided to follow the hybrid model, with some online classes and a few in person. However, PhD students who do not have in-person classes do not know what this implies. They are trying to figure out, for instance, if lab work counts as in-person learning. The university has asked us to await clarity, but this order is certainly not well-thought-out.” Students back in India from the US too are a worried lot, most of the spring semester having gone online due to the Covid pandemic. Raghav Gupta, undergraduate student at Emory University in Atlanta, is stressed about whether he can return to the US. “We have the choice of only opting for online courses and study from India, but this means a limited choice from the over 200 courses that Emory offers,” explained Gupta, 20, a Roop Nagar resident. “After spending so much, I wouldn’t want to undertake any random course. Yet if Covid cases surge and universities shift to the fully online mode, what are we to do?” With little clarity on the issue, many aspirants are trying to defer the admission this fall or take a gap year. Proneet De, who was to study finance at Duke University, has requested for a deferral. “If my admission is deferred, I can go there the next semester. But if my request is denied, it is problematic having to reapply,” said De, who took a break from work to return home to Kolkata in March. “We will lose our scholarships, so it is a fraught process. Visas might also be a problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/future-on-line-indian-students-in-us-an-anxious-lot/articleshow/76882591.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||Heart ailments & diabetes provefatal for corona patients in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: While Covid-19 affects lungs and those with lung ailments are considered the most vulnerable, a state government Covid death audit shows a different trend. Heart ailments, kidney diseases and diabetes have proved more fatal for patients as per the audit than lung diseases. However, it also confirmed that not all deaths are related to comorbid conditions. Some 30% of Covid patients, who died in the state, did not have any comorbidity, the health department report shows. According to the report, based on Covid deaths in the state till July 5, 46% of those who died of the disease had heart diseases, while only 15% had lung disease as a comorbid condition. “In SMS Hospital, where 162 patients died, only a very few had lung disease as a comorbidity,” said Dr Ajit Singh from SMS Hospital. The finding has come as a surprise for those who initially believed that Covid will be fatal for those people who are suffering from asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases, interstitial lung ailments or any other lung disease,” said Dr Ajit Singh, one of the five-members of the core group of doctors treating Covid patients at SMS Hospital. Of the total 453 deaths till July 5, 139 patients did not have a comorbidity, while the rest 314 had comorbidities. Among those, 154 had one comorbidity, 111 two, 39 had three, eight had four and two had five comorbidities. The health department figures show that 46% of patients who died had heart ailments such as coronary artery disease and hypertension as a comorbidity. Besides, diabetes was found in 38% of Covid fatalities. And 35% of patients had multiple comorbidities such as heart and kidney diseases as well as diabetes. In Bikaner too, doctors made a similar finding. In the district, more than 25 people died of Covid till July 5. “It is not lung disease but diabetes and kidney disease which we found in a majority of patients who died of Covid. Almost half the patients who died had kidney ailments and diabetes,” said Dr Sanjay Kochar, nodal officer (Covid-19), PBM Hospital. "Since we found that diabetes is one of the leading comorbidities in patients who died, it is clear that people with low immunity are at a higher risk of death. Diabetes weakens the immunity system. It is also seen that the virus directly affects beta cells in pancreas which results in decrease in insulin secretion. So, Covid in itself can cause diabetes and weaken the immunity of such patients. Diabetes patients should take more protein to strengthen their immunity and control the disease," said Dr Prakash Keswani, senior professor (medicine), SMS Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/heart-ailments-diabetes-provefatal-for-corona-patients-in-raj/articleshow/76883151.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
July 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Man loses job, wife kills self, daughter||KOLKATA: A 28-year-old homemaker allegedly strangled her three-year-old daughter to death before killing herself at their rented accommodation in Barrackpore on the northern fringes of the city nearly a couple of months after her husband had lost his job in a private farm during the lockdown. Cops recovered the body of Pravin Khan hanging from the ceiling while her daughter Ibana was found lying dead on the bed on Thursday morning. Cops suspect financial stress might have led the homemaker to take the extreme step. Police detained her husband Imran Khan alias Chintu, who had reportedly gone out of home in search for a new job on Thursday, for interrogation. Neighbours said the couple had been depressed in the recent past. Cops are waiting for the autopsy report to ascertain the exact reason behind their death. According to local sources, Chintu, an accountant of a car dealer’s office in Kolkata, had rented a house at Barrackpore's Sadarbazar nearly four years back. “Initially the family of three was leading a happy life. There was no feud between the couple. We never heard any kind of brawl between them. But we came to know that the woman’s husband had been desperately looking for a job after he had lost his previous job due to the lockdown,” said Sujay Saha, the landlord.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-loses-job-wife-kills-self-daughter/articleshow/76882569.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
July 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur: Medicos jittery after doctor succumbs to coronavirus||GUNTUR: The death of frontline warriors of Covid-19, including a senior medical officer, is creating ripples among healthcare professionals. A resident medical officer attached to the district hospital at Tenali died of Covid-19 within three days of testing positive. Sources said the 54-year old doctor was shifted to Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur immediately after testing positive two days ago. After his condition became critical, he was moved to the dedicated Covid-19 care centre in Vijayawada on Wednesday. However, he breathed his last within hours after admission. Sources said at least two professors and two house surgeons at GGH, Guntur, tested positive in the last one week. Although all six PG students who tested positive recovered, rising positive cases among healthcare professionals is worrying doctors. Sources said the condition of a gynecologist who tested positive was critical. In a related development, AP Government Doctors Association (APGDA) requested the state government to relieve them from Covid-19 duties as they were being humiliated despite their best services in the crisis. In a letter to chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, association president Dr Jayadheer Babu said the government had not announced any relief package to the kin of three doctors who died of Covid-19. He said joint collectors were humiliating district medical and health officers and requested the CS to curtail the misbehaviour of senior officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/medicos-jittery-after-doc-succumbs-to-virus/articleshow/76881465.cms||Samdani MN
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man gets life term for killing woman, baby||AHMEDABAD: A sessions court at the Mirzapur rural court campus on Thursday awarded life imprisonment to one Aminder Prasad Sah in a double murder case in Sanand. The court held him guilty in the killing a woman and her 14-month-old daughter in November 2016. The court concluded that Sah had attacked Chanda Giri, 22, and her daughter Riya with a sickle and then fled when neighbours arrived. Sah used to live in the same building in Vadnagar area of Sanand, where Chanda and her husband Dhananjay had rented a place. Sah had vacated his house two months before this incident, and returned with the weapon upon hearing that the family had returned from their native. Besides life imprisonment without any benefit of remission, the court has imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on the convict. Moreover, the court has asked the District Legal Services Authority, Ahmedabad (Rural) to make payment to Chanda’s husband, Dhananjay, under the Victim Compensation Scheme-2019 in accordance with provisions of Section 357A of the CrPC because he has lost his wife and a daughter in this crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-gets-life-term-for-killing-woman-baby/articleshow/76882564.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Different Stokes: Honour for Delhi-born doc||London: A Delhi-born doctor who moved to England last year for training and then ended up on the frontline at an NHS hospital trying to save Covid-19 patients was emotional about witnessing his own name blazoned onto the training shirt of stand-in England captain Ben Stokes ahead of the start of the first Test against the West Indies. The name on the shirt back was Dr Vikas Kumar, specialist in anaesthetics and critical care at Darlington Memorial Hospital, and Stokes wore it at nets at the Ageas Bowl, Southampton, on Wednesday in recognition of Kumar’s selfless work putting his own life at risk despite having a son, Viraaj, who has just turned two, and wife, Smita Rashmi, at home. “It has been a very difficult time. My parents are in Delhi and we don’t have much social support here beyond my colleagues at work and the Gilli Boys Amateur Club in Darlington,” Kumar said, referring to the amateur cricket club set up by two Indians, which he is a member of. “But family support is different. I was working in the critical care unit helping deliver oxygen to patients that had deteriorated and had shortness of breath. A part of the job was putting breathing tubes in them. Such patients had a heavy viral load of Covid so I was very much at risk. I never thought about dying. There were consultants in their 60s and 70s with co-morbidities working day and night. They were the role models for us. How could we stop treating patients?” he said. “I would come home every day and lock myself in a room as I was the vector of the disease. My child does not understand social distancing and self-isolation. It was very hard for my him because he would come and bang on the door and he is at that age where he has just started saying ‘Pappa and Mama’. It was a psychological trauma not just for him, but for me too. It would have helped us if my parents were there. My son is at that age where he has tantrums and my wife needed a break,” said Kumar, whose family originate from Barh in Bihar. The focus of Kumar, who graduated from UCMS Delhi and did his post-graduate training at Maulana Azad Medical College and Apollo Hospital, Delhi, was to help his medical colleagues in India. “I was helping them get prepared for what was coming their way and giving them advice on isolating Covid patients from non-Covid patients and so on,” he said. Kumar, who plays for Cowgate Cricket Club in Newcastle, is one of four Indian-origin key workers in Britain nominated by their local cricket clubs to have their names displayed on the training shirts of the England men’s Test team. “The doctors in India are doing a really difficult job. We are lucky in the UK as we have enough PPE but in India they are compromising on quality and quantity. People in India should be showing gratitude to the doctors there otherwise they will become demoralised as we saw in Italy and Spain,” said Kumar. He has never seen a live cricket match in England but often watched cricket at the Feroz Shah Kotla and remembers the 2017 match when Sri Lankan cricketers wore masks because of the pollution. “As a child I adored Sachin Tendulkar, now I have matured and appreciate whoever plays well. People at Durham Riverside Ground speak very fondly about Stokes. I didn’t see the Test match on TV as it was mostly washed out but I am going to get the shirt. It is not about the individual. It is the whole fraternity it represents,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/different-stokes-honour-for-delhi-born-doc/articleshow/76901887.cms||NAOMI CANTON
July 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Shops open for business three days a week in CBD||KOLKATA: Nearly 25,000 shops and establishments in central and parts of north Kolkata will remain open on alternate days after a few staffers were found Covid-19 positive and shop owners decided to avoid the crowd. The Confederation of Traders Association, a nodal body of traders, is issuing a notice to its members to keep shops open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Electrical and electronic shops on Ezra Street, NS Road and Ganesh Avenue were already following a three-day week pattern. “We held talks to look into the possibility of implementing a three-day week model for all 25,000 members of our confederation. They have agreed,” said Sushil Poddar, president of the organization. The confederation might ask its members to divide their staff and attend office in two shifts. In some of the areas, shop owners have asked members above 65 years to stay at home. “We have assessed that keeping shops open for three days will not impact business. On the other hand, this will give us time to sanitize the areas,” said Poddar. “Traders in Chandni Market have also agreed. Since Posta Bazar deals with essentials, they will keep shops open through the week,” he added. “We have started a three-day week model this Monday for nearly 4,000 electronic and electrical shops scattered on Ezra Street, Mangoe Lane, R N Mukherjee Road and NS Road. The shops were kept open from 11am to 5pm and our members adhered to that. There are some shops in Tiretti Bazar area as well and they followed the same model,” said L N Mundhra, president of the Calcutta Electric Traders’ Association. About 700 hardware shops at Strand Road, NS Road and Canning Street have been kept open from Monday to Friday. West Bengal Paper Traders Association has asked its members to adhere to three-day week model from Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shops-open-for-biz-three-days-a-week-in-cbd/articleshow/76882588.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Government schools prepare 11 lakh seed balls||HYDERABAD: As many as 3,400 students and 1,825 teachers of government schools in Narayanpet district prepared around 11 lakh seed balls as part of the Haritha Haram programme. The decision to prepare the seed balls was taken after the students and faculty were unable to participate in the Haritha Haram programme due to Covid-19. Teachers and officials of district education department will hand over the seed balls to officials of the forest department. Teachers guided the students on preparing the seed balls on Whatsapp and the text was widely circulated on messaging app. A student from Narayanpet Zilla Parishad High School told TOI that he realised the importance of greenery through the initiative. “Every year we plant saplings along with our teachers during Haritha Haram programme, but this year, after preparing the seed balls we became more informed about the best practices that can be taken up to increase green cover and protect it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-government-schools-prepare-11-lakh-seed-balls/articleshow/76882582.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Daily wagers struggle to survive even after unlock||HYDERABAD: Unlock 2.0 has not improved the earnings of daily wagers in the Old City, thanks to the Covid-19 fears coupled with dent in the incomes of many households belonging to the middle classes. Pushcart vendors, hawkers, autorickshaw drivers and other daily wagers are the worst-hit. Even 40 days after the easing of the lockdown restrictions on June 1, hawkers around the historic Charminar struggle to make ends meet. The self-imposed lockdown for a week by traders in the Old City, including those in the Lad Bazaar, have only compounded their woes. A survey by a local NGO, Helping Hand Foundation, on the living standards and daily earnings of hawkers and autorickshaw drivers post unlock 1.0 reveals that many struggled with running their business. About 82% of the auto drivers said the flow of customers is low after the lockdown norms had eased and the two-passenger norm is impacting their daily incomes. About 88% drivers said consequently, there is a dip in their daily income by more than half due to a smaller number of passengers plying and the two-passenger restriction, while 70% of them said they had bought autos on finance. Similar is the case with hawkers. About 75% of the hawkers, who had some working capital left, consumed it during the lockdown for essential needs and they are now struggling to mobilise fresh working capital to kickstart their business. The remaining 25% hawkers, who were able to resume selling their produce as they had leftover stocks, said the business is 40% to 50% lower than the pre-lockdown days. The reason they cited was that many customers are not coming forward to spend both due to Covid-19 scare and dent in their incomes. “Also, street vendors in and around Gudimalkapur, Mehdipatnam rythu bazar and mandi, who sell vegetables and fruits, said their business is about 50% lower and most of the times they are forced to carry back the stock which often gets spoiled,” said HHF managing trustee Mujtaba Hasan Askari. The survey also covered daily wagers in Irani cafes, restaurants and other eateries. They said they had lost their jobs as the ‘self-service’ model was introduced due to Covid-19 protocol on safe distancing. Many other daily wage labourers are sitting at home and have not yet resumed work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/daily-wagers-struggle-to-survive-even-after-unlock/articleshow/76882577.cms||Syed Akbar
July 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Covid-19 impact on realty sector hurts government’s revenue stream||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the realty sector reeling from the shock of the pandemic, the government’s revenue sources dependent on the sector have also started drying up. The stamps and registration department, which collects a percentage as stamp fee for registration of properties and is one of the top revenue contributors, is struggling to meet targets. Department officials say that only 6,000 properties were registered in Visakhapatnam district in May and June, against 10,000 properties registered during the corresponding period last year. While the government had set a target of Rs 824 crore for the 2019-20 fiscal, only Rs 525 crore could be generated by last week of March. K Manmadha Rao, district registrar, said the government has set a target of Rs 600 crore for the 2020-21 fiscal. Earlier, before the lockdown, the department used to earn at least Rs 2.25 crore a day by processing over 200 documents, he said, adding: “In some days in May and June, we still earned Rs 1.25 crore on some days. But now, it’s come down further, to around Rs 60 lakh per day.” However, the department hopes that it will be able to recover most of the amount once Vizag city becomes the executive capital. Officials said only older agreements, those that came to the department before the outbreak, are being processed at the moment and they aren’t receiving many new registrations now. The Covid-19 pandemic and ensuing curbs shut down over 2,000 housing projects in Andhra Pradesh. The projects are still stalled due to a shortage of labour and other issues. Moreover, there isn’t a great deal of enthusiasm among prospective property buyers at the moment. B Srinivasa Rao, president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), Visakhapatnam unit, said, “If things get better soon, Vizag will witness massive growth and generate high revenue for the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-impact-on-realty-sector-hurts-govts-revenue-stream/articleshow/76881504.cms||Nalla.Babu
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||OU, US varsity to study city stormwater drain system||Hyderabad: To help Hyderabad counter flash floods, as most areas get inundated during rainy season due to the decades-old man- made stormwater drainage system, the Osmania University’s Civil Engineering Department, in collaboration with Texas A&M University in USA, have taken up a comprehensive study for a period of three years on existing storm water drain system. To begin the study, OU had already identified two locations - a 20 MLD (millions of liter per day) capacity Sewerage Treatment Plant (STP) at Necklace Road (near Khairatabad flyover) and a stormwater drain (adjacent to Maisamma Temple) near Begumpet flyover. “In another couple of weeks, the study will begin and continue up to three years. We have purchased two ultrasonic level transmitters (each costing Rs 3 lakh) and installation will be completed in another week,” M Gopal Naik, head of the department, civil engineering department, Osmania University, who was the key person behind the study told TOI. OU had taken technical help from various stakeholders. GHMC and HMDA provided data on stormwater drainage system, while Telangana State Remote Sensing Applications Centre (TRAC) helped in mapping and sketches and data on existing sewerage network were provided by HMWS&SB) said Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ou-us-varsity-to-study-city-stormwater-drain-system/articleshow/76883629.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 10, 2020||Bareilly||Youth murders sister and her 'boyfriend' for ‘family’s honour’, younger brother killed too||Bareilly: After a 21-year-old woman “eloped” with her cousin and both were later spotted together in their village field, her elder brother Vineet and three of his friends strangled the young couple and then hanged their bodies from a tree to make it look like a suicide and "save their family's honour". As Vineet’s younger brother Kuldeep witnessed and protested the killing, he, too, was killed and hanged in a similar manner. The incident took place in Gadha village under Dhanari police station in Sambhal district. The four accused were arrested on Wednesday. An FIR has been lodged. The deceased were identified as Sukhiya, Bunty, a high school dropout, and Kuldeep, an M.Sc final year student. They were all in their early 20s. According to police sources, Bunty was about to get married on June 28, but before his wedding, he allegedly fled with his cousin Sukhiya on June 25. On Thursday, Sambhal SP Yamuna Prasad told TOI, “Two bodies - a woman and her cousin - were found hanging from a tree on July 1 and sent for post-mortem. Prima facie, it appeared to be a case of suicide, and a probe was ordered. Later, on July 7, another youth, identified as the younger brother of the deceased woman, was found hanging from a tree in the same area. He was also throttled. Acting on a tip-off, Dhanera police arrested four individuals - Vineet, Kishori, Shyoraj and Jagpal Yadav." During interrogation, Vineet, who is a farmer, told the police that he killed his sister and her "boyfriend" for the honour of the family, while his younger brother, too, was killed in a similar way as he had opposed their move and was a "witness to the crime”. Vineet, according to the SP (city), said that after his friend Jagpal spotted his sister and her "boyfriend" in the field, four of them hatched a plan to kill the couple and he also paid Rs 2.5 lakh to Jagpal - a history-sheeter - for assisting him to execute the plan. Police later found the rope and other evidence from the crime scene. Also, Rs 2.5 lakh were recovered from the accused. An FIR has been registered under sections 302 (punishment for murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-murders-sister-and-her-boyfriend-for-familys-honour-younger-brother-killed-too/articleshow/76880186.cms||Maria Khan
July 10, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara IT professional hangs self||Vadodara: A 28-year-old man working with an IT company ended life at his home on Old Padra road in Vadodara on Thursday. The deceased Mit Patel was found hanging from ceiling fan with a rope in his bedroom at Bhadralok Apartment. Police said that around 7 am, Patel did not open his room, so his family members broke it open to find him hanging. They told police that he was fine before retiring to his bedroom on Tuesday night. “He was working on his laptop till 1 am and till 1.30 am he was chatting with his fiancé on phone,” said a cop. Patel was to get engaged after four days and his marriage was scheduled for December. “The deceased did not have any problem in his personal and professional life his family said. But we have seized his mobile phone for investigation,” the cop added. A case of accidental death was registered at JP Road police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-it-professional-hangs-self/articleshow/76880300.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Pregnant women in Telangana prefer private hospitals||HYDERABAD: Despite the implementation of Amma Vodi and KCR Kits welfare schemes for pregnant women in the state to promote institutional deliveries, 44.2% of women in Telangana go to private hospitals. As per the data taken from the SRS report-2018, Telangana stands fourth in the country after Kerala (54.9%), Punjab (49.7%) and Gujarat (47.3%) where pregnant women prefer a private hospital to a government hospital. The national average is 28%. The report says 52.1% women in urban areas and 39.6% in rural areas head towards private hospitals in Telangana. “There is a tendency to approach private doctors who run small clinics in towns and mandal headquarters. About 4.8% of women in rural areas go to these clinics, while in urban areas it is much less at 0.9%,” the report said. Surprisingly, exorbitant pricing in the private hospitals is not a deterrent for the women, the report says. Officials said expenses involved in a C-section delivery in a private clinic are 40-50% more than the costs in a government hospital. A senior official said it was evident from the SRS report which stated that around 2.4% of the live births did not receive any medical attention from untrained people at time of delivery in the hospitals. However, this is nearly 2.7% in rural areas and 1.8% in urban areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pregnant-women-in-t-prefer-pvt-hosps/articleshow/76882589.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Life convict on parole kills wife, self||HYDERABAD: A life convict out on parole allegedly killed his wife and then committed suicide at their house in Sangareddy on Wednesday night. The couple was identified as B Shankar, 36, a painter by profession, and his wife Sravanti, 33, residents of Narayana Reddy Colony in Sangareddy. They did not have children. In 2013, Shankar was arrested for murdering his relative in his village Bommareddypet, was convicted in the murder case and sentenced to undergo life imprisonment. On June 26, Shankar came out of Sangareddy prison on parole and went home. On Wednesday night, he stabbed Sravanti multiple times and killed her at home. After killing his wife, Shankar committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling fan with a bed sheet, Sangareddy DSP P Sreedhar Reddy said. Police found a suicide note, purportedly written by Shankar, in the house. “In the note, Shankar mentioned that his wife had an affair with someone from her native place and he decided to kill her and also end his life,” the DSP said. Police registered a case under sections 302 of IPC and 174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/life-convict-on-parole-kills-wife-self/articleshow/76883630.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: KGH virology lab shut after 3 staffers test Covid-19 positive||VISAKHAPATNAM: The virology lab at King George Hospital (KGH), one of the key labs for Covid-19 testing in the district, has been temporarily shut down after three staff members tested positive. Closure of the lab will affect sample testing for a couple of days as it was carrying out nearly 2,000 tests per day. The lab will open after it is thoroughly disinfected and sanitised. “We have four RTPCR machines in the virology lab. The lab needs to be disinfected because three technical staff have tested positive for the virus. It will remain closed for two days and open on Saturday,” Dr P V Sudhakar, Covid-19 special officer for north coastal Andhra, said. He, however, added that sample testing will not completely stop and would be carried out at two other places. The main focus will be on the high-risk areas and primary contacts of positive patients. “We have another RTPCR machine at NACO lab in the microbiology department, which was earlier used for testing viral load in HIV patients. This lab is now being used for testing Covid-19 samples of patients from Vizianagaram as they do not have adequate testing facilities in the district. The NACO lab can cater to some of the samples for the next two days,” he said. “Also, Government Hospital for Chest and Infectious Diseases has TrueNat machine to test some more samples. We can still test around 500 samples per day till the virology lab opens. Besides, we have got some rapid antigen test kits from the government for testing 700-900 samples per day for a couple of days. We will be focusing on high-risk areas and strong suspects,” added Dr Sudhakar. KGH superintendent Dr G Arjuna said occupational hazard has affected around 50 medicos at KGH-AMC, besides nurses, paramedics and hospital staff, in the last one-and-a-half months. “Over 50 PG doctors and house surgeons, besides several paramedics and nurses, tested positive due to close proximity with Covid-19 cases or while collecting swabs and testing samples,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/kgh-virology-lab-shut-after-3-staffers-test-ve/articleshow/76881517.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board identifies 19,000 illegal borewells, seals 7,000||NEW DELHI: Delhi Jal Board has identified more than 19,000 illegal borewells and groundwater extraction points, which are being used to drain the precious sub-surface resource in the city. A major crackdown against the offenders is likely to be launched in the coming months. Out of the 19,154 illegal borewells, 7,000 units have already been sealed by the district authorities, a senior DJB official said. “The remaining units will be sealed on priority and the process will be completed within a period of two months. District-level officials have been asked to submit weekly progress reports to the divisional commissioner for regular monitoring. More illegal borewells will be identified in the second phase,” the official added. Central Ground Water Authority has already notified all districts of Delhi as overexploited areas, which need regulation. DJB has also come up with a revised standard operating procedure to deal with illegal groundwater extraction. The modification is being carried out as per an order in an ongoing case where the National Green Tribunal had asked the Jal Board to devise mechanism for preventing extraction of groundwater by way of unauthorised tubewells and taking coercive measures in case of such illegality. The SOP clearly states that drawing groundwater for domestic, commercial, agricultural or industrial uses is illegal without the prior permission of DJB or New Delhi Municipal Council. While deputy commissioner (revenue) of each district is the authorised officer to supervise checking of violations, an advisory committee in each district has been constituted to assist the deputy commissioner in detecting illegal borewells and taking action. “The committee will prepare a list of such illegal borewells every month,” the official said. Punitive actions will comprise sealing of extraction point and drilling rig and cutting of electricity supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/djb-identifies-19000-illegal-borewells-seals-7000/articleshow/76882600.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: CI, ASI nabbed by ACB for taking bribe from farmer||HYDERABAD: Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths arrested an inspector and an assistant sub-inspector of Shabad police station in Cyberabad commissionerate for taking Rs 1.2 lakh bribe from a farmer on Thursday. Based on the complaint of V Vijay Mohan Reddy, a farmer from Solipet in Shabad mandal, ACB sleuths laid a trap and caught ASI K Rajender red handed when he accepted the bribe from the complainant at the Shabad police station as per the instructions of inspector B Shankaraiah. According to the ACB, the accused demanded bribe from the complainant to settle the three cases registered against Vijay Reddy’s family members in relation to a land dispute and also to implement court order about property dispute. In 2018, Vijay’s uncle agreed to sell his 4.5 acre land in Shabad mandal to people who approached through him. Shortly after the agreement, his uncle died. “The widow of Vijay’s uncle sold the land to someone else in 2019 and from then on, a dispute continued between both the groups,”said an ACB official. Subsequently, the other group lodged three police complaints against Vijay’s family members alleging that they trespassed into the property and cases were registered by Shabad police. Recently, Vijay’s family went to court and got an order to maintain status quo at the land till the dispute is settled. Áll the three cases were charged and two of them are pending trial. Recently, the accused contacted Vijay offering to amicably settle the cases and implement the court order for bribe. After bargaining, the accused agreed to accept Rs 1.2 lakh as bribe to settle the cases in Lok Adalat and Vijay approached us, said an ACB official. ACB sleuths raided Shankaraiah’s home in Vanasthalipuram and seized Rs 16.4 lakh cash along with some documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ci-asi-nabbed-by-acb-for-taking-bribe-from-farmer/articleshow/76883634.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Bareilly||Student fails in board exams, kills self||BAREILLY: Unable to bear the news that he had failed in the board exams, a class 12 student of Rajasthan board allegedly committed suicide at his residence in Aliya Kalyanpur village under Asmoli police station in UP’s Sambhal on Wednesday. The results were declared on July 8. Dipesh Kumar (18) got a call from his friend who informed him that he failed in the board exams following which Kumar went in his room and shot himself. Kumar’s family informed police that he was studying in a school in Hanumangarh area in Rajasthan. He was residing in a hostel there. He had come to visit his family but had to stay back during to the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. On Wednesday, a friend had called Kumar to inform him about the results and told him that he had failed in the board exams. He went to his room soon after and a few minutes later a gun shot was heard from his room. The family rushed to Kumar’s room and saw him lying in a pool of blood. He shot himself from a .315 bore revolver and died on the spot, police said. Sub-inspector Asmoli police station in Sambhal Ranvir Singh told TOI, “The body has been sent for postmortem. The deceased is survived by his mother and a younger sister. He took the extreme step after learning from a friend that he had failed in exams. A .315 bore revolver, which was used by Kumar to kill himself, has been recovered from his room. Family members said that they have no clue from where Kumar got the revolver. A probe has been ordered in the incident and an FIR has been registered under section 3/25 (Arms Act).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/student-fails-in-board-exams-kills-self/articleshow/76880225.cms||Maria Khan
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Develop, widen roads: KTR to GHMC||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration and urban development minister KT Rama Rao directed Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) engineering wing officials to micro-plan development of roads and their maintenance. At a meeting at Pragati Bhavan on Thursday, he directed the officials to divide the city into four zones and prepare reports about the existing roads in each zone, roads to be constructed or widened in accordance with future needs within a month. The plan includes laying of new roads, recarpeting of roads and road widening to ensure space for bus bays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/develop-widen-roads-ktr-to-ghmc/articleshow/76882604.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||People looking to governor: BJP||HYDERABAD: State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Thursday said Covid-affected people are looking towards Raj Bhavan for moral support since there is no governance under the TRS regime. Addressing reporters here, Sanjay said with CM K Chandrasekhar Rao not coming to Pragati Bhavan nor going to the temporary secretariat, people are knocking the Raj Bhavan’s doors to deal with the pandemic. He slammed KCR as a ‘ bogus CM’, for not being available when people need him the most. “That is why governor Tamilisai Soundararajan is intervening and holding meetings with doctors and hospital representatives to understand Covid-19 gravity. A situation like this has not arisen anywhere in the country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-looking-to-guv-bjp/articleshow/76882602.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||To rein in Hyderabad’s encroachers, special cell can start here...||HYDERABAD: At a time when the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has launched an assets protection cell, to take stock of encroachments across Hyderabad, TOI finds out the biggest violations in town. Topping the charts is Madhapur’s Ayyappa Society followed by areas around the Khajaguda Lake, the lung space in Banjara Hill’s MLA Colony and the surroundings of the city’s two iconic water bodies — Durgam Cheruvu and Hussainsagar. Official records show multiple acres have been siphoned off, over the years, to pave way for commercial establishments, plush housing societies, independent homes. Driving this practice is the lucrative land value of each site — between Rs 60,000 and Rs 1.5 lakh per square yard. At Ayyappa Society, while the GHMC has been demolishing structures, spread over 120 acres and 20 guntas, since years they continue to resurface despite the court’s intervention. While government claims that the land belongs to Gurukul Trust, residents maintain it is the society’s land.. The Khajaguda Lake is another victim that’s shrunk by close to 1.5 acres between 2014 and 2019. What has come up are three gated communities. The government too has taken up civic works. “In the name of developmental works, heritage rocks are being blasted to lay roads,” said Lubna Sarwath, a social activist. In Banjara Hills Road number 12, the lung space shrunk from 3.2 acres to 1.6 acres. Commercial establishments have been built while some residents have extended their compound walls, thus eating into park space. As per a case filed in high court, 10 acres of land falling under Full Tank Level has been handed over to private players for a sports club in Sanjeeviah Park. “How is the government allowing construction in FTL?” questioned Harish Daga, an activist. The condition of Durgam Cheruvu is the same, with water spread now down to 79.80 acres from the original 156 acres. Here too commercial establishments and housing societies have surfaced. GHMC officials said they are doing everything to take action against offenders. “In Ayyappa society, we have taken up a special drive against encroachments. Seven buildings were demolished on Thursday and four on Wednesday,” said GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar. “In MLA Colony Road number 12, GHMC’s directorate of EVDM was able to save 1.6 acres of park land,” said Vishwajit Kampati, director, EVDM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/to-rein-in-citys-encroachers-special-cell-can-start-here-/articleshow/76883640.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 10, 2020||Indore||IMA to honour Indore’s corona warrior doctors||INDORE: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has decided to honour Dr Zakiya Sayyed and Dr Trupti Katdare with 2020 Doctors Day IMA National Awards. The two corona warriors had continued to serve people during COVID-19 menace, despite facing threat to their lives. The national body of doctors also decided to felicitate Dr Sanjay Londhe and Dr Avina Kharat, both of Indore, among 87 doctors from different parts of the county for their dedication towards serving the people. Dr Sayyed and Katdare of the local health department have have played a major role in controlling spread of the disease in Taatpatti Bakhal area, where they were attacked by a mob while carrying out door-to-door health screening on April 1. The incident had brought nationwide shame to Indore, while people of all walks of life condemned the attack. Both the doctors had resumed the door-to-door screening in the same area the very next day, despite the volatile situation. However, residents quickly realised their mistake and they showered them with petals and sought apology. Recalling the incident, Dr Sayyed and Dr Katdare told TOI that after the attack, they had a choice to leave the survey work but they decided to face the challenge. Apart from them, vice-president of state IMA, Dr Sanjay Londhe, has also chosen by the national body for the prestigious award, as Dr Londhe has not taken any leave for the last 108 days since outbreak of COVID-19 in city. Dr Londhe had also motivated IMA members to join the fight against COVID-19 and to open their clinics to treat routine patients. “I didn’t work for any award but recognizing by IMA is a big honour” Dr Londhe said. Besides, Dr Avina Kharat from Indore has also been selected by IMA for the national award. However, IMA and Junior Doctors’ Association from MGM Medical College denied having any information about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/ima-to-honour-indores-corona-warrior-docs/articleshow/76882590.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chennai||At the forefront for long, healthcare staff stretched||CHENNAI: Four days ago, a Covid-19 positive elderly patient admitted to the Intensive Care Unit at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai gave some anxious moments to doctors. The traumatized man demanded that his oxygen cylinder be given to his son, infected with Covid and admitted to a general ward in the same hospital. The PG doctor attending on him was in a flutter. His mask fogged as he exhaled heavily and instinctively reached out to wipe it. This forced him to rush to the doffing room, throw away his mask and PPE suit and go into the donning room for a fresh set of protective gear. It was barely a month since the young doctor had got back to duty after he tested positive for Covid on May 7 and was under the mandatory 28-day quarantine. The healthcare staff at government hospitals in Chennai and across Tamil Nadu are rapidly falling sick and suffering fatigue. But they recover and return to work, stoic and determined to serve better. “We need more beds with oxygen support and more doctors,” said another PG doctor, back home after the night shift of six hours. He contracted the virus but is back at work after quarantine. Doctors work six days in four shifts and go through a compulsory seven-day quarantine. When active cases nudged 9,400 on May 31, admissions into the Rajiv Gandhi GH’s Covid ward hovered around 25 a day. When actives cases stood at 38,889 on June30, admissions in the GH shot up to about 100 a day. “In July, depending on the Covid infection curve, the number of admissions in the two government hospitals in Chennai may range between 200 and 500 every day,” said Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) president Dr K Senthil. “We can manage with the current staff strength for a month or two. But if the curve doesn’t flatten, then we have a problem,” said Dr Senthil. Catching his breath during a break in his travel from one hotspot district to another, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said, “Health workers are the real heroes. We have lost one doctor and one nurse. But what’s remarkable is that doctors and paramedics, who have contracted the infection, are returning to work with such zeal,” said the officer. Perhaps anticipating the health workforce crunch, the Tamil Nadu government roped in private hospitals and hotels to set up more Covid Care Centres. On Sunday, the Indian Medical Association’s TN chapter led by its secretary Dr A K Ravikumar convened a meeting of some representatives of its 166 branches across the state. “We have already assigned 500 doctors for the Covid task force. The government has sought our held to set up designated Covid Care Centres. We will formulate a plan soon to ease the burden on the government,” said Dr Ravikumar About three weeks ago, government doctors were asked to rush to Chennai from hospitals in Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Namakkal and Dharmapuri. Earlier, 700-odd government PG medical students from across TN, waiting to complete their exams in May next year, were brought to Chennai. This is apart from the 300 or so private PG students. In all, around more than 2000 doctors have joined the Covid battle in Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/at-the-forefront-for-longhealthcare-staff-stretched/articleshow/76882605.cms||Jaya Menon
July 10, 2020||Indore||Aarogya Setu, sanitizer, health form...new norms for final yr exams||Indore: University Grants Commission (UGC) has come up with Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for higher educational institutions (HEIs) to “compulsorily” conduct the examination of final year/ semester students in September. As per the newly released SOP, the commission has given a blue print for the sample seating arrangement of the students during the examination. Admit/identity cards of final year students are to be treated as a pass for the movement of students. The state government should issue instructions to all local authorities to issue movement passes to invigilators and all personnel engaged in the conduct of the exam. All the Covid norms are to be followed during the examination, said secretary of UGC, Rajnish Jain. Both students of higher educational institutions (HEIs) and staff will be instructed to download Arogya Setu mobile application, he added. The seating area of candidates will have to be thoroughly sanitized after every session. Even washrooms should also be cleaned and disinfected. The examination halls have to be sprayed with disinfectant including floor, walls, gates, doors etc. Sanitizer bottles along with liquid handwash should be arranged at entry gate, exam room, staff/observer room etc. Thermal scanning will be done at the staff entrance point for both students and staff. Furthermore, the staff will have to make use of fresh masks and gloves after staff verification is completed. The commission has also instructed that the staff will have to fill self-declaration form about their health status before entering the exam area. If any functionary fails to meet the self-declaration criteria or thermal scanning which will be done at the entrance, they will be asked to leave the exam centre immediately. On the other hand, Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya (DAVV) officials are waiting for guidelines of Directorate of Higher Education (DHE).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/aarogya-setu-sanitizer-health-form-new-norms-for-final-yr-exams/articleshow/76882594.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Former UGC chief seeks cancellation of final-year exams||NEW DELHI: Former University Grants Commission (UGC) chairperson Sukhadeo Thorat and a few professors from Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University have jointly written to UGC asking it to reconsider its July 6 notification on exams. “The UGC’s latest advisory on examinations is unfortunate because it takes us backwards rather than forward. It effectively extends the period for holding of exams for final-year/semester cohorts until September; and is the second such postponement. It creates fresh uncertainty for states that had already decided to cancel exams,” read the letter signed by professors Apoorvanand, Nandini Sundar and N Sukumar from DU and Ayesha Kidwai and Jayati Ghosh from JNU. “The recommendation to cancel exams was prompted by an unprecedented health emergency, not by doubts about the value of examinations. When faced with such an emergency, cancelling exams has two main advantages: First, it avoids the extended uncertainty created by repeated (but unavoidable) postponements. Second, it protects the integrity of the examination by refusing to abandon its two most basic features — impartiality, or equal treatment of all examinees; and close supervision to prevent cheating,” the signatories added. The letter said that examinations held in the ‘online’ or ‘mixed’ mode will be biased because they will favour students with better access to the internet. “Cancelling exams during a pandemic is sensible and fair precisely because examinations are important and must not be devalued. It is to be expected that the uncertainties of a pandemic situation will create the genuine need for repeated postponements. Using alternative methods of evaluation based on each student’s own past performance (in exams conducted in normal times) offers a fair solution and brings closure, with the option of retaking the exam when normalcy is restored,” the letter further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/former-ugc-chief-seeks-cancellation-of-final-year-exams/articleshow/76882619.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Now, medical care for those in home isolation||VIJAYAWADA: The Krishna district administration is focusing on providing better medical assistance to Covid-19 patients who wish to go on home isolation. On Thursday, there were 127 new positive cases, taking the number of overall cases in the district to 2,095. With one more death registered in the district, the death toll climbed to 73. The district administration is happy with the recovery rate as 1,297 patients have been discharged and 725 patients are undergoing treatment. In a bid to reduce the burden on Covid-19 hospitals, the district administration is now focusing on home isolation and treatment of asymptomatic cases. Collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said they have started a triage center at Bishop Azariah High School in the city. The triage centre will register patients without symptoms or mild symptoms and perform basic diagnostics such as ECG, X-ray, blood pressure, blood oxygen level monitoring. Patients who wish to be on home isolation will be given medicines. Serious cases will be referred to nearby Covid-19 hospitals. “Majority of Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic. They are recovering with nominal treatment. People who have the facility of a separate bedroom and toilet will be permitted to go on home isolation based on their health condition. Doctors will be in touch with them over the phone twice a day. Health secretaries of the area concerned will monitor these cases,” Imtiaz said. In case the condition of the patient worsens, the patient will be shifted to a Covid-19 hospital, he added. However, officials are also increasing the number of beds at Covid-19 hospitals. Officials are considering transforming private and corporate hospitals into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals to provide better care for patients. Patients with other ailments will get free treatment at ESI hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/now-medical-care-for-those-in-home-isolation/articleshow/76881544.cms||Venu Lanka
July 10, 2020||Business||Rs 1 lakh fine for e-tailers if they don’t reveal ‘country of origin’||NEW DELHI: E-commerce firms, manufacturers and marketing agencies of imported packaged items face fines of up to Rs 1 lakh and one year jail, if they don’t display the “country of origin” of such products. In its bid to rein in such violators and those falling foul of other provisions of the Consumer Protection Act such as unfair trade practices, the consumer affairs ministry has set up the central consumer protection authority (CCPA), which can take up these cases suo motu or on a direction from the central government. The ministry has designated its additional secretary as the chief commissioner and BIS director general as the investigating officer. Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan said they have written to all e-commerce companies and state governments to strictly implement the mandatory mentioning of “country on origin” on the products under Packaged Commodities Rules. “If a manufacturer or marketing firm fails to comply with this, it will be fined with Rs 25,000 for first offence, Rs 50,000 for second and Rs 1 lakh for subsequent offence or one year jail or both where the items are sold through shops. This will be applicable for e-commerce firms, if they don’t display the details on their website,” said consumer affairs secretary Leena Nandan. Officials said the provision of declaration of “country of origin” has been in place since January 2018 for all manufacturers, importers, packers and e-commerce players. The secretary said the issue was discussed with e-commerce players at a meeting called by DPIIT under commerce ministry. “We are on the same page on its implementation. If e-commerce firms display the details as maintained in the law, consumers can make an informed decision,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rs-1-lakh-fine-for-e-tailers-if-they-dont-reveal-country-of-origin/articleshow/76884068.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 10, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly sees 18 cases of 'killer' malaria strain in June||BAREILLY: The district of Bareilly has recorded 18 cases of the deadly plasmodium falciparum (PF) strain of malaria in June this year, seven more than the cases in the same month last year, according to the latest report compiled by the health department here. However, cases of the common variant of malaria -- plasmodium vivax (PV) -- have sharply fallen in June as against the corresponding month last year. According to health officials, Bareilly reported 811 PV cases in June this year against 4,875 cases in the district in the same month last year. District malaria officer D R Singh said, “In comparison to last year, PV malaria cases have drastically gone down but PF cases have seen an increase. As the vector-borne disease month has started in monsoon, malaria cases may rise now due to breeding of mosquitoes.” According to the health department, Bareilly reported 1,697 malaria cases, including 79 PF cases, from January to June this year. A total of 48,000 people were tested for malaria during this period. In the same period in 2019, 6,988 malaria cases, including 141 PF cases, were reported from January to June after screening of 54,000 suspected cases. Bareilly has been reporting an outbreak of malaria for the past two years as a total of 37,482 cases in 2018 and 46,717 cases in 2019 were reported in the district. Officials said they have identified 397 villages in Bareilly as "sensitive" as they reported PF cases last year. Of these, 100 villages have been categorised as “highly sensitive” as each village reported more than 20 cases last year. “We are conducting indoor residual spraying in sensitive villages and over 250 villages have been covered so far. Spraying is done inside houses of villagers and it kills mosquitoes when it sits on the walls. Fogging and larvicidal spraying is also underway across Bareilly,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-sees-18-cases-of-killer-malaria-strain-in-june/articleshow/76880252.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad entrepreneur makes app to help Covid-19 patients track hosp beds||HYDERABAD: A city-based entrepreneur has developed a software to help Covid-19 patients find a hospital where a bed is available instead of running around from one hospital to another in search of a bed. Arun Varma has developed a comprehensive communication system online which can be used effectively to direct a patient to the hospital where beds are available. “In the system that I have developed, there is complete transparency. All the hospitals — both private and government — will have to specify the total number of beds they have, occupancy at any given time and also mention when a bed has turned vacant,” Arun told TOI. Arun says when a patient approaches a hospital and there is no availability of a bed, the patient would be directed to another hospital by the software where bed availability is there. He said he was saddened by several Covid-19 patients having to make rounds to various hospitals and turned away after they were told that they were no beds. “That’s when I had decided that I should come up with a solution.” He further explained that the enormity of the situation could be understood when hospitals in worst-affected countries like Italy started providing beds and treatment on a priority basis only to patients who had a chance of survival. The 35-year-old mechanical engineer said he would offer the app that he has developed free of cost to the government. “The government authorities can take over the application,” he said. Arun, who also did a course in entrepreneurship from IIM, Bengaluru, founded Syncrooms six years ago which was used by the hotel industry to identify availability of rooms across the country. The information pertained to 3,400 hotel rooms across the country. “I got a feeling that something was surely not going right in February itself. Covid-19 had affected the travel industry badly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/entrepreneur-makes-app-to-help-covid-patients-track-hosp-beds/articleshow/76883647.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 10, 2020||Meerut||Days after rescue of 10 kids from UP ashram, CWC starts probe into allegations of sexual harassment, FIR lodged||Muzaffarnagar: Two days after 10 young boys — who were allegedly sexually harassed, thrashed and forced to work as labourers — were rescued from an ashram in Muzaffarnagar’s Shukrataal area, the district’s child welfare committee set up an inquiry into the matter on Thursday. An FIR was also lodged on Thursday against ashram owner Swami Bhakti Bhushan Govind Maharaj under IPC section 377 (unnatural offences) and under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The children rescued from Godiya Math Ashram were aged between seven and 16 and hail from the states of Tripura, Mizoram and Assam. The minors were rescued by a team of state child care helpline and police on Tuesday after a tip-off. According to child helpline members, the children were brought to the ashram to provide them education but they were being made to cook food and look after animals in the premises. Kamlesh Verma, president of Muzaffarnagar child welfare committee had told TOI that the kids had made allegations of sexual harassment against the ashram’s manager.On Thursday, Verma said a report would be submitted to the district administration soon.The ashram owner maintained the allegations were fake and part of a conspiracy by locals who were angry that a large piece of land had been donated to the ashram. He said, “We have CCTV cameras on the premises that can be scanned. The children had been living here for a long time but now locals have told them to say all this as some people are creating trouble after the ashram was donated a piece of land.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/days-after-rescue-of-10-kids-from-up-ashram-cwc-starts-probe-into-allegations-of-sexual-harassment-fir-lodged/articleshow/76881586.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Rains batter makeshift stalls at rythu bazaars||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the advent of the monsoon, farmers at rythu bazaars operating out of makeshift stalls in open fields this year fear that the structures will not be able to withstand the incessant rains. Claiming that despite several requests to the state agricultural marketing department, officials had paid no heed to their plight to have the sheds reinforced with better material. “Already there have been pre-monsoon showers in the city. We were compelled to close the stalls and shift our products during these spells. Only after the rain stopped were we able to resume our business,” P Sandhya, who runs a vegetable stall at Madhurawada rythu bazaar in Vizag city, told TOI. On March 25, the state government took the decision to shift rythu bazaars to spacious playgrounds in an attempt to control the rush of customers and maintain social distancing. Unlike markets built within enclosed spaces and that have permanent stalls, officials merely erected makeshift structure. The administration also allowed fish and egg vendors from adjacent neighbourhoods to run their business in these temporary rythu bazaars. No makeshift stalls, however, were allotted to them. It is only now that estate officers have to bear the brunt of farmers’ complaints with protests held in front of their offices almost everyday and demands to reinforce the sheds rising. The estate officers TOI spoke to said they are helpless and can only forward the farmers’ demand to the concerned department. “Since late-March when these rythu bazaars were shifted to open fields we have been asking the government to do something so that farmers don’t face a problem in running their businesses from the makeshift stalls even if there is rainfall. But the government is not taking any steps. The farmers are becoming restless now that the monsoon has arrived,” Jagadeshwar Rao, estate officer of Pedda Waltair rythu bazaar told TOI. Officials of the agricultural marketing department said the farmers’ demand is under consideration and efforts are underway to arrive at a solution. “It would take a few more days,” a senior official told TOI. Farmers, however, are mulling over taking the help of local NGOs or activists. Since the lockdown, business has suffered, they said, leaving them in no state to take measures on their own. “Even if we take steps we are not sure if officials would allow us to make any changes in the structure constructed by the government,” said a farmer at a rythu bazaar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rains-batter-makeshift-stalls-at-rythu-bazaars/articleshow/76881570.cms||Arpit Basu
July 10, 2020||Chennai||Chennai records 1,216 Covid-19 cases, daily count lower than Bengaluru||CHENNAI: The city’s Covid-19 count continued to dip, going below even Bengaluru’s tally on Thursday. Bengaluru recorded 1,373 cases while Chennai had 1,216, the third day the number has been in the 1,200s. Overall, Tamil Nadu reported 4,231 new cases on Thursday, which took the state’s Covid tally to 1,26,581. However, active cases numbered 46,652 as 78,161 people had recovered. A record 42,369 samples were tested across the state on Thursday. The death toll rose to 1,765 with 64 fatalities reported on Thursday, including a 25-day old girl at the Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children, Egmore. She already had Hirschsprung disease (intestinal disorder causing difficulty in passing stool), septicemia (blood stream infection) and underwent three surgeries. Senior paediatrician S Balasubramanian from Kanchi Kamakoti Child Trust Hospital said the government report suggests that the child had severe comorbidities and might have struggled for survival even without the viral infection. “ Covid was only a bystander in this case. Such deaths might occur occasionally but not regularly. Overall, the impact of Covid in children is still less and their recovery rate is much higher compared to adults. So there was no need to panic,” he added. Despite an intense lockdown in place, infection rate was on the rise in Madurai with 262 new cases. Kallakurichi, which so far recorded 544 cases, witnessed a huge spike on Thursday with 254 people testing positive. Other districts like Virudhunagar (289), Tuticorin (196), Tirunelveli (110), Coimbatore (98), Theni (90) and Trichy (93) and continued to report more cases this week. In Salem, the curve increased steadily. Public health expert K Kolandaisamy said that patients with symptoms in these districts shouldn’t delay going to hospitals. Early hospitalisation played a key role in reducing Chennai’s mortality rate to an extent, he said. With 145 more people testing positive at air, rail and road surveillance camps on Sunday, total number of passengers who returned with infections increased to 4,175.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-records-1216-cases-daily-count-lower-than-bengaluru/articleshow/76882623.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Livelihood opportunities for Irula families in Karamadai||COIMBATORE: As many as 300 Irula families in Karamadai here will be provided with livelihood options such as fruit crops and livestock over the next five years using the tribal development fund of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard). The second phase of the Integrated tribal Development Programme for Irula Tribes in Karamadai Block, worth Rs 1.76 crore, was inaugurated online on Thursday. It will be implemented by Coimbatore-based forum Native Medicare Charitable Trust (NMCT). Of the 300 families in tribal settlements, 250 have been given land to plant trees such as mango, coconut and cashew, and border crops such as teak and silk cotton, said NMCT managing trustee A S Sankaranarayanan. “They will also undertake soil conservation, manuring and water resource development activities such as setting up 11 borewells and four jack wells with pumpsets. Fifty families, which do not hold lands, will be provided sheep, cows, poultry, fish and also options for marketing and processing, along with setting up kitchen gardens,” he said. The first phase was undertaken from 2011 to 2018 in Karamadai, said Sankaranarayanan. “Four hundred families were supported with farm activities and 300 with animal husbandry. Now, they have been marketing their produce. We have set up a rural haat, a market to sell their produce, at Tholampalayam in Karamadai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/livelihood-opportunities-for-irula-families-in-karamadai/articleshow/76882626.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
July 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Handloom weavers call for state and central assistance||CHIRALA: Handloom weavers staged a protest demanding the implementation of the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package here on Thursday. Large numbers of weavers took part in the protest by maintaining social distance. The protestors held placards demanding the Centre and state governments announce immediate relief for weavers hit by Covid-19. Addressing the gathering, Rashtra Chenetha Jana Samakhya (RCJS) state president and convener of national network of handloom Macharla Mohan Rao said more than four lakh people are dependent on handlooms in the state. Another leader D V Nageswara Rao said that majority of the weavers were earning below Rs 5,000 per month even before the pandemic began.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/handloom-weavers-call-for-state-and-central-assistance/articleshow/76881611.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Meerut||12 years after his murder, man booked for clash||Meerut: A man, who was killed 12 years ago over a property dispute in Gautam Buddha Nagar, has been strangely named in an FIR after an alleged clash between two individuals in Hapur district. According to police sources, Illiyas Ahmad had filed an FIR in Bangi police station alleging that a man, Sonu Kumar of Gandhi Nagar colony in Hapur, had assaulted him. Police booked Kumar under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 325 (causing grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code. Later, it came to light that Kumar was already dead. Iliyas said, "I was going to fetch fuel for my vehicle in the morning of June 8 when Kumar met me on the way and abused me. Later, he hit me, breaking some of my teeth. I filed a police complaint against him. But I did not know that the FIR was filed against a dead person instead of the one I had mentioned."Hapur superintendent of police Sanjiv Suman has instituted an inquiry into the matter. He said, "It has come to our notice that a dead person's name has been included in the FIR. The matter should not be considered a mistake because an FIR is filed on the basis of the complainant's statement. It is only during the investigation that the reality is ascertained and the names of those not involved in the crime are removed from the FIR. Still, considering the matter, I have ordered an inquiry into the matter and things will be sorted out soon."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/12-years-after-his-murder-man-booked-for-clash/articleshow/76881597.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali still not monsoon ready, locals fear floods||MOHALI: The rise in plinth level of roads is disrupting the natural gradient which causes flood-like situation in Mohali, said municipal commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg. He said the road level is to be maintained by the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (Gmada), but it is the corporation which has to face the wrath of residents whenever it rains. The MC commissioner also took stock of the situation in affected residential areas in Phase 3B1, IV and V. He said, “The roads dividing the sectors are maintained by Gmada and the plinth level of such roads has gone up due to the re-carpeting. This is disturbing the natural gradient, which further causes flooding of rain water in Phase 3B1, IV and V. We will study the report submitted by experts from PEC, Chandigarh to find out a permanent solution to the problem.” He said the work to construct five causeways was also stalled after the councillors of the sectors did not show approval with each other over the project. Last year, the MC and Gmada decided to construct five causeways on the airport road and other connecting roads to tackle the problem of waterlogging during the monsoon season. Residents fear that they will again have to face flood-like situation as no efforts have been made in the past three years to solve the problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-still-not-monsoon-ready-locals-fear-floods/articleshow/76882629.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 10, 2020||Delhi||HC slams Delhi University for frequently changing stand on exams||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Thursday castigated Delhi University (DU) for yet again postponing final-year examination schedule, despite giving assurances. “We all have gone through the examination process which is nerve-wracking for the students, especially during the times of Covid-19 pandemic….Why are you pushing the exams to a date beyond August 15, knowing that careers of thousands of students are at stake?” a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said. The bench did not appreciate the conduct of the varsity saying it has been “turning turtle” — changing stands frequently — and noted that earlier DU claimed it is ready to conduct the open book examinations (OBE) on July 1, which it later revised to July 10. Indicating that DU must work towards preponing the date from mid-August, the bench ordered it to file an affidavit detailing the schedule of the final-year undergraduate exams including how it proposes to conduct exams — online, off-line or both modes — besides the complete datesheet, so that students get some clarity. The court reminded DU that examinations are nerve-wracking and careers of thousands of students are at stake, more so since the final year students have to be given passing out certificates and degrees to enable them to pursue higher education. It allowed DU to work out a new plan in terms of July 8 circular issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) on the manner in which the exams are to be conducted, listing the matter for July 14. The bench recalled that on June 26, DU informed the court it will go ahead with conducting exams from July 1, but the next day, postponed the exams to July 10. The same bench had on June 29 issued notice to the varsity asking why contempt proceedings be not initiated against it and its officers for trying to mislead the court by withholding information on deferment of the online OBE from July 1 to July 10. In response DU had assured it that it is firm on holding exams from July 10. “We took you (DU) on face value and asked you to file an affidavit for clarity. Now we discover you have again changed the date to beyond August 15 and there is no exact date. What do you expect us to do. You want us to constantly monitor you on conducting exams?” the bench remarked. Appearing for DU, senior advocate Sachin Dutta said the university took note of revised guidelines issued by UGC on July 6 and decided to postpone holding of the examination to some date after August 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-slams-du-for-frequently-changing-stand-on-exams/articleshow/76882643.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 10, 2020||Goa||Cong accuses state govt of mismanaging online edu||Margao: Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat on Thursday accused the government of having failed in handling the online education scenario in the state, and demanded that the government come clear over the online education policy of the state. Pointing out to a case where a Class X student ended his life as his parents couldn’t afford to buy for him a smart phone for his online classes, Kamat said that the government should fix responsibility over the death of the student. “There’s a possibility of students going into depression,” he said. Accusing the government of having completely failed to manage the Covid pandemic in Goa, Kamat said Goa was under “health, financial and law and order emergency”. “There is complete collapse of Covid management. The government can’t even provide clean and hot water to patients in the hospital. The food quality is extremely pathetic. The government must immediately appoint a proper caterer, who will provide food with utmost hygiene and care,” he said. Kamat said that the Congress would not allow the government to pass the budget during the forthcoming one-day session of the legislative assembly, and that it will only permit a four-month extension to the vote-on-account. “We will not allow the government to escape and will take a commitment from the speaker of holding a full-fledged assembly session in the month of November-December,” Kamat said. He reiterated the party’s demand for a white paper on the financial status of the Covid situation in the state before the Business Advisory Committee meeting. The party’s future course of action pertaining to the duration of the assembly session will be decided after studying the white paper, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-accuses-state-govt-of-mismanaging-online-edu/articleshow/76883178.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Meerut||2 girls, ‘close friends’ for over 8 years, commit suicide in Muzaffarnagar, their families perplexed||Muzaffarnagar: Shivani and Reena first met at a coaching centre in UP’s Muzaffarnagar about eight years ago. Both were 16 then. Shivani’s brooding eyes couldn’t miss Reena’s boyish ways. The coaching session ended and the students moved on in their lives. So did Shivani and Reena.The somewhat boyish Reena chose to drive a taxi, while Shivani went the feminine path. She got married three years ago and bore a child. But they didn’t part ways. Evading the prying eyes of the society, they continued to meet. “There was something that was bothering them,” a family member said on Thursday, a day after their bodies were found.The girls, now 25, allegedly consumed poison on Wednesday evening. Reena had come over to Shivani’s house and their bodies, draped in white sheets, were lying in the ‘baranda’ of the house. Reena’s leather boots were peering out of the sheet as Shivani’s family members looked on, perplexed. “What do we tell the neighbours and villagers,” one of them said.According to police sources, both the friends had left home on July 5 on the pretext of taking a walk and later went to Bhola area to meet someone. They returned to the village on Wednesday and consumed poison in the evening.No police complaint was filed till Thursday evening. After the incident, a police team from Titavi police station rushed to the spot and launched an investigation after sending bodies to the post-mortem house.According to sources, just before the incident, the girls were sitting at the home and chatting. A little while later, a family member called them to come upstairs and join the rest, but they didn’t get a reply. When they came down, they saw them lying unconscious, close to each other. A local doctor rushed to the home, but declared them dead.Station house officer (SHO) of Titavi police station, Kapi Dev said, “No complaint was filed by the family members. But we are still probing the matter as why the girls committed suicide. Action will be taken accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-girls-close-friends-for-over-8-years-commit-suicide-in-muzaffarnagar-their-families-perplexed/articleshow/76881608.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 10, 2020||Vijayawada||APSP ground: Tirumala’s first containment zone||VIJAYAWADA: Chittoor collector N Bharath Gupta declared the APSP ground in Tirumala as a containment zone on Thursday after 40 personnel from the battalion tested positive for Covid-19 recently. This is the first containment zone in the hill town. The district administration had initially declared the entire Tirumala town as containment zone, but later clarified that the containment area would only be restricted to APSP battalion ground. The decision, officials said, was taken as police personnel constitute almost 50% of all positive cases in the town. The collector, following a review meeting with health and civic body officials on Thursday morning, took the decision to declare the whole of Tirumala as containment zone. But he later clarified that there was an error in the order and that the containment area stands restricted to APSP barracks alone. He also appreciated the social distancing and other measures being taken at the Lord Venkateswara temple following its reopening after nearly 80 days of lockdown. Special buses would be arranged to shift the cops from APSP barracks for home quarantine, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/apsp-ground-tirumalas-first-containment-zone/articleshow/76881587.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Radio-collared tusker found dead in MTR||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A radio- collared tusker was found dead on Thursday at the foothills of Thattalatty falls in Segur range of forests in Masinagudi division falling under the buffer zone of Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris. A habitual crop-raider, the 32-year- old jumbo was captured on June 12 in Hosur division of forests after it killed four people. The elephant was radio-collared and translocated near Mangalampatti of Bhavani Sagar range of forests in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR). However, it was noticed on June 20 that the elephant had strayed into the territory of MTR buffer zone. According to L C S Srikanth, deputy director, MTR-buffer zone, the pachyderm was monitored and tracked daily by a joint team of field staff of MTR and STR. “The tusker was progressing well and we were concluding that it had adjusted well to its new home. The elephant was seen daily by the special team till Wednesday,” Srikanth said. On Thursday, it was found dead in the Segur range of forests. Tusks are found intact, added the official. As the spot is located quite interior in the forest, the forest officials have planned the postmortem operation on Friday. “Only after the postmortem we could say anything about the cause of the death of the elephant,” Srikanth said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/radio-collared-tusker-found-dead-in-mtr/articleshow/76882635.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Goa||Online route likely for degree course admissions this year||Panaji: Director of technical education Vivek Kamat on Thursday said that the schedule for admissions to professional degree programme seats in Goa will be declared around the first week of August. The process is expected to begin with accepting application forms from students before August 15. Kamat said that the process of accepting these forms is also likely to go online for the first time this year, due to the pandemic. “This time, we have taken application forms to appear for Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET) online and we are likely to do the same for admissions. Accepting forms in person allows us to point out any issues with the documents and application forms. But given the current situation, it may be better to shift the process online,” said Kamat. For admissions to degree seats in medicine, dental, ayurveda, homeopathy, nursing and the allied health programmes take place through the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), which is to be held in September. Admissions to the engineering and pharmacy programmes take place through the GCET, results for which were declared on Thursday. But Kamat said applications for all programmes may be accepted during the same period. The admission schedule, which is drawn up and announced much in advance for professional degree programmes, has been disrupted this year due to the Covid-19 outbreak. This year, 2,954 students appeared for the GCET, as against 3,408 students in 2019. Officials said that this is in no way linked to the pandemic. “When NEET was first introduced and then some more programme brought under it, there was some confusion among students about which admission test is applicable. To be sure, students used to appear for both tests. But over the last two years, it has been confirmed for which programmes students have to appear for NEET, so the number of students for GCET is stabilising accordingly,” Kamat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/online-route-likely-for-degree-course-admissions-this-year/articleshow/76883175.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Kharar may have to suffer waterlogging this year again||By: Piyush Sarna MOHALI: Even as the Met department has predicted heavy rainfall in the coming days, Kharar area of Mohali district seems ill-prepared to tackle this year’s monsoon. Every monsoon is a struggle for the residents of Kharar. Jatinder, a resident of Kharar, who resides on the Arya College road, said, “The situation is worse here when it rains. Around 5-feet to 6-feet water gets accumulated on the main road, which gives us a tough time. Water enters each house in our locality.” Anju Chander, president of the Kharar municipal council, said, “Officials of the NHAI, who are building the Kharar highway, created a drain near the Bansa Wali Chungi to Landran road, which is also known as the Arya college road, but the drain is not clean and is blocked. Due to this, waterlogging takes place in the area.” Rajeev Aggarwal, a resident of Sector 125, Kharar, said there are many pits in the area and we face a tough time when it rains.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kharar-may-have-to-suffer-waterlogging-this-year-again/articleshow/76882633.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: To ward off Covid-19, many take to playing own doctor||HYDERABAD: The fear of not being able to get hospital beds if needed or not being able to afford them is driving many people suffering from coronavirus-like symptoms to self-medicate. Such practices include the use of prescription drugs, stocking up medical equipment and watching online videos among others. “People are hoarding oxygen and other drugs because there is a shortage of these and they fear that they will not get medical help when required. This indirectly reflects the scarcity of hospital beds and the prohibitive cost of hospital treatment,” said Dr Pradyut Waghray, chief pulmonologist, at Kunal Institute of Medical Specialities. Social stigma is another factor keeping many from seeking help. “In many cases, patients do not reveal their history. They don’t want to be identified as a Covid-19 patient. Elderly patients are especially worried that if they die and people know that they had Covid-19, their last rites will not be performed. It is a cultural concern. As a result, a lot of patients are self-medicating. In a few instances, patients who were already on oxygen were found to have been enrolled in our home quarantine packages. We had to discontinue the practice when we found that it can lead to medio-legal issues,” said Dr Parbin Moktab, medical superintendent at Care Hospitals, Banjara Hills, adding that self-medication can have serious consequences and poses a higher risk to the patient’s health. Further, not wanting to be identified as a Covid-19 patient is making many turn to the internet for help with medicines such as hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) which can have serious side-effects. Not knowing the health markers can expose an asymptomatic patient to silent cardiac arrests or other issues that may go unnoticed according to doctors. “There are other risks of trying to set up medical equipment by watching videos. For instance, setting up an oxygen cylinder at home requires technical precision and can even lead to the connector bursting if the pressure is not accurate and the oxygen released is more. While most ward boys know how to fit these equipment and many people take their help, trying to do it on your own can have serious consequences,” said Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, state secretary, Indian Medical Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/to-ward-off-covid-many-take-to-playing-own-doc/articleshow/76882738.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 10, 2020||Pune||Traders seek 1,000 acre land to shift wholesale markets out of city limits||PUNE: The Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) has sought 1,000 acre land on the city’s outskirts to shift 30 wholesale and semi-wholesale markets out of the Peth area. Traders listed in detail the space requirement to shift the markets and develop a trade convention centre during a meeting with Rajya Sabha MP and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday. They stated that during the two-hour meeting, Pawar assured them of following up with the state government. “He said that Pune is the largest marketplace in the state after Mumbai and it is located conveniently in terms of access from Western Maharashtra and Marathwada. He said that the state government must think about the coming 100 years while providing adequate land to traders,” an association member stated. The association has sought land adjoining the proposed ring road for the city, which must have metro connectivity, housing for employees and all basic utilities. According to FTAP president Fatehchand Ranka, “1,000 to 1,100 acre will be required for the markets in addition to space needed for roads and infrastructure. Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) chief Vikram Kumar has already shortlisted and told us about four to five parcels of land, measuring around 350 acres, which could be used to shift the markets. We are going to meet again in eight days.” The traders’ federation had, in June, sought land to shift markets due to several problems in the Peth areas. According to traders, congestion, inability to transport goods and lack of space for movement of vehicles are among some reasons to seek a larger space for the markets. Trade associations that have sought land for shifting include Pune Plywood Dealer Association (100 acre), Transport association (100 acre), Pune Automobile Dealers Association (100 acre), Used Car Dealer Association (100 acre), 80 acre for Brass and Copper Merchant Association, Stainless Steel Merchant Association, Non-ferrous Metal Association and Aluminium Association, Tiles and Sanitary Ware Association (60 acre), Pune Timber and Saw Mill Association (50 acre), Chemical Dealer Association (50 acre), Furniture Association (50 acre), Medicine, Pharmaceutical and Surgical (25 acre) and Hardware Wholesale Dealers Association (25 acre).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traders-seek-1000-acre-land-to-shift-wholesale-markets-out-of-city-limits/articleshow/76882644.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh airport attains 24x7 status, courtesy Vande Bharat mission||MOHALI: The Vande Bharat evacuation mission has come as a boon for the Chandigarh International Airport. The mission has enabled the airport to attain 24X7 operation status. The airport had announced its 24X7 operation around two years ago, but failed to get any flights after 11 pm or before 6 am. The status was attained after international flights under the evacuation mission arrived at the Chandigarh airport after midnight and departed during the wee hours. It was announced 2 years ago that the 24X7 operations will be for domestic flights arrival, with flights reaching the airport after 11 from April 30, 2018 onwards. According to the summer schedule issued by the Airports Authority of India (AAI), the actual 24X7 flight operations was supposed to start at the airport from April 30 and May 1, 2018 onwards. It was also announced that the upgraded runway, 24X7 operations and CAT-ILS-III installation at the airport will facilitate bigger aircrafts and attract several flagship airlines operators to operate flights from Chandigarh, but the plans did not mature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-airport-attains-24x7-status-courtesy-vande-bharat-mission/articleshow/76882645.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Crime rate in Haryana fell by 3.75% during first 6 months of 2020: DGP||Chandigarh: Haryana has experienced a decline in cases of heinous crime, including murder, attempt to murder, dacoity, robbery and kidnapping for ransom, in the first six months of 2020. Overall crime fell by 3.75% as 49,978 cases under IPC were reported between January and June 2020 as against 51,928 cases during the corresponding period of 2019. As many as 84.63% cases of murder, 100% of culpable homicide, 91.75% of attempt to murder, 97.66% of hurt and 83.59% of kidnapping/abduction were successfully worked out in first six months of 2020, according to Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava. In overall terms, crime against persons went down by 4.06% during this period. The number of murder cases in the first six months of this year was 488 compared to 590 in 2019, a dip of 17.28%. However, cases of attempt to murder went down just by 18, from 467 in 2019 to 449 this year in the same period. Among more serious crimes, there was a massive fall of 957 cases (18.56%) in cases of wrongful confinement — down from 5,155 in 2019 to 4,198 in 2020. Similarly, there was a drop of 23 cases in criminal trespass. The cases of kidnapping/abduction of boys and men dropped to 88 in the first half of 2020 as compared to 350 cases in 2019, a dip of 25.14%. Similarly, in cases of crime against property, there was a 9.67% fall in the number of such cases in January-June 2020 as only 3,258 cases were registered compared to 3,607 cases in 2019. However, the number of theft cases reduced from 11,794 to 8,123, a sharp drop of 31.12%. The number of robbery cases also dropped from 667 to 500. Last year, 1,023 cases of snatching were reported till end for June, but this year the number dropped to 670. Cases of dacoity too reduced by 10.66% this year. The DGP said enhanced patrolling and close monitoring have helped bring down the crime rate in the first half of this year . Increased police presence and Covid-19 also contributed to the impressive fall in crime as criminals and habitual offenders were forced to stay at home during lockdown, DGP Yadava added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/crime-rate-in-haryana-fell-by-3-75-during-first-6-months-of-2020-dgp/articleshow/76882649.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Goa||Wholesale fish market to reopen today||Margao: The South Goa Planning and Development Authority’s (SGPDA) wholesale fish market of Margao which was closed for the last nearly four months will finally reopen on Friday. At a meeting of the SGPDA held on Friday, members reviewed the preparedness for opening of the market in ensuring that the guildelines approved by it would be followed. The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) will conduct tests on the fish arriving at the market. The SGPDA has decided to allot space within the market for the FDA’s mobile fish testing laboratory. The SGPDA officials will also monitor the daily movement of vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wholesale-fish-market-to-reopen-today/articleshow/76883182.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Vadodara||Did an insider tip off six accused cops about FIR?||Vadodara: They were present during the inquiry initiated against them after a 62-year-old Sheikh Babu Nishar died in their custody at Fatehgunj police station. But the sudden disappearance of the six accused cops after being booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, has raised questions about the laxity shown by the city police in arresting them immediately. All the six accused, including police inspector D B Gohil, went into hiding on the day the Fatehgunj police registered FIR against them on July 6. While the police department has formed four teams to track them down, many believe that the investigators showed leniency for the accused. “It is a serious offence and hence it was expected that the accused cops may disappear if they are booked. Their movements should have been monitored when the FIR was getting registered against them,” said a senior police official. “They all have worked in the Fatehgunj police station, so some cop from there tipped them off. It’s an embarrassing situation for the police as many would believe that the accused were allowed to disappear as they are policemen,” the official said. ACP SG Patil, who has filed FIR against the accused, said, “Though the FIR was registered, the accused may not have been arrested immediately. It was the investigating officer’s discretion if he wanted to gather more evidence or make immediate arrests.” But this isn’t for the first time that the city police is under scanner. In June last year, probationary sub-inspector, SV Chudasama was booked for attempt to murder by Makarpura police three days after he ‘accidentally’ opened fire from his gun at Simit Prajapati, a resident of Makarpura. Chudasama disappeared after getting treated in a hospital. Investigators argued that they were waiting for forensic reports. Chudasama remained absconding for eight months and re-joined his service after the Gujarat high court gave him anticipatory bail in February this year. Former inspector D K Rao, who was booked for accepting a bribe of Rs 30,000 by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) last year remained underground even after his anticipatory bail was rejected in July last year. Rao moved court in September 2019 to get his arrest warrant cancelled but ACB sleuths present there didn’t nab him. It was only during the second hearing the next day that Rao was arrested in the courtroom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/did-an-insider-tip-off-six-accused-cops-about-fir/articleshow/76880212.cms||Tushar Tere
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Is coronavirus following 1918 Spanish flu trend in Hyderabad?||HYDERABAD: Covid-19 seems to be treading the path of an earlier pandemic, Spanish flu of 1918, in the city, if the Census of Hyderabad 1921 report is any indication. Census Hyderabad 1921 report reveals that though the pandemic influenza had visited the city earlier in 1918, it was sporadic. This is just like the initial Covid-19 trend when Hyderabad reported only a handful of cases. Then, the influenza had spread very gradually by September and reached its peak by October-end in 1918. After claiming several lives in a short span, the pandemic influenza subsided and simply faded out by November-end. The 1918 flu had “slow”, “very gradually increase” and “alarming height” phases in Hyderabad. Covid-19 is now in the “very gradually increase” phase if the high number of positive cases reported in the last fortnight is any indication. Once it reaches the “alarming height” phase, the cases may increase further and thereafter the viral infection might lose its sting. Read AlsoMind it: Coronavirus can cause brain damage too, say doctorsCovid-19 is known to affect the respiratory system, but new evidence suggests that in some cases the disease might also infect the brain.“Though the trend of Spanish flu and Covid-19 appears similar as far as the number of cases are concerned, the mortality rate was very high in case of flu. In case of 1918 flu, Hyderabadis had achieved what epidemiologists call herd immunity by October-end that year after almost one in two people suffered,” INTACH city convener P Anuradha Reddy said. The Census 1921 data reveals that the daily death-rate due to influenza rose to 46.5 per thousand by the end of September 1918 in Hyderabad. The Census data also revealed that during the decade 1911-1921, plague and cholera also “carried off, on the whole, 194,325 and 42,246 persons respectively”. Watch Is Covid-19 following 1918 Spanish flu trend in Hyderabad?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/is-coronavirus-following-1918-spanish-flu-trend-in-hyd/articleshow/76882751.cms||Syed Akbar
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Mahindra Ashvita, a united force in battle against Covid-19||HYDERABAD: All residents of Mahindra Ashvita on Hafeezpet Road, including children, have joined forces in the battle against Covid-19. Children in the society have prepared dustbins and put up posters on preventive measures throughout the common areas in the society. “Most kids are intrinsically inclined to help others. Compassion runs through their veins. One such child is nine-year-old Raunav Sen, who has written preventive measures and even prepared dustbins for disposal of bio-hazardous waste,” said society secretary, N Srinivas. Measures to protect senior citizens and staffers were given utmost priority by housing society members. Staff were equipped with safety gear including masks, gloves, safety glasses and sanitisers. “The staffers were provided with all the essentials and they were accommodated in the vacant flat as we wanted to reduce public movement,” said Rahul Somani, joint treasurer of the society. The housing society members also formed their own Covid-19 team which included a doctor and a person with an economics background to chalk out an expenditure plan along with the security staff. The team also ensured that fruits and vegetables were made available within the society. “We have tied up with a farm to have produce delivered to our doorstep. We drew circles to ensure social distancing. Orders for essentials were placed on common WhatsApp groups so that people spend less time at supermarkets,” said Vijay Bhatt, a resident. Sanitising the area, ensuring common areas including the park and gym remain close are among the other measures taken by the society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mahindra-ashvita-a-united-force-in-battle-against-covid/articleshow/76882726.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19: 1,196 new cases & 14 deaths in south, 250 cases in central Tamil Nadu||MADURAI/ TRICHY: The southern districts of the state reported 1,196 Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths on Thursday, taking the overall regional tally to 16,021 cases and 181 deaths. Out of the 14, nine were reported in Madurai while five in Ramanathapuram. Meanwhile, the central region of the state registered the highest single-day spike of 250 Covid-19 cases and two deaths in Trichy on Thursday. With this the total number of cases has climbed to 4,093. A 58-year old man from Thennur in Trichy city and a 54-year-old man from Kattuputhur in Trichy districit died at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy late on Wednesday. They had comorbidities and tested positive for Covid-19. The death toll in the eight districts in the region is 29, as per the state bulletin. Trichy district remained on top with 93 cases today. Total number of positive cases in the district has climbed to 1,170. For the second time the south Tamil Nadu added more than 1,000 cases in a day. The 1,196 cases (including only six imported cases) is only next to Tuesday’s tally of 1,231 cases. For the first time, Virudhunagar added the highest number of cases (289) in a day surpassing Madurai’s tally (262) that has been staying atop the table for more than two weeks. Tuticorin (196) and Tirunelveli (110) are the other districts that recorded more than 100 cases on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1196-new-cases-14-deaths-in-south-250-cases-in-central-tn/articleshow/76887827.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19: 1,196 new cases & 14 deaths in south, 250 cases in central Tamil Nadu||MADURAI/ TRICHY: The southern districts of the state reported 1,196 Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths on Thursday, taking the overall regional tally to 16,021 cases and 181 deaths. Out of the 14, nine were reported in Madurai while five in Ramanathapuram. Meanwhile, the central region of the state registered the highest single-day spike of 250 Covid-19 cases and two deaths in Trichy on Thursday. With this the total number of cases has climbed to 4,093. A 58-year old man from Thennur in Trichy city and a 54-year-old man from Kattuputhur in Trichy districit died at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy late on Wednesday. They had comorbidities and tested positive for Covid-19. The death toll in the eight districts in the region is 29, as per the state bulletin. Trichy district remained on top with 93 cases today. Total number of positive cases in the district has climbed to 1,170. For the second time the south Tamil Nadu added more than 1,000 cases in a day. The 1,196 cases (including only six imported cases) is only next to Tuesday’s tally of 1,231 cases. For the first time, Virudhunagar added the highest number of cases (289) in a day surpassing Madurai’s tally (262) that has been staying atop the table for more than two weeks. Tuticorin (196) and Tirunelveli (110) are the other districts that recorded more than 100 cases on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/1196-new-cases-14-deaths-in-south-250-cases-in-central-tn/articleshow/76883183.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag to step up use of rapid antigen tests||VISAKHAPATNAM: The district has started to carry out rapid antigen tests for faster identification of Covid-19 cases and treatment. The tests are expected to be useful in cases of patients who need emergency surgery, pregnant women, those with severe acure respiratory trouble, travellers, officials and in cases of death before a postmortem is conducted. So far, antigen tests have been conducted in nearly 100 emergency cases for immediate detection of Covid-19. The test gives a result with nearly 90% accuracy within 15-30 minutes, when compared with antibody tests that were banned due to their poor accuracy rate of 30%, said Dr PV Sudhakar, principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC) and Covid-19 nodal officer for north-coastal AP. After successful results were obtained from antigen tests, district collector V Vinay Chand was requested to procure at least 10,000 kits for the district, Dr Sudhakar said, adding that the collector responded positively to his plea. “We have got 1,900 kits from the state government. Of them, nearly 1,000 kits were used till Thursday,” Dr Sudhakar told TOI. Results of antigen tests are available in 30 minutes, unlike RT-PCR tests in which samples have to be collected and sent to labs. — Kamalakara Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-to-step-up-use-of-rapid-antigen-tests/articleshow/76881627.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Cybercrime up 70% in Hyderabad this year||HYDERABAD: With 1,200 cases registered till June this year, the city witnessed nearly a 70% increase in cybercrime cases compared to last year. Last year, nearly 700 cybercrime cases were registered in the city between January andJune, officials said. The cases increased to 1210 cases in the same period this year. “There is an increase of nearly 500 cases this year and also the percentage of detection of fraud cases is low compared to last year. This is due to Covid-19 pandemic as teams cannot travel to other states for investigation or arrest. Most fraudsters are traced outside the state,” said Hyderabad cybercrime ACP, KVM Prasad. According to Prasad, most fraud cases reported this year, especially since the lockdown, were KYC scams and marketplace fraud. “Matrimony fraud, URL and other kinds of frauds were a handful. KYC update scam had a high number of victims. The offender would call pretending to be PayTm or any other app employee saying the victim’s account will be blocked if the KYC is not updated,” said ACP Prasad, adding over 300 such instances were reported. A source from the department said that close to 300 cases of marketplace fraud came to light in the city during this year - most traced to Bharatpur in Rajasthan. “The offenders, pretending to be army officials, lure victims by posting vehicles for sale ads on online marketplaces for second-hand products and cheat people,” said the officer. Since many people during the pandemic relied on online payments and worked from home, cases have increased. “OTP frauds, phishing cases and social media-related cases were also registered. Phishing cases are mostly committed by Nigerians based in Delhi and Mumbai. Offenders of OTP and KYC scams were traced to northern states,” said ACP Prasad. Cyberstalking and fake news cases were also high during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cybercrime-up-70-in-hyderabad-this-yr/articleshow/76882744.cms||Aditi Mallick
July 10, 2020||Mysuru||Dead denied dignity in Shivamogga: Residents block road to crematorium||Shivamogga: Bereaved relatives are battling unfounded and unscientific fears surrounding Covid-19 among citizens, many of whom are refusing dignity to the dead. In Shivamogga, which is chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s home district, residents blocked a road leading to the crematorium in the neighbourhood, making it plain that they did not wish to have a infected patient’s final rites performed there. The crematorium, which rests on the banks of Tunga River, abuts localities, most of which are populated by people from the underprivileged sections. The residents have blockaded the way leading to the crematorium with branches of trees so as to ensure that those who have succumbed to the pandemic are not cremated anywhere close to the locality. Furthermore, civic workers are no longer venturing into the locality, while the fence is also keeping out vehicles meant for the purposes of garbage collection. Moreover, members of the opposition in the Shivamogga City Municipal Corporation on Thursday rallied behind the residents, petitioning the deputy commissioner to choose a crematorium on the outskirts of the city for the final rites of Covid victims. Opposition member in the council Yogish HS has urged Shivamogga DC KB Sivakumar to take the apprehensions of the residents into account, and consider choosing another crematorium. “The government has made it clear that Covid-19 patients succumbing to the disease must be cremated or buried with utmost respect. If the victim was a resident of an area within the corporation limits, the health department will factor that while choosing the crematorium or graveyard. If the family of the deceased is keen on a particular place, we will respect that wish. People must be more humane in such times. I would also like to add that the district administration takes all necessary precautions before the final rites of Covid victims are performed,” Sivakumar told TOI. Meanwhile, the DC has also instructed officials in Shivamogga CMC to enforce all safety measures considering the fact that the Malnad district is now home to 300 Covid patients. All tahsildars have been empowered to file cases against those violating home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dead-denied-dignity-in-shivamogga-residents-block-road-to-crematorium/articleshow/76881932.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Goa||Man from Maldives tests +ve in Calangute||CALANGUTE: In the second coronavirus case reported in Calangute, a 30-year-old man from Maldives has tested positive for the virus. Candolim primary health centre (PHC) medical officer Dr Roshan Nazareth told TOI that the man had come to the PHC a few days ago as he had a fever and had asked to be tested for coronavirus. “The test came back positive, following which he was shifted to the ESI hospital, Margao, late Wednesday evening,” he said. The source of the infection is unknown, Nazareth said, adding that the tracing process was on. He said the man had come from Maldives three months ago. He was staying in a first-floor apartment in a guest house at Tivai vado along with his wife, who works in the hospitality industry in Calangute. His wife’s swab samples have been sent for testing and she has been home quarantined in their apartment. Nazareth said the man was largely confined to his room during the last three months and had minimal interaction with others. However, 13 people who had come in contact with him have been told to home quarantine themselves. Calangute panchayat sources said the man had taken the guest house on lease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-from-maldives-tests-ve-in-calangute/articleshow/76883185.cms||Joseph Zuzarte
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Donate plasma, save Covid-19 patients: Eatala Rajender||HYDERABAD: With many people taking to social media seeking plasma donors, health minister Eatala Rajender on Thursday requested recovered Covid-19 patients to come forward and donate plasma to the ones undergoing treatment. Officials have responded to requests after a few volunteers as well as health experts raised the issue of lack of donors, limiting the use of the treatment. On Thursday, health minister Rajender tweeted, “Requesting #COVID19 recovered patients to please come and donate #Plasma and save covid patients (sic).” Also, in a response to the request of Akhil Ennamasetty, the first plasma donor in Telangana who tweeted saying there were hundreds of plasma donor requests pouring in everyday from Hyderabad, governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan responded, “Plasma bank with adequate antibodies out of large pool of recovered non-infectious patients being explored under discussion.” Akhil also wrote to the government to set up a dedicated task force to cater to needs of donors and Covid-19 patients. Meanwhile, doctors, who were treating Covid-19 patients, reiterated the importance of plasma donors in order to help those who undergoing treatment. “Plasma therapy is needed for those who develop anti-bodies against Covid-19. It is important that we have enough donors because the plasma, which is donated by the survivors of Covid-19, can help patients whose immune system is compromised and those who are critically ill,” Dr Arjun Raj, general secretary, Telangana Junior Doctors’ Association, Gandhi Hospital, said. Experts also reiterated the need for creating a platform exclusively for this purpose, where donors and recipients could coordinate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/donate-plasma-save-covid-patients-eatala/articleshow/76882755.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||High snows betrayed Pakistanis, have now flooded the Chinese||CHANDIGARH: With temperatures increasing in July, leading to melting of snow, water level of the Galwan River in Eastern Ladakh too increased. The melted snow tumbled down the tree-less slopes and washed away some Chinese Public Liberation Army (PLA) positions, rendering a part of the PLA’s forward posture untenable, adding to the pressure to disengage and withdraw. Twenty-one years back, during the Kargil War, the reverse had worked in the Indian Army’s favour. After the third week of June 1999, melting snows slipped away from the Pakistani Northern Light Infantry (NLI) lodged on ridges above 14,500 feet. The Pakistanis, who would melt the snow for drinking and cooking, were left thirsty as the waters from the thaws plunged down to the nullahs, which were dominated by the Indian Army’s assault troops. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/high-snows-betrayed-pakistanis-have-now-flooded-the-chinese/articleshow/76882636.cms||VIKRAM JIT SINGH
July 10, 2020||Surat||Take action in textile markets, say traders||Surat: The Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) has urged the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) to review the situation of Covid-19 spread in the textile markets and initiate measures deemed fit to contain its spread . In a letter to SMC, district collector and principal secretary health, Dr Jayanti Ravi, FOSTTA office-bearers stated that the Covid-19 infection was spreading in the market at lightning speed and many traders and workers have got infected. Two days ago, a section of textile traders went to meet Navsari MP CR Paatil after the SMC officials sealed about five textile markets on Ring Road where Covid-19 cases were reported. After Paatil’s intervention, SMC gave verbal instructions not to seal entire markets, but infected floors or wings. “Certain spots including Moti Begumwadi isn’t following social distancing norms . Thus, we want action accordingly,” said Champalal Bothra, secretary, FOSTTA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/take-action-in-textile-markets-say-traders/articleshow/76880876.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Vadodara||Nishar was held in Maharashtra for burglaries||Vadodara: In a startling revelation, police have found that the 62-year-old victim of custodial death, Sheikh Babu Nishar, had cases of thefts and burglaries lodged against him in Maharashtra. While searching for him after a missing persons complaint was lodged on January 31, the city police reached Karad in Maharashtra’s Satara district on June 27 and learnt that he was arrested there for burglaries. “We found out that four offences of burglaries were registered against him at Karad police station,” said assistant commissioner of police SG Patil. The offences were registered in 2017 and 2018 as Nishar had allegedly stolen ornaments worth Rs 6.8 lakh from four different houses, Karad police station inspector BR Patil told TOI over phone. During investigation, police learnt that a jeweller in Karad to whom Nishar had allegedly sold the stolen ornaments had also died in the custody of Karad police on June 18 in 2016. An inspector and three other policemen of Karad police station are in jail for 30 months in connection with that incident. On June 17, the Karad police had detained jeweller Raosaheb Jadhav (42) of Nimbore village in Solapur district over suspicion of his involvement in a theft. He died in police custody the following day. Another offence was also registered against him at Hinjewadi police station in Pimpri-Chinchwad district as he was found moving around suspiciously. The city police had also checked with jail officials in Satara if Nishar was lodged there. Police are now suspecting that although he used to sell bedsheets while roaming around on bicycle in Vadodara, he used to conduct a recce of closed houses in the city during afternoon hours. “Nishar used to come daily to Vadodara from Ahmedabad either by train or bus and roam around on his bicycle which he used to park at railway station,” an official said. “However, no matter how much dreaded or history-sheeter a person is, an accused can never be harmed or insulted while in police custody,” said deputy commissioner of police, Deepak Meghani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nishar-was-held-in-maharashtra-for-burglaries/articleshow/76880334.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Norms relaxed, 10% IT staff can work from office||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday acceded to the demand from IT industry and permitted up to 10% of employees to work from office in Greater Chennai police limits. The move will benefit large IT players such as TCS, HCL, Cognizant and IBM among others that have thousands of employees. In a statement, the state government said employees should be ferried to work in vehicles operated by the companies. The relaxation in working norms for IT industry comes into effect immediately. Earlier, the state government, while stipulating working norms from July 6 for various industries in Greater Chennai police limits, had permitted 50% of employees of IT/ITeS companies to work from office. But it capped the maximum number of employees to 80. The IT industry had taken up the issue with the state government and explained that a certain number of employees were needed in office to handle critical services. A team from the industry met the state IT secretary Hans Raj Verma last Friday and submitted a memorandum to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/norms-relaxed-10-it-staff-can-work-from-office/articleshow/76882642.cms||D Govardan
July 10, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: IMA wants nod for Covid antigen tests in private labs||PUNE: The Indian Medical Association’s Maharashtra chapter has appealed to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and state government to permit Covid-19 antigen testing at private pathology laboratories across the state. According to the Indian Medical Association (IMA), there are only 48 National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) accredited laboratories in the state, which were permitted to conduct Covid-19 RT-PCR tests. “These too are located mainly in the metropolitan cities. There are 5,000 laboratories run by private pathologists and microbiologists, who possess a postgraduate qualification, and are registered under Maharashtra Medical Council,” said Avinash Bhondwe, president of the IMA’s Maharashtra chapter. “These laboratories are spread across the state , even in small towns and talukas, and will facilitate all citizens with access to quicker testing,” he said. IMA state secretary Pankaj Bandarkar said, “If permitted, citizens from across the state can get tested immediately and collect the results in 30 minutes at a much lower cost than the RT-PCR testing. It will help widen the network of testing even in the remotest of areas and result in early detection and better control of the pandemic. With an addition of 5,000 testing centres, it will be easy to check on the people in containment areas and hotspot zones.” Bhondwe added, “Permitting pathologists to conduct tests will also be beneficial for patients admitted to hospitals for non-Covid reasons like surgery, emergency treatment, delivery and other procedures.” He said, “At present, this test is performed in government hospitals under the supervision of a medical officer, with or without pathology or microbiology qualifications. Why not grant permission to qualified and experienced pathologists?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ima-wants-nod-for-ncov-antigen-tests-in-pvt-labs/articleshow/76882658.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 10, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Cross complaints filed in Karnal school employee’s rape case||KARNAL: A day after a woman employee of a noted private school in Karnal accused the owner, principal and a government official of rape, district police have formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the matter. Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Surender Singh Bhoria said police received counter complaints from both sides and an SIT has been formed. The woman filed a complaint at the women’s police station on July 6, following which a case was registered against the accused under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). In her complaint, the woman alleged that she was raped in 2018 by the owner of the private school and a government official. She also accused the school principal of being party to the crime. She said they had been harassing her mentally and physically since then. According to the complainant, the accused threatened her with dire consequences if she told anyone about the incident, because of which she kept it to herself at first. However, she said she approached the police after being continually harassed by them. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cross-complaints-filed-in-karnal-school-employees-rape-case/articleshow/76882656.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Meerut||UP govt hospitals paying interning docs just Rs 7,500/month, in WB & Chhattisgarh they get above Rs 20k||Meerut: At least 600 interning doctors in four medical colleges of UP-- Meerut, Agra, Jhansi and Saifai-- are on a strike demanding a hike in their stipend, which is fixed at Rs 7,500 per month for the last about ten years. According to the doctors, all the UP government hospitals are paying a fixed Rs 7,500 per month to MBBS interns, whose duty hours stretch beyond 12 hours.The strike which started from Meerut’s LLRM Medical College on Tuesday spread to three more medical colleges of Agra, Jhansi and Saifai on Thursday.“We work in 12 hour shifts and get only Rs 7,500 a month. This is unfair taking into account the hours that we put in. We are also exposing ourselves to patients suffering from Covid-19. Despite all the efforts, we get only Rs 250 a day,” said an intern in Meerut’s LLRM Medical College.Dr Vinay Kumar, state president of Resident Doctors Association (UP), said, “The demand is very valid. However, we do not support the call of the strike, especially during this time when we are dealing with a pandemic. The stipend should be increased, but going on a strike at this time is not correct.”Another intern, on condition of anonymity, said, “Our stipend was increased 10 years ago. After that there was no increment. We have been on a strike since Tuesday. Three months ago, we even took to social media and put forward our problems via videos and posts. But when the government didn’t respond to our letters and social media posts, we were left with no option but to go on a strike.”The intern, who is from UP University of Medical Sciences, Saifai, further said, “Even though we are on strike, the doctors who are on Flu OPD and Covid-19 duty are working regularly. The doctors who were posted in other departments have gone on strike.”When contacted, Dr KK Gupta, director general of medical education, said, “I have forwarded the proposal of increasing the stipend to the state authorities. Financial matters take time, and going on a strike is not a good idea especially when the Epidemic Act is in force. I assure the interns that their salary will be increased and even the authorities are taking all steps to increase it. They need to wait. If the interns do not return to work, strict action will be taken against them.”In West Bengal, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Assam and Kerala, MBBS interns are getting a monthly stipend of Rs 20,000 or more. Last year, the central government had also increased stipend in its hospitals to Rs 23,500 from Rs 17,000. But in the country’s most populated state, UP, they are being paid just Rs 7,500 a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-govt-hospitals-paying-interning-docs-just-rs-7500/month-in-wb-chhattisgarh-they-get-above-rs-20k/articleshow/76881651.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Consider inducting 7 retired HFS officials into IFS, CAT tells UPSC||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh bench of CAT has directed UPSC, Union government and Haryana government to consider the claim of 7 applicants retired from Haryana Forest Services for grant of benefit of induction into IFS (Indian Forest Services) with all consequential benefits, within three months. The CAT bench headed by Sanjeev Kaushik, member (J) and Ajanta Dayalan member (A) disposed of the original applications filed by them and observed that applicants cannot be made to suffer for the delay caused by authorities, particularly in view of the principle of deeming fiction that on the relevant date they were in employment and as such cannot be denied appointment to IFS. Balbir Singh Khokha, HFS (retired), Rajesh Kumar Chugh, HFS (retired), Rajesh Kumar Gulia, HFS ,Om Parkash Sharma, HFS (retired), Ram Karan Sharma, HFS (retired), Raj Kumar Bhatia, HFS (retired) and Satyavir Singh Sheoran, divisional forest officer (retired) moved CAT seeking issuance of directions to the UPSC and Haryana government to consider their case for appointment to the IFS on a par with other appointees, as per select lists for 2008-2015 with all consequential benefits from the due date. Applicants claimed that despite availability of vacancies and their eligibility, recruitment to IFS through promotion could not be finalised for 2008-2015 for various reasons. Few of the applicants argued that they retired from SFS on attaining age of superannuation of 58 years in 2019. Had they been inducted into IFS, they would have continued service up to 2020 or 2021. They pleaded that retirement of an SFS officer is no hindrance to his/her induction into IFS from the due date when he/she was in service and his/her case has to be considered against vacancies of the relevant years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/consider-inducting-7-retired-hfs-officials-into-ifs-cat-tells-upsc/articleshow/76882659.cms||Neha Sharma
July 10, 2020||Goa||Panaji district court shut, staffer contracts virus||PANAJI: The district court, Panaji was closed on Thursday after a staffer tested positive for Covid. Advocates got a message around 10.15am that the court premises would be completely closed at 10.30am when courts begin hearing matters. The court will open again on Monday, an office bearer of the Panjim Bar Association said. Advocates have been informed that cases being heard by the principal district judge and district judge 1 will be taken up by Judge Shabnam Shaikh at Velho Filhos building, while matters being heard by the E court would be taken up by a judge from Spaces building. The entire court complex was shut for sanitisation as a precautionary measure. Around two weeks ago, a court staffer from the Spaces building also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-dist-court-shut-staffer-contracts-virus/articleshow/76883189.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Meerut||In 8 days, 82k houses covered under door-to-door Covid drive in Meerut||Meerut: In a special door-to-door Covid-19 drive to trace symptomatic cases and step up sample testing in the district, 82,243 houses have been covered over the past eight days and 677 samples have been collected. The move is aimed at covering largescale of the population so that the disease can be contained.“As many as 82,243 houses have been surveyed so far in Meerut and a population of 4.14 lakh covered under it. Some 511 symptomatic cases were found against which 677 samples were taken. At least 1,400 teams went door to door to conduct the survey in Meerut district,” said Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut district surveillance officer.The decision on conducting a door-to-door survey was taken at a meeting in Lucknow, chaired by UP chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari. It was decided that a door-to-door identification of symptomatic patients will be done in Meerut, Baghpat, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Hapur and Gautam Buddh Nagar districts as a pilot project.People with Covid-like symptoms -- cough, cold and fever -- and those with a history of diseases like diabetes and blood pressure were the target of the teams||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/in-8-days-82k-houses-covered-under-door-to-door-covid-drive-in-meerut/articleshow/76881641.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government begins home delivery of supplementary nutrition food||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has started delivery of supplementary nutrition food at the doorstep of nearly five lakh beneficiaries in the capital attached with various anganwadi centres. The department of women and child development has also implemented a standard operating procedure to ensure the home delivery through 10,755 anganwadi centres located in 11 districts. The scheme has been started this month because the beneficiaries are finding it difficult to travel to the anganwadi centres and collect the ration. “With the implementation of the SOP, the distribution of supplementary nutrition will be done on fixed weekdays in every fortnight of the month,” women and child development minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said. The articles under supplementary nutrition food include wheat dalia plain (1.3kg), black chana raw (260 gm), jaggery (130 gm), roasted black gram (130 gm) for children beneficiaries and wheat dalia plain (1.6kg), black chana raw (260 gm), jaggery (130 gm), roasted black gram (130 gm) for pregnant and lactating women beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-begins-home-delivery-of-supplementary-nutrition-food/articleshow/76882662.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Trichy||Nurse’s death exposes inadequacy of safety gear for health workers||TRICHY: The death of a 58-year-old nurse at the Pitchaimani of primary health centre (PHC) in Valanadu in the district from Covid-19 on Wednesday has brought to fore the safety concerns of frontline workers. She was due to retire from service on July 31 She was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital two weeks back with breathing difficulties. She is survived by her husband and a son. Her death raised a question on the safety of frontline workers – village health nurses, sector health nurses, community health nurses, health inspectors, lab technicians and others in the line of duty. In the case of Pitchaimani, a sector health nurse, the public health and preventive medicine department is not sure where she could have contracted the infection - whether at work or outside. Her job required field visits and to be in close contact with the pregnant women and other patients. Some of the village health nurses who came to the Trichy collector office said they were not provided with safety gear. “Though the government provided N95 masks, three ply masks and sanitizers in the beginning, now they have left us to buy on our own,” said a nurse. About 40 nurses came to the collector’s office on Thursday. Only a few of them were seen wearing N95 masks. They said that some managed to buy N95 masks from shops while others used 3-ply masks and surgical masks while dealing with the patients. For several young and senior nurses, Pitchaimani’s loss was a personal to them. A junior nurse requesting anonymity said that nurse Pithchaimani was very proactive. “She played an encouraging role for young nurses by accompanying them during field visits. In fact, she was a Covid warrior,” said a nurse. The doctors and nurses at the Marungapuri block paid floral tribute to her portrait at Valanadu PHC on Thursday. Deputy director of health services, Trichy, Dr A Subramani said, “We have been advising our staff to take utmost care of their safety during their work. We will sensitize them on their personal safety,” he told TOI on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nurses-death-exposes-inadequacy-of-safety-gear-for-health-workers/articleshow/76883188.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 10, 2020||Goa||CCP staff from Covid-hit areas likely to resume work soon||Panaji: The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) will decide on Monday when to ask its workers residing in Covid-19 hit areas like Chimbel and Camrabhat to resume work. Officials have been closely monitoring these areas and no fresh cases have been reported from Camrabhat in four days. “Given this improvement, the workers are likely to resume duties from next week,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. After reports of Covid-19 cases among a few residents of Camrabhat and Chimbel broke out, a total of 115 workers were asked not to report for work, until further notice. Of these, 90 are from Camrabhat in Taleigao. These workers are engaged drivers and sweepers. Similarly, workers from Chimbel were asked to stay home after Covid-19 cases surfaced in Chimbel last month and the authorities sealed Xivrem and Indranagar. “There are 15 people from Chimbel that are expected to join us next week. We will take a decision on Monday on the date of rejoining,” Madkaikar said. “The infected workers are still in the hospital, but they are recovering well. We will take a call on their resumption after they’ve been discharged.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-staff-from-covid-hit-areas-likely-to-resume-work-soon/articleshow/76883197.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Pune||Fruit vendor loses Rs 14.49 lakh to debit card update fraud||PUNE: An unidentified telecaller, who represented himself as a bank executive, siphoned off Rs14.49 lakh from a Kothrud fruit vendor’s bank account between May 27 and June 6. The caller secured the complainant’s ATM debit card, phone number and e-wallet details on the pretext of updating the card. Inspector Vijaykumar Shinde of the Pune cyber police said, “The complainant holds an account with a private bank with the ATM card facility. He has also installed a UPI application on his cell phone. On May 27, he received a call from an unidentified caller claiming to be a bank executive. The caller asked him to upgrade his ATM card.” “The vendor answered the caller’s questions without sensing anything amiss. He also shared the OTPs received over the next few days since he was told it was part of the formal procedure for the card upgrade,” said Shinde. The suspects siphoned off Rs14.49 lakhs from his account and some amount from his UPI application, Shinde added. “We have also asked him to fill the dispute form with the bank. The bank may be able to provide him some respite,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fruit-vendor-loses-rs-14-49l-to-debit-card-update-fraud/articleshow/76882663.cms||Gitesh Shelke
July 10, 2020||Pune||Biker thrashed for not using turn indicator||Pune: A minor altercation over a motorcyclist not using an indicator while taking a right turn at an intersection took a violent turn when a man assaulted him with a stick at Kudje near NDA on Wednesday afternoon. Motorcyclist Ganesh Shelkar (28) was admitted to a private hospital with fractured right hand and leg. The Uttamnagar police later arrested assailant Hrishikesh Paygude (30), a criminal on police record, from Kudje for offences under sections 324 (voluntary causing hurt by dangerous weapons/means), 506 and 504 (criminal intimidation and intentional insult) of the Indian Penal Code following a complaint by Shelkar’s elder brother Vishnu (30). Police said Paygude has been previously arrested in body offence cases by the Haveli, Warje, Bharati Vidyapeeth and Uttamnagar police. Shelkar and his relative were travelling on a motorcycle towards Kudje. Paygude was riding his two-wheeler just behind them. As they approached a right turn to Agalambe village, Shelkar took the turn without the signal, causing Paygude to almost lose control over his vehicle, police said. Though Paygude hurled a stream of abuses at them, Shelkar and his relative continued to drive ahead without engaging themselves in any argument. This enraged Paygude further and he chased and intercepted them. He then picked up a stick and assaulted Shelkar. Later, his relative took him to the hospital and also informed the matter to the police. The police identified Paygude from his motorcycle registration number plate and arrested him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/biker-thrashed-for-not-using-turn-indicator/articleshow/76882669.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: This techie is trying to solve problems in the real world||CHENNAI: When S Dinesh Babu came across Ambiga, a 58-year-old widow from Kansalpettai in Vellore city, he could not fathom how the woman made ends meet with a monthly income of just Rs 600. A domestic help whose drunkard son has never offered any support, Ambiga weathered life and the elements in a damaged hut whose thatched roof was lying in disrepair for more than a year. Babu, a 31-year-old software analyst based in Chennai, helped Ambiga construct a new hut at a cost of Rs 23,000. He now plans to help Ambiga have a regular income by setting up a petty shop for her. Widely known as Dinesh Saravanan, Babu, a native of Rangapuram in Vellore, has been helping the needy for six years now. Volunteers in Vellore say Babu took to social work after his elder brother, S Saravanan, died in a two-wheeler accident in 2014. During the lockdown, he has helped more than 5,000 impoverished families after getting financial assistance from well-wishers. “Ever since the lockdown was imposed, we distributed provisions to 3,050 families. We provided breakfast and lunch to more than 50 families quarantined at Kagithapattarai corporation school for more than 90 days,” said Babu. “We distributed kabasura kudineer to more than 10,000 people in Vellore city and printed and distributed 1,00,000 copies of Covid-19 awareness pamphlets. We had handed over face masks and gloves to 540 sanitary workers in Vellore.” Before the lockdown, Babu had distributed 20,500 saplings and had planted 25,000 palm seeds. He got desilted a pond and helped a widow build a toilet in her house. His work earned him accolades from the Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami who appreciated Babu on Twitter on April 25. Babu, who added Saravanan to his name after his elder brother passed away, said: “I was born in a humble family. We sold milk and other dairy products from home. It was because of the efforts my elder brother Saravanan that I and three of my siblings could pursue higher education.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/this-techie-is-trying-to-solve-problems-in-the-real-world/articleshow/76882667.cms||Karal Marx
July 10, 2020||Goa||Goans in Saudi Arabia unite to return home, arrival today||Panaji: A Spicejet flight carrying Goans stranded in Saudi Arabia will arrive in Goa on Friday evening. Goans stranded in Jeddah, Dammam, Abha, Riyadh and off-shore riggers stranded after the closure of international flights by Saudi Arabia on March 15 are being brought back to Goa. “The flight has not only helped Goans, but also people from border areas in Maharashtra and Karnataka. The Goan community at Saudi Arabia organised this flight with special low prices with direct deals with SpiceJet Limited Mumbai office with no middle man or agents,” says Jude Coutinho, the team leader of the operation. The father-daughter duo of Jude and Renita took the initiative by first setting up a Whatsapp group to unite all Goans and then worked with them to make this possible and then followed up with the embassy and government to bring the project to fruition. “It was a big challenge as Saudi is one of the biggest regions in the Gulf and one of the only without a Goan association. We started in the dark not knowing where and how many Goans wanted to return,” Jude says. The team also sponsored the airfare, Covid test and quarantine expenses of a few who were finding it difficult to make ends meet. “After doing our homework and approaching the government and airlines, all help came our way. We got approval and clearances immediately. We found that the government is working behind the scenes although they cannot personally apply to everyone. The CM, NRI commission and Spice Jet and so many others made this possible,” he said, adding that the team struggled to get a good deal to ensure that people who lost jobs wouldn’t be further stressed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goans-in-saudi-arabia-unite-to-return-home-arrival-today/articleshow/76883194.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Body of 10-year-old boy killed in accident recovered from drain||NEW DELHI: The body of 10-year-old Gaffar who was killed in an accident in east Delhi on Sunday was recovered from a drain in Sector 18 Noida on Thursday morning. The boy was killed in an accident when he came under the wheels of a pick-up van when the driver was reversing the vehicle. Fearing arrest, the van driver, Madan Gopal, dumped the child’s body in a drain in Sector 14 Noida. After the child’s family filed a missing complaint, police started investigation and arrested Gopal on Tuesday. Police have now added destruction of evidence and death due to negligence in the existing FIR. The body was handed over to the family on Thursday. During interrogation, Gopal told the cops that he had dumped the body in a drain near Sector 14 Noida. The cops revealed that the drain was clogged with garbage, so initially the search was limited to the stretch till Sector 15. However, since it rained in the past couple of days, the officials suspected that the body could have floated ahead. “A team of officers along with Noida Police and divers searched for the body starting from the drain near Sector 14 up to two kilometres ahead till Sector 18 from where the body was discovered at 11am on Thursday.” said Jasmeet Singh, DCP (East). The parents of the child identified the body. “We want the strictest punishment for the accused. Even if my child had died on the spot while he was reversing his van, I could have rushed him to the hospital. But he took him and threw him in the drain,” said Shahnaaz, Gaffar’s mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/body-of-10-yr-old-boy-killed-in-accident-recovered-from-drain/articleshow/76882673.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Coronavirus hits industrial estates, three units shut||MARGAO: After Covid-19 cases were detected in some units in the Verna and Cuncolim industrial estates, South Goa collector Ajit Roy on Thursday ordered closure of three industrial units – one at Verna, and two at Cuncolim – for 14 days in three separate orders. The closure orders have been issued to Tulip Diagnostics located in the Verna industrial estate, and Global Ispat Pvt Ltd and Indo Spirit Beverages Pvt Ltd, both located in the Cuncolim industrial estate, under provisions of the Disaster Management Act 2005. “In order to contain the spread of the virus among other employees at the employment/work place and at the time of travel from home to industry premises, it is expedient to order closure of the (industrial unit) for a period of 14 days,” the orders read. All officials and employees of the three units have been directed to compulsorily remain under home quarantine for the two-week period. In case of contravention, action would be taken under Section 57 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the order stated. TOI had earlier reported that as several of the cases detected positive from South Goa during the last few days had links with the Verna industrial estate — as the patients were either employed at the industrial units or suspected to have had some association with the industrial area — there was possibility of a widespread outbreak if not contained in time. Both the persons detected positive in Rassaim on Saturday, and subsequently two found in Nuvem, were also employed in the Verna industrial estate. The Loutolim primary health centre collected throat swab samples of 123 people during the contact tracing of the index patients in Rassaim, out of which 26 people have tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/virus-hits-industrial-estates-three-units-shut/articleshow/76883208.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
July 10, 2020||Goa||Patients forgo Ponda sub-district hosp for its OPD||Ponda: Several patients visiting the Ponda sub-district hospital are passing up getting admitted and are instead opting to be treated at the out patient departments (OPDs). They are apprehensive after a doctor at the facility tested postive for Covid-19. Sources said that those had been admitted to the hospital have even sought voluntary discharge under the condition of attending the OPDs. News of a medical officer from Sanguem taluka working at the Ponda sub-district hospital testing positive spread across the town and created panic. Shyam Naik (name changed), a resident of Kavle village said he has refused to be admitted to the hospital and requested the medical officer that he would attend the weekly OPD. “We can live with minor ailments but can't take a chance with our health by getting treatment where the doctors themselves have become patients of corona,” he said. Somshekhar Gadag, a migrant staying in Usgao, whose child has been a patient of the paediatric department also said that he would instead continue treatment at the Dharbandora Primary Health Centre at Piliyem. The testing facility for Covid-19 at the hospital premises also has added to people’s apprehension. Some patients say that those coming to get tested for virus are roaming in the hospital corridors. However, all efforts to contact the medical superintendent of the hospital on the issue were futile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/patients-forgo-ponda-sub-district-hosp-for-its-opd/articleshow/76883204.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
July 10, 2020||Goa||With fourth victim, almost half of Covid deaths came from Vasco||VASCO: With the fourth person in Vasco succumbing to Covid-19 with 17 days, 44% of the deaths in the state are from the port town. The ninth covid victim, Mohamod Hanif Shah, 50, a resident of Vasco succumbed to the virus early Thursday morning at Goa Medical College and hospital, Bambolim. According to sources, Shah was not keeping well for over a week and had visited some private doctors as he was suffering with fever and cough. On Wednesday night when he condition worsened, his family persuaded him to go for a swab test to the sub-district hospital at Chicalim. “When Shah was brought to the hospital at around 10pm on Wednesday he showed all the symptoms of covid. His swab test was immediately done and he was referred to the GMC. Within two hours if was confirmed that the patient was Covid positive,” Dr Rajendra Borkar, health officer of the sub-district hospital, told TOI. Shah passed away at around 3am on Thursday. A taxi driver by profession, Shah also owned two taxis. He leaves behind his wife and two children, a daughter and a son. On Thursday morning, city councillor Krishna Salkar alias Daji with the help of municipal workers sanitized the building in which Shah resided, along the F L Gomes road. “People should not neglect symptoms. Shah was a well known and helpful person and so would come in contact with many people,” said Salkar, while urging those who came in contact with Shah to undergo tests. The contact tracing is being carried out and the close family members will tested immediately, said Salkar. Shah’s body was laid to rest at the kabarastan in Maimollem, Vasco, on Thursday. A few members of his family and some friends were present at the kabarastan and offered namaz from a distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-4th-victim-almost-half-of-covid-deaths-came-from-vasco/articleshow/76883200.cms||Ruvina Khan
July 10, 2020||Delhi||South Delhi Municipal Corporation paves way for dining out on terrace||NEW DELHI: Soon, you might be able to enjoy dining in the open as the use of terraces and lawns as a service area for licensed eating houses has been incorporated in a new policy drafted by South Delhi Municipal Corporation. In the letter to the standing committee, SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti said that he had received a representation from National Restaurant Association of India requesting that serving food in open areas and terraces adjacent to eating houses be allowed. “There is a demand for such eating places in line with many foreign countries. A similar policy is already in place in Mumbai. Accordingly, it is proposed that servicing of food should be allowed in open spaces and terraces,” Bharti’s letter stated. While serving liquor would be permitted at licensed terraces, the policy stated that view cutters and high parapet grilles would have to be used to minimise inconvenience to others. The draft policy stated, “Drinking on the terrace should not be visible to passersby as it may create a bad feeling. Additional measures will have to be taken to obstruct the visibility from high places.” A senior corporation official said that acts like “throwing articles outside the space” and “avoiding complaints from the neighbourhood” have been incorporated to address the rights of the people living in the vicinity. Permission would be suspended or revoked in case nuisance is created. Moreover, no live band performance or music beyond permissible limits would be allowed. To curb slow encroachment of the space, use of umbrellas, monsoon sheds or any kind of temporary cover won’t be permitted. The annual licensing fee for four-star hotels and restaurants would be Rs 200 per sq feet. Lower categories would get licences at half the price. “The world over, restaurants and the dining industry are trying to maximise outdoor space usage due to Covid conditions and social distancing norms,” the corporation official said. Separate permission would have to be taken from Delhi Fire Service. “No cooking will be allowed and stalls for ice-cream or fast food won’t be permitted in the open areas due to fire safety concerns,” said a municipal official. The draft policy would be put before the SDMC standing committee on Friday. However, an official said the committee might deliberate on the matter for a longer period and it was highly unlikely that it would be passed on the same day. Watch Delhi: SDMC paves way for dining out on terrace in national capital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-paves-way-for-dining-out-on-terrace/articleshow/76882698.cms||Paras Singh
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||SHO Kaur files bail plea in CBI court||Chandigarh: On-the-run suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur has moved an anticipatory bail application in the special court of CBI, which has issued a notice to the investigation bureau.Stating that there was no truth in the FIR, which was registered “at the whims of some police officials”, Kaur said she was fearing arrest by the CBI for no fault of hers.The bail application said there was no demand or proof of bribe and the graft amount was part of compromise money, which was agreed by Gurdeep Singh to be paid to Randhir Singh. Gurdeep had complained that the SHO had called him to the police station and told that Randhir Singh of Manimajra had alleged that he had duped him of Rs 28 lakh on the pretext of providing a government job to his wife. He was asked to pay the bribe to save himself, he added.The plea said Gurdeep had a chequered past and was an accused in a job scam and is son-in-law of a Punjab Congress MLA. The CBI has to file its reply on July 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sho-kaur-files-bail-plea-in-cbi-court/articleshow/76882679.cms||Neha Sharma
July 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Scooterist snatches electrician’s cellphone||PUNE: A person was booked on Wednesday on the charge of robbing an electrician of his cellphone after their vehicles grazed past each other near Jama Masjid on Kharadi bypass around 8.45am on Wednesday. Police said the suspect also took away the ignition keys of the electrician’s vehicle. “The electrician, Ram Bhimale (24) from Hadapsar, stopped his motorcycle after it grazed the suspect’s scooter. Bhimale told the suspect that he would pay for the damages caused to the scooter,” assistant inspector Gajanan Jadhav from the Chandannagar police told TOI. “The suspect, however, pushed Bhimale in a fit of anger and snatched his cellphone. He also took away the ignition keys before fleeing the spot,” Jadhav said. Bhimale in his FIR stated that the suspect was around 28 years and his vehicle did not have a registration number. “We are analysing CCTV cameras and working on certain clues to arrest the suspect at the earliest,” Jadhav added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/scooterist-snatches-electricians-cellphone/articleshow/76882676.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Ponda police station functioning from new shed||PONDA: To alleviate fear in visitors' mind, Ponda police have began working from a specially erected ventilated tin-sheets-roofed shed in front of the police station from Tuesday. Ponda DySP Nelson Albuquerque said people were scared to visit the police station after around 25 policemen tested positive for coronavirus. According to literature on Covid-19, the virus is rapidly transmitted in non-ventilated premises, but the possibility of virus transmission is less in ventilated areas. The shed is fully ventilated and the possibility of virus transmission is very less inside the shed. “We have shifted the police station in the shed. Now people can visit the police station without fear,” Albuquerque said. In the absence of PI Harischandra Madkaikar, the police authority has givenValpoi PI Sagar Ekoskar additional charge of Ponda station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ponda-police-stn-functioning-from-new-shed/articleshow/76883211.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
July 10, 2020||India||MEA to China: Honour pledge to respect LAC||NEW DELHI: On the eve of the next virtual meeting of Indian and Chinese officials and in the wake of the ongoing disengagement of forces, the foreign ministry on Thursday reiterated that the Chinese claim to the Galwan Valley area was exaggerated and untenable and that the Line of Actual Control (LAC) must be strictly respected. Briefing journalists, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said national security advisor Ajit Doval in his conversation with Chinese foreign minister and state councillor Wang Yi on July 5 had said that “Indian troops had always taken a very responsible approach towards border management and at the same time, our forces were deeply committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and security”. The special representatives (SRs), Srivastava said, had agreed “that peace and tranquillity in border areas was essential for overall development of bilateral ties”. Calling for restoration of peace and tranquillity on the LAC, the spokesperson said, “One of the key provisions of these bilateral agreements is the commitment that the two sides shall strictly respect and observe the LAC. The two SRs have also agreed that the two sides should work together to avoid any incident in the future that could disturb peace and tranquillity in border areas.” The MEA said diplomatic and military officials of both sides would continue to meet to take forward the process of “disengagement and de-escalation” as agreed to by the SRs. The government added that there was some “inaccurate and uninformed” comments about the disengagement process and its implications. The comments seem in the context of suggestions that India will give up its patrolling routes. Army sources have said that buffer zones being created at friction points are temporary measures. “Let me remind you that in the last few weeks, we have made several statements spelling out categorically the position of the government on different aspects of the current situation in the western sector of India-China border areas,” Srivastava said. The Indian government clearly expects that neither side should take any unilateral action to alter the LAC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mea-to-china-honour-pledge-to-respect-lac/articleshow/76884075.cms||Indrani Bagchi
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Husband, in-laws throw woman off first floor||AHMEDABAD: A 29-year-old woman lodged a police complaint from Civil Hospital — where she is being treated — alleging that her husband and in-laws tried to kill her by throwing her off the first floor of their house. Deepika Koyetiya named her husband Jignesh Koyetiya, along with her father-in-law Praveen and mother-in-law Chandrika in her complaint. She has also alleged that they demanded Rs 5 lakh as dowry from her. She stated that her husband was always suspicious of her and would hit her, suspecting that she was having an affair. Inspector D J Chudasama of Meghaninagar police station said an offence was registered under Section 307, 498(a) , 323, 294(b), 506(1), 114 of the IPC and under the Dowry Prohibition Act. “We are investigating the details stated in the FIR and will act against the accused after getting evidence,” said Chudasama. According to the FIR, the complainant married Jignesh in May 2010. They have two sons, 7 and 5 years old. She lives with her husband, father-in-law and mother-in-law on the first floor of the house. She stated that in October 2019, on checking her husband’s phone, she found that he was involved with another woman. After she informed Jignesh’s parents about this, he assaulted her and threatened to kill her. The FIR says that at the time his parents also fought with her and demanded Rs 5 lakh as dowry, without which they would drive her out of the house. According to the FIR, on Wednesday while she was talking to her sister on the phone, her in-laws and husband got angry at her and beat her up. They also forbade her from talking to anyone from her parental home. The FIR states that suddenly, all three of them picked her up and threw her up off the first floor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/husband-in-laws-throw-woman-off-first-floor/articleshow/76881793.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Goa||Goa education department flouts Centre’srule, asks staff to attend schools||PANAJI: In complete disregard to the directives of the Centre, the state education department has made it mandatory for teaching and non-teaching staff to attend schools. The education department’s insistence comes at a time when Goa is emerging as one of the hotspots for Covid-19 cases in the country, with over 100 cases being reported daily on an average in the past six days. Despite the secretary in the department of school education and literacy under the ministry of human resource development, Anita Karwal, sending a directive to all the states on July 6 to strictly implement the home ministry’s directives to keep the schools shut and teaching and non-teaching staff to work from home “as far as possible”, the Goa education department has snubbed the Centre’s order. On June 23, even as Goa’s Covid cases were showing a spike, director of education Vandana Rao issued a circular asking all teaching and non-teaching staff in Goa to report to schools to work and institutes are implementing the orders since June 24. Rao, who had issued the order mandating all teaching and non-teaching staff to attend schools, sent a terse reply when asked whether her department was reconsidering the decision: “Yes, we are putting it up.” With Rao yet to conform to the HRD order, teachers have appealed to chief minister Pramod Sawant, who also holds the education portfolio, to allow them to work from home. Dattatray Naik, president of All Goa Secondary School Teachers’ Association, has written to Sawant stating that the directorate of education is trampling on the law and putting the safety and life of teachers at risk. “We are living in a democratic setup where the rule of law is in force. All guidelines issued by the MHA and the MHRD insist on work from home. However, in complete violation of the guidelines and circulars issued by the Union government, the directorate had issued a circular on June 23, making it compulsory for all teachers to attend the school regularly,” said Naik. He said this is in “total contravention of the Union government’s directives”. “The directorate forcing teachers to travel by public transport is nothing but putting their life at risk for no reason. We earnestly request you to direct it to issue a circular for teachers to work from home and to follow the directives of MHA strictly,” Naik said. President of Higher Secondary School Teachers’ Association of Goa Anant Pissurlekar said he has sought a meeting with the chief secretary to bring this violation to his notice. “When cases in the state are rising, it is being insisted that teachers should report to work. It is not that teachers are sitting idle at home, they had already invested in equipment at home and had begun classes online. For everything else, the CM quotes central government guidelines, then why are the directives not being followed only when it comes to teachers,” said Pissurlekar. Headmaster of Shishu Niketan High School, Navelim, Vithoba Dessai said action should be initiated against the director for violation of the central government’s orders. “The director should be removed from the post for this violation and orders should be issued immediately to allow teachers to work from home,” said Dessai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-edu-dept-flouts-centresrule-asks-staff-to-attend-schools/articleshow/76883237.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 10, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Hit by job loss, man murders landlord in fight over rent dues||CHENNAI: A 21-year-old man stabbed his landlord to death at Kundrathur in the city on Thursday for demanding four months house rent due. According to police, Ajith, a mechanic-cum-driver, did not pay his monthly rent of Rs 4,000 for the past four months as the lockdown had rendered him jobless. Gunasekaran, 50, a former bank employee, was living alone in Kundrathur. His wife and children were living separately in Ayanavaram. Gunasekaran owned a house located a few streets away from his place of stay. He had rented out a part of his two-portion house to Ajith and his parents.  On Wednesday, Gunasekaran had visited Ajith’s house and demanded rent. According to sources, Gunasekaran had a heated argument with Ajith’s parents who were alone at that time. When Ajith returned home, his mom and dad complained about their spat with the landlord. On Thursday, Ajith went to Gunasekaran’s home around noon fully drunk and picked up a quarrel with him. Gunasekaran asked Ajith to vacate the house immediately. In a fit of rage, Ajith barged into Gunasekaran’s house, took a kitchen knife and stabbed him. Gunasekaran ran out of the house to save himself, but slipped and fell on the road. Continuing his attack, Ajith slit Gunasekaran’s neck on the road and repeatedly stabbed him several times in his head, chest and abdomen, killing him on the spot. Later, he tied Gunasekaran’s leg with his lungi and dragged him back to the entrance of the house before escaping from the place. Kundrathur police rushed to the spot and retrieved Gunasekaran’s body and sent it to Chromepet Government Hospital for postmortem. Police nabbed Ajith from the neighbourhood, and remanded him in judicial custody for murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hit-by-job-loss-man-murders-landlord-in-fight-over-rent-dues/articleshow/76882692.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Trichy||Trichy cops join monitoring panel for Covid-19||TRICHY: In an effort to have an integrated approach to fight Covid-19, Trichy city police also joined hands with the revenue, civic body and health departments in the monitoring committees for all the 65 city wards . On Wednesday, each committee in the city corporation started visiting the areas as per schedule. The objective of the committee was to identify the people with Covid-19 symptoms and screen them thoroughly. As the role of police was also felt necessary in the task, Trichy city police commissioner J Loganathan volunteered to depute police personnel on duty.  “During the work, they face some difficulties such as non-cooperation from public. The presence of a police in the team will help them sort out the issues fast,” CoP Loganathan told ToI adding that the committee could cover the entire ward in a week’s time. CoP also said that the communication with the police department would also be faster in case of need for more police force to tackle any issues. The frontline health workers have been facing some issues during their visit to the localities for screening and other activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/city-cops-join-monitoring-panel-for-covid/articleshow/76883234.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 16 new positive cases take Chandigarh case count to 523||CHANDIGARH: As many as 16 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Thursday. With this, the city case count now stands at 523, including 113 active ones and seven deaths. Those who have caught the virus include an eight-month-old girl from Manimajra. Her two family members, aged 17 and 32, also tested positive. All three are family contacts of a positive case. Four persons are from Sector 38: three women (aged 59, 40 and 30) and a 14-year-old boy. All of them are family members of a Covid-19 patient. Two of a family are from Sector 55. An 80-year-old man, a family contact of a positive case and resident of Sector 51; an 11-year-old girl of Sector 40; a 45-year-old man of Sector 19; a 31-year-old man and a 28-year-old woman of Sector 45; a 32-year-old man of Sector 52; and a 37-year-old man of Sector 27 are among those who have contracted the disease. To date, 9,096 people have been tested for novel coronavirus in Chandigarh. Of them, 8,518 tested negative and 523 positive. As many as 403 patients have been cured so far. Reports of 53 are awaited.  On a positive note, a 42-year-old woman of Maloya was treated and discharged from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital. She has now been shifted to Post Discharge Quarantine Facility at Sood Dharmshala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/16-new-ve-cases-take-ut-case-count-to-523/articleshow/76882686.cms||Kamini Mehta
July 10, 2020||Pune||Cops act against 1.9k people for defying lockdown rules||Pune: The Pune police took action against 1,907 persons throughout Wednesday and during the night intervening Wednesday and Thursday for violating various lockdown rules in the containment areas.Joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve said that the infection is spreading in different areas and citizens must take every precautions required. People must abide by the rules of the lockdown and night curfew, he said.The police are executing nakabandi operations at 197 spots in the city. About 2,000 police personnel are involved in implementing the rules, especially in containment areas.Cases have been filed against 445 persons for travelling on their vehicles or walking on the streets without any purpose during the night curfew. The police has also filed cases against 85 persons found travelling in containment areas without valid e-passes.Cops have also filed cases against 536 persons, who were moving in containment areas without a mask. Similarly, the police have seized 38 vehicles belonging to drivers, who were not wearing masks.Further, the police has filed cases under Section 188 (disobedience of the order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against 386 persons. Similarly, the police filed cases against 49 motorcyclists/owners for travelling triple seats in and around containment areas.The police also took action against 96 persons for driving on the wrong side of the road and 236 persons were caught for jumping traffic signals. The police have filed cases against them under Section 188 of the IPC and several provisions of the Motor Vehicle Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-act-against-1-9k-people-for-defying-lockdown-rules/articleshow/76882700.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad gets 334 new cases; most in a day yet||Aurangabad: A day before complete lockdown, Aurangabad saw the highest single-day rise in Covid cases with 334 people testing positive. With addition of these new cases, the district’s tally now stands at 7,672. Of them, 4,162 people have been discharged from hospitals. The day also witnessed as many as eight deaths, including three comorbid patients admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), taking the total number of Covid-19 related deaths to 338. A health official said the effect of the lockdown may reflect in the number of cases recorded. “Cooperation and self-restrain of the citizens will determine the success of the lockdown,” a senior police officer said. Guardian minister Subhash Desai, while lending an ear to the grievances and concerns of the industrial houses, granted them permission to operate, but they will have to follow all the norms and conditions laid down by the government. Already taking cognizance of the rapidly increasing number of Covid-19 cases, the Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court has admitted a criminal suo motu PIL and has pulled up the authorities. The division bench on one hand has wished the authorities success in breaking the chain of the fast spreading Covid-19, while on the other has warned them by stating: “We have already made it clear that this court may take action against those who have passed the buck and have shirked the responsibility.’ A senior official said that after registering about 200 cases each day for over a week, Aurangabad registering over 300 cases, has added to the concerns of the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-gets-334-new-cases-most-in-a-day-yet/articleshow/76881775.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 10, 2020||Goa||Edu dept tells unaided schools to roll back fee hike||Panaji: The directorate of education (DoE) on Thursday said that the fee hike approved by it in May for unaided schools for the academic year 2020-21 has been rolled back. Private unaided schools have also been asked to waive off the ‘activity fee’ for the year. Transportation charges are not to be collected until it actually commences, the DoE said. “Some of the unaided schools had taken approval for the fee structure for the academic year 2020-21 from the directorate of education before the Covid-19 crisis, and some of them had taken it after. In order to maintain equality, the government has decided not to permit any fee hike for 2020-21 and to roll back the hike permitted till date,” director of education Vandana Rao said in a circular. She said the instructions are applicable to managements of all unaided primary, secondary, higher secondary schools. “The fees charged from students for the academic year 2020-21 should be same that of fees charges during the academic year 2019-20, if approved. In case any school had not got their fee structure approved for academic year 2019-20, they are to get their fee structure approved by the directorate for 2020-21,” Rao said in the circular. She said that several complaints were received from parents whose children are studying in unaided schools, and that the directorate discussed the issues with parents and officials of private schools. “This office received several complaints/calls from parents whose wards are going to unaided school regarding fees levied during the Covid-19 pandemic. It was claimed that the fees have been increased without prior notice or information to parents,” Rao said. In May, the directorate had approved the fee hike stating that the change in fee structure “is within a limit”. TOI had reported on May 20 that parents were severely affected by this increase in fee structure as they are going through pay cuts and job loss during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/edu-dept-tells-unaided-schools-to-roll-back-fee-hike/articleshow/76883246.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nursing student harassed in Ranip||Ahmedabad: A nursing student, 21, from Ranip filed a complaint on Wednesday against a man from Kheda alleging sexual harassment and also that the accused had verbally abused her uncle when he told him not to harass his niece. In her FIR, the woman states that one Sagar Patel had on August 6, 2019 sent a friend request on Facebook which she had accepted. After that, they began chatting with each other on Facebook messenger and also exchanged their cellphone numbers. On September 5, Patel came to meet the woman near her nursing college in Lapkaman and later they spent some time at a flat in Gota. Later, Patel dropped her at her home. She said that they fell in love with each other and Patel told her that he wanted to marry her. On February 14, Patel called up the complainant and picked up fight with her as she was attending annual function of her college. As Patel verbally abused the complainant, she stopped talking with him. But Patel continued sending obscene messages to the woman and also made vulgar demands through video calls. He also allegedly pressured her to have sex with him. Ultimately, the complainant told her parents about the harassment. The complainant’s uncle then called up Patel and told him not to harass her. But Patel began hurling caste-based slurs at her uncle, the woman has stated. Patel told her uncle that he will kidnap her. After this, she along with her parents went to Ranip police station and filed a complaint of sexual harassment, criminal intimidation and uttering of abusive words along with charges under provisions of SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nursing-student-harassed-in-ranip/articleshow/76881788.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Mom of murdered girl sent to mental health centre||TRICHY: The mother of the seven-year-old girl who was raped and murdered in Pudukottai last week was admitted to the mental health centre at the government hospital in Annavasal on Thursday after she showed symptoms of depression and hopelessness. She was mentally disturbed by the death of her daughter and as her condition worsened on Thursday, the district collector directed authorities to shift her to the mental health centre. The girl was raped and brutally murdered by a flowerseller on July 1 when she was playing near a local temple. Her body was found the next day following which the accused was arrested. District collector P Uma Maheswari had directed a team of officials led by the district social welfare officer to extend psychological counselling to the victim’s mother. The team visited the family members twice and found that the mother was showing symptoms of hopelessness. R Karthik Deivanayagam, project officer, district mental health programme who was part of the team, said their objective was to give her comprehensive mental health care. Though she has been given psychological therapy, she requires treatment for mental illness and hence was shifted to a hospital. She will be monitored for her mental health for at least a couple of months and then discharged based on the progress. As she also has another five-year-old daughter and her husband does not take care of her, there is no proper support system in place. “The girl will also have to be shifted to a home,” said Deivanayagam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mom-of-murdered-girl-sent-to-mental-health-centre/articleshow/76883245.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Dehradun||26 parks in Doon to get a new lease of life||Dehradun: The Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority (MDDA) has decided to beautify 26 parks under its jurisdiction. Officials said that a plan has been drafted to get the maintenance work done in these parks before they can be opened for the public with keeping in mind the social distancing guidelines. The officials said that many of these public parks are situated in residential areas where medicinal plants like Neem and Rudraksh will also be planted as demanded by people. Apart from the medicinal plants, hibiscus and marigold will also be planted and recreational amenities for children like swing slides would be rearranged for compliance of social distancing norms.. Talking to TOI, MDDA’s horticulture officer AR Joshi said, “The work of revamping 26 parks will be completed in a phased manner. Apart from horticulture activities, construction of walking passages and other beautification work will also be completed.” “The maintenance work along with added elements will be completed on priority basis. Once the work is completed, people will be able to utilise the facility like before while following social distancing. More planting of trees and flowers will be done during Harela festival this year,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/26-parks-in-doon-to-get-a-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/76880418.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Trichy||Corporation, cops to monitor, screen traders at G Corner veggie market||TRICHY: Corporation officials accompanied with police personnel will visit the temporary wholesale market at G Corner market to check if safety norms are being followed and penalise them if they are found flouting them, apart from conducting mass screening as multiple positive cases have been reported with travel history to G Corner. There have been lapses in the functioning of the market as there has been a surge in the arrival of traders from hotspots. Even as vehicles from hotspots such as Madurai are arriving for vegetable purchase, more than 50% of the load-men in the wholesale market were not wearing facemasks. Ponmalai range police and corporation officials jointly sensitized the wholesale vegetable traders to ensure social distancing at the market. “From Thursday night, corporation employees will start penalising traders and load-men without facemasks. With protective gears and PoS machines, we will levy spot penalties,” a corporation official told TOI. Though the market was permitted only for wholesale vegetable business, officials acknowledged that retail sales of vegetables are clandestinely happening. To prevent retail sale of vegetables that attract a significant crowd, police personnel at the entrance of the market will verify the identification cards of the traders. “Barricades will be put up to streamline crowd movement,” Ponmalai ACP G Balamurugan said. The corporation added that the arrival of vehicles from Madurai and other hotspots will be supervised to prevent an outbreak of Covid-19 in this market. The Times of India had on July 8 carried a report titled ‘Influx of Madurai traders to G Corner Market spreads jitters.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corpn-cops-to-monitor-screen-traders-at-g-corner-veggie-mkt/articleshow/76883258.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 10, 2020||Aurangabad||76% beds reseved for Covid patients occupied||AURANGABAD: Of the 1,946 beds reserved in state-run and private hospitals in Aurangabad for Covid 19 patients, only 469 beds were available on Thursday evening. As per real-time data available on Mazi Health Mazya Hati (MHMH), a dedicated mobile application of the civic body, the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) did not have a single bed available for Covid 19 patient. The GMCH, which is treating critical patients requiring life support system, has the highest number of beds (458), all of which were occupied by Thursday evening. The district civil hospital at Chikalthana has 170 beds, of which 59 were available. Different leading private hospitals in the city, where 80 % beds are reserved for Covid 19 patients, were showing majority occupancy. While only around 24% reserved beds are lying vacant, authorities are hoping for a drop in the Covid-19 cases during the lockdown that is slated to begin from Friday. “One of the prime objectives of the lockdown is to reduce the burden on the health machinery. We hope that lockdown helps in arresting the rise in the number of cases of Covid 19,” a senior health official said. As far as Aurangabad district is concerned,1,698 beds have been identified patients in Covid care centers whereas another 8,180 have been identified in district Covid health care centers. While exact occupancy against these beds could not be ascertained, Aurangabad district collector has confirmed sufficient availability of beds owing to relatively lesser outbreak of the disease in the rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/76-beds-reseved-for-covid-patients-occupied/articleshow/76881806.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Caranzalem boy tops GCET in all subjects||PANAJI: Student of Cujira-based Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary School Gaurav Awasthi had the highest score in all the three subjects — physics, chemistry and mathematics — at the Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET), results for which were declared on Thursday. At GCET 2020, the highest score in each of subjects as well as the average has improved over the last couple of years. This year test was held on July 4 and 5, in the midst of the pandemic. Awasthi scored 72 in chemistry, an improvement over 2019’s highest of 69 in the subject. He retained last year’s top scores in mathematics and physics with 72 and 70, respectively. The Caranzalem resident emerged the best candidate for an engineering seat in Goa. However, Awasthi said he is answering all the national competitive exams and has his heart set on joining an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT). “I would like to pursue electrical or aerospace engineering in the future and go into the field of space research and rocket design,” he said. Gaurav had earlier scored 95.16% at the state board’s Class XII science stream exam. “It is the support and guidance of the teachers and staff of Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary that made this possible,” said Awasthi, the son of a private firm employee Navin and homemaker Suman Director of his school, Vyankatesh Prabhudesai, said that his institute has seen its students get 15 out of the 16 top scores at GCET 2020. “We have the first three spots in physics, first three best scores in mathematics and two out of the first three top scores in mathematics. Once again a proud moment for our institute, even though for most of our students national institutes is the aim,” Prabhudesai said. The results for GCET, conducted by the directorate of technical education with the support of IIT Bombay, were declared in quick time, despite a team arriving for the result preparation from outside the state amid travel restrictions. GCET was answered by 2,954 students this year across 16 centres. The average marks scored by students went up this year to 22.51 in physics, up from 21.97 last year. In chemistry, the average score was 27.47 this year, as against 24.72 in 2019. In the case of mathematics too, the average marks scored were 26.96, in comparison to last year’s 24.05. Education secretary Neela Mohanan said that students from containment zones were facilitated to appear for GCET by creating an additional test centre at the Institute of Ship Building in Vasco. “Outstation candidates from border areas were facilitated to appear for GCET by issuing special travel permits. Such outstation candidates as well as quarantined ones were seated in isolation at the exam centres,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/caranzalem-boy-tops-gcet-in-all-subjects/articleshow/76883270.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man and woman play cops, extort Rs 2 lakh from couple||Ahmedabad: A woman from the Anandnagar area of the city filed a complaint with city police on Wednesday, stating that she and her husband were allegedly extorted of Rs 2 lakh by a man and woman who posed as crime branch officials and threatened to book them in a case. In her complaint, Hetal Bhatt, 40, resident of Vraj Apartments in Anandnagar, stated that she runs a women’s garments shop and also sells cosmetics products from home. On Monday, July 6, a woman came to her house along with a man and said she wanted to buy some cosmetics. Bhatt took them in and showed them some products. They saw some but did not like any of them, states the FIR. After a while, they told Bhatt that they were from the city crime branch and had received an input that Bhatt has been illegally running a business from her house. The man then called some other person and spoke as if he was talking to superior officers. He then told Bhatt that his superior officers had told him to book her and demanded Rs 6 lakh if she wanted to avoid legal problems. The two left her house and Bhatt called her husband and told him about the incident. That evening, the man again called her and demanded the money. Bhatt and her husband gathered some Rs 1 lakh cash and ornaments worth Rs 1.15 lakh and handed them over to the putative ‘crime branch cops’. The next morning they got another call from the ‘crime branch cops’ but this time the couple decided to local police and filed a case. Bhatt filed a complaint of extortion against the unknown man and woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-and-woman-play-cops-extort-rs-2-lakh-from-couple/articleshow/76881831.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ludhiana||City bizmen jubilant over Mattewara project||Ludhiana: City businessmen are jubilant over Wednesday’s cabinet approval of setting up of a 1,000 acre modern industrial park in Ludhiana’s Mattewara. According to businessmen, the project would give a major push to the industry of Ludhiana and it will give a good alternative to the factories which are unable to expand due to unavailability of land in designated industrial areas. Jaswinder Thukral, president of Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association, said, “This is great news for Ludhiana’s industry as now we will have another industrial area, that too spread on 1000 acre. We are thankful to the state government for formally approving this project. Already there is a huge shortage of plots in the designated industrial areas of Ludhiana and the rates of those available for sale are so exorbitant that these are out of reach of the micro and small scale industry. With this project, factories in areas like Meharban, Rahon Road, etc., who are facing the problem of ailing infrastructure like roads, sewrage and streetlights, would also get a chance to shift to a proper industrial area, which would be having state of the art infrastructure. We request the chief minister and industry minister to ensure that the land for this project is acquired at the earliest and the project too should be completed in a time-bound manner.” According to Sahil Sharma, a garment manufacturer having factory at Rahon Road, “This is a great news for the Ludhiana industries but particularly for the garment industry which is majorly spread in areas near Mattewara. Once complete, the project will also give livelihood and earning opportunity to the people of the nearby villages.” Meanwhile, giving more information about the project a spokesperson of Punjab government said, “To be set up at a cost of Rs 1,600 crore, the project will cater to the needs of prospective entrepreneurs, industrialists for setting up their ventures expeditiously, in line with the urgent need to develop such industrial/economic hubs in the state. The ambitious Mattewara project had been under active consideration of the state government for the past several years, and it was originally conceived and constantly pursued by the industries department. However, considering the capacity of the housing and urban development to raise finance and execute the project of such a scale, the same was transferred to it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-bizmen-jubilant-over-mattewara-project/articleshow/76881800.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha records highest 7 deaths; 3 in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Seven deaths were reported in Vidarbha on Wednesday, the highest in a day for the first time since the outbreak of pandemic. Three Covid-19 patients died during treatment in Nagpur, 2 in Buldhana and 1 in Akola. Swab samples of a man who died of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARI) in Washim two days ago tested positive the same day. The deceased include a 71-yr-old man from Amravati, a 68-yr old from Seoni (Madhya Pradesh), and a man in his 70s from Dharampeth area, who died at GMCH. Nagpur’s Covid-19 death count is now 30, of which 12 are from other districts/states. Vidarbha’s Covid-19 death toll has now reached 188. Mortality rate in the region is 3.12%, which is higher than the national average of 2.78% but lower than Maharashtra’s 4.22% . Apart from seven deaths, 165 confirmed positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in the region taking the total to 5,957. Nagpur once again recorded highest (62) cases in Vidarbha, with 13 of them testing positive through rapid antigen testing. Nagpur was followed by Amravati (25), Akola (18), Buldhana (17), Yavatmal (10), Washim (8), Bhandara (8), Gondia (7), Chandrapur (5), Gadchiroli (4), and Wardha (1). As many as 67 patients recovered on Wednesday. These include Nagpur (15), Gondia (8), Chandrapur (8), Akola (11), Amravati (9), Yavatmal (13), and Buldhana (3). Recovery rate of Vidarbha, which was 75% on July 1, has come down to 70.57%. Still, it’s higher than Maharashtra’s 55% and national average of around 61%. BULDHANA: Two senior citizens died of Covid-19, while 17 others tested positive in Buldhana. The deceased include a 64-year-old man from Mehkar and a 65-year-old woman from Idgah Maidan area in Shegaon. Three patients who got discharged include a 78-year-old man from Khamgaon, one of the worst-hit areas of the district. With 204 of the 360 total Covid-19 patients recovered till now, Buldhana’s recovery rate is more than 56%. AKOLA: The worst-hit district in Vidarbha till date, Akola once again recorded 18 new cases and a death of 60-yr-old woman. She was under treatment since June 30. Akola’s total cases now stand at 1,797 with 1,344 patients discharged, 91 deceased and 362 under treatment. Recovery rate in Akola is still around 75%. The concern for authorities is death rate which is still above 5%, nearly twice of the national average. WASHIM: A 66-yr-old man from Karanja Lad was admitted to Washim district hospital on July 4 as he was showing SARI Symptoms. His swab samples were collected on July 5. The person died next day. Results of his swab samples came positive on July 8. This was the fourth Covid-19 death in Washim. With this, seven others tested positive on July 8. Now, the total number of patients in Washim is 149 out which 97 have already recovered. AMRAVATI: Making its presence in almost every nook and corner, 25 new cases came to fore on the second successive day to take the district’s count to 750. On the other hand, nine patients got discharge to take the number of recovered patients to 519. With 28 deaths so far, the district now has 203 active cases, including 11 taking treatment at Nagpur. BHANDARA: Altogether eight persons tested positive in Bhandara. Three of them are from Bhandara, four from Tumsar, and one from Lakhandur. Total cases in the district surged to 106 of which 79 have recovered. With 27 patients under treatment, Bhandara’s recovery rate is 75%. GONDIA: Seven Covid-19 positive cases were found, while 8 patients recovered in the district. Out of 7 positive patients, four are Kuwait returnees and residents of Tirora Tehsil. They were in institutional quarantine since return. Reports of 262 samples are still awaited from Gondia GMCH. As many as 1,398 people are still in institutional/home quarantine. CHANDRAPUR: Five more positive patients were found taking the total to 133 in the district. The administration has included the three positive SRP jawans into the tally of Chandrapur, which were earlier excluded. As per the update issued by the health administration, new patients include an SRP jawan from Kolhapur SRP company. This is the fourth instance of an SRP jawan testing positive in Chadnrapur. Apart from this, three of the contacts of positive patients from Urajnagar tested positive of Covid-19. So far, 79 patients have been treated and discharged, while there are 54 active patients. YAVATMAL: 10 new positive cases were reported in the district taking the number to 96. On the other hand, 13 patients recovered and got discharged from GMC’s isolation ward. Now, there are 83 active patients in the district. Among the 10 positive cases, 3 men and 3 women are from Tayade Nagar area. The remaining 4 include a man from Sindkhed village, 2 women and a man are from Malipura area of Ner town. In the last 24 hours, the GMC received 130 reports of which 120 are negative. WARDHA: A 33-year-old newly wed youth tested positive for Covid-19 at Pipri (Meghe) in Wardha. The administration has initiated action against the family for violating lockdown norms as the marriage was attended by hundreds of people. Total 16 patients are undergoing treatment in Wardha now, the lowest in Vidarbha. GADCHIROLI: Three more CRPF Jawans and a man from Aheri who was under institutional quarantine have tested positive. Total cases in the district surged to 133, including 9 from other districts/states. With 64 of them being discharged till date and 1 death of a Gadchiroli resident in Hyderabad, the total number of patients under treatment here is 68.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-records-highest-7-deaths-3-in-nagpur/articleshow/76863189.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||After Bander, another coal block auction threatens Tadoba corridor||Nagpur: Though timely protests stopped Bander coal block auction from going ahead, another block Marki-Mangli-II falling in the tiger corridor of TATR- Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary in Yavatmal is up for auction. As per coal block summary, Marki-Mangli-II in Wardha valley coalfield lies close to Ruikot, Savli, Mukutban, Bhendala and Ardhban villages. It was among four blocks in Maharashtra and 41 in the country listed for auction on June 18. The bidding process is slated to start from July 18. The proposed mining area is part of the approved tiger conservation plan (TCP) of Tadoba and this is the same forest where tigress T1 aka Avni grew up and dispersed 90km away to Ralegaon in Pandharkawda division in 2015. The tigress was shot dead due to man-animal conflict on November 2, 2018. “We will knock doors of court if the block is not removed from auction,” said a section of environmentalists. Of the around 250 hectares proposed mining area, 50% of Marki-Mangli-II open cast mine is on reserve forest in Mukutban range under Jhari-Zamni tehsil of Yavatmal. The mines lie in inviolate forest area and are in the midst of corridor. While greens fought for Bander withdrawal, Marki-Mangli seems to have fallen off their radar. As per MoEFCC, the area is inviolate forest. A letter written on December 22, 2014, by HC Chaudhary, director (forest conservation division), MoEFCC, to coal ministry officials said, “Though Marki-Mangli-II is located in working mine group of blocks, mining has not started. The said block may therefore, not to be auctioned as it is located in inviolate forest area.” Similarly, a reply to RTI query filed by an environmentalist with coal ministry on March 18, 2015, seeking comments with regard to position of coal blocks vis-a-vis inviolate areas remarked: “Marki-Mangli-II (Maharashtra), Namchik-Namphuk (Arunachal), and Mahan (MP) coal blocks were withdrawn from the auction process as they fell in inviolate areas.” Now after six years what has changed that coal ministry has again listed the block for auction? Coal ministry officials told TOI, “MoEFCC will be in a better position to tell about it. From our records, MoEFCC re-categorised the blocks in 2018. As per their communication in 2018, Marki-Mangli-II is now no longer in inviolate area and can be auctioned. There are 15 mines in inviolate areas which we have not offered.” However, they did not give any letter to substantiate their claim. On July 2, 2020, TOI asked environment minister Prakash Javadekar about the issue but he and his office has not replied to e-mails so far. He also did not reply to texts sent on his number. As per coal ministry details, on September 6, 2005, Marki-Mangli-II, III & IV coal blocks were allotted to city-based Shree Virangana Steels Pvt Ltd (now Topworth Urja & Metals Ltd) for its sponge iron and 25mw captive power plant in Umred. However, owing to breach of conditions, the ministry in September 2012 cancelled the blocks and encashed Rs 4.34 crore bank guarantee of the company. The fresh auctioning has kicked up controversy now. Since 2005, when Marki-Mangli II block was first allotted, tiger conservation has witnessed a sea change. ‘Project Tiger’ has been rechristened as National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and wildlife laws have been amended with each tiger reserves having a notified TCP. “Mukutban range has become a source population of tigers and there is recorded presence of four resident tigers in and around Marki-Mangli. Tigress T1 as a sub-adult had dispersed from here in 2015 to Ralegaon forest,” said Ramzan Virani working for wildlife conservation in Yavatmal. “Moreover, the proposed mining area falls in the corridor of Tipeshwar-Tadoba-Kawal. After our intervention, public hearing against the said mines was cancelled on January 2, 2013,” he added. Sanjay Dak, senior manager (mining), Topworth Urja, said, “We extracted coal from the three blocks from non-forest area. Prior to the blocks being cancelled, we had applied for diversion of over 100 hectares forest land for Marki-Mangli-II but things did not materialize. At present, we have Marki-Mangli-I with us, which is 10km from Marki-Mangli-II.” “The way coal blocks are being listed for auction, there seems to be lack of coordination between coal and environment ministries. Bander coal blocks near Tadoba were listed in June 2020 for auction despite MoEFCC notifying ESZ on September 11, 2019. Similarly, if Marki-Mangli-II block has a chequered past, why has it been listed for auction,” asked Virani, who is also district honorary wildlife warden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-bander-another-coal-block-auction-threatens-tadoba-corridor/articleshow/76882733.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 10, 2020||Dehradun||City bus operators threaten to surrender permits if govt fails to rein in e-rickshaws, tempos||Dehradun: The city bus union of Dehradun on Thursday threatened to surrender their bus permits in the next 10 days if the government does not take any action on “errant e-rickshaw and Vikram tempos” plying on city roads. The city bus union has been blaming e-rickshaw and Vikram tempos of violating contract carriage permit conditions and operating beyond their designated routes, and impacting the business of city buses. Notably, there are around 260 blue-coloured city buses plying on designated 13 routes in Dehradun. These buses are considered as the backbone of the city’s public transport. “I have submitted a memorandum to RTO Dehradun stating that all city bus operators are going to surrender their permits as all of us are facing huge losses due to Covid-19, and are not in a position to run the buses anymore. The illegal operation of tempos and e-rickshaws on city buses routes is just adding to our woes,” City Bus Association president Vijay Kumar Dhandriyal said. All the city buses will be off the road with all permits surrendered if the administration and police fail to take action against e-rickshaws and Vikram tempos, said Dhandriyal, adding, “They have contract carriage permit, but are operating as if they have a stage carriage permit.” Meanwhile, Rajendra Kumar of the Vikram tempos association, said that “city bus operators are blackmailing the government by giving excuses and blaming e-rickshaws and Vikrams for their own failures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/city-bus-operators-threaten-to-surrender-permits-if-govt-fails-to-rein-in-e-rickshaws-tempos/articleshow/76880467.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Garment manufacturers stuck with unsold stock as multi-brand firms seek discount||Ludhiana: In a big setback to city-based garment manufacturers who supply their products to the multi-brand companies and corporates, crores of rupees worth their capital has got stuck in form of unsold summer garments. This unusual problem which the manufacturers are witnessing for the first time has taken place as the companies are pressurising the manufacturers to give them discounts ranging from 10-30% on the already confirmed order, deliveries for which were yet to be made, in some cases even the discounts are being asked on the already delivered consignments. The companies are justifying their demand for hefty discount by citing losses incurred due to the lockdown and decline in demand. On the other hand, Ludhiana manufacturers are of the view that they too have suffered huge losses and moreover, the prices at which they supply their garments to these companies are already very low and if they go ahead with the discounting they will incur more losses. Speaking to TOI about the issue, Harish Dua, president of Knitwear and Apparel Exporters Organisation said, “Crores of rupees in investment of garment manufacturers of Ludhiana has got stuck in summer garments as some of the big garment brands and corporates, whom we supply garments, are refusing to accept deliveries of the already ordered goods as they are asking for 20-30% discount on the already agreed prices. The officials of these companies are claiming that since they have suffered huge losses during lockdown, so they want us to cooperate with them and offer them discount so that they can be compensated for their losses. How can we accept their unjustified demand as the prices for these were already agreed upon by both parties and moreover, the discount percentage is too high to be accepted.” Dua added that, “This is turning out to be a very big problem as the garments manufactured by us for these companies carry their brands names and are as per the designs finalised by them, therefore ,we cannot even sell them anywhere else to encash our money stuck in these. I think it’s high time the central government takes note of this problem and order the companies to make full payments to us against their orders.” According to Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forum, “Garment manufacturers of Ludhiana who are suppliers to the big brands are having sleepless nights as huge amount of their money has been stuck in such a way that they don’t have any solution to the problem other than compromising with these companies or else keep their money stuck in form of the garments which cannot be sold anywhere else. There is no doubt that the big brands and corporates having big showrooms in the country have also suffered huge losses due to the lockdown but we too have suffered losses. Besides, these companies are already buying garments at such cheap rates that there is hardly any decent margin for us in the business done with these companies. So, asking for discount of up to 30% from us is totally illogical and unjustified as well.” Atul Saggar, general secretary of Apparel Manufacturers Association, Ludhiana, said, “For the past sometime my buyer had blocked my dues on the pretext that his company has suffered big loss during the lockdown and I should give him a discount of 20% on the order supplied to him. With a huge sum of money blocked with my buyer, I was unable to carry on further business and manage other expenses. I agreed to give him 10% discount and it was after this that my payment was released.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/garment-manufacturers-stuck-with-unsold-stock-as-multi-brand-firms-seek-discount/articleshow/76881832.cms||Mohit Behl
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bootlegger booked 3 yrs later for posing with city cop’s rifle||Ahmedabad: A Gandhinagar-based bootlegger had in 2017 posed with the rifle of a city policeman, clicked a picture of himself and posted it on Facebook. Now, he has been booked on Wednesday by Vejalpur police three years from the date of that offence, after being caught for bootlegging by a police squad.According to an FIR filed with Vejalpur police, the alleged bootlegger Kamal Nandwani, 36, resident of Adalaj in Gandhinagar, was caught by DCP Zone-2 squad on July 1 from Chandkheda area. Cops seized his two cellphones and began an inquiry on what he had stored in his cellphone. During examination of the cellphone, cops found that Nandwani had in 2017 posted a picture with the rifle of a policeman. Now, the cops began an inquiry on how he had got hold of a police rifle and clicked a photo with it. Nandwani revealed that he had a friend named Nitin Shah who works in city police. “Shah was Nandwani’s neighbour in Motinagar area in Vadodara from 1998 to 2003. After that Nandwani shifted to Ahmedabad but he still remained friends with Shah,” states the FIR. Around four years ago, Nandwani came to know that Shah was working with city police. In August 2017, Nandwani learned that Shah was in Juhapura along with another cop to nab an accused. Nandwani went there to meet Shah. At that time, Shah told Nandwani to hold his rifle while he went for toilet. At that moment Nandwani clicked his selfie with the rifle and posted it on Facebook,” states the FIR.Vejalpur police registered an offence under Arms Act, 1959, and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bootlegger-booked-3-yrs-later-for-posing-with-city-cops-rifle/articleshow/76881845.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot factory owner ends life due to financial crisis||Rajkot: A 45-year-old factory owner allegedly hanged himself to death on Wednesday due to mounting financial crunch caused by the coronavirus-induced lockdown.Deceased Hitesh Purohit has also left a suicide note stating that he was not being able to recover large amount of pending payments due to lockdown which led severe financial crunch. In the note, he also exhorted state government for tax relaxations to small-time businessmen.On Wednesday, Purohit went to his factory in Vavdi industrial estate on Gondal Road and paid salaries to his three labourers. After some time, he went inside his office and hanged himself from the ceiling. As Purohit, who lived in posh Dwarkadhish Society on 150 ft Ring Road, did not return by evening, his family members called up one of the labourers to check if he was in the office. When the labourer went to check, he saw Purohit hanging and informed them immediately.Purohit used to manufacture parts for lathe machines in his factory Shiv Enterprise for the last 20 years. He has two daughters and a son, who studies in first-year of college.In the suicide note, he also expressed gratitude to his brother and sister-in-law saying saying they had helped him a lot with their precious savings. Taluka police station sources said that the amount of pending recoveries is not known to the family members too.Rajkot has seen a spate of suicides due to financial distress caused by lockdown. At least seven people have ended their lives in Rajkot after being driven to the brink caused by lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-factory-owner-ends-life-due-to-financial-crisis/articleshow/76881850.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 7-year-old boy’s body finally handed over to parents||BENGALURU: The body of the seven-year-old boy, which was lying in a freezer for four days, was on Thursday released to his family. The boy had fallen from his residence on the second floor, suffering grievous injuries. The last rites were performed later on Thursday. Medical education minister K Sudhakar, following TOI’s report (‘For 4 days, father waits for test report of dead son’) depicting the family’s trauma on Thursday, cracked the whip and directed officials to act sensitively in such cases. He promised an investigation into the incident. Abrar Ahmed was playing on the staircase railing of his residence when he slipped and fell at around 6.45pm on July 2. Three hospitals refused to admit the boy and his painter-father, Aslam Pasha, finally managed to get him admitted in a private hospital in Vijayanagar around 11pm. The boy did not respond to treatment and died in the wee hours on Sunday. Since police insisted on a postmortem and since a Covid test is necessary prior to an autopsy, Pasha was forced to keep Abrar’s body in a freezer of private firm in Hebbal. Mohammed Sardar, Abrar’s uncle, said KC General Hospital officials informed them on Thursday that the test was negative. “We had to pay Rs 17,500 to freezer services,” he said. “The postmortem was conducted at Dr BR Ambedkar Medical College and Hospital. We performed the final rites thereafter.” The charges included four days of freezer facility (Rs 4,000 per day) and Rs 1,500 to shift the body to hospital for postmortem, he said. “We were unaware of government rules,” Pasha said. “We took loans from every possible person we know to settle hospital and freezer bills. The government has been of little help and private firms too cheated us just because we were ignorant,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/7-year-old-boys-body-finally-handed-over-to-parents/articleshow/76881889.cms||Kiran Parashar
July 10, 2020||Surat||Shops in Bharuch to operate till 4pm to contain spread of virus||Surat: With the surge in the Covid-19 cases, the Bharuch district administration has issued a notification allowing retail and wholesale shops in the entire district to operate between 7am to 4pm from July 9 to July 22. In the notification, district collector, MD Modiya said, “Considering the spurt in Covid-19 cases, all shopping complexes, retail shops, vegetable markets, paan shops, eateries, restaurants etc will be allowed to operate from 7am to 4 pm. However, milk parlours and medical stores will operate on standard timings.” According to Modiya, positive cases in the district have crossed 400 mark and the time calls for drastic measures to control further spread. “The order will remain in force till July 22 in the entire district,” he said. Meanwhile, Bharuch district recorded 19 fresh cases, taking the total number of cases to 400 on Thursday. Union territory of Daman and DNH recorded 11 and three Covid-19 cases, respectively, while Navsari district recorded 17 new cases on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/shops-in-bharuch-to-operate-till-4pm-to-contain-spread-of-virus/articleshow/76880940.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: As Covid-19 results drag on, tested vendors back to veggie business||TRICHY: A section of the 183 vegetable vendors from Uzhavar Sandhai market in Thennur Anna Nagar, who were tested for Covid-19 on July 4, have returned to business, frustrated over the delay in the announcement of results. The vendors have been involved in brisk business without wearing masks and interacting with hundreds of customers. The vendors claim that they would have been shifted to hospitals if they have tested positive. The 183 vendors were tested after three in the EB road temporary vegetable market tested positive last week. While the results for the parallel mass testing conducted at Mela Ambikapuram the same day were released, the Trichy Corporation is yet to disclose the results of these vendors. The delay has resulted in some vendors distressed over the corporation’s silence, and a few others assuming they are Covid-19 negative. “We are afraid to spend time with our family members without knowing the result. People with no symptoms are testing positive for Covid-19. We cannot relax until we get the result,” Khader Mohideen, a vendor said. People from Cantonment, Thillai Nagar and Thennur who visit the market said this may cause a local spread. This is not the first time that the civic body is delay the Covid-19 results. Last month, the results of mass screening done on Gandhi Market traders were not shared as well. “We have been communicating with the lab to get the results at the earliest,” a senior corporation official said. Corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said the entire test results shall be disclosed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/as-results-drag-on-tested-vendors-back-to-veggie-biz/articleshow/76883273.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 cases in Coimbatore breach 1,000-mark||COIMBATORE: The district breached the 1,000-mark in Covid-19 cases on Thursday, after it declared 98 more positive cases, the highest number of cases declared positive in a single day. While 85 of them are local cases, 13 are imported cases with an international and domestic travel history. The total number of cases stood at 1,026. The death toll also increased by three, taking the total number of victims to 10. They were a 43-year-old man from Varadharajapuram, who got admitted at the ESI Hospital on July 2, a 58-year-old man from Sulur and a 72-year-old woman from Ganapathy, who tested positive on July 1. She was suffering from uncontrolled diabetes mellitus. The 38-year-old wife of the Varadharajapuram man has also tested positive. Tirupur, which logged six new cases, also recorded one death with a demise of a 85-year-old woman from Lakshmi Nagar. She died at the ESI hospital. Another 47 people tested positive in the district on Thursday and will feature in the government bulletin. Coimbatore corporation officials ordered a jewellery store in Gandhipuram to close for three days after two employees tested positive. They have asked the store owners to fumigate the store on Thursday and shut it for 48 hours. The officials also found a 25-year-old employee of a mobile phone store on the 100 Feet Road and one more person positive. The shop was closed and the building was marked as a containment zone. Besides the Bihari cluster that broke out in the Kurichi-based company, cases from Selvapuram continued to trickle in, prompting corporation authorities to close entry into Selvapuram from Gandhi Park. While a 45-year-old woman in Selvapuram Central tested positive, four more people from Savithri Nagar within Selvapuram also tested positive. They include a 59-year-old man, 51-year-old woman, a 49-year-old man and a 30-year-old woman. The cluster seems to have reached the Raja Street, which houses several jewellery retails shops that the gold factories in Selvapuram supply to. Three young men including two 18-year-old boys and a 25-year-old man in the jewellery hub tested positive. This adds another eight cases to the Selvapuram jewellery cluster. An engineering products and services company based in Chinniyampalayam, which first saw three of its employees test positive for the virus on Saturday, continued to see cases trickling in on Thursday, when a 29-year-old man tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-cases-in-dist-breach-1000-mark/articleshow/76882740.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Meeting discusses ways to curb Buddha Nullah pollution||Ludhiana: A meeting of the special task force took place on Thursday in zone D office of the MC for discussing ways to curb pollution in Buddha Nullah. In the meeting chairperson of STF and Namdhari sect head Satguru Uday Singh was present. In this meeting the matter of scattered dyeing units and dairy units was raised for which officials of Punjab Pollution Ccontrol Board (PPCB) were put to task and they were asked to submit a survey report so that measures could be taken to check pollutants coming from these units into the drain. Officials of the oollution control board, drainage department, revenue department, Punjab Energy Development Authority, dyeing associations and civic officials were present. Earlier in the morning, Thakur Uday Singh and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal had visited the banks of Buddha Nullah near Bhamian village, where they noticed scattered dairy units from where direct discharge of waste was going into the drain. The PPCB officials had to face criticism in the meeting as they could not compile the data of such scattered units till date. Similarly, when the issue of pollution from dyeing units was raised the dyeing unit association members claimed that for pollution coming from their units, already three common effluent treatment plants were coming up. One was complete while two others will get completed in the next few months. But they claimed that there were some scattered units which were not part of these CETPs, so their polluted water will keep on falling into the Buddha Nullah. When this issue was raised the PPCB officials were asked to conduct survey of the scattered units as well. The demarcation of the drain will also take place in the next few days for removal of encroachments. The MC commissioner, however, said, “We have to conduct demarcation of drain so that encroachments could be removed and beautification of the drain could take place. We will serve the notice to encroachers and illegal structures will be removed.” He said apart from this, survey of scattered dairy and dyeing units would take place and very shortly the report would be submitted. However, regarding shifting of dairy units, Sabharwal claimed that for taking decision in this regard a meeting had been scheduled for July 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/meeting-discusses-ways-to-curb-buddha-nullah-pollution/articleshow/76881879.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Trichy||Trichy wards see 5 fever cases daily||TRICHY: At least four to five fever cases in a ward are tumbling out a day during the door-to-door thermal screening being carried out by Trichy corporation staff in the city. A street vendor from Ariyamangalam zone running a tiffin stall was among those who tested positive for Covid-19 during the exercise. In all, 60 teams comprising revenue and sanitary department officials for the 65 wards have been visiting households in congested localities including Tharanallur and Kondayampettai in the past five days with a thermal forehead temperature scanner. Information on these fever cases and symptoms is shared with the medical officer of the ward who calls them for Covid testing at the nearest UPHC. “Public cooperation has improved, they are voluntarily stepping out to get themselves tested. We are also distributing Kabasura Kudineer during the screening,” a civic body staffer added. Officials said the screening helped identify those with symptoms who hesitated to seek medical support. The exercise will go on till July end. “Some of the fever cases identified were seasonal flu too, but the staff were told to be on vigil during the thermal screening to identify potential Covid-19 cases,” Trichy corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-wards-see-5-fever-cases-daily/articleshow/76883305.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 10, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Migrant kills three-year-old brother-in-law in Bhavnagar||RAJKOT: In a macabre incident, a three-year-old boy was brutally stabbed to death by his brother-in-law (sister's husband) near Bhavnagar on Wednesday. Police arrested the accused, Ramprasad Das (22), for the crime. The family of six including the couple, the woman's parents and her two younger siblings had migrated from Bihar about five months ago for labour work. Preliminary investigation revealed that Ramprasad used to often pick up quarrels with his 19-year-old pregnant wife Pinky and beat her. On Tuesday night, his father-in-law Shivnathram reprimanded Ramprasad and warned him against resorting to domestic violence. According to police, Ramprasad got furious over being pulled up and threatened that he would kill one of the family members and spend his life 'leisurely' in jail. On Wednesday, the boy Shivam and his sister Khushi (10) were at home as Shivnathram had gone to buy medicine for fever while Pinky and her mother Ashadevi had gone for a routine gynaec check-up. Ramprasad took away Shivam without Khushi's knowledge and went on Ukharla village road. There he stabbed the little one multiple times near a canal and killed him. When Shivnathram returned home, Pinky and her mother were desperately searching for Shivam. As they went out, a vegetable vendor told them that he had seen some man taking Shivam towards Ukharla village. When the three reached there, Ramprasad was washing his hands in the canal. He denied knowing anything about Shivam's whereabouts and started walking towards his house. Shivnathram got suspicious and approached Vartej police station saying that he suspected Ramprasad. “We summoned the accused and grilled him. He confessed to have killed the boy and took them to the spot from where the body was recovered,” investigating officer MS Jadeja told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/migrant-kills-three-year-old-brother-in-law-in-bhavnagar/articleshow/76881871.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man held with weapon, cartridge||Ahmedabad: Prevention of crime branch on Wednesday nabbed a man, Rahul Chauhan, 27, a resident of Viratnagar, with a country-made pistol and one live cartridge from Shahwadi Narol. Police said some time ago, Rahul had a fight with one Gaurav. “In that fight, Rahul had snatched this gun from Gaurav and had hidden it near the Torrent Power Sub-station in Shahwadi. “Gaurav then lodged a complaint with Khokhra police, and Rahul was arrested. After getting out on bail, Rahul had gone to take back the weapon near the sub-station. We got the information and nabbed him,” said a police official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-with-weapon-cartridge/articleshow/76881865.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Goa||Vasco records fourth Covid death as Goa toll rises to 9||PANAJI/VASCO: The port town, the worst hit by the pandemic, recorded its fourth and the state’s ninth Covid death on Thursday even as the state reported over 100 positive cases for the second consecutive day. A 50-year-old man with underlying health conditions succumbed to the virus within two hours of his admission at the Goa Medical College (GMC), early Thursday morning. He was brought to GMC in a critical state. He tested positive for Covid-19, but died before his test result was received. “He was admitted in the isolation ward no. 113, but died within two hours. The ward was sanitised after his body was shifted to the morgue,” GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar said. His death bore similarities to that of the 45-year-old fisherman who died last week at his residence at Khariawada in Vasco. On Thursday, for the second day in a row, the state reported over 100 cases, increasing its active case count to 869. Since Saturday, Goa has seen a jump in cases with a total of 682 cases being detected in six days. Of Thursday’s 112 cases, 25 were detected in Loutolim and neighbouring areas in South Goa. The total number of cases under the Loutolim primary health centre has gone up to 30 from just five cases earlier this week. Out of 3,831 samples tested on Thursday, 2,139 returned negative and 1,580 reports are still awaited. With one of staffer of the North Goa district and sessions court testing positive, the department of law has issued a circular listing instructions to be followed while conducting court proceedings. Sada, Baina, New Vaddem and Indiranagar continued to report new cases. Cases reported from Indiranagar in Chimbel rose to 32 with addition of five new cases. After the one case detected in Nerul on Wednesday, two more tested positive in the same locality, which led to extensive contact tracing till late evening, a health official said. Other places that reported fresh cases are, Moti Dongor, Shiroda, Mandur, and Cuncolim. The health department is yet to find links of isolated cases found in Nuvem, Agasaim, Caranzalem, Mardol, Majorda, Tivim, Cujira, Betalbatim, Bambolim, Corlim, Chinchinim, Cumbharjua and Benaulim during the last few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-records-fourth-covid-death-as-state-toll-rises-to-9/articleshow/76883311.cms||---
July 10, 2020||India||Congress: Dubey’s arrest an ‘arranged surrender’||INDORE/BHOPAL/LUCKNOW: Terming the arrest of gangster Vikas Dubey at Ujjain’s Mahakaal temple “an arranged surrender”, Congress on Thursday questioned how the country’s most-wanted fugitive managed to travel 1,200km across four states over six days to reach MP’s temple town and be “caught not by police but by a temple security guard”. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra took to Twitter to allege political “collusion” in Dubey’s escape from UP after killing eight cops in a guerrilla-style ambush on July 3 and his arrest on Thursday. She demanded a CBI probe to “expose the nexus that was protecting Dubey”. “UP government has failed to act with the promptness that was required (to deal with) heinous Kanpur killings. The fact that he reached Ujjain despite the alert exposes the claims of security and indicates a collusion,” Priyanka tweeted. कानपुर के जघन्य हत्याकांड में यूपी सरकार को जिस मुस्तैदी से काम करना चाहिए था, वह पूरी तरह फेल साबित हुई। अलर्ट… https://t.co/MjtmX9CL4U— Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (@priyankagandhi) 1594278289000MP home minister Narottam Mishra hit back by accusing Congress of “demoralising the Army and police”. Former UP CM and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav slammed BJP for failing to ensure Dubey’s arrest within the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-dubeys-arrest-an-arranged-surrender/articleshow/76884087.cms||Suchandana Gupta
July 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Madukkarai GH gets casualty ward, lab||COIMBATORE: The government hospital in Madukkarai has been equipped with an exclusive casualty ward and a full-fledged laboratory. Kinathukadavu MLA A Shanmugam along with collector K Rajamani inaugurated the new facilities worth Rs 56 lakh, constructed by L&T Valves, on Wednesday. The new casualty ward is equipped with two beds, emergency drugs and equipment including oxygen cylinders to conduct emergency procedures. “It will help us reduce crowding in our wards,” said joint director of medical services Dr Krishna. “The new lab, with attached bathrooms for men and women, also makes it convenient to collect blood and urine samples and for people to come back and collect their report.” L&T Valves also constructed a compound wall around the hospital premises. “The hospital gets about 500 outpatients, accident cases and also children as we have a pediatric specialist,” said Krishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/madukkarai-gh-gets-casualty-ward-lab/articleshow/76882743.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Nine guest workers in Kurichi test Covid-19 positive||COIMBATORE: A day after 13 people from Bihar working in a poultry feed mill in Pollachi tested positive for Covid-19, another nine people from the same state working in a moulding company in Kurichi tested positive for the virus on Thursday, according to the health department. Another factory in Sulthanpat has urged the health department to test guest workers who had arrived recently from north India and are working in their factory. However, officials are yet to probe how these workers entered the district without being tested. The public health department confirmed about the guest workers in Kurichi, Malumichampatty, testing positive for the virus. “We are sending our ambulance to bring them to one of our Covid care centres and have closed the company for fumigation,” said a senior health department official. This is the second cluster of guest workers from Bihar testing positive for the virus in the district. After news of these two clusters emerged, the health department was informed about the guest workers working in a factory in Sulthanpet. “We have collected 20 samples from that factory. We only tested recently arrived guest workers. If they test positive, we will test all the employees,” the official said. The department is now trying to interrogate the positive cases, who are being housed in Covid care centres, to try understanding when and how they entered the district without being tested. “According to our information, most of the Pollachi-based guest workers never travelled outside the district. Only the first patient, who tested positive last week, has travelled outside the state and returned to the unit,” collector K Rajamani said. “However, we have asked officials at the check-post to watch for arrival of guest workers and have instructed industries to accept them back only after making them undergo the Covid-19 test and turning negative,” he added. Doctors say the guest workers testing positive in the district are unlikely to bring new strains of Covid-19. “Though the government is yet to officially declare it, we are seeing growing evidence of the virus already spreading in the community. So, at this stage, the danger of guest workers bringing any new strains of the virus into the district is unlikely,” said a senior treating doctor at ESI Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nine-guest-workers-in-kurichi-test-ve/articleshow/76882741.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
July 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Petrol distributed free of cost in protest against rising prices||Ludhiana: In a unique way to show resentment against hike in fuel prices, Youth Akali Dal district president and a social activist organised a langar of petrol and diesel at a petrol pump on Railway Station road on Thursday. They distributed the fuel free of cost to the people who were coming to the petrol pump for refilling. They distributed 513 lt petrol and diesel for free to the visitors. Long queues were seen at the petrol pump to get free petrol and diesel. Youth Akali Dal district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha said petrol and diesel prices in Punjab were high among all states. The Punjab government has imposed high taxes on petrol and diesel. He said as the petrol and diesel prices were out of reach of the people the people are unable to move on vehicles. So they have distributed petrol and diesel to people for free. He claimed that at the moment people do not have jobs and if fuel prices would keep on increasing like this, then how they would manage things. They claimed that the government, whether Centre or state, they should do something to give relief to public as the state government can reduce VAT on fuel, which will help in reducing oil prices. Social activist Bittu Gumber said that they had been doing sewa of langar and ration for the last four months and on Thursday, they had distributed petrol and diesel for free to mark their protest. They demanded that the Centre and Punjab government should provide relief to people by reducing taxes on petrol and diesel. Meanwhile, on Tuesday too Shiromani Akali Dal leadership had staged a protest outside the mini-secretariat against the hike in fuel prices. The leaders claimed that there was need to control the fuel prices as the common man was already reeling under tough time due to coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/petrol-distributed-free-of-cost-in-protest-against-rising-prices/articleshow/76881898.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chennai||Why politicians love to quote Thiruvalluvar||CHENNAI: Days after the stand-off with China, Prime Minister Narendra Modi while addressing Army troops in Ladakh on July 3 recited a couplet by the Tamil philosopher-poet Thiruvalluvar to talk about valour. For anyone following Modi’s speeches, the verses written more than 2,000 years ago are now oft quoted by him. In February, when Nirmala Sitharaman presented the Union Budget, she referred to the words of Thiruvalluvar to say that a good country needs five ‘jewels’ — free from epidemic or illness, wealth, farm productivity or crop, happiness and good defence. The spotlight on the most celebrated Tamil literary figure is not new. Former Union finance minister and Congress leader P Chidambaram has quoted him in all the Union Budgets that he presented since 1996 to elucidate ethics of a good ruler or the duty of a citizen. For Chidambaram, well-versed in Tamil literary text, it was both a natural reference point as well as a way to establish a connection with his home constituency in Tamil Nadu. In a similar vein, for the BJP leaders in the past two years, there seems to have been a conscious decision to quote Thiruvalluvar, probably to woo the Tamil diaspora and to get a political foothold in one of its weakest spots — Tamil Nadu. ‘Thirukkural’, a collection of 1,330 couplets by the Tamil sage has turned out to be the favourite Tamil text of politicians cutting across party lines. Here the political designs on Tamil Nadu are undeniable. But it also underscores the fact that the text divided into teachings on dharma (virtue), artha (wealth) and kama (love) encompasses everything from ethics to politics and economics and lends itself to every situation that a speaker would want to invoke, in the process creating a bond with Tamils. Last November, Modi released a book on Thirukkural in Thai language at Bangkok and lavished praise on the Tamil sage for articulating in simple words the most complex philosophies. This was followed by a BJP blitzkrieg on Twitter handle, showing Thiruvalluvar in saffron robe, sporting ‘vibhuti’ (sacred ash) and ‘rudraksh’, contrary to the traditional photo of Valluvar in just a white robe. This led to a controversy over the BJP bid of saffronisation, with various opposition parties pointing out that Valluvar had never projected any religion in his work and had advocated universal love and brotherhood. The universality of the ancient couplets being open to interpretation could be coloured by those reading it. So at the time, the BJP in-charge for Tamil Nadu, Muralidhar Rao said, "Thirukkural is Hindutva and Hindutva is Thirukkural". While H Raja, a member of BJP’s national executive committee, said Thirukkural is based on Hindu ‘sanatana dharma’ principles. BJP leaders have made liberal use of the views of noted archaeologist R Nagaswamy, who recently released the book ‘Thirukkural – An Abridgement of Sastras’, which claimed that Sanskrit and Vedic influences dominated the kural. When DMK president M K Stalin criticised Dr Nagaswamy, accusing him of being anti-Tamil, Nagaswamy had hit back at him. BJP spokesman professor R Srinivasan denies that the party has been taking up the Tamil cause just for vote bank politics. "RSS, the parent body of the BJP, has taught us love for Tamil. In the prayer song of RSS, we hail all important identities of Tamils -- King Rajendra Cholan, Kannagi, the legendary Tamil woman, Cauvery river and sage Thiruvalluvar. It is not a political motive but a sign of patriotism. Now that BJP’s every activity is being given importance, this too is being highlighted," Srinivasan said. Though the BJP rejects charges of tokenism, the attempts by Nirmala Sitaraman to project her Tamil lineage by quoting the famous Tamil poet Pisiranthaiyar last year with an inaccurate pronunciation was telling. The growing Tamil influence could also be seen as the handiwork of external affairs minister Subramanyam Jaishankar, who hails from Tamil Nadu. The selection of Mamallapuram for talks with Chinese President Xi Jinping can also be attributed to Jaishankar, who wanted to revive the Tamil connection not just between the two countries, but also between the BJP and Tamil Nadu. In the coming months in the run-up to the Tamil Nadu assembly polls scheduled in March-April 2021, there will be more attempts to tweak the Tamil card. If the BJP decides to make a pitch, and heads an alliance of parties under its belt, Modi has the option of fielding two of his Union ministers from the state — Nirmala Sitharaman and Jaishankar, if he so chooses. And at that time Thiruvalluvar could come in handy. (The writer is a veteran journalist)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-politicians-love-to-quote-thiruvalluvar/articleshow/76879489.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris district records 13 new Covid-19 cases||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris has recorded 13 new Covid-19 cases, including a 65-year-old man, who died on Tuesday. Throat swabs were collected after the man died soon after he was discharged from a private hospital. However, the government bulletin has not registered the death. With the 13 new cases, the tally stands at 172 in the district. As many as 49 people had been discharged so far and there are 123 active cases. The new cases consist of seven men and six women in places such as Kattery, T.Manihatty, Melkouhatty, Ketti , Thuneri, Kechikatty, Ooty, MelGudalur and Thambatty. While 78 cases are being treated at the Ooty Government Headquarters Hospital, 10 are at the Coonoor Government Lawley Hospital. Cases belonging to high-risk categories are being treated at the ESI hospital in Coimbatore. The district has over 60 containment zones.The delay in announcing results has drawn flak from residents of the zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-dist-records-13-new-cases/articleshow/76882745.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kolkata||Zone with 10 cases awaits impact of ‘strong medicine’||Kolkata: The lockdown atmosphere was back in Girish Park when a neighbourhood on the periphery of the wholesale hub of Burrabazar was sealed completely to disrupt the virus transmission. In the past two weeks, there have been more than 10 Covid cases in Balaram Dey Street and its adjoining areas. The stretch of over half a kilometre that connects Girish Park with Burrabazar and Posta was sealed on early on Thursday for the next one week. The residents will be allowed to step out only to buy essentials and for medical emergencies. Public transport within the sealed zone will not be allowed. On Thursday, the cops placed guardrails at all the entry points to Balaram Dey Street from Girish Park, Vivekananda Road and Posta. A patrol van made rounds with a public-address system, requesting residents to stay inside their homes. “Though I am not in favour of another lockdown, it seems to be the only option now because common people are taking everything very casually,” said Tapas Sen, a local resident. “People are assembling at tea stalls, shops selling snacks are crowded throughout the day and people are visiting the markets and other places without wearing masks. No wonder there has been a rise in Covid-19 cases. If people do not learn a lesson now, we may be headed into more difficult times.” Though there has been no official communication, the residents have been told to try and work from home and tell domestic helps not to come to work for the next few days. “This will help us completely to disrupt the spread of the virus,” said a resident. Several small manufacturing units and offices in the containment zones will also remain shut for the next one week, the official notification of the government states. “Officers will be deployed at the entry points and there would be round-the-clock patrolling to prevent people from assembling anywhere,” said an officer. Posta and Burrabazar had emerged as one of the biggest Cvovid-19 hotspots in April and May with several hundred cases and many deaths. The local administration had to impose severe restrictions in some pockets to bring down the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/zone-with-10-cases-awaits-impact-of-strong-medicine/articleshow/76881893.cms||Zeeshan Javed
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three held for snatching phone||Ahmedabad: Ramol police detained three men — Shahbazkhan Pathan, Anwar Shaikh and Javed Mansoori — for snatching a mobile phone from a 13-year-old boy. Inspector K S Dave said the boy’s father had lodged an FIR on Tuesday, stating that when his son was going towards Gatrad village, three men in an autorickshaw snatched his phone and fled. There was also Rs 5,000 under the back cover of the phone. According to police, on Wednesday based on intelligence received by PSI V B Vaghela they arrested the three accused from the Ramol village T-junction. “During their interrogation they confessed to having robbed the boy of the phone. They have been sent for pre-arrest Covid tests,” Dave added. In a photograph of the accused released by Ramol police, the three are seen without masks and no social distancing has been maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-held-for-snatching-phone/articleshow/76881891.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Jobless man steals mobile phones||COIMBATORE: A 32-year-old Keralite, who took to stealing mobile phones from patients and their attenders at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) allegedly after he lost his job with a city bakery following the lockdown, was arrested on Thursday. Police have recovered seven mobile phones from him. The Race Course police identified the accused as N Ramesh, of Mundur in Palakkad district in Kerala. An investigation officer said Ramesh used to befriend patients and their attenders at the CMCH and request for their mobile phones to speak to his family members. “Believing his words, they handed him over their phones, with which he often vanished,” the officer said. On Thursday, some of his victims spotted Ramesh on CMCH premises and caught him. They later handed him over to Race Course police inspector Sujatha.“During inquiry, he told us that he was working with a city bakery and became jobless after the lockdown. He has been staying inside the CMCH campus for a while and having free food from Amma Unavagam. He was planning to sell the mobile phones in Palakkad. But he couldn’t leave for his hometown because of lack of transport facility,” the officer said. The Race Course police have booked him under Section 380 of the Indian Penal Code and he is likely to be remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/jobless-man-steals-mobile-phones/articleshow/76882749.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Rajkot||Courier firm driver, aide held for loots||Rajkot: A 20-year-old tempo driver of a courier company in Ahmedabad’s Sarkhej area was arrested for plotting two loots of parcels containing electronic items being transported to Rajkot last month.Surendranagar local crime branch (LCB) sleuths arrested the driver Kiran Parmar and his three friends - Shivam alias Shivo Patel (24), Dupesh Jadav (22) and Rahul Parmar (20) for the crimes.Kiran had lodged a complaint with Sayla police that three persons in an SUV had intercepted his tempo on June 30 night and looted around eight parcels containing LED TVs, mobiles, hard disk and other goods. A similar incident had happened near Bagodara near Ahmedabad on June 22 when a tempo of the same company - GSM Courier - transporting nine boxes containing sim cards of Jio were looted. LCB teams scanned CCTV footage of the entire highway from Sarkhej to Doliya between Sayla and Chotila and found that an SUV was constantly following the tempo right from its origin. This made them suspicious that an insider was involved in both the loots.“We suspected Kiran’s involvement and called him for questioning. He broke down and confessed to plotting the loot. In Bagodara case, he had tipped off his three friends but was not driving the tempo,” said Deepak Dhol, inspector, Surendranagar LCB.All were picked up from their houses in Sarkhej area and arrested. Dupesh works as a store keeper in a private company in Sarkhej while Shivam and Rahul are jobless. In all, police recovered goods worth Rs 4.34 lakh that included 42 mobiles of various companies, four Apple watches, five hard disks, four LED TVs, an ipad and Rs 53,000 cash from their houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/courier-firm-driver-aide-held-for-loots/articleshow/76881905.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kolkata||Our behaviour helped disease thrive: Locals||Kolkata: Bijoygarh, where corona norms were reduced to a farce — by the own admission of the locals — during the entire lockdown period earlier this year, went into a stricter shutdown mode on Thursday after being announced as a containment zone. “What the authorities are doing today, they should have done it a long time ago. We could have been saved. But I believe now, it’s already very late,” said 64-year-old Tulsi Mullick, sitting at the balcony of his house behind Bijoygarh market hours after a sizeable portion of the neighbourhood was sealed on Thursday. She was referring the ‘irresponsible’ behaviour of a section of locals who moved around the streets without wearing mask and even gossiped at tea stalls and street corners for long hours during the first phase of the lockdown. With fresh strictures put in place from Thursday, TOI found the area deserted with most residents staying behind closed doors as cops and civic officials made rounds of the area and kept urging people to stay indoors. The officer in charge of Jadavpur police station and the local councillor personally oversaw the procedures as they sealed a 100-metre stretch of Bijoygarh central road near Agragami Club with bamboo barricades and police guard rails. Bijoygarh market, too, was shut down and the vendors were asked to shift to a nearby playground for a week. As an added measure, auto drivers who had switched back to the four-passenger-per-vehicle system, were asked to try and carry only two passengers for the time being. “The authorities should have done this a long ago. There are four Covid cases around my house and of them, at least two persons have shops in the local market. Just imagine the number of persons who may have already got infected. But better late than never, the lockdown restrictions are being followed very strictly in this area — at least on Thursday evening — with everyone staying indoors and shops not opening. The cops have also put barricades outside three specific buildings where there are active Covid patients,” said Krishanu Debnath, a young techie and a local resident whose house falls in the containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/our-behaviour-helped-disease-thrive-locals/articleshow/76881908.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Vaccine row: Health department warns of consequences if trials misfire||BELAGAVI: Brass in the district health and family welfare department, who say they were uninformed of by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) that it had allowed Bharat Biotech to conduct human trials of its indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, insist there would be stern “consequences” should the trials misfire. Private hospital Jeevan Rehka in Belagavi is among 12 institutions chosen nationwide — and the only one in the state — to test the efficacy of the vaccine. Officials in the health department learnt of the development through the media and now district health officer (DHO) Shashikant Muniyal has written to the directorate of the department, seeking directions on the role of local authorities. Muniyal said the local health department would be held responsible should something go wrong. “Hence, I have sought instructions from the directorate,” he said. Muniyal told ToI that normally, trials of this sort are conducted under the supervision of the state health department, but the central government has powers to authorise private institutions. Since these are human trials, great care needs to be taken to ensure no harm is done to anyone. “I will be compelled to register a case against the hospital if any untoward incident happens since we are responsible for the health of people in the district,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/vaccine-row-health-dept-warns-of-consequences-if-trials-misfire/articleshow/76881912.cms||Shreyas HS
July 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man sets wife on fire, held||COIMBATORE: A 55-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for attempting to burn his wife alive over a drunken brawl at Ammankulam. The woman, who sustained 50% burns, is battling for her life in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). A police officer identified the accused as Thangaraj, of Ammankulam housing unit of slum clearance board. “A construction worker, he was living with his wife Kamala, 50, and mother-in-law Kaliyammal, 75. The couple have a son and daughter, who were married and settled away from them.” The officer said Thangaraj was in the habit of consuming liquor with his wife, who used to quarrel with him often over his extramarital affair with one of his relatives. “Around 9.30pm on Wednesday, Kamala fought with her husband after consuming liquor. In a fit of rage, he doused her with kerosene and set her ablaze. Hearing her cry for help, neighbours rushed to the house and put out the fire. She suffered 50% burn injuries,” the officer said.Kamala’s mother, who rushed to her help, also sustained minor burn injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-sets-wife-on-fire-held/articleshow/76882747.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Dehradun||Schools body alleges parents being misguided by rumours||Dehradun: The school association body has alleged that false rumours are being spread regarding the latest Uttarakhand high court decision on the tuition fees of private schools. The school body told TOI that no changes have been made and the last order issued on June 22 by the Uttarakhand education department is effective, and all previous orders are invalid. “Due to some unethical practices, parents are being misguided and are under the impression that they don’t have to pay their ward’s school fees. However, the latest education department order has been confirmed by the high court. The order mentions that the parents need to pay their wards’ tuition fees and if they are unable to do so then they need to inform the school management which will take a call on case-by-case basis. Also, parents who are government employees need to pay the tuition fees,” senior vice president of Principal Progressive Schools Association DS Mann said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/schools-body-alleges-parents-being-misguided-by-rumours/articleshow/76880575.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Unlock Chinnammal Street, residents tell corporation officials||COIMBATORE: Fed up of spending the past 10 days at their houses, residents of Chinnammal Street, which is a containment zone, on Thursday urged officials to remove restrictions and barricades and allow them to travel outside to attend to their works. The city corporation had sealed the area, which is near NSR Road at Saibaba Colony, after six people tested positive for the novel coronavirus on June 29. Chinnammal Street has at least 50 families. Officials said the six were likely to be discharged from the ESI Hospital on July 13 and that restrictions on movement were likely to be removed only on July 14. Pointing out that they were not getting vegetables on time and not able to withdraw money from ATM booths, more than 30 residents also argued with the Saibaba Colony police, who were guarding the zone. The residents told police that many of them were dependent on ration rice, which they were not able to get as they can’t venture out of the area. Police arranged mobile ATM centre and rations for the people. Saibaba Colony police inspector Chandralekha said, “They can give their ration card to revenue department officials, who would arrange ration for them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/unlock-chinnammal-street-residents-tell-corpn-officials/articleshow/76882753.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Auto parts manufacturers back vehicle scrapping policy||Ludhiana: Already under stress due to losses incurred in the lockdown and huge drop in demand, city businessmen in the auto parts manufacturing business are now demanding that the central government should introduce the vehicle scrapping policy or else the Ludhiana auto parts manufacturing industry will be destroyed. According to the businessmen, under the scrapping policy owners of vehicles which are more than 15-year-old should be given incentive or subsidy for purchase of new vehicle and this in turn will generate demand for new automobiles, which will benefit the auto-parts industry. Giving more information, Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), said, “Automobile industry is going through a big crisis due to very low demand and as a result the auto parts manufacturers too have been hit badly. Moreover, things have gone worse due to the lockdown and the automobile industry is the most hit as compared to other sectors. It’s high time that the central government takes notice of this problem at the earliest and introduces vehicle scrapping policy to boost India's auto manufacturing. There already has been a long delay in the vehicle scrapping policy as several times there were talks about introducing it but nothing was done at the ground level.” Ahuja added that, “Under the vehicle scrapping policy the owners of vehicles more than 15 year old should be given incentives and subsidy to purchase new vehicles in lieu of permanent scrapping of the old vehicle he or she is using. This is the model which has already been adopted in many countries and it has had a very positive impact on the auto industry and the economy as well.” According to another businessman JS Bhogal, “The vehicle scrapping policy will not only help the auto sector by boosting the sales of the automobiles, auto parts and other allied activities but will also have a very positive impact on the environment as it will help in reduction of old polluting vehicles from the roads and will confine them to scrapyards. With resale value of vehicles beyond 15 years being extremely low already, these vehicles can be sent to scrapyards with some sort of monetary compensation to owners. This will ensure two benefits, incentive for owners to get rid of such vehicles and pulling these polluting vehicles off roads to help the environment.” Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of CICU, said, “If the scrapping policy is implemented, it could prove to be very beneficial as it would not only boost demand but it will also help in re-using and recycling the scrap materials like steel and aluminum from the condemned vehicles for manufacturing new vehicles. It will also help the steel industry with better availability of high quality scrap and similarly aluminum and plastic industry too would reap benefits.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/auto-parts-manufacturers-back-vehicle-scrapping-policy/articleshow/76881909.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC cattle team faces attack||Ahmedabad: Two brothers from Khokhra, Anand and Ketan Rabari, were booked for assaulting members of the cattle nuisance control department of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Wednesday. Inspector Y S Gamit of Khokhra police station said they are searching for the two accused. According to the complaint lodged by Faruksha Saiyed, 55, who works for the department, he and his colleagues in the team led by sanitation sub-inspector Ranjitsinh Manubhai were on patrol in Khokhra on Wednesday morning when they saw some stray cattle on the road. “On the sub-inspector’s orders we began to round up the stray cattle, when Anand and Ketan Rabari arrived with sticks and came with sticks and asked us to release the animals,” Saiyed stated in the complaint. When the team refused, the brothers assaulted them with sticks, injuring Saiyed, Mohammed Arif Arab and Kanti Chauhan. Inspector Gamit said when the police team deployed with of the department arrived, the accused fled. AMC standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that the civic body will soon begin a drive to impound cattle found on city roads. “We had a meeting with city police officials and it was decided that police protection will be given to each team. Once we get police protection, the drive will again begin,” said Bhatt. Officials said the cattle nuisance team finds it difficult to operate without police protection because there is always the danger of such attacks. A senior AMC official said the civic body is fully prepared for the cattle drive and impound sheds have been readied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-cattle-team-faces-attack/articleshow/76881914.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kolkata||Philostrate of Shakespearean comedy now sells fish on Khardah pavement||Kolkata: Tapan Das, a 46-year-old theatre practitioner, has travelled worldwide after being chosen by the Royal Shakespeare Company to perform at the Globe Theatre for Tim Supple’s ‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream’. After the lockdown kicked in, Philostrate — the character of the Shakespearean comedy he acted as — was back on the pavement of Shantinagar’s Satadal Pally 2 in Khardah, selling fish. In the evenings, however, he rehearses online with his theatre group. He is also supporting his team members financially. In 1990, Khardah-based Das began his association with Probir Guha’s Alternative Living Theatre. A specialist in psycho-physical theatre, Das has trained himself in different martial art forms and has also acted in S Jalan’s documentary titled ‘Pantomime’ and Bappaditya Bandopadhyay’s Bengali film ‘Kagojer Bou’. When shows stopped after the lockdown was announced, Das had to choose an alternative means of livelihood. “I knew I had to put aside the artist’s ego and find an alternative job,” he said. The idea was to earn money by doing something in the morning so that he could do theatre in the evening. “But I was certain that I would neither get a job now nor be able to do a big business. Selling fish was the easiest option,” said Das. Tapan Das at his fish stallFrom hilsa and rohu to black catfish and prawn, Das now sells everything. “Daily, I procure some 50kgs of fish. I sit in Shantinagar’s Satadal Pally 2. I am enjoying this new stint,” he said. “Daily, I earn around Rs 1,000-Rs 2,000. On Tuesday, I gave Rs 2,000 to a group member who was in dire need of assistance.” He has also motivated seven out-of-work labourers to sell vegetables. In between cutting his fish, he loves to share his tryst with Royal Shakespeare Company and how he was selected after auditioning with 1,20,000 theatre practitioners from India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal. “I was among the 22 actors selected. Initially, I was given the character of Philostrate. Then, I played the dragonfly. Subsequently, I played Tom Snout. Tim Supple’s functioning style was such that each of us knew how to play multiple characters. So, if one was unavailable, another could easily step in. We toured America, Canada, Japan and Hong Kong,” he said. In the evenings, he can’t physically rehearse with his group Khardaha Theatre Zone. “I write short scripts and send them across online. They are then asked to direct the plays based on my scripts. Once they record and WhatsApp the videos to me, I check their performances and offer suggestions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/philostrate-of-shakespearean-comedy-now-sells-fish-on-khardah-pavement/articleshow/76881920.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
July 10, 2020||Madurai||HC asks CB-CID to submit status report in sealed cover||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday directed the CB-CID to submit a status report in a sealed cover with regard to the actions taken so far in the case of custodial deaths of P Jayaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district.Before commencing the hearing in the suo-motu proceedings, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice P Rajamanickam appealed the print, visual and social media not to misinterpret or mislead the proceedings or observations of the court. The judges further appealed not to conduct a media trial as it would affect the prosecution as well as the accused.Assistant solicitor general V Kathirvelu submitted that the CBI has registered two cases and a team of seven officials would be reaching Madurai on Friday to investigate matter. He further submitted that the CBI has sent a representation to the state government seeking man and logistical support for their probe.Additional advocate general K Chellapandian informed the court that the CB-CID has booked 10 policemen for murder and arrested them. He said the statements of witnesses were recorded before judicial magistrate, under Section 164 of CrPc. He said all assistance would be provided to CBI for its investigation.The judges said the CBI could take into account the material evidence collected by CB-CID for effective investigation. They also said either the CBI or the CB-CID could approach the judicial magistrate concerned to take the arrested police officials and policemen for custodial interrogation before the expiry of their judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-asks-cb-cid-to-submit-status-report-in-sealed-cover/articleshow/76881936.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Upload your pic on Cova app, win prize||Ludhiana: Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma has said the Punjab government will select the person/organisation uploading their photo on Cova app at the state level, the list of which would be sent to the district administration so that they would be encouraged through badges and T-shirts. People interested in participating in this contest should download Cova app on their mobile phones and the registration for the same had already started. Besides, people can also get connected with Mission Fateh by giving a missed call on 94653-39933. Meanwhile, a government official said under Mission Fateh the rural development and panchayats department through sarpanches and panches continues to create awareness among the masses by organising ground activities in different villages of Ludhiana district. The officials are also educating the masses by visiting from door to door. District development and panchayat officer (DDPO) Peeyush Chander stated that the sarpanches, panches and Guardians of Governance (GOGs) are continuously making people aware about Covid-19 in their respective villages. He said residents were educated about wearing masks whenever they step out of their houses, maintain physical distance and wash hands after short intervals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/upload-your-pic-on-cova-app-win-prize/articleshow/76881918.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chennai||Snakebites kill 14 lakh in 19 years, make Covid-19 toll look small||CHENNAI: If you are mortally scared of Covid-19 that has killed about 21,130 people in India so far, taste this. An eye-popping 14 lakh people died of snakebites between 2000 and 2019, at an average of more than 70,000 people per year. Worse, about 70% of these deaths occurred in eight states --Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh (including Telangana), Rajasthan and Gujarat. They are all limited low-altitude states, and victims were mostly from rural areas. And which is the worst period of a year for humans against this death slithering under their feet? You guessed it right -- monsoon period from June to September. More than 50% of the venom victims died during these four-month wet period. Data further showed that most deaths were caused by Russell’s vipers, followed by kraits and cobras. These are the data tumbling out of the nation’s largest-ever survey done by Centre for Global Health Research (CGHR), at the University of Toronto, Canada, along with Indian and the UK partners, expanding the results of their original study conducted in 2011. The data is the largest-ever nationally representative mortality survey to include snakebites under the Million Death Study (MDS). These deadly results were largely responsible for convincing the World Health Organization (WHO) to recognize snakebite as a top-priority neglected tropical disease (NTD) and changing world opinion about the public health importance of snakebite. As a result, WHO revised its global estimates of annual snakebite mortality to 80,000 –1.40 lakh, say researchers, who included the reputed herpetologist Romulus Whitaker of Chennai. He said the study covered 6 lakh randomly selected deaths, and a systematic review of 78 Indian snakebite studies. The mortality data available with NCRB clubs snakebite with other ‘animal bites’, and there has indeed been a wide gap between the official figures of about 9,000 snakebite deaths annually, and 45,000-50,000 a year quoted by private studies and surveys. Whitaker, however, put the mortality number beyond 1 lakh, saying MDS sourced it from public as well as private hospitals. Senior author and professor Prabhat Jha, director of CGHR at Unity Health Toronto, said: “Our study directly quantified and identified the population most affected by fatal snakebites in India. We showed that the overall lifetime risk of being killed by snakebite is about 1 in 250, but in some areas, the lifetime risk reaches 1 in 100.” To repair the scourge of gross under-reporting, it was recommended that the Government of India designate and enforce snakebite as a ‘Notifiable Disease’ within the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/snakebites-kill-14l-in-19-years-make-covid-19-toll-look-small/articleshow/76882762.cms||P Oppili
July 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Two families grieve death of 9-year-old girls||COIMBATORE: In two tragic incidents, as many girls, who were aged nine years, lost their lives in the Singanallur police station limits here on Wednesday. In one of the incidents, Bhavadharani, a Class IV student from Irugur, died of head injury that she sustained when she fell down from a cot on Tuesday evening. According to a police officer, the girl fell down from the cot while trying to catch a pencil that slipped from her hands. “Though her head hit the floor with force, there weren’t any external injuries. She also didn’t complain of any issues. Hence, her parents did not take her to hospital.” However, the girl started to vomit on Wednesday morning and her parents rushed her to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), where an MRI scan revealed she had sustained internal injuries to her brain. “Doctors immediately performed a surgery on her, but that couldn’t save her life. She died in the hospital on Wednesday evening. The body was handed over to her parents after autopsy on Thursday afternoon,” the officer said. The Singanallur police have registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The girl’s father, Thiyagarajan, is a goods autorickshaw driver. In the second incident, Jerlin Meha, another Class IV student from Neelikonampalayam near Singanallur, died on Wednesday evening after a towel, which she tied to a swing to climb over that, tightened around her neck. According to police, her mother Nisha, 35, and father Arul Gnana Jones, 37, were sleeping when the incident took place. Her mother is a staff nurse with CMCH. “They had taken the girl to CMCH, where doctors declared her brought dead. After postmortem, the body was handed over to them on Thursday afternoon,” another police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-families-grieve-death-of-9-yr-old-girls/articleshow/76882754.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Rajkot||Bull goes on goring spree in Keshod||Rajkot: At least three persons were injured in the main market of Keshod town of Junagadh on Wednesday afternoon when a bull suddenly turned violent and started goring people. The CCTV footage of the extraordinary incident shows the bull grazing calmly in the parking area of the market. A man is seen moving past him, when the bull suddenly starts running behind a young man who only passed by the animal.The video shows the 22-year-old youth being tossed up in the air thrice by the ferocious bull, inflicting bruises on the victim. Luckily, the horns did not pierce the youth’s abdomen. Another passer-by, who tried to hit the bull with an iron chair, too got injured in the process. The bull also tried to gore a couple of other persons who were forced to seek protection behind parked motorcycles to save their lives. The commotion went on for over five minutes, sending shopkeepers in the area into a tizzy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bull-goes-on-goring-spree-in-keshod/articleshow/76881943.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Surat||Surya Marathi murder accused who jumped bail nabbed||Surat: The detection of crime branch (DCB) of Surat city arrested Rahul Piple (25), accused in the murder of gangster Surya Marathi, on Friday after he had jumped bail last month. Piple, a resident of Kailashnagar in Udhna, was arrested from near Ashwini Kumar Crematorium Road. According to police, Piple was lodged in Lajapore Central Jail in connection with the murder of Marathi, who was killed on February 12 this year. Piple was granted bail for five days on June 16 to visit his wife who was to delivery their child. However, Piple did not appear before the jail authority after completion of bail period, said police. Eight people have been arrested in connections with Marathi’s murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surya-marathi-murder-accused-who-jumped-bail-nabbed/articleshow/76881005.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Hubballi||MLA, family test positive for novel coronavirus||KALABURAGI: Sedam MLA Rajakumar Patil Telkur has tested positive for Covid-19. The MLA, his wife and son were subjected to Covid test after his assistant tested positive recently. All three are now undergoing treatment at a hospital in Bengaluru. Three days ago Patil’s assistant who had Covid symptoms tested positive and the assistant immediately informed Patil about the result. Patil’s daughter’s test results are awaited. One more fatality A primary school head master died of Covid-19 in Kalaburagi on Thursday. Another teacher with fever, who was admitted to GIMS on Tuesday, tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mla-family-test-positive-for-novel-coronavirus/articleshow/76882001.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Mysuru||Teenager among 12 infected in Chamarajanagar||Chamarajanagar: A total 12 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Chamarajanagar on Thursday, including four members of a family and a pregnant woman. With this, the total cases has touched 132 here. The district has 101 active cases. The family that tested positive, include a 14-year-old. They are residents of Manjunathnagar in Kollegal. The pregnant woman hails from Rahmath Nagar. Now four pregnant women are infected in the district. A total four patients are undergoing treatment at the ICU in the Covid hospital. Containment zones have now increased to 73. The district authorities are awaiting reports of 1,032 samples taken from suspected cases. Meanwhile, a hundred members of women self groups and Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS), held a protest on Thursday, after blocking the road connecting to Male Mahadeshwara Hills at Talebetta checkpost in Hanur taluk, demanding that the district administration restrict the movement of vehicles and people heading towards the temple atop the hills, as a precautionary measure, to contain the spread of the virus. The protesters alleged that thousands of devotees thronged the temple from various parts of the state, neighbouring Tamil Nadu and other states. The protesters have also demanded to upgrade the MM Hills Government Hospital in the wake of increasing Covid-19 cases. A Bengaluru-based astrologer faced the ire of the protesters, after they blocked his vehicle for more than an hour, thus preventing his visit to the temple atop MM Hills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/teenager-among-12-infected-in-chamarajanagar/articleshow/76881762.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Only one out of six Covid deaths in Karnataka were audited||BENGALURU: Karnataka has had 486 Covid-19 fatalities but has conducted an audit on only 16% (80) of them as on Thursday. Death audits are crucial to discern patterns and to plan premptive steps to curb mortality. The state, though, is yet to draft an analysis of pandemic fatalities. When a central team visited Bengaluru on Tuesday, the focus was on measures to be taken to reduce the mortality rate to below 1%, if not zero. Besides emergency medical intervention to prevent deaths, such audits are crucial to curb mortalities. Dr Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and member of Covid-19 technical committee, said, “It is not possible to prevent all deaths, but death audits offer lessons to improve the quality of care. This involves collecting accurate routine clinical data beside recording and reporting it in time. Information on determinants, correlates, where, why and how they occur could be significant. We can learn how to prevent similar deaths.” Dr S Sacchidanand, vice-chancellor, RGUHS and member of Covid-19 taskforce spearheading the death audit committee, said district-level death audit committees need to be set up. “A committee of local specialists can be formed at the district-level,” he said. “Delayed admission of cases and shifting of cases from private to government hospital, at a time when the patient’s condition has worsened, are some of the factors we have seen in audits done so far.” At least two asymptomatic patients died due to a drastic fall in oxygen saturation level, he said. “This condition is called happy hypoxia or silent hypoxemia, where a person has extremely low levels of oxygen but has no difficulty breathing,” said Dr Sacchidanand. There are also allegations that the state is under-reporting deaths. Two positive patients who died by suicide in Bengaluru and a 16-day-old girl who died on July 1 are yet to figure among fatalities in the state’s data. Patients committing suicide are recorded under death due to non-Covid reasons. Dr Trilok Chandra, head of critical care support unit for Covid-19 patients in the state, said so far there have been 25 instances of suspected Covid-19 patients being brought dead to hospitals and such cases are taking longer to get into the bulletin. “Ideally, the bulletin should have real-time data. But it’s taking time with the surge in cases,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/only-one-out-of-six-covid-deaths-in-karnataka-were-audited/articleshow/76881980.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Expert panel formed to plan desilting of Pillur dam||COIMBATORE: The state government has constituted a committee to chart out a roadmap to desilt the Pillur dam. The ‘Pillur Desilting Committee’, comprising officials from Tangedco, PWD, forest department, revenue department, Tamil Nadu water supply and drainage board (TWAD) and highways department, has convened three meetings before the lockdown began. “After the Covid-19 lockdown is over, we plan to meet again to prepare a detailed report about how to desilt the dam by using modern technologies. We will submit a report to the government soon after,” said a source from Tangedco. The dam was built in 1966, and there was an unsuccessful attempt to desilt it in 1991. The full capacity of its reservoir is 100 feet. “Around 45% to 50% of the dam is filled with sediments. If more sediments get accumulated in the future, then Tangedco will not be able to operate its two hydroelectric stations, and will have to abandon them,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/expert-panel-formed-to-plan-desilting-of-pillur-dam/articleshow/76882759.cms||A Subburaj
July 10, 2020||Aurangabad||HC denies bail to former SP convicted of abduction||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court has denied bail to former superintendent of police Manoj Lohar, who has been convicted in a kidnapping and extortion case, for the third time in a row. The former SP and his aide Dheeraj Yevle were convicted in January 2019 and have been sentenced to life imprisonment. They had kidnapped a zilla parishad member for a ransom of Rs 25 lakh in 2009. Then Lohar was the additional SP of Chalisgaon.While rejecting the application, the HC observed that at least two benches of this court recused and avoided to hear the bail petition and ruled that the discretionary powers cannot be used in favour of such a person. On the earlier two occasions, after being denied bail, Lohar had moved apex court but in vain. The latest bail application was moved as ‘Covid-19 temporary bail application’ by Lohar who is currently lodged at Mumbai Central Prison. The division bench of the HC, comprising justices TV Nalawade and Shrikant Kulkarni, observed: “When other deserving people are in jail, if the appellant is granted temporary bail by suspending the substantive sentence, it will cause harm to the image of the judicial system.” The bench added it is true that steps are taken to protect prisoners. The high power committee has been referring cases of such people to the court. The current case is not of that kind. In any case, the discretion which is with the Court either to grant the bail or refuse the bail, is not taken away due to creation of the high power committee.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-denies-bail-to-former-sp-convicted-of-abduction/articleshow/76881945.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Udupi district administration leverages tech to track ambulances, arrange beds for Covid care||UDUPI: Even as metropolis grapple with beds or the lack of it for Covid-19 patients and ambulances to ferry them, the Udupi district administration has stolen a march over the rest in ensuring order. The bed-management system and ambulance-tracking system that National Informatics Centre (NIC) has developed at the behest of the district administration has helped DC G Jagadeesha address these issues. Taking a learning leaf out of chaos seen in the state capital — of patients dying on the road for want of ambulance reaching them on time and even if they do, wandering aimlessly for a hospital bed — the above systems help the administration in tackling the crucial issues. The new bed-management system also enables the district administration to monitor people who have been cleared to undergo home quarantine. Noting that the need for this system was explained to the local NIC team, Jagadeesha told TOI that he can now monitor the availability of beds in hospitals based on their category. These include general beds, those with oxygen, ventilator and ICU beds. Hospitals have also been given their individual log-ins which they use to fill for every admission/ discharge so that the exact numbers are available for ready reference on the dashboard of the website. The NIC software sounds an alert if bed occupancy in a hospital reaches saturation level so that patients, and depending on their condition, they can be shifted to hospitals that have a bed. Udupi has created 1,200 dedicated bed facilities to meet the needs of patients. As on June 8, it was using 227 beds for as many active cases. Only one of the 16 beds with ventilators is in use now, he added. The app developed to monitor lorries transporting sand has been modified for the ambulance-tracking system. “Nearest location of the GPS-fitted ambulance can be tracked on the app,” he said, adding if there is a delay in sending an ambulance, then any other plying nearby can be routed there. “We are ready to share these systems with all those interested,” Jagadeesha said, lauding the NIC team for developing the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/udupi-district-administration-leverages-tech-to-track-ambulances-arrange-beds-for-covid-care/articleshow/76881135.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 10, 2020||Coimbatore||37 fever camps held in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation on Thursday organised fever surveillance camps at 37 places in all five zones. While 32 camps were conducted at primary health centres (PHCs), five were held at Covid-19 hotspots, corporation officials said. “People were first screened using thermal scanners and pulse oximeters. Samples were taken from those who had symptoms such as high temperature or had low oxygen levels. Reports will be given in the evening or tomorrow morning,” an official said.  Those who visited the camps were given zinc tablets, multivitamin tablets and siddha medicine kabasura kudineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/37-fever-camps-held/articleshow/76882756.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops register FIR against two vendors||Ahmedabad: Following the alleged incident of police overturning hand carts of vegetable vendors at Bapunagar Crossroads on Wednesday evening, Bapunagar police has now registered an FIR against two women vendors, under Section 283 of the IPC, for obstructing traffic by keeping their handcarts on the road. Police inspector N K Vyas lodged the complaint himself, stating that when they were patrolling the area, they saw that vegetable vendors had put their handcarts very close to each other in such a way that it was obstructing. “When we reached the spot we saw two handcarts were already overturned near a shop named Rahul Traders. We told other vendors to maintain social distancing or remove their handcarts as they were obstructing the traffic, but the protested,” Vyas stated. According to the FIR, when the cops asked shopkeepers, they said the vegetable vendors said that as the inspector doesn’t allow them to stand there, two women had overturned their handcarts and posted a video on social media so that the inspector gets suspended, as happened with the Krishnanagar inspector. The FIR says police tried to identify the women who had overturned their handcarts but were not able to. “We have registered an FIR against the two women and have lodged an FIR against them for obstruction of traffic under Section 283,” Vyas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-register-fir-against-two-vendors/articleshow/76881964.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||Mitigation on roads near Tadoba must, rules NGT||NAGPUR: Staving off yet another threat to wildlife corridors connecting Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve in Chandrapur, the principal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in Delhi, directed the ministry of road transport & highways (MoRTH) to proceed as per the plan prepared by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). On January 6, 2020, the NGT had directed MoRTH to construct mitigation measures as suggested by the NTCA on nine roads which cut through the wildlife corridors connecting Tadoba, Bor, Navegaon-Nagzira, Indravati, Kawal, and Ghodazari sanctuaries. The order is based on suo motu cognisance of TOI report ‘String of road projects cutting Tadoba corridor’ that appeared on November 22, 2018. The tribunal had also directed the time period of 7 years for construction be reduced to 3 years. The NGT had asked MoRTH to raise any objections within 15 days on the plan submitted by NTCA’s site-specific recommendations. The MoRTH had submitted an affidavit on January 17 stating that they agreed to mitigation on four roads and have released Rs100 crores for the same so that work can be completed within 3 years. However, the MoRTH also submitted that for Chandrapur-Mul and Bamni-Navegaon roads they are unable to fund any additional expenditure and requested funds from the state forest department. The MoRTH had also suggested animal overpasses instead of underpasses to reduce cost. In response, the NTCA submitted a modified action plan with details of mitigation measures for a period of 3 years on April 15 to comply with NGT order. On July 7, the NGT, taking into consideration all the arguments and previous orders, ruled, “MoRTH cannot proceed with the project without complying with action plan prepared by NTCA. We also note that the MoRTH has stated that the ministry cannot fund any additional expenditure for the mitigation measures. We are unable to accept such a plea for the reasons already mentioned. If the project proponent wishes to proceed with a project, he cannot do so without taking measures for safety precautions for protection of wildlife.” “These 9 roads pass through corridors where tiger density is maximum in the country and human-carnivore conflict has caused around 140 human deaths after 2007, mainly due to landscape connectivity issues and habitat fragmentation. In such situation, mitigation measures are essential on these roads,” said state wildlife board member Kishor Rithe. “The NTCA and NGT have actually provided a win-win solution for an area where re-aligning the road is not possible. Reluctance to provide mitigation by the MoRTH will actually cost the taxpayer more money as project delays mean massive cost escalations,” said Milind Pariwakam of Wildlife Conservation Trust (WCT), which conducted a 3-year-long camera trapping study to provide site-specific solutions for mitigation. “MoRTH has to be open-minded towards wildlife, forest and environment but are rigid while spending money. The NGT order is welcome,” Rithe added. “The Maharashtra forest department has rightly rejected the demand of MoRTH to utilize CAMPA funds and tiger conservation funds for building mitigation measures,” said Udayan Patil of Srushti Paryavaran Mandal. Patil added, “CAMPA funds have been generated as a result of forest destruction. Why should these funds be diverted for another development project leading to destruction of forests? It should be utilized for paying poor people while relocating them in voluntary relocation projects.” “Mitigation measures on the Chandrapur-Mul and the Bamni-Navegaon roads are critical as these roads pass through the most important tiger corridors connecting Tadoba and NNTR. Based on long-term monitoring exercises, these forest patches show high frequency of tiger movement,” said Aditya Joshi, wildlife biologist. “The NTCA has provided a good mitigation plan focusing not just on the tiger but also reptiles and amphibians as well,” said Prafulla Bhamburkar of Wildlife Trust of India (WTI).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mitigation-on-roads-near-tadoba-must-rules-ngt/articleshow/76889988.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 10, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks report on encroachment in waterbody||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Thursday directed the state government to file a status report on a plea which sought the authorities not to permit any construction or cultivation activities in the waterbody situated at Mudalaipatti village in Karur district. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by V Annalakshmi, a resident of Trichy district who also sought police protection for her family members after her father and brother were hacked to death for filing a contempt petition in the high court Madurai bench, opposing encroachment in the waterbody. When the petition was taken up for hearing on Thursday, additional advocate general K Chellapandian submitted that all the encroachments in the waterbody had been removed and only a temple is yet to be removed since a case in this regard is pending before the Supreme Court. Taking note of the submissions, a division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam gave the directed the state government to file a status report and adjourned the case to August 4 for further hearing. It maybe recalled that Annalakshmi’s father Ramar alias Veeramalai, 65, and her brother Vandu alias Nallathambi, 40, were hacked to death by a gang in 2019. Taking cognisance of newspaper reports published in connection with the murder of a father-son duo, the Madurai bench had initiated suo motu proceedings and passed several directions with regard to action against the people involved in the murder, granting protection to the family and removal of encroachments in the waterbody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-on-encroachment-in-waterbody/articleshow/76881954.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Rajkot||Amreli police help ACB dig out criminal’s illegal assets||Rajkot: Notorious criminal from Amreli, Rajendra alias Raju alias Jivabhai Shekhva, was booked by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) in a disproportionate assets case on Wednesday. According to Amreli superintendent of police (SP) Nirlipt Rai, this is the first case in Gujarat where the police has tipped off ACB about a criminal amassing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. After getting information that Shekhva had purchased lands and movable properties worth crores of rupees in the names of his relatives, Rai gathered clinching evidence and submitted it to the ACB. Shekhva, who has several cases including murder against him, is lodged in Gondal sub-jail presently in connection with the murder of Ahmedabad-based businessman Suresh Shah who was gunned down in March 2018 in Vasna area. Shekhva was suspended as the clerk of mamlatdar office of Liliya taluka of Amreli and he is a resident of Rajkot. Talking to TOI, Rai said, “After getting evidence, the ACB moved swiftly to gather more details and took prompt action against Shekhva.” The ACB got the details of Shekhva’s relative’s property documents, bank records and analysed the financial transactions. An expert team of ACB including a chartered accountant also verified the sources of income of his relatives. The ACB sleuths at the end of investigation found assets which are 74% higher than his official income as a clerk. All these property deals were done between 2005 to 2012. He was suspended in 2012. “Shekhva was also found involved in various crimes like extortion, land grabbing, firing, contract killing and other offences,” Rai added. Interestingly, another most-wanted criminal Jusab Allarakha, who was arrested in a daring operation by four women cops of anti-terrorism squad (ATS) in forests of Botad last year, worked for Shekhva.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amreli-police-help-acb-dig-out-criminals-illegal-assets/articleshow/76881970.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chennai||A six-pack policy to get campus buzz back||CHENNAI: In high school physics, the coefficient of restitution explains the extent of energy loss due to collision between two objects using the bouncing ball example. A ball dropped on the floor never regains its original height as it loses its potential/kinetic energy in the collision. In a real-world collision, a coefficient of restitution between 0 and 1 indicates definite energy loss. A value greater than 1 is a sign of an extraordinary rebound trajectory due to energy gain under extraordinary situations. Likewise, educational institutions hit by Covid-19 can bounce back stronger if the coefficient of restitution is greater than 1. Is that possible? Yes, through certain academic moratorium and restoration. The education market at a global level is estimated to be $10 trillion by 2030 with tremendous need to skill, reskill and upskill learners in all economies. The global economic growth in 2030 preceded by a sluggish decade will see entry of graduates needing to substantially increase output to sustain higher levels of economic growth as quality education significantly increases a country’s GDP. India’s growth story needs to be on a continuous upswing in the next decade without any deceleration despite the pandemic and to support such a growth, the educational ecosystem needs short, medium and long-term plans. The ‘Covidian’ fall in higher education should be supported by a restoration policy with a coefficient of restitution above 1. Some short-term decisions by the MHRD help institutions bounce back higher, while sound long-term policies can make the bounce even higher. A strong six-pack short-term policy package is needed first. It begins with release of all pending research grant disbursals for 2019-20 and 2020-21 without any cut or call-back through a consolidated research corpus from unspent budget, interest income and corporate grants through tax exemptions. Hurting ongoing research will adversely impact its net present value that contributes to India’s rise in global rankings and research output. Second, existing accreditation and ratings deadlines of National Board of Accreditation or National Assessment and Accreditation Council should be extended by a minimum of one year for existing institutions and those in queue along with their approvals. The six-month loss due to Covid and a minimum six-month recovery would have pushed back institutions by at least a year. Next, the RBI should categorise education as a priority sector and provide easy access to institutional loans for infrastructure expansion and operational activities. This will have a huge impact on direct and indirect employment. Banks need to accelerate the student education loan process and need to refocus efforts to channelise excess liquidity to service education loans at efficiency rates better than usual. Further, a tripartite arrangement between PM CARES, state relief fund and educational institutions should be done to provide subsidised internet access to students from challenged socio-economic backgrounds to improve access to various online resources for educational purposes. Along with this, a nationwide online training programme for faculty on online teaching can improve the efficiency of teachers as 10% of global spend on education is lost due to poor delivery and online education cannot afford this loss at higher costs. Lastly, postponement of competitive exams like JEE or Neet will add more to the turbulence and uncertainties in private higher education as a favourable policy posturing to IITs and CFTIs injure the unfavourably placed progressive privates. There is a need to ease the regulatory shackles to provide across the board an increase of 10% in intake for private institutions keeping all other things equal. Online education shall not exert pressure on physical and teaching infrastructure which can maintain status-quo and this shall also improve the gross enrolment ratio by roping in more students into the higher education system. A stable private institution ecosystem is essential considering their significant role and more so in higher education. This six-pack needs to be nurtured with a right mix of policy nutrients to ensure the higher and stronger bounce back of Indian higher education. The need for a multi-stakeholder approach in framing such policies cannot be more urgent than now and should not be done only by academics (current/retired) from government institutions like IITs and IIMs. Need a broad-based participation from private institutions and other stakeholders like industry, domain experts and civil society. A greater than 1 restitution is necessary as the falling Indian higher education can bounce back stronger and higher only through greater than ordinary restoration. (The writer is vice-chancellor at SASTRA Deemed University)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-six-pack-policy-to-get-campus-buzz-back/articleshow/76881961.cms||S Vaidhyasubramaniam
July 10, 2020||Rajkot||Ill lioness being taken to Sakkarbaug Zoo dies||Rajkot: A sick lioness, aged 2.5 years, died during transportation to Sakkarbaug zoo in Junagadh for treatment from the Shetrunjee range on Thursday. According to the forest officials, the lioness was suffering from broncho-pneumonia and was seeing moving around dizzily in the revenue area of Vavdi village of Rajula taluka in Amreli district. It was rescued on Wednesday and after administering primary treatment was referred to Sakkaarbaug Zoo for further treatment. The postmortem report stated she died because of multiple organ failure. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ill-lioness-being-taken-to-sakkarbaug-zoo-dies/articleshow/76881995.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Nashik||‘Non-Covid patients suffering too’||Nashik: Leader of opposition in the assembly Devendra Fadnavis was in Jalgaon on Thursday to review the Covid-19 situation. After visiting Covid-19 treatment facilities and talking to the patients’ relatives, the former CM said that along with Covid-19 patients, even non-Covid patients are suffering due to difficulties in accessing treatment. He said non-Covid patients had nowhere to go and, hence, were seeking treatment at private hospitals at a high cost. “The GMCH is completely reserved for Covid-19 patients. Non-Covid patients have to go to Dr Ulhas Patil Hospital, which is far from the city. Therefore, many are turning to private hospitals,” he said. “The local officials and the government should make alternative arrangements,” he said. Fadnavis also sought better Civid testing mechanism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/non-covid-patients-suffering-too/articleshow/76880654.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit youth booked for rape attempt of minor Dalit girl||Pilibhit: A 22-year-old youth was booked on Thursday for allegedly attempting to rape a 17-year-old Dalit girl here under the jurisdiction of Pilibhit Kotwali police station. The accused is on the run.The youth, who lives in the neighbourhood, had been stalking the girl for months, the survivor's mother alleged in her complaint. She said she had complained to his father but to no avail.Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO, said the accused, identified as Nitesh Kumar Yadav, had allegedly climbed a tree and barged into the girl's room on the first floor on the intervening night between Wednesday and Thursday. He tried to force himself on the sleeping girl, who woke and raised an alarm. Her family rushed to her aid and caught him but he managed to free himself and flee.SHO Dwivedi said the accused had been booked under IPC section 452 (house trespass), 354 assault or criminal force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty), provisions of SC/ST Act and POCSO Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-youth-booked-for-rape-attempt-of-minor-dalit-girl/articleshow/76880679.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Bareilly||Prosecution officer booked for ‘sharing morphed video’ of PM from CUG number||BAREILLY: A prosecution officer was on Thursday booked for allegedly sharing a morphed video of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, along with a defamatory message, in a WhatsApp group from his government closed user group (CUG) number on November 4, 2018. After the matter was escalated by member of Parliament from Aonla constituency BJP's Dharmendra Kashyap, an FIR was registered against the officer at Bareilly kotwali under relevant sections of the Information Technology Act. Kotwali SHO Geetesh Kapil said, “An FIR was registered after the state government gave the consent. Inspector Shahid Ali is investigating the matter. There was a delay in registering the FIR as the accused is a government prosecutor, and thus, he cannot be booked directly. We will follow the procedure and send a notice to the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/prosecution-officer-booked-for-sharing-morphed-video-of-pm-from-cug-number/articleshow/76880664.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 10, 2020||Delhi||In fitness of things: Start of new business cycle||NEW DELHI: At first sight, a schoolchild, a fitness junkie and a young businessman might not seem to have anything in common. However, a similar interest has been bringing this varied group together every day at Jhandewalan market. Hundreds of people have been thronging the market to purchase bicycles in keeping with the new trend noticed around the world amid the pandemic. The novel coronavirus has led to a surge in cyclists across the globe. Limited public transport options, no scope for exercise, minimum private vehicles and long hours of work from home have led people to invest in bicycles for different reasons. When TOI visited the market on Thursday, it was bustling with activity. The sharp “tring” of the cycle bell, the soft whir of the chain against the crank and customers bargaining for the best deal was common in every shop. At a time when most markets are struggling to attract customers, the cycle mart at Jhandewalan, which has 25 shops, has been doing brisk business. The shopkeepers said the rush started immediately after the market opened in the first week of June. Most shopkeepers said they had seen an increase of at least 40% in business since they opened. Some said their business had doubled. “Not a single day has gone by without sales. In fact, our sales have increased by over 50% compared with the period before the lockdown. Previously, we had 4-5 shoppers every day. Now, we get 10-12. On our best day, we sold 20 bicycles,” said Jai Kapoor, the owner of Paddler’s Mart. He added that unlike earlier when his prime customers were children, this time the demand for adult cycles had far exceeded those of kids. A group of three friends who had come to the market said they had bought six cycles, three for themselves and the others for their children. “We have made up our mind to go out every evening now and spend time together. The roads are empty nowadays, so it’s safe to take our children out too. We all grew up in small towns where we rode bicycles on the street. Now, we have the chance to teach that to our children too,” said Gulshan, a businessman from Kalkaji. After nearly two weeks of steady business, most shops have started to run out of supply. “People have been purchasing some of the well-known brands and we are out of the most common size. We have placed orders, but manufacturers say they may not be able to provide the requisite number of cycles since there is a similar demand across major towns,” said Rahul Takker, owner of Cyclux. The cycles here cost between Rs 4,000 and Rs 40,000. The increase in demand was mirrored by the number of people cycling on the roads. With Delhi’s clogged streets cleared of traffic owing to the lockdown, people began to reclaim the public places. Some of them even formed small groups to congregate at picturesque locations like Rajpath and Lodhi Gardens. Rahul and his three friends, all residents of Defence Colony, go to India Gate every day to cycle around the monument on their newly purchased cycles for an hour. They said they formed the group to ensure that they spent some time outdoors after being locked inside their homes for over three months. There were some lone cyclists too. Gaurav Gupta, a business owner, purchased a bicycle over two weeks ago and was using it for “exercising” twice daily. “Since going to gym is not an option anymore, I had to make alternative arrangements,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-fitness-of-things-start-of-new-biz-cycle/articleshow/76882794.cms||Anam Ajmal
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Compartment students may get 30 grace marks||CHANDIGARH: So that students with compartment do not suffer due to closure of schools, the UT education department plans to give them 30 grace marks. The marks will be granted to students of classes IX and XI, and those who can be, will be passed. A message was circulated among schoolteachers and a proforma for sharing details has also been forwarded. District education officer Harbir Anand said, “We are planning this move, but no final decision has been taken yet. Conducting exams seems impossible due to the pandemic as schools are closed. Final decision will be taken only when the Sector 9 office becomes fully functional.” The Sector 9 office was closed after multiple Covid-19 cases were reported from the building’s college wing. The message being circulated is asking Class IX in-charges to once again revise compartment results. “Give them 30 grace marks and then tell how many students will pass,” it said. This message has left some schools confused as to how the grace marks are to be given as only those students who did not pass, despite being given grace marks in March, were placed under compartment. The proforma seeks details, including the total number of students under compartment, those who will pass after 30 grace marks and those who will pass in one, two, three, four or five subjects. On April 14, the UT education department had decided to give 30 grace marks to students of classes IX and XI and not to fail anyone. Around 4,550 students of classes XI and XI of government schools, affiliated with the CBSE, in Chandigarh have got compartment. Its exams were to begin on May 15, but were later postponed till further orders. However, as the schools didn’t open, exams could not be conducted. ‘Wouldn’t help’ According to principals of various government schools, giving grace marks will not make any difference. The principal of a government school said, “We have calculated and not many will pass with grace marks. Not more than 10% students will pass.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/compartment-students-may-get-30-grace-marks/articleshow/76882766.cms||Kamini Mehta
July 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: With July alone seeing 48% of deaths, experts bat for shift in focus||BENGALURU: The Covid-19 outbreak in Karnataka, which was largely manageable until May-end, seems to be spinning out of control. With experts anticipating beginning of the peak in July, a look at the death toll shows how the pandemic may play out and why the government must shift its focus from managing the spike to preventing fatalities. The number of deaths rose from 51 as on May 31 to 470 till July 8, a growth of 822%. Nearly 90% of the deaths were recorded in the five weeks beginning June 1 and the most significant increase came in the first eight days of July. Till April, the death average was under one and in May, about one fatality was reported per day. The figure jumped to 6.5 in June and has grown alarmingly to touch 28 in July. The state saw 88 deaths by June 15, which increased to 246 by the month-end. In the next eight days, Karnataka recorded 224 deaths, which is about 48% of the total Covid toll as on July 8. Dr CN Manjunath, member, Karnataka Covid-19 taskforce, told TOI: “Generally, a pandemic spreads for about six months. We have crossed about four months and cases are expected to surge. An exponential rise in cases will see some more deaths, which is why the focus must be on keeping fatalities under check. Ideally, the death rate should be 1%, but it’s already 1.6%.” Dr Giridhara Babu, professor, Indian Institute of Public Health, and Dr MK Sudharshan, member, state Covid taskforce, have also been seeking a shift in strategy with a focus on checking deaths. Cases have grown 796% from May 31 to touch 28,877 as on Wednesday — the eight days in July alone have added 13,635 at a rate of 1,704 cases per day. While the overall fatality rate in Karnataka is 1.6%, it is more than 6% for those aged above 60. Data show 218 of the 470 deaths were of people aged 60 or more, while 95 of the victims were between 50 and 60. Also, 70% to 80% of the deceased had comorbidities, Manjunath said, adding that reasons like late hospitalisation added to the toll. The problem of inadequate beds, especially ICU beds, is also a contributing factor. Given the high base number, the percentage increase in testing is much lower than rise in number of cases and deaths. The state conducted 40% of the total 7.6 lakh tests over 184 days and 61% in the past 38 days alone. Posting a 159% growth, Karnataka tested 4.6 lakh samples in the 38 days to touch 7.6 lakh tests cumulatively as of July 8. Nearly 1.4 lakh or 30% of the 4.6 lakh samples were tested in July alone at a rate of 17,304 tests per day. Before this, a peak in daily testing was witnessed in May last week, when the state tested over 13,000 samples per day, largely due to an influx of returnees. That said, Karnataka will need to test more with the peak expected soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-july-alone-seeing-48-of-deaths-experts-bat-for-shift-in-focus/articleshow/76882078.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 10, 2020||Nashik||Tankers withdrawn as dist receives rain||Nashik: The district administration has withdrawn all the water supply tankers on Thursday in the rural areas as the water sources in the villages have revived due to considerable amount of rain during the ongoing monsoon. The administration had been supplying 41 tankers across the district providing drinking water to more than 80,000 people as there was water scarcity. All the talukas, where water tankers were provided, in the district, witnessed a considerable amount of rainfall. The highest numbers of tankers were provided in Yeola taluka followed by Surgana, Peth and Nandgaon talukas of the district. Since it started raining, the villages in Sinnar taluka started receiving lesser numbers of tankers. “Yeola was the last taluka to receive water through the tankers. Now, all the villages that received water through tankers, have water sources revived, hence there is no need for tankers now, ” said an officer from the district administration. The decision to start the water tanker was taken by the administration after weighing the proposal presented by the gram panchayat. In case of discontinuation of the tankers, the basic criteria of receiving more than 10% of annual rainfall is considered. By this time the groundwater sources are revived due to rising water levels or direct percolation of water from neighbouring areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/tankers-withdrawn-as-dist-receives-rain/articleshow/76880682.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: ‘No police stations will directly deal with complaints’||CHANDIGARH: After drawing criticism from all in a graft case involving inspector Jaswinder Kaur, senior officials of the UT police have strictly directed all the SHOs that complaints, including monetary frauds, will not be entertained at police station level and the same should be submitted at the SSP public window. Thereafter, the SSP will mark the complaints to police stations concerned for further investigations. The UT police department has taken the step after the CBI booked inspector Jaswinder Kaur. The police department has already suspended Jaswinder Kaur and marked a departmental enquiry against her after registration of a graft case against her on June 29. According to information, all the complaints should be submitted at the SSP public window and those would then be marked to police stations concerned. It had been found that some SHOs and enquiry officers were enquiring complaints at their own level without intimating their senior officers, which led to corruption among cops. The CBI had arrested inspector Jaswinder for her alleged conduit for accepting Rs 1 lakh as bribe from a complainant. However, Jaswinder has been on the run and has not joined the probe so far. The CBI said the inspector had allegedly taken the bribe money from the complainant in a cheating case of Rs 28 lakh. A few days before this incident, the CBI had booked three constables of Maloya police station and arrested their alleged conduit for taking bribe money from Dhanas residents on June 19. Immediately, all the three constables were suspended by the police department and transferred to police lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-police-stations-will-directly-deal-with-complaints/articleshow/76882777.cms||Pawan Tiwari
July 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Doctor among Kolhapur’s 13 new cases; 3 dead in dist||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district on Thursday registered 13 new patients, including a doctor from the city, taking the total number of patients to 1,064. The district also recorded three deaths, taking the toll of casualties to 21. Health department officials said that a doctor who runs a clinic in the Tarabai Park area tested positive for the contagion. Local administration has undertaken a massive contact tracing exercise as the doctor’s clinic was always crowded with patients. Authorities have appealed to people to come forward and inform the administration if they have visited the doctor’s clinic recently along with following home quarantine protocol. Meanwhile, Karveer tehsil recorded four new patients while Hatkanangale reported two cases on Thursday. In addition, Ajara, Ichalkaranji, Gadhinglaj and Kolhapur city recorded one patient each. Officials said that Kolhapur city is witnessing a surge in Covid patients with the civic administration sealing various areas including Rajopadhye Nagar, Sambhaji Nagar, Tarabai Park, Sarnaik Vast and Yadav Nagar. Special efforts are being taken in the Yadav Nagar area because of its density. Sangli registers 27 cases Sangli district registered 27 new patients on Thursday. At present, the district has 285 active patients while 289 have been discharged from various hospitals after recovery. The district has reported 15 deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/doc-among-kolhapurs-13-new-cases-3-dead-in-dist/articleshow/76881998.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Madurai||Doctor comes to aid of man who lost forearm, fingers||MADURAI: Two months ago, M Pandi, 60, a construction labourer, lost his left forearm and all fingers on his right hand, except for the thumb, in an electrical accident at his work place. Now, a doctor has come forward to take care of his treatment. Pandi, a resident of Kattabomman Nagar in Sellur, underwent treatment at the government hospital (GH) for two months and was discharged a few days ago, but the burn wounds are still not cured. Tragedy stuck twice as Pandi lost his wife a week ago. Having lost his livelihood and his wife, Pandi’s daughters are now left to take care of him, as their relatives did not come forward to his help. Fortunately, they have got a place in a city hospital, where he will be taken care of free of cost. Pandi has four daughters, of which two are married. The other two work in a medical shop, and pursuing college education respectively. The youngest daughters vacated their rented house and shifted to one of the elder sisters’ house. “Our mother fell ill soon after father met with the accident. We are now struggling even for food and at the mercy of our brother-in-law, who himself is a daily wage labourer,” said Chithra Meenakshi, one of the daughters. Dr R Balagurusamy of Nethravathi Pain Palliative Care and Rehabilitation said it would require at least three months treatment for the wounds to completely heal. Since he is also diabetic, treatment has been initiated to bring it under control. “Dr Mohanbabu, a general surgeon has come forward to provide treatment free of cost. However, Pandi would require sizeable amount to meet requirements such as medicines and collagen sheets. If kindhearted people come forward, he can be completely cured without burden on the hospice,” he said. Balagurusamy said they are planning for prosthetic hand after he is completely cured and employ him as security guard, so that he can start supporting his family again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/doc-comes-to-aid-of-man-who-lost-forearm-fingers/articleshow/76882004.cms||V Devanathan
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 27-year-old constable hangs self||HYDERABAD: A constable working in Medipally police station, committed suicide by hanging himself to a ceiling at his rented residence in Medipally on Thursday afternoon. Medipally police said that 27-year-old Naga Sai Chand, was found hanging by his house owner, who alerted the police. Officials said that Naga Sai, who is from Mulugu district, has been on leave from last two weeks citing his father’s ill-health. The house owner, upon hearing a loud sound, went to Sai’s room, where he was found hanging. During the investigation, police came to know that recently Naga Sai’s family members decided to get him married to a girl, who is their relative, against his wish. The family members suspect that perhaps this could be the reason for the constable, who is from 2018 batch, to take the extreme step. There have been several cases of police personal contracting Covid-19 in the last few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/27-year-old-constable-hangs-self/articleshow/76883383.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||9 contract the virus in Mohali||tnnMohali: Nine cases of Covid-19 were reported in Mohali district on Thursday.The civil surgeon said those who have tested positive include a 32 years old man and a 52 years old woman of Phase IX; a 48 years old woman of Phase X; a 62 years old man of Sector 127; a 68 years old man from Sector 97; a 42 years old man of Sector 78; a 30 years old man of Sector 80; a 32 years old man of Zirakpur; and a 19 years old man of Dappar. The district case count has now increased to 340, including 81 active cases.The civil surgeon said five patients were cured and discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital on the day.Those discharged include two women aged 59 of Baltana; a 25 years old man of Phase IV, Mohali; a 46 years old man of Lalru; and a 50 years old man of Khanpur.Number of cured cases now stands at 253.Covid19 bulletin of MohaliTotal cases: 340Active: 81Cured: 253Deaths: 6||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/9-contract-the-virus-in-mohali/articleshow/76882783.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Madurai||A tightrope walk for dialysis patients who test Covid-19 positive||MADURAI: As Covid-19 cases continue to increase in Madurai over the past few weeks, several patients with chronic kidney disease undergoing regular dialysis treatment also tested positive with the infection. With compromised immune systems and being unable to avoid hospital visits, dialysis patients face huge risk of contracting Covid-19. “Dialysis patients are high risk groups. Unlike other patients who can postpone their hospital visits, these patients need dialysis to live. At least for surgeries, patients can get tested for Covid-19 once and then be done with the procedure, we can’t do so for dialysis patients who have to be treated every week,” said Dr K Sampathkumar, senior consultant and head, department of nephrology at a private multi-specialty hospital. Currently, at all hospitals, only when a dialysis patient shows clinical symptoms of Covid-19, they are tested. Further, only hospitals that are authorised to treat Covid-19 patients can treat the positive cases who were undergoing dialysis. “Since we are not authorised to treat Covid-19 patients, if we suspect that anyone may have Covid-19, we have to refer them to a hospital which treats Covid-19 patients and get tested. At the same time, we too are continuing with dialysis treatment for our patients with precautionary measures in place,” said Dr Dhinakaran T, Chief Nephrologist at a hospital exclusive for kidney care. At one of the private multi-specialty hospitals in Madurai, five dialysis patients and at least one healthcare professional attending to them recently tested Covid-19 positive. At Kovilpatti Government Hospital in Tuticorin, the dialysis unit had to be shut down for disinfection after three patients who underwent dialysis tested Covid-19 positive. The positive dialysis patients as of now are undergoing dialysis in separate rooms arranged for them at hospitals authorised for Covid-19 care with medical professionals fully equipped with PPEs to care for them. In the current scenario, doctors are suggesting peritoneal dialysis, which can be done at home, for patients who can afford it. Peritoneal dialysis is a treatment for kidney failure that uses the lining of your abdomen, or belly, to filter your blood inside your body. “This minimizes the need of travelling to hospitals for dialysis and can greatly reduce the risk faced by an already vulnerable group of patients,” added Dr Sampathkumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/a-tightrope-walk-for-dialysis-patients-who-test-positive/articleshow/76882009.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 10, 2020||Lucknow||Nod to funds from local bodies for ‘kaya kalp’ of UP govt-run schools||LUCKNOW: In a boost to the education sector, the state government has allowed local bodies to spend funds on renovation of government schools in the rural and municipal limits under operation ‘Kaya Kalp’. The urban development department has sent letters to all executive heads of nagar palika parishads/nagar panchayats and municipal commissioners, asking them to spruce up the condition of schools on various parameters including construction of toilets, safe drinking water, setting up of multiple hand washing system, proper drainage network, renovation of roof, walls and doors, repair of tiles, electrification works, renovation of kitchen sheds and arrangement of basic furniture. The department has also asked for repair of boundary walls and gates, renovation of inter-locking tiles and construction of extra classrooms. Principal secretary, urban development, Deepak Kumar told TOI that the renovation of schools can be considered a part of improving basic infrastructure. “The state government has therefore given permission to local bodies to spend allocated funds for development of schools. The urban development department can also play the role of a facilitator to implement the scheme is linked to the education department,” he said. The move comes in the backdrop of UP government decision to observe 2019-20 academic year as the “period of improving educational facilities”. Officials said gram panchayats have carried out operation Kaya Kalp on a significantly wider scale in the rural areas. Likewise, renovation of government schools in urban areas can be undertaken by municipal bodies which can allocate funds under various heads, including Central finance commission, state finance commission, Smart City fund and infrastructure development funds. An order issued by director general, school education, Vijay Kiran Anand, to all district basic education officers said that government schools need to be equipped and saturated with basic amenities and infrastructure on 14 parameters by September 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nod-to-funds-from-local-bodies-for-kaya-kalp-of-up-govt-run-schools/articleshow/76883393.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||IIT Hyderabad, NVIDIA kickstart AI tech centre||HYDERABAD: Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad (IITH) in collaboration with NVIDIA, a multinational technology company, will be establishing India’s first ‘NVIDIA AI Technology Centre’ (NVAITC) to accelerate research on Artificial Intelligence and its commercial adoption. An event was held on Thursday to mark the commencement of operations of the centre. NVAITC will accelerate research for the 220 faculty at IIT Hyderabad. “As an IIT with a strong fundamental and technological research focus, IITH is very happy to join this program. This combination of NVIDIA’s leading-edge technology for AI Compute and some of the finest minds in the country from IIT Hyderabad will bring synergy to help find solutions to uniquely Indian challenges, be it enhancing crop yield or safer cities. This will build on the strong AI capabilities IIT Hyderabad has built, including the country’s first B.Tech in AI program,” said BS Murty, director, IITH. This collaboration between IIT Hyderabad and NVIDIA will focus on advancing AI research in the areas of agriculture and smart cities besides Language Understanding. The projects that would be taken up include increasing crop yield using AI algorithms and applying AI-based solutions to support safer transportation systems and better ways of managing traffic, among others. “NVIDIA is powering the AI revolution across research facilities everywhere. Our collaboration with IIT Hyderabad will accelerate AI research and help create innovative solutions to real-world challenges,” said Vishal Dhupar, managing director for NVIDIA South Asia. The state government recently announced 2020 as the ‘Year of AI’ with an aim to establish Hyderabad among the top 25 global AI innovation hubs. NVIDIA is already a partner to the Telangana government in this endeavor. IITH already houses two NVIDIA DGX-1 TM systems and an NVIDIA DGX-2 TM system dedicated to research being undertaken at the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iit-hyd-nvidia-kickstart-ai-tech-centre/articleshow/76883387.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kolhapur||5 highways shut after rain in Radhanagari catchment area||KOLHAPUR: Incessant rainfall in the catchment areas of the Radhanagari dam in Kolhapur district has affected road transport with the government shutting down five state highway and three district roads. According to officials, Gaganbawda and Radhanagari tehsils have been receiving continuous rainfall, which has increased the Panchaganga river water level. Public Works Department (PWD) has closed certain roads in Karveer, Chandgad, Ajara and Gaganbawda and Kagal tehsils as a precautionary measure. People have been asked to use alternative routes till further instructions. Irrigation authorities said 1,400 cusec of water is being discharged from the Radhanagari dam. The dam currently has 121.89 TMC water storage. Officials said 28 barrages are submerged because of heavy rainfall and water discharge. Satara district received 13.25 mm rainfall in 24 hours. Mahabaleshwar, Jawli and Patan tehsils too have been receiving showers over the past two days. Official communication has said that heavy rainfall is likely to occur in Satara and Kolhapur district on Friday as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/5-highways-shut-after-rain-in-radhanagari-catchment-area/articleshow/76882007.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali administration takes no action after PSEB employee tests Covid-19 positive||MOHALI: The district administration took no serious note of an academic section employee of the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) testing positive for Covid-19. The 57-year-old Chandigarh resident woman, who worked as an assistant at the academic section of the education board, was quarantined by the UT administration. The information about her workplace was sent to Mohali administration on Wednesday, but they failed to seal the academic section and the health department is yet to make any efforts to trace her contacts. An employee said, “Though she is on leave now, she had been visiting the board regularly to complete her file, as she is due for retirement in August. She met many other employees before testing positive. It has been two days now and the health officials are yet to seal the academic section and quarantine those posted at the department.” However, there was prompt action a day after Mohali SDM tested positive. The administration put the office support staff under home quarantine and also disinfected the office. Additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Aashika Jain said, “We have sanitised the office room and around 10 support staff members have been home quarantined. The samples of the staff will be taken on Friday for testing.” Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said they were tracing the contacts of the SDM and the list was being prepared, after which sampling would be done. “Positive patients will be put under isolation and other close contacts will be home quarantined,” he said. Judge home quarantined The chief judicial magistrate of Mohali has been home quarantined as she is a close contact of a positive patient. The CJM will be home quarantined for 14 days from July 8 to 21. She is a resident of Chandigarh, said the civil surgeon. The court work from July 13 to 15 will be performed by Ruchi Swapan Sharma, judicial magistrate first class, Mohali (duty magistrate), in her absence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-action-after-pseb-employee-tests-positive/articleshow/76882798.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||Despite lockdown, air pollution cost Mum 14k lives and Rs15.7k cr GDP||Nagpur: In Mumbai, air pollution from particulate matter 2.5 and nitrogen dioxide is responsible for the loss of an estimated 14,000 lives and a cost of Rs 15,750 crore since January 1 this year. According to a new online tool developed by IQAir AirVisual and Greenpeace Southeast Asia, health damage from air pollution is expected to cost 1-5.8% of cities’ annual Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the major metropolitan cities of the world in the first half of this year. Of all the 28 cities studied, New Delhi bears the highest economic cost of air pollution as a percentage of GDP due to the impacts of PM2.5 and NO2 pollution. “Air pollution in the city is linked to the loss of an estimated 24,000 lives in Delhi in the first half of 2020, despite a strict Covid-related lockdown,” the research states. It further revealed that air pollution took a major toll on the city’s economy, at a cost of approximately Rs 26,230 crore over the last sixth months, an equivalent of 5.8% of Delhi’s total annual GDP. Research also shows that long-term air pollution exposure increases the risk of severe Covid-19 infections and deaths. “Chronic air pollution exposure is associated with diseases such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and chronic lung disease. Patients with these conditions are at a greater risk of hospitalization with Covid-19,” it stated. Experts favour investments in more economically viable solutions like renewable energy and clean powered public transport systems. “Despite having comparatively better air quality because of a strict Covid-19 related lockdown, air pollution continues to be a serious public health crisis as well as a threat to our economy. As governments look to rebuild economies, it is more important than ever that investments are directed toward green, just and sustainable sectors of society,” said Avinash Chanchal, climate campaigner at Greenpeace India. GONE WITH THE WIND In Mumbai, air pollution from PM2.5 and NO2 responsible for loss of an estimated 14,000 lives Also responsible for cost of Rs15,750 crore since January 1 this year New Delhi bears highest economic cost of air pollution Health damage from air pollution expected to cost 1-5.8% of cities’ annual GDP in metropolitan cities Experts feel economically viable solutions needed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-lockdown-air-pollution-cost-mum-14k-lives-and-rs15-7k-cr-gdp/articleshow/76882581.cms||Manka Behl
July 10, 2020||Lucknow||Min to MPs, MLAs: Help curb line losses||LUCKNOW: Energy minister Srikant Sharma on Thursday appealed to all MLAs and MPs to adopt 10 electricity feeders each and help in bringing down line losses for ensuring better power supply. In a letter addressed to all MPs, MLAs and gram pradhans, Sharma underlined the need of bringing down line losses to 15% to provide round the clock power supply in state. At present, line losses are around 30% in various districts. In fact, in some districts the line losses, mostly due to power theft, have been in the range of 40 to 50%. Sharma said he expects the representatives to respond to his call and urged them to exhort people to pay their bills timely and help bring down line losses. Less line losses would increase revenue of UP Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) which would be used to install better power generation and transmission infrastructure, including installation of transformers of higher capacity. The minister highlighted the state government’s initiatives of coming up with schemes like Easy Instalment Scheme and Kisan Aasaan Kisht Yojana envisaging payment of electricity arrears up to the month of June in 12 to 24 instalments with a waiver in surcharge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/min-to-mps-mlas-help-curb-line-losses/articleshow/76883406.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Madurai||Homeless vulnerable to Covid-19, can spread too||MADURAI: A large number of elderly people can be seen residing on the roadsides of Madurai. At a time when Covid-19 has been on the rise in the city, not only are they vulnerable to the virus, but also pose threat to others. They might spread infection unintentionally to others, particularly to social workers, who regularly provide them with food and water, said social activists. The Madurai Corporation and Madurai district administration came forward to help abandoned people and those stranded when lockdown was brought into effect for the first time in March. They were provided with food and medical attention after accommodating them in six temporary facilities created for the purpose. Family members of most of the people were traced and they were reunited after 20 days. Those, who did not have any place to go, were accommodated in homes. Subsequently, the temporary facilities were closed. Following this, most of the abandoned elderly people are back on roadsides. V P Manikandan, a social activist said that homes are overflowing with inmates and less patronage from philanthropists. They are not in a position to help the abandoned people. Government departments like corporation social welfare department and police department should come together and devise a mechanism to save them. There should be a state wide toll free number and infrastructure facility to care the abandoned persons. It would be easier for the passersby to alert when they come across abandoned persons on roadside, he said. S Muthukumar, an advocate from the city, said that the only solution to address the issue is to create a permanent facility, where abandoned people can be rehabilitated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/homeless-vulnerable-to-covid-can-spread-too/articleshow/76882016.cms||V Devanathan
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh ’s parking policy is stuck in pandemic jam||CHANDIGARH: With the Chandigarh administration busy with arresting the spread of novel coronavirus, the city’s first-ever parking policy for residential and commercial areas has been put on the back burner. More than six months have passed, but the senior UT officials have failed to take a final call on the draft parking policy. Earlier, the UT transport and architect departments were transferring the matter to each other. And later when the issue was resolved, the UT officials got busy with pandemic-related work. The Punjab and Haryana high court is also keeping an eye on the issue. A senior UT official said, “The draft policy was to be discussed in UT administrator’s advisory council meeting. But due to the pandemic, the meeting could not be held. The UT administration will soon hold a meeting of senior officials on the issue.” The draft policy, which aims at addressing parking problems in residential and commercial areas, had suggested higher charges during peak hours (9am to noon and 5pm to 8pm) in the city’s busiest sectors like 17, 22, 35 and Industrial Area, phases I and II. The charges are, however, yet to be finalized. The administration has also proposed introduction of congestion pricing in sectors 17, 22 and 35 and high-density commercial markets along V1/V2/V3/V4 roads and in both the phases of Industrial Area. Chandigarh municipal corporation has been authorised to determine and revise the structure and amount of parking tariff for different types of vehicles. The administration has devised a formula for calculating the tariff. The price of parking for each type of vehicle will be determined on the basis of space it occupied, cost incurred in maintaining the parking space and prevailing collector rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-puts-parking-policy-on-the-back-burner/articleshow/76882826.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 10, 2020||Chandigarh||3 more contract the virus in Panchkula||tnnPanchkula: Three Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Panchkula on Thursday. With this, the district’s case count has increased to 132, including 24 active ones. Chief medical officer (CMO) Jasjeet Kaur said a 30-year-old man of Adarsh Colony, Kalka; a 26-year-old man of Sector 7 and 26-year-old resident of Sector 19 have tested positive. They were contacts of Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-more-contract-the-virus-in-panchkula/articleshow/76882819.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Agra||10 arrested in five different cases in 24 hours||Agra: In less than 24 hours, Agra police arrested 10 men in five different criminal cases. The accused include wanted men with a reward of Rs 25,000, Rs 20,000 and Rs 10,000 on their head. Two of them were caught in a police encounter. The duo sustained bullet injuries in their leg. The police first arrested Nathia Singh alias Natho accused in a double murder case. He was absconding since past 12 years. Police had declared a cash reward of Rs 25,000 on his head. According to Shamshabad police, on October 31, 2008 Nathia, along with five others, had murdered a young couple in Mahrampur village. After the murder, Nathia ran away to Bharatpur and later to Ludhiana to avoid getting arrested. Rest of the five accused got life-term by a local court. “After getting the information about his presence in Agra, we caught the accused near Raj inter-college,” SHO Arvind Kumar Nirwal said. The second arrest was that of a man identified as Salman of Itmad-ud-daula area. He was wanted under Gangsters Act and was carrying a cash reward of Rs 20,000. He was caught along with his accomplice and namesake Salman of Tajganj area. The two were caught in a police encounter carried out by SOG and Tajganj police. “When confronted, the duo fired at the cops. In retaliation, our men also fired. The duo sustained bullet injuries in their legs,” SHO Tajganj Narender Kumar said. Khandauli police arrested a man who was wanted in a kidnapping case and was carrying a cash reward of Rs 10,000 since past two years. The accused was identified as Sughriv of Hathras who had allegedly helped his friend Mahesh Chandra kidnap his teenaged sibling in order to extort money from the family in June 2018. Four teenagers were also arrested by Sadar police for burglary at a mobile store. According to police, on Wednesday morning, the four accused stole 30 mobile phones, five Bluetooth head gear, eight pen drives and other gadgets. Jagdispura police arrested three men who used to manufacture and supply illegal country-made weapons in the district. The accused were identified as Lokendra Singh, Hakim and Subhas Singh. According to police, Subhas Singh use to make country-made weapons, while Lokendra Singh and Hakim used to sell them after finding buyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/10-arrested-in-five-different-cases-in-24-hours/articleshow/76882029.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Taking selfie video of aarti, Vikas Dubey drew attention on CCTV||UJJAIN: Their mornings always begin with the ringing of temple bells. The women have been regulars at Mahakaal for decades, and they had never seen anything like it. Five to six security guards suddenly grappled with a burly man in a white T-shirt and led him away on Thursday morning. It was only half an hour later that the women, from Rishi Nagar area of Indore, realized they had seen the capture of the most wanted man in India, Vikas Yadav. It was 8.45am. The women told TOI they had seen Vikas and his two companions taking a video of him participating in the aarti. “We wondered how they smuggled a phone into the temple. It’s banned and we never do. We thought we were in the frame and had half a mind to ask them to share the video,” one of them told TOI, requesting not to be named. They had gone back and told their families that they had seen for the first time someone taking a video of aarti. Was Vikas documenting his presence in the temple? Apparently, he was spotted and identified on CCTV just then. The group of women was just behind Vikas and his two companions as they entered the temple and did the circuit with them without realizing they were inches from a gangster accused of killing eight policemen in cold blood. “He asked a temple employee at the shoe stand if he could keep his bag somewhere. Then he sought to know if he could enter the temple. I told him that he would have to buy a ticket for Rs 250 at the counter,” a temple priest, Gopal Singh Kushwah, told reporters. The Mahakaleshwar Temple Managing Committee has started an online advance booking system for devotees after the Coovid-19 lockdown, but they also have a counter where a ticket can be bought. According to witnesses, Vikas took the tickets and requested a back-door entrance but he was refused. He then joined the devotees’ queue. “After praying before the deity, he was walking towards Saptarishi temple (a smaller temple in the Mahakaal compound), when we heard the commotion and saw him being tackled,” a woman said. Watch MP: Taking selfie video of aarti, gangster Vikas Dubey drew attention on CCTV||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/taking-selfie-video-of-aarti-vikas-drew-attention-on-cctv/articleshow/76882033.cms||Brajesh Parmar
July 10, 2020||Dehradun||Days after leopard kills boy, elderly woman found mauled in same area||Nainital: Days after a one-and-half-year-old child was killed by a leopard in Udal village of Almora district, a 65-year-old woman identified as Anandi Devi was found dead in Petshali village in the same area. Locals said that the woman’s body had been mauled by the animal and they suspect that it was the same leopard that attacked and killed the child in Udal. “Anandi’s body was almost half-eaten. She had been missing since Tuesday night. At first, the family thought that she had gone to a relative's place, but when she did not even return on Wednesday, we started looking for her. Finally, her mauled and half-eaten body was found in the forest,” said Khajan Pethshali, former head of the village. “We were informed that when the leopard attacked the child, the locals gathered and chased the animal into the forest. It seems like the same leopard came to our village and dragged Devi into the forest where she was found dead,” Pethshali further said. As reported by TOI,the one-and-half-year-old toddler was killed on Monday evening. The toddler's body was later found around 200 metres inside the forest area. Meanwhile, the forest department has sent a team to the village and is trying to trace the animal. A hunter will also be deployed in the area soon, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/days-after-leopard-kills-boy-elderly-woman-found-mauled-in-same-area/articleshow/76880719.cms||Prashant Jha
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Apathy may cost safai workers their lives in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Lack of waste segregation at the household level is posing a great risk to the dwindling number of sanitation workers across the capital, most of whom are already infected with Covid-19. Speaking at a webinar on “Waste Management During Covid-19” on Thursday, experts felt that segregation at source needs to be imposed at the household level to effectively manage Covid-19 waste. With most workers carrying out segregation of household waste manually, often without gloves or proper equipment, the risk of them coming in contact with a contaminated mask or gloves was high, the experts added. Swati Sambyal, solid waste management expert, Delhi, said that 15 sanitation workers in Delhi had died, while close to 45 were infected. “Continuing with the current system will only add to more cases. Biomedical waste has gone up around 5-8 times compared with pre-Covid days,” she added. “Currently, only 60-70% biomedical waste is being sent for processing and there is a dearth of sanitation workers. Those working on the ground don’t have basic protective equipment. There are enough reports that indicate Covid-19 waste is not being segregated in yellow bags from quarantine households. This poses a great risk to those dealing with such waste,” said Sambyal. She added that sensitisation on the ground needed to start early, especially imposing segregation at households where people were in home isolation. “This can be a good start, but it has to spread across the city. People who dispose of masks and gloves with their household waste can equally infect someone else,” said Sambyal. Dr Keith Alverson, director, International Environmental Technology Centre, United Nations Environment Programme, Japan, said Covid-19 had thrown a different challenge to the waste management sector, one that currently had no fixed solution. “Adaptability is the need of the hour and a solution right now may not apply in the next few months, so we need to keep evolving,” he added. He gave the example of Japan, which is currently seeing flooding in large parts. “Flood and Covid-related waste will now mix, creating a need for people to constantly stay alert. We need to be prepared for multiple disasters and a contingency plan needs to be in place,” Alverson added. The webinar, which was organised by Centre for Environment, Climate Change and Sustainable Development at Impact and Policy Research Institute, also stressed on the need of effectively recycling waste. Brajesh Kumar Dubey, associate professor, IIT Kharagpur, said Covid-19 had not only disrupted waste management, but also the recycling process, which could have greater implications going forward. “The solid waste management rules already mandate segregation, but this is still not being done. Once waste is mixed, you cannot do much other than dump it at a landfill site. While collecting waste is part of essential services, recycling isn’t. This period has also seen an increase in waste piling up, especially plastic,” said Dubey, adding that the existing waste management sector needed to be strengthened to combat the problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/apathy-may-cost-safai-workers-their-lives/articleshow/76883427.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 10, 2020||Nashik||Remove encroachments from nullahs: Civic panel||Nashik: Members of the standing committee of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Thursday alleged that the civic administration is not serious about removing encroachments that have mushroomed along the nullahs across the city. Stating that these illegal structures lead to waterlogging and may pose a danger to the citizens during monsoon, the members asked for timely intervention from civic officials. The issue came up during the standing committee meeting held on Thursday via video conferencing. Kalpana Pande, a standing committee member, said the encroachments on nullahs in the city is leading to waterlogging in many areas. “Rainwater had entered the houses in my ward (Cidco area). The encroachments have mushroomed on nullahs. I had registered complaints with the officials from the civic public works department, but they did not take any action,” she said. Another member, Sudhakar Badgujar, also raised similar issue. City engineer Sanjay Ghuge admitted that the width of some nullahs have reduced in Cidco area of the city due to the encroachments. “The demarcation of nullahs in the city is being carried out by the town planning department of NMC and it will be completed shortly,” he said. Standing committee chairman Ganesh Gite directed the officials concerned to look into the issue immediately and take action against encroachment on the nullahs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/remove-encroachments-from-nullahs-civic-panel/articleshow/76880714.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 10, 2020||Nashik||Jewellery shops in Saraf Bazaar reopen||Nashik: Saraf Bazaar, a major jewellery market in the city comprising over 250 showrooms, restarted operations on Thursday after two days of voluntary bandh, Chetan Rajapurkar, president of Nashik Jewellers Association, said. Earlier, jewellers had decided to shut their shops between July 7 and 14 in view of Covid-19 outbreak, however, they decided to reopen early for the convenience of consumers. In addition, the jewellers had to deal with rumours on social media about shopkeepers testing positive for coronavirus. They were of the opinion that the fake news might impact their business. Therefore, they decided to reopen their shops early. “We have started our shops after two-day voluntary bandh because of the Covid-19 pandemic, however, we have decided to start shops in Saraf Bazaar from Thursday to facilitate the consumers,” said Rajapurkar. He said that the shops in some markets are not following odd-even rules laid down by the administration. “Hence, we want the authorities to give us relaxation from this odd-even formula or strictly implement the norms in all the places so that it is fair for everyone,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jewellery-shops-in-saraf-bazaar-reopen/articleshow/76880733.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 28 schools served show cause notice over violation of fee order||HYDERABAD: The department of school education (DSE), Telangana on Thursday issued show cause notices to 28 schools in Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal districts for violating fee regulation norms. Speaking to TOI, the Hyderabad Regional Joint Director (RJD) Vijaya Lakshmi Bai confirmed that notices have been served to schools in the city limits. “We have served a first show cause notice to 28 schools today. They have a day to respond, failing which two more notices will be served, allowing schools to submit their response, before initiating action,” said the RJD, adding the schools were found violating government order (GO) 46. This comes after several parents lodged complaints with the education department against school managements who were also directed by authorities to submit records pertaining to fee collection. As per the Regulation of school fees for the Academic Year (GO 46) issued on April 21, 2020, schools are not supposed to enhance the fee for the academic year 2020-21. The GO also mandates schools to not collect any fees apart from tuition fees and provide an option for parents to clear fees on a monthly basis instead of paying term fees. Non-compliance with the GO can result in cancellation of school recognition, revoking the No Objection Certificate (NOC) already granted for affiliation to other boards and initiation of appropriate action against the School Management under relevant Acts/Rules, the order states. B Venkata Narasamma, district education officer of Hyderabad, meanwhile, said that her office has issued notices to two schools—one in Begumpet and other in Banjara Hills. Two other schools were issued notices on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/28-schools-served-show-cause-notice-over-violation-of-fee-order/articleshow/76883403.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Madurai||Big burial urn with lid intact found in Adhichanallur site||MADURAI: A huge burial urn with its lid intact and measuring about four feet in height, has been unearthed by archaeologists working at the Adichanallur site in Tuticorin district. So far, 10 urns have been discovered in this ancient site during this phase of excavation, which began on May 25. A group of archaeologists led by director of excavation, Tamil Nadu archaeological department, J Bhaskaran, is carrying out the excavation. About 50 locals are also engaged in the excavation, under the guidance of the archaeologists. The first urns were found around June 8, in which skeletal parts in various quadrants were also found. This was followed by many urns of different sizes. Sources said the latest urn along with two others were found in a place called Parambu Puliankulam on the banks of the Tamirabarini river. The huge urn with a cone-shaped lid has excited the team, though the contents are yet to be revealed. The urns have been made of black-red pottery, and there are many other smaller vessels found in their vicinity. Only one was intact while the others had their lids broken and scattered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/big-burial-urn-with-lid-intact-found-in-adhichanallur-site/articleshow/76882042.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Eight cops from Khar station lead the way with plasma donations, 10 will follow||MUMBAI: Eight Khar cops were the first in the state force to donate plasma to save those with Covid-19. Another 10 from the station will donate in the coming days. The 18 were infected from March to May. Senior inspector Gajanan Kabdule said he was proud of his team. “I was approached by a friend, Rahul Rohra, a Khar businessman, who recovered,” Kabdule said. The first to donate was constable P N Parab, who was admitted to SevenHills hospital in May along with his 78-year-old mother, who succumbed the next day. “I was unable to save my mother but I got a chance to save others. Initially, I was depressed about my mother’s death. But my team boosted my morale. I learnt that fear kills and those infected fight with will power instead of losing hope,” Parab told TOI. Rohra said when he approached friends and relatives who had recovered, they were apprehensive to visit the hospital. “This made me approach Kabdule. Few Khar residents’ associations, along with Rotary Club of Bombay Seacoast and Inner Wheel Club of Bombay Seacoast honoured the policemen at a small ceremony with no guests. The group provided protective equipment during the pandemic and is now campaigning for plasma donations,” he said. Parab said the normal procedure for donating plasma takes at least a month after a person recovers from Covid-19. “We underwent an anti-body test a week and a half back. Two days later, doctors at Nair hospital started calling us one at a time to collect our plasma,” he said. Joint commissioner of police (law & order) Vinay Choubey said he was proud of the force which has been at the forefront of fighting the pandemic. “We are there to serve people and save lives,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/8-khar-cops-lead-the-way-with-plasma-donations-10-to-follow/articleshow/76882670.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
July 10, 2020||Madurai||CM must explain high death rate in Madurai: MP||MADURAI: Accusing the government of adopting a step-motherly attitude towards the southern districts, Madurai MP Su Venkatesan asked chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to explain as to why the death rate in Madurai is increasing so rapidly. In a statement on Thursday, Venkatesan said that when the number of positive cases was 3,000 in Chennai, the number of deaths were only 24. But, the number of deaths for 3,000 positive cases in Madurai was 51. Similarly, when the number of cases was 5,000 in Chennai the deaths were 42, but Madurai has recorded an alarming 86 deaths for 5,000 cases. “The government should explain why the number of deaths are double that of the Chennai numbers. This cannot be taken as deaths due to the disease alone, it may be due to lack of proper focus on the treatment and also a step-motherly attitude towards the southern districts,” he said. For instance, ambulances from all southern districts were sent to Chennai when the cases were rising in the state capital. Now, all southern districts are seeing an increase in cases but the ambulances in Chennai have not been sent back yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-must-explain-high-death-rate-in-madurai-mp/articleshow/76882062.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Lucknow||Seven more Covid labs to become functional in state next week||LUCKNOW: With no let up in coronavirus cases, the state government has geared up to start seven new laboratories. “As many as 1,248 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the state tally to 32,784. While Covid claimed 17 more lives in the state, 796 recovered from the infection, leaving the state with 10,737 active infections,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. He said that seven new labs would become functional from the next week. “In a period of 3-4 days, seven more labs will start undertaking coronavirus testing through the RT-PCR method,” Prasad said. The labs will come up in Aligarh, Varanasi, Gonda, Moradabad, Bareilly, Mirzapur and Balrampur Hospital, Lucknow. “Until now, except for Lucknow, there were no state government run labs in these districts,” he said, adding that total number of Covid-19 samples tested in UP so far was 10.36 lakh. “The number will rise rapidly over the next few days when information on the rapid antigen tests is included in the master database,” he said. Of the new cases, 429 or 35% were from Meerut division: Gautam Budh Nagar (172), Ghaziabad (128), Meerut (55), Hapur (34), Bulandshahr (32) and Badaun (8). Lucknow saw 85 cases, Kanpur (45), Varanasi (32), Gorakhpur (16) and Jhansi (27). The other districts with double digit entries included Ballia (61), Ayodhya (41), Saharanpur (38), Varanasi (32), Sant Kabir Nagar (26), Amroha (26), Moradabad (25), Mathura (24), Aligarh (23), Sambhal (20), Hardoi (20), Azamgarh (19), Unnao (19), Gorakhpur (16), Gonda (14), Bhadohi (14), Bareilly (13), Mau (12), Kushinagar (11), Etawah (11), Bijnor (10) and Jaunpur (10).Three persons died in Kanpur nagar, while two deaths were reported in Rampur. Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Moradabad, Rampur, Barabanki, Azamgarh, Prayagraj, Muzaffarnagar, Kannauj and Mainpuri recorded one death each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/7-more-covid-labs-to-become-functional-in-state-next-week/articleshow/76883417.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Tablighi case: 60 Malaysians walk free for Rs 7,000 penalty||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Thursday allowed 60 Malaysians to walk free after levying a penalty of Rs 7,000 each under the plea bargaining process. The foreign nationals had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid in Nizamuddin and were facing trial for violating visa norms and government guidelines issued in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Metropolitan Magistrate Siddharth Malik passed the order after the Malaysian nationals filed a plea seeking lesser punishment under the plea bargaining process by accepting mild charges, their lawyer S Hari Haran said. The plea bargaining application for 60 more Malaysians will be heard on Friday. Meanwhile, another city court on Thursday granted bail to 76 foreign nationals of eight countries who were chargesheeted for the same offence. Chief metropolitan magistrate Gurmohina Kaur granted the relief to the foreign nationals on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 10,000 each. While filing chargesheets, Delhi Police had dropped charges for offences of “culpable homicide not amounting to murder” and “criminal conspiracy” against 956 foreigners from 36 countries. Foreigners from 22 countries — China, UK, Russia, Brazil, USA, Australia, France, among others — had got bail earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tablighi-case-60-malaysians-walk-free-for-rs-7000-penalty/articleshow/76882846.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar seers threaten to boycott ‘Shahi Snan’ if order naming Ganga as canal not revoked||Haridwar: Seers of several prominent akhadas in Haridwar have threatened to boycott Kumbh Mela’s ‘Shahi Snan’ (ritual dip in Ganga) if a state government order (GO) terming the Ganga stream as an ‘escape channel’ or a ‘canal’ is not revoked. The canal emanates from the main Ganga through the Bhagirath Bindu (point) and flows through Har-Ki-Pauri.The GO was issued by the erstwhile Harish Rawat government in 2016. It was alleged that at the time, the government issued the order to protect the interests of a select few who would have been affected by a National Green Tribunal order that banned all construction within 200 metres from the Ganga midstream on both sides.The seers, along with members of Ganga Sabha, the body responsible for upkeep of Har-Ki-Pauri ghat as well as traders in the town, have expressed dissatisfaction with the BJP government for not revoking the GO.“If the Har-Ki-Pauri stream is not Ganga, but part of a canal, will the ghat be so sacred for us or any other devotees? What then will be the religious significance of a snan (bath) at the ghat on any festival, including Kumbh or Ardh Kumbh?” a seer said. Former Ganga Sabha general secretary Ram Kumar Mishra said that CM Trivendra Singh Rawat had soon after taking over, promised to Ganga Sabha office bearers and several BJP leaders that the order will be withdrawn, but nothing has been done. Incidentally, Harish Rawat had also subsequently acknowledged the GO to be a “sin committed by my government.” Recently, the Uttarakhand HC had accepted a public interest litigation in this regard filed by Anmol Vashishth, a member of the priest community in Haridwar.The petition wanted the state to rename the ‘escape channel’ as the Ganga river, since it is flowing adjacent to the Har-Ki-Pauri.The court said that “the order passed by us shall not disable the state government, if it so chooses, to consider the petitioner’s representation in this regard with utmost expedition, and in accordance with the law.”The court further noted the petitioner’s plea that “the channel near the Har-Ki-Pauri was also called the Ganga river pursuant to a pre-constitutional agreement entered into by British India with some princely states and the Government of the United Province (formerly part of UP and Uttarakhand).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-seers-threaten-to-boycott-shahi-snan-if-order-naming-ganga-as-canal-not-revoked/articleshow/76880745.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
July 10, 2020||Lucknow||In 6 days, Dubey covered 1,500km across 5 states||LUCKNOW: After the midnight ambush of policemen in Uttar Pradesh’s Bikru village on July 3, gangster Vikas Dubey travelled unbridled for 1,500km, dodging police barricades in five states, before finally landing in police net in the pilgrimage town of Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh. After remaining holed up in Shivli forest, 4km off ground zero, the gangster and his four henchmen took a circuitous route to Delhi and then crossed Badarpur to enter Faridabad in Haryana. After wriggling out of the police dragnet in Faridabad, the gangster drove through Rajasthan to reach Madhya Pradesh. A special task force sleuth and Dubey’s aide Kartikeya, who was nabbed by the Haryana crime branch, told interrogators that they travelled 79km on the night of July 2 on a bike and reached a friend’s house in Shivli area of Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh. By the time police sealed borders and raised vigil on highways, Dubey had already spent 48 hours in Shivli forests. According to the investigators, the gangster travelled 78km further and reached Auraiya in an SUV on July 5, and then abandoned it before hitch-hiking his way towards Badarpur in Delhi, travelling 374km. A special task force team was informed about his movement towards Badarpur. By the time cops received an intelligence input, Dubey had already moved to his aunt’s house on July 6 in Faridabad, 32km from the border point. On July 7, CCTV footage from Faridabad showed Dubey coming out of a sweet shop there, corroborating admissions of the gangster’s relatives that he had sweet tooth. Minutes later, he can be seen on the footage boarding an auto rickshaw. Meanwhile, the special task force received a tip-off and alerted the Haryana crime branch. On basis of local inputs on July 8, a team was dispatched by Haryana police which raided a flat in Greater Faridabad but Dubey managed to evade the police again. Three people were also detained. Weapons looted from Kanpur policemen were recovered from the flat, police said. Special task force sources said that Dubey returned to Delhi in a private car and then moved towards Jaipur in Rajasthan on the same day, travelling 269km. Thereafter, he was spotted by locals in Jaipur taking a bus to Kota on July 9. He travelled 252km to reach the Mahakal temple in Ujjain, where he was nabbed by Madhya Pradesh Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-6-days-dubey-covered-1500km-across-5-states/articleshow/76884095.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
July 10, 2020||Madurai||Helpdesk in Madurai getting 150 calls a day||MADURAI: With the number of Covid-19 cases on the rise in the city, the number of people calling up the helpdesk set up by Madurai Corporation has also been increasing. From less than 50 calls a day 10 days back, officials say anywhere between 130 to 150 calls are received at the centre functioning round the clock. People are calling the helpline number 842-842-5000 for various purposes including reporting their travel history, reporting Covid-19 symptoms in them and neighbours, requesting disinfection activities and for self-reporting of contacts. Almost 50 to 60% of the calls are related to food and medicine requirement. “Since houses are barricaded if a case is reported and an entire locality is brought under lockdown in case of reported Covid-19 cluster, people call up seeking help in purchasing medicine and food. We will provide the contact number of ward assistant engineer, who provides the help,” an official said. At least 20 calls are received with a request to take swab testing. There are also a sizeable number of calls requesting counselling as people undergo a lot of stress while under home isolation. Such calls contribute to 10% of the total calls received. The details of such callers will be shared with MS Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation, which has been entrusted to provide professional counselling. The contact details of callers requesting for medical help and testing are being transferred to telemedicine centre functioning on the third floor of the corporation’s main building. Doctors from the centre get in touch with people in home isolation and keep track of their improvements. Officials from the telemedicine centre said that almost 90 to 95% of people attend calls and provide all details sought for promptly, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/helpdesk-in-madurai-getting-150-calls-a-day/articleshow/76882084.cms||V Devanathan
July 10, 2020||Dehradun||Probe illegal mining, makeshift bridge on Yamuna, say activists||Dehradun: Members of Yamuna Nadi Mitra Mandli have alleged that miners in Dehradun’s Vikasnagar have built a makeshift bridge across Yamuna’s active channel, restricting the river’s flow, hardly 300m above an existing bridge in Haripur. The activists are demanding a high-level inquiry against officials who have allotted mining leases within 500m of the bridge. “As per Union environment ministry guidelines, no mining activities should be allowed within 500m of a bridge or infrastructure project on the bridge. Mining is damaging the Shakti canal road and impacting Dak Pathar barrage too. The riverbed mining has been put on hold after heavy monsoon rains began and water level rose, but the illegal bridge has been left standing, blocking the river’s flow,” said B S Rawat, a member of Yamuna Nadi Mitra Mandli. Speaking with TOI, additional director of Uttarakhand geology and mining department, Suresh Lawrence Patrick, said, “As per Uttarakhand State Mining Policy, 2016, mining within 100m of constructed bridge etc. is allowed. The makeshift construction by miners has been done with approval of local authorities, according to our onsite inspection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/probe-illegal-mining-makeshift-bridge-on-yamuna-say-activists/articleshow/76880771.cms||Shivani Azad
July 10, 2020||Madurai||Field workers help detect more cases||MADURAI: The door-to-door surveys undertaken by field workers in the city has been vital in the corporation’s battle against Covid-19. The workers on a consolidated pay have been doing a good job by conducting the surveys systematically, leading to more people getting screened and more cases being identified. Ever since the workers replaced the corporation staff in conducting the surveys, the screening process in the city has received a boost. Usually it is the domestic breeding checkers (DBC), anganwadi workers and volunteers who go on house-to-house surveys whenever there is a fever outbreak. In the first two months of the Covid-19 outbreak, the corporation decided to use the same workers for conducting surveys and Covid-19 screening. But the volunteers were not regular while the anganwadi workers and DBC workers were not getting the proper response from people. This was when the corporation commissioner, S Visakan, decided to employ 1,400 field workers on consolidated pay for the job. The field workers systematically inquired each household about the health condition of the family members. They were then made to step out wearing masks and screened using thermal scanners. “We ask them to get tested even if they experience any loss of smell or taste, even if they do not have fever,’’ said Kumaran, one of the field workers in Anna Nagar. Suresh, another worker, said that most people in the houses come forward voluntarily to get screened. ``The pandemic has made people determined to overcome the crisis. It is what we see on the field,’’ said Suresh. Corporation officials said that people are also more responsive to these field workers, making their work easier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/field-workers-help-detect-more-cases/articleshow/76882076.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Standing panel to give work priority list to AMC chief||Ahmedabad: AMC councillors attending the standing committee meeting alleged that the administrative wing was not taking up the matter raised by them on an urgent basis. Some councillors raised the matter before the municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar on Thursday.When asked, standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that the councillors want the work in their areas be taken up on a priority basis. “AMC office-bearers — mayor Bijal Patel, leader of BJP in corporation Amit Shah, me, and deputy mayor Dinesh Makwana — will hold regular meetings with the commissioner and will give him a list of work which are to be taken up on priority,” he said.A senior officer said that with civic body elections scheduled to be held later this year, the councillors have been pressing for development works in their areas be taken up on priority. He said Covid-19 pandemic has hit the resources and grants from the government are not being released on a regular basis.In such a scenario, it becomes difficult to accept all demands of the councillors, the official added.In the past also, standing committee members had complained that some of the deputy municipal commissioners were not answering to their calls. Even when Vijay Nehra was municipal commissioner such complaints were made and some of the councillors wrote to the BJP high command.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/standing-panel-to-give-work-priority-list-to-amc-chief/articleshow/76882080.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Mumbai||Donating plasma best reply to Covid: BMC staffer||MUMBAI: Bhushan Vartak (45) has been a frontline warrior since Covid-19 struck and continues as one by defeating corona and donating plasma to help a patient fight the virus. Vartak is now encouraging friends who recovered to donate plasma. “All recovered patients should go in for it. It is the best reply to Covid-19,” he said. Vartak, a BMC employee, handles maintenance at a quarantine centre in Kurar village, Malad (E). He is the first recovered patient who donated plasma to Sathiya Trust Blood Bank in Nalasopara (W) on Wednesday. The bank is the first in Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) to arrange a donor and supply plasma to a critically ill patient. A resident of Devale village in Vasai (W), Vartak tested positive on May 5. He probably contracted the virus at the quarantine centre. He used to travel to work on his motorcycle. Ten days after testing negative he was under home quarantine. His family of five and a friend were among those who were isolated. Vartak said he had some knowledge about plasma therapy but had not thought about donating till he got a call from the blood bank. “I have never even donated blood and here I was offering plasma to a serious patient,” said Vartak. After a positive response from his family, doctors explained how the antibodies in his plasma could help a serious patient fight the virus. “The mental satisfaction after the donation erased memories of isolation,” said the convalescent plasma donor, who returned to work on Thursday, a day after the donation. While appealing to recovered patients to donate plasma, Vartak said the 45 minutes taken for donation was spent watching TV and cracking jokes. He said he never felt weakness and is waiting for the plasma recipient to recover. “It will be a bigger victory against Covid after that is back on his feet. To help save a life is something I want to cherish for a lifetime,” said Vartak. His wife Aarti encouraged him to do the good deed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/donating-plasma-best-reply-to-covid-bmc-staffer/articleshow/76882671.cms||Sandhya Nair
July 10, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi for spl care as corona cases spike in govt depts||LUCKNOW: With Covid-19 cases being reported from government offices, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials, especially those who have to move around for official work, to take additional care in avoiding the virus. Chief secretary RK Tiwari has also issued an order, saying that 50% of Group C and D employees should be allowed to work from home on any given day. During the review of Unlock-2 on Thursday, the CM said that the Covid infection is spreading in part due to carelessness and all those officials who have to travel as part of their duties, whether within the city or outside, should take special care. “The CM said that all those officials moving around should follow the necessary protocols of wearing masks, social distancing, sanitization. They should take special care while travelling to protect themselves from the infection,” said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi. The CM has also said that teams of medical experts should be sent to Kanpur, Jhansi and Varanasi in light of the spread of virus in these districts, advocating greater caution in prevention and control of Covid in these areas. He said that beds in all Covid hospitals should be increased, especially in districts where the spread of the virus was higher. Meanwhile, in a letter to all additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and heads of departments, the chief secretary has said that in light of the increasing corona cases in the state, they should immediately assess the compliance of social distancing norms, wearing of masks and sanitization in their respective departments. Department heads should take permission from the minister concerned to call only 50% of Group C and D employees and allow the rest to work from home as per a roster system. All officials of Groups A and B are required to attend office at full strength. Tiwari has said that those employees who are working from home should remain connected to office via their phones or other electronic devices. If required, they will be asked to come to office. The rule will not apply to those employees connected with emergency and necessary services and those who are playing a role in Covid management. They will be required to work as per their existing schedules or that which will be set by their respective department heads. Tiwari said that a similar protocol can be followed by subordinate offices, local bodies and corporations. In his letter, Tiwari added that all employees coming to work should undergo thermal scanning while sanitizers should be made available in offices. All offices should be sanitized and if a positive case is identified in any particular office, then it should be shut for 24 hours for sanitization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-for-spl-care-as-corona-cases-spike-in-govt-depts/articleshow/76883433.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 10, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon police cuff drug peddler||Nashik: The Malegaon police have arrested a youth from Surat for his alleged involvement in the supply of scheduled drug, Alprasil, to the textile town, where it is generally popular among mill workers. Police said the suspect, Mehul Kumar, had brought the drug in a truck from Surat and handed it over to a local youth for clandestine sale in Malegaon. A joint team of Malegaon police and the Food & Drugs Administration (FDA) had arrested the youth with 1,000 Alprasil tablets, which is popularly known as ‘kutta goli’, in On June 15. “A police team had gone to Surat to investigate the supply of the drug to Malegaon recently and arrested the peddler, who is in judicial custody,” Sandip Ghuge, additional superintendent of police, Malegaon, told TOI on Thursday. “We have also seized the truck that was used in the crime,” he said. The officer said the main dealer is also from Surat and that investigations are on to nab him. The drug, which cannot be sold without a doctor’s prescription, is meant for treating anxiety and panic. According to official sources, with the easing of the lockdown, peddlers had managed to smuggle the drug to the textile town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-police-cuff-drug-peddler/articleshow/76880790.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||Sample in someone else’ name, woman admitted to Covid ward||Nagpur: A 33-year-old woman from Duttawadi under Wadi Municipal Council (WMC) has claimed that the sample on the basis of which she was identified as coronavirus positive didn’t belong to her, yet she was allegedly forced to get admitted to Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital’s (IGGMCH) Covid ward.IGGMCH and WMC authorities ruled out any case of mistaken identity, though different names were mentioned on the swab and lab report lists, copies of which are with TOI.Deputy medical superintendent (Corona Pt Care) Dr Sagar Pandey said it was verified that the sample belonged to the woman. “The samples are registered against SRF ID which is linked to Aadhaar card. A patient may give any name at the time of sampling, but the ID is generated as per Aadhaar details,” he said.Dr Pandey said it is possible she may have given a different name at the time of swab collection. “She was asymptomatic and perhaps felt she was not Covid-19 positive,” he said. Dr Pandey also said she remained comfortably at the ward during her treatment and never raised any objection.WMC CEO Jumma Pyarewale told TOI they had verified the claim and found that the sample belonged to the woman. “The ID number generated was correct and was same as the name registered by health workers. She had given a wrong name which led to the confusion,” he said. She was admitted on June 29 and discharged on July 8. The woman has to now live alone for a couple of days as her entire family was placed in institutional quarantine the same day when she was allegedly found positive. The family members include her 4-year-old son and 10-year-old nephew for whom she says she is worried.Incidentally, the name on the lab report, which confirms the sample as positive, is of the woman’s sister-in-law.The woman accompanied by her mother-in-law had attended a neighbour’s baby shower ceremony on June 24. Two days later, the neighbour’s mother-in-law was found Covid-19 positive. As part of contact tracing, the 33-year-old and her mother-in-law were taken for testing. The family members will undergo 14th day testing on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sample-in-someone-else-name-woman-admitted-to-covid-ward/articleshow/76882101.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 10, 2020||Pune||After 4 days, Pune mayor sent to home quarantine||Pune: After spending four days in hospital, Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol who tested positive for Covid-19, was discharged on Thursday. He was told to stay in home quarantine. Mohol took to Twitter to confirm the development and said that the doctors treating him have advised home quarantine till July 15 since he was not showing any symptoms. Mohol said he would be back after the stay at home. He took a Covid-19 test after developing mild fever. After testing positive, he immediately got admitted to a hospital for treatment. During his hospital stay, Mohol was active through his social media accounts and was monitoring the coronavirus-related works. In a recently posted social media message, Mohol had expressed confidence that he was recovering and had appealed to citizens to make the city Covid-19 free. “I thank the doctors and the team treating me. After completion of the home quarantine period I will be back in action and I am happy that I will be available 24 hours at your service,” Mohol tweeted on Thursday. Seven members of his family had also tested positive and are under treatment. Top civic officials had also taken Covid-19 tests as they were present for official meetings with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-4-days-pune-mayor-sent-to-home-quarantine/articleshow/76882857.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Madurai||NGO seeks white paper on police excesses||MADURAI: The state government should produce a white paper on the number of reports on police excesses received from judicial magistrates by the public secretary from January 1, 2010 to May 30, 2020, and specify what action was taken on them, the NGO Peoples Watch has said. The demand comes in the wake of the deaths of traders P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks following alleged custodial torture at the Sathankulam police station in Tuticorin. Executive director of the outfit, Henry Tiphagne, said there seems to be no action on excesses committed by erring policemen on those in custody over 10 years. This has only created a conducive atmosphere for such incidents to recur. Former SP Arun Balagopal has only been kept on wait as a reward for knowing everything that was illegally taking place in the police station earlier too. Disciplinary actions should be initiated against him, he said. If the reason for choosing Kovilpatti sub-jail for Jeyaraj and Beniks was coronavirus, why were the arrested police personnel kept at the Peravurani district jail, he asked. Sathankulam DSP Prathaban has to be arrested immediately and duly investigated. He has also demanded a third party review of all criminal cases registered as FIRs in the police station since March 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ngo-seeks-white-paper-on-police-excesses/articleshow/76882107.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Madurai||Life term for man in murder case||THENI: The Theni additional sessions court on Thursday awarded life sentence to a 49-year-old man on who was convicted for murdering a history-sheeter. K Maniraj, 24, a history-sheeter, from Keelasinthalaicherry village near Uthamalapalayam in Theni district developed an extra-marital relationship with Kavitha from the same village. Kavitha’s husband, R Veerakumar learnt about the relationship in 2016 and picked up a quarrel with her. Kavitha deserted him and was living with her parents in Tirupur district. In the meantime, an enraged Veerakumar hacked Maniraj to death, after sprinkiling chilli powder on his face. The Thevaram police had registered a murder case based on a complaint from Maniraj’s father Kanagaraj. After listening to arguments by additional public prosecutor A Vellaisamy, the additional district sessions judge A Abdul Kadher awarded life sentence. However, considering circumstances in which the murder took place and criminal nature of Maniraj, the judge recommended the state government a sentence of 10 years or lesser.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/life-term-for-man-in-murder-case/articleshow/76882095.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||MLA Hostel CCC medical team gets in the groove||Nagpur: The scene at newly-started MLA Hostel Covid Care Centre (CCC), the primary level facility set up for patients, is of relief even as a medical team works tirelessly behind the curtains to make things look easy.Having hosted the city’s first quarantine centre that started on March 5, the MLA Hostel is also the first CCC of Nagpur. In just five days of going functional, CCC has received 125 asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. Of these, five have been discharged.On Thursday afternoon, when TOI visited the CCC, its nodal officer Dr Nitin Gulhane was seen fielding multiple queries from on-duty staff and on phone. Meanwhile, he also continued with his lunch. An NMC bus drove in bringing another lot of 10 patients from GMCH. As the patients lined up at the entrance of Wing II, Dr Gulhane and rest of his staff members cut short their lunch to start admitting them. A clerk is posted to allot them rooms at entrance. To ensure patients do not get close to him, his desk has been barricaded and another table kept on the other side to increase the distance. As the clerk notes down patients’ details, he tosses the room key. Two patients are kept in each room. CCC has total 375 beds in both Wing II and Wing III while the Wing I is still being renovated by Public Works Department (PWD).Beside Dr Gulhane, the CCC has five medical officers, 16 nurses and four multi-purpose workers (MPWs) who have been working in shifts. While Dr Gulhane, two MOs, and four MPWs had been in the quarantine centre team as well, rest are new. Dr Gulhane said the current job is not as risky. “In quarantine centre, you never know who is positive. The risk involved in greater. In CCC, we know all are confirmed positive patients. We had streamlined the quarantine process to optimally utilize resources. Similarly, we would soon get used to SOP of CCC,” he said. Dr Gulhane said the patients are not allowed to leave their rooms at all. “Our numbers have been pasted outside rooms. For any need or consultation, they just call us,” he said and returned inside the building to attend to yet another query. As per rules, the patients are examined thrice every day for blood saturation, pulse rate and oxygen level. The CCC has been set up under the guidance of divisional commissioner Dr Sanjeev Kumar, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, deputy director of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar, district health officer Dr Deepak Selukar, and chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Sawai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mla-hostel-ccc-medical-team-gets-in-the-groove/articleshow/76882090.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Leachate discharge into low-lying areas puts Padegaon population’s health at risk||Aurangabad: With the threat of Covid-19 already looming large, the municipal solid waste disposal plant of the civic administration has been making matters worse for Padegaon residents by discharging leachate into the low-lying area up to 2km, posing a risk of groundwater contamination and hazard to public health at large.Though the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB ) has warned of legal action against Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), civic authorities failed to take action till Wednesday evening. In a showcause notice served to AMC, whose copy is with TOI, MPCB regional authorities have highlighed how the civic body was not following scientific methods for collecting and processing leachate at the plant. “ It is a blatant violation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and liable for legal action. Despite serving a showcause notice on June 25, we have not received any response from AMC yet,” said a senior MPCB official. As per official records, AMC processes around 450 metric tonne (MT) municipal solid waste per day, of which Padegaon plant processes around 140 MT every day. The site visit carried out by MPCB has also revealed that large heaps of ‘mixed’ municipal waste was lying unattended in three open sheds at Padegaon plant, which is a complete violation of the rules. When contacted, Aurangabad municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey said he was aware of the issue at the Padegaon waste pocessing plant. “Construction of some infrastructure is going on at the plant , which is expected to get over by next month. The issue of release of leachate will be addressed once the work is complete,” said Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/leachate-discharge-into-low-lying-areas-puts-padegaon-populations-health-at-risk/articleshow/76882097.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 10, 2020||Bhopal||Once hotspot, Bhopal's Jehangirabad now has only 12 patients||BHOPAL: The geographical description of ‘containment zones’, declared by the district collector each day with new coronavirus patients’ houses as the ‘epicentres’, tells a lot about where in the city the pandemic is getting “contained” and where it is spreading. On July 8, 44 new coronavirus-infected persons were found in the city and the containment zones declared by district collector, Avinash Lavania, reflected one truth about the pandemic — it is no longer concentrated in a few pockets of the city, but is spreading out into the city. However, since a number of patients are recovering from the infection, the number of active patients in official records appears to be far less in ratio to the figure of new patients that are reported in newspapers daily. For example, not many people keeping tabs on the spread of coronavirus in the city would know that Jehangirabad, the Covid-19 hotspot of the city with barricades all around due to ‘containment’ restrictions, now has only 12 active patients. T T Nagar and Kamla Nagar police station areas, which of late had made headlines, following detection of several Covid-19 patients, have also ‘contained’ the pandemic well with the number down to 9 and 18 respectively. Areas under Hanumanganj police station with 77 coronavirus patients can be described as the only hotspot, followed by Shehajanabad with 28 patients. Unlike in the past, there are no other areas, where people avoid going because of the coronavirus threat. There is still a problem that the district administration has to crack — as it contains the spread of virus in one area, it starts spreading in another area. “The district administration has been able to contain the spread of the disease in densely-populated areas. Which is no mean achievement. The manner in which people were evacuated from Jehangirabad and some other areas to protect them from infection was a commendable move and was done despite resistance from a section of the population there,” said an officer of the district administration involved in the evacuation drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/once-hotspot-jehangirabad-now-has-only-12-patients/articleshow/76882103.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Pune||Pune metropolitan region tally shoots above 34,000 with 1,803 new cases||PUNE: The Covid-19 caseload in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) increased by 1,803, its highest single-day tally, on Thursday, taking the region’s toll to 34,399. Besides, a record 34 more patients succumbed to the infection in PMR, taking the death toll to 978. Of the fresh cases, 1,032 were recorded in Pune municipal limits, 573 in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) areas and 198 from rural and Cantonment parts. A PMC health department official said as many as 581 patients were discharged in the municipal limits on Thursday after being declared cured. “The count of active cases in PMC is now at 8,809. About 402 patients are at critical stage and they are being treated at various hospitals. Of these, 75 are on ventilator support,” the official said. As per a district health official, swabs of 4,684 suspected patients were collected and sent for testing on Thursday. “Of these, 755 were rapid antigen tests,” the official said. Among the deaths reported on Thursday, seven patients succumbed to the infection at the Sassoon General Hospital. These included a 61-year-old man from Wanowrie, a 58-year-old man from Kharadi, a 70-year-old woman from Yerawada, a 75-year-old woman from Balajinagar, an 82-year-old woman from Guruwar Peth, a 40-year-old man from Khed and a 70-year-old man from Wadki. The patients who died due to the contagion at private hospitals included a 75-year-old man from the Sinhagad Road area, a 63-year-old man from Shukrawar Peth, a 79-year-old man from the Parvati area, a 37-year-old man from Dhankawdi, an 80-year-old woman from Kondhwa, a 70-year-old man from Balajinagar, a 69-year-old man from Yerawada, a 67-year-old woman from Wanowrie and a 57-year-old man from Guruwar Peth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-tally-shoots-above-34k-with-1803-new-cases/articleshow/76882854.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 10, 2020||Pune||Five major private hospitals start offering free Covid-19 treatment||PUNE: Five trust hospitals — Ruby Hall Clinic, Jehangir hospital, Inlaks and Budhrani hospital, KEM hospital and Poona Hospital — have started offering free-of-cost treatment to Covid-19 patients irrespective of their financial status under the state government’s Mahatma Jotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. These five major healthcare units are designated hospitals for Covid-19 treatment. The hospitals have been empanelled under the scheme in the wake of a significant rise in coronavirus positive cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). Officials privy to the develeopment said under the scheme, moderate and severely-ill infected patients, irrespective of their financial status, could avail of the free and cashless health insurance benefit at the empanelled hospitals. “Only Covid-19 positive patients referred to by state-run Sassoon hospital or civic body-run Naidu hospital or health authorities of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) can avail of the free treatment at the newly empanelled private hospitals. We are fine-tuning the mechanism,” said Amol Maske, the district coodinator of Mahatma Jotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY). MJPJAY has signed a memorandum of understanding with the five hospitals. There is less thrust on producing documents at the time of admission to rule out delay in seeking medical care. “The patient should have a ration card and Aadhar card at the time of hospitalization. However, we have asked the empanelled private hospitals to call us on the toll-free number meant for emergency telephonic intimation for seeking pre-authorisation if a patient doesn't have any of these document at the time of admission. The patient or the relative can furnish the document at a later stage,” Maske told TOI. Ramchandra Hankare, chief of the PMC's health department said, “Eligible patients will be sent to these hospitals.” Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association's Hospital Board of India, Pune chapter, said, “This is the step in the right direction. Financial constraints should not hinder medical care.” Sanjay Pathare, medical director of Ruby Hall Clinic, said, “We are undergoing initiation sessions to understand various features of the scheme and how to effectively implement it.” Rhea Pubjabi, medical superintendent of Inlaks and Budharani hospital said, “We have already started admitting patient referred by the PMC health authorities.” Rakesh Shah of Jehangir hospital administration said, “We have started offering the medical care under the scheme this week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-major-private-hospitals-start-offering-free-covid-19-treatment/articleshow/76882851.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 10, 2020||Mysuru||Spike in Covid cases: Two tiger reserves in Karnataka ban safaris||MYSURU: With the sudden spike in coronavirus cases in the state, two tiger reserves have closed their wildlife safaris. Of the five tiger reserves in the state, Bandipur and Biligiri Ranganathaswamy Temple (BRT) tiger reserves in Chamarajanagar district have been shut for visitors from July 3. A majority of tourists who visit the two tiger reserves are from Bengaluru, which is seeing an unusual spike in Covid-19 cases. Chamarajanagar chief conservator of forests (CCF) Manoj Kumar told TOI the tiger safaris at Bandipur and BRT Tiger reserves have been closed on directions of the deputy commissioner. “We will resume services as per further orders,” he said. Mysuru DC Abhiram G Sankar on Thursday banned tourist visits to resorts and hotels in HD Kote taluk and also barred all safaris. Kodagu, Hassan, Chamarajanagar and Chikkamagaluru district administrations have banned tourism activities. According to an order issued by the DC, safaris in Dammanakatte, Bandipur and Nagarahole located in HD Kote are banned till further notice. “Those who have checked into Jungle Lodges and Resorts (JLR) today or before can continue and opt for safari as per the JLR package. There will be no new check-ins,” the DC said. However, Bhadra Tiger Reserve in Chikkamagaluru and Kali Tiger Reserve in Uttara Kannada have not closed their safaris. Chikkamagaluru circle CCF S Dhananjaya said: “The Chikkamagaluru DC has directed us not to allow visitors from outside the district for safari rides.” (With inputs from Shrinivasa M)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/spike-in-covid-cases-two-tiger-reserves-in-ktaka-ban-safaris/articleshow/76882132.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
July 10, 2020||Madurai||Man arrested for attempting to murder trader||MADURAI: The Perungudi police on Thursday arrested a 29-year-old for stabbing a grocery stop owner in an attempt to murder incident on Wednesday night. The accused was identified as T Thangeswaran from Premnagar in Perungudi. Police sources said that the victim P Ponnalagu, 50, had scolded the trio, who were sitting and chatting unnecessarily without following social distancing norms near his grocery shop recently. They left the place after threatening him with dire consequences. On Wednesday, Thangewaran along with his friends M Balamurugan, 26, and A Karthick Raja, 28, attacked Ponnalagu using a knife at Parambupatti, when he was going on his two-wheeler along with his friend Karthick. With stab injuries on his stomach and head injuries, he was rushed to a government hospital for treatment. Based on a complaint from Ponnalagu’s wife, Latha, a case was registered with the Perungudi police station. Police are searching for Balamurugan and Karthick Raja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-arrested-for-attempting-to-murder-trader/articleshow/76882112.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Nashik||NMC to run 500-bed Covid unit at New Bytco hospital||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to run a 500-bed Covid centre at the new Bytco Hospital building in the city. The NMC has already developed infrastructure, including beds and other facilities at the centre, except a few pending tasks. The NMC will operate the facility through a private medical institute or an agency. The municipal corporation has also invited a request for proposal (RFP) from private medical institutes for the purpose. The Covid hospital will be operated and maintained by the private institute/agency for three months. The NMC is facing shortage of medical staff to run its hospitals and Covid centres. To overcome the manpower crunch, the civic body has now decided to rope in private firm to operate the 500-bed dedicated Covid-19 hospital. “We are setting up a 500-bed dedicated Covid-19 hospital at the four-storeyed building of New Bytco hospital that will be operated and maintained by a private agency. We have already invited request for proposals from private agencies or medical organizations,” said NMC officials. The officials said that the pre-bid meeting will be held online on July 13 while the last date for submission of the RFP will be July 15. The RFPs will be opened on the next day on July 16, they added. Along with the infrastructure, the NMC will also supply medicines and medical consumables. However, the selected agency will provide manpower i.e. doctors, paramedics, nurses, ward boys, facility management staff, administrative staff, etc. for managing and operating the Covid hospital. The agency/institute hired will be required to operate the hospital full time (24x7). Of the 500 beds, 100 will be oxygen-equipped beds while 50 will be ICU beds with ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-run-500-bed-covid-unit-at-new-bytco-hosp/articleshow/76880840.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Residents to approach green tribunal||AURANGABAD: Troubled with the direct release of leachate from Padegaon waste processing plant, affected residents of the area have decided to seek intervention of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in the matter. Stating that the unwanted release of dirty liquid from the plant has contaminated the groundwater sources of their bore-wells, the residents of Padegaon said that several complaints have been made to the competent authorities, all of which have fallen on deaf ears. Dadarao Gade Patil, a resident of Padegaon, said that they do not have tap water facility and that the residents have to depend on bore-wells. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/residents-to-approach-green-tribunal/articleshow/76882116.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 10, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt will not use any Chinese gadget or device or allow investment from China, says CM||Dehradun: After the Centre's recent ban on the use of several Chinese mobile applications in the country, the Uttarakhand government has come on the front foot on the issue as well. The Trivendra Singh Rawat-led state government has decided not to use any Chinese gadget, device or equipment for any official work. Going a step further on Thursday, chief minister Rawat said, “Personally, I am not in favour of any form of Chinese investment in our state as well.” “In 1977, George Fernandes, the then industry minister in the Janata Party government, had banned a leading international cold drink company from the country. Some thought there will be no replacement. But in years to come, many Indian companies came up with soft drinks, which turned out to be highly successful. Our country and state are full of talented people and keeping this fact in mind, we are providing the required help to people who want to start their own work,” Rawat said. On being asked whether Chinese firms had signed any MoU after the state’s first investor summit, the CM said, “At present, I am not aware of the details. Neither earlier nor now am I interested in any kind of partnership with Chinese firms. There will be no alliance with any Chinese firm in future as well.” He also said that if any department had procured Chinese products in the past, “it will not be continued in the future”. On a question related to the Kumbh Mela proposed to be held next year, the CM said that the mega festival would be held on stipulated dates as they were decided through astrological calculations. “However, after talking to seers and akhadas, we will decide the format of Kumbh in February next year,” he added. The preparation work for Kumbh was on and expected to be over by the year-end, he added. For opening of the Char Dham Yatra for people of other states, CM Rawat said,“We have started the Char Dham Yatra with a limited number of people and further decisions will be based on the developments in the coming weeks.” The CM also said that people, who had returned to Uttarakhand following the Covid-19 pandemic, have shown interest in starting their own work in the state. “Through motor cycle taxi service, we aim to provide job opportunities to 10,000 youngsters in the state. Two more projects, which would be announced soon, will directly benefit another 20,000 people,” he said. He added that out of the total people who had returned, 45,000 had applied for work under MGNREGA. “Out of this number, 36,000 new job cards have been issued. We are ensuring that there is no dearth of funds for the project,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-govt-will-not-use-any-chinese-gadget-or-device-or-allow-investment-from-china-says-cm/articleshow/76880812.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC raps cops over Pinjra Tod affidavit||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Thursday took a dim view of the stand taken by Delhi Police in its affidavit filed against Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita. Justice Vibhu Bakhru termed as “unwarranted” the allegations in the police response that came on a plea by Kalita, who is in jail for her alleged role in northeast Delhi violence. “The allegations in the affidavit were unwarranted in view of the limited scope of the petition,” the court remarked, underlining that police cannot say since the petitioner wanted a media trial it will also put out information in the media. “You cannot support a media trial. That cannot be the approach of police. There has to be some restraint that they (cops) have to follow. Your affidavit goes way beyond..,” the judge further noted.The court said that multiple allegations have been made in the affidavit, which go beyond the scope of the petition and suggested police withdraw it. It made it clear on Kalita’s plea that it is concerned only under what circumstances police can issue official communiques or press notes about a case and in what manner even as it observed that it is not going to prohibit police from issuing any official communiques in any case. However, if the affidavit remains on record, without any officer taking responsibility for the allegations made therein, the court will comment upon its contents. “We are not sure the facts (in the affidavit) have any basis. Some of the allegations have been made irresponsibly..this is not the kind of affidavit expected from police,” the court stated. Additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, appearing for police, said the statements in the affidavit were made in response to the allegations in the petition that there has been a witch hunt against Kalita. Subsequently, the senior law officer said he will not rely upon the affidavit and will confine his arguments to the point of law. In the affidavit, Delhi Police said Kalita herself started a “media trial” in her favour to gain sympathy and generate public opinion in her favour. The court had earlier issued notice on her plea and restrained police from sharing any information related to the case with a third party. On Thursday, the court said the interim order will continue to operate till July 15, the next date of hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-raps-cops-over-pinjra-tod-affidavit/articleshow/76883439.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Mumbai||HC must direct naming of Covid patients: PIL||Mumbai: A new PIL has sought directions from Bombay high court to ensure “disclosure of names of corona-infected patients’’ to enable contact-tracing and to save others from being infected. The PIL seeks to invoke the fundamental right to life as a higher right when there is a clash of two such rights. It says when right to privacy and right to lead a healthy life hit a crossroad, the right of way ought to be given by court to the “right which would advance public morality and public interest’’. India has not reached the third stage, according to state information, it said, but it can do so “any time’’ if the government fails to declare names of corona patients. Naming can help contact-tracing and alert others who may have had contact to self-quarantine. The PIL, filed through advocate Vinod Sangvikar, by a Government Law College student Vaishnavi Gholave (23) and a farmer from Solapur, Mahesh Gadekar (40) questioned the absence of names of patients being made public ever since the first lockdown was enforced on March 24, almost two weeks after World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 a pandemic. The PIL is expected to be heard on Friday. It cites advice by Centre for Disease Control (CDC) which in US has asked aged residents to stay home in areas of community outbreak and guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which speak of “confidentiality’’. But these guidelines they say appear to be limited to ‘research’ as it said “maintaining confidentiality of research-related data and its publication is important to protect privacy of individuals and to avoid discrimination against them’’. Apart from ICMR guidelines, the PIL said no other express provision to maintain confidentiality of patients, is found and sought a special system be evolved by the state to ensure names are disclosed to help curtail the spread and not to be a source of discrimination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-must-direct-naming-of-covid-patients-pil/articleshow/76882674.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Madurai||Madurai to add 450 beds with oxygen as hypoxia cases rise||MADURAI: Around 450 more beds with oxygen supply will be set up at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) and Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur to cater to increased requirement of oxygen for Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms. As on Thursday, Madurai district reported 4,001 active Covid-19 cases. Speaking to TOI, Dr Chandramohan B, special monitoring officer for Covid-19 for Madurai, said that now there is more need for oxygen supply rather than ventilators for Covid-19 patients. “Government Rajaji Hospital has 525 beds with oxygen and a further 300 beds with oxygen will be added. Similarly, the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur now has 35 beds with oxygen, which we are planning to increase to 150. The hospital will hence function as a secondary care centre for moderate Covid-19 patients,” he added. Hypoxia or low-oxygen level is a common symptom in moderate cases of Covid-19 patients. Dr Prem Ananth P, a consultant interventional pulmonologist, said that oxygen was vital for treating Covid-19 patients. “Through pulse oximeters, SpO2 level (blood oxygen saturation level) can be measured in Covid-19 patients. If the SpO2 level is less than 94, the patient requires oxygen. For milder forms, oxygen is delivered to patients via nasal prongs or oxygen masks, while in more severe forms, it is delivered via high flow nasal cannula,” said the doctor. Oxygen is delivered as dosages in litres depending on the requirement of the patient. A Covid-19 patient with milder symptoms can improve well in 2-3 days of being given oxygen along with other medicines. Only when a Covid-19 patient’s condition worsens further, ventilators are needed. Senior doctors at GRH said comparatively only a few cases required ventilators so far at the hospital. There are 150 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds with ventilators earmarked for Covid-19 patients. Apart from the existing capacity of 2,045 beds in Covid-19 care centres for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients in Madurai, an additional 2,000 beds are also to be kept ready as well in case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-to-add-450-beds-with-oxygen-as-hypoxia-cases-rise/articleshow/76882117.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 10, 2020||Pune||Asymptomatics should not occupy hospital beds in Pune: Order||PUNE: The district administration on Thursday directed the local health authority to move all asymptomatic patients from hospitals to specialised Covid Care Centres. The move, officials said, will free up hospital beds for patients with moderate to severe Covid-19 infection. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said hospitals have been warned not to admit anyone who is asymptomatic. He said, “We have been reiterating the directive that asymptomatic positive patients should not be occupying beds. But we have been seeing some admissions. We have now ordered all hospitals to discharge these patients. They cannot be occupying beds that can better serve moderate to serious patients.” The PMC’s additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal, who was part of a meeting on Thursday with hospital heads, said: “These patients (asymptomatic) do not get any benefits as there is no government health scheme offering them cover. They can opt for home isolation or a Covid Care Centre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/asymptomatics-should-not-occupy-hospital-beds-order/articleshow/76882865.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 10, 2020||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation goes virtual with all important meetings||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to conduct the general body and standing committee meetings online. The decision has been taken following a spike in positive cases among the PMC staffers and elected members. Mayor Murulidhar Mohol and some senior officials have tested positive for Covid-19. Apart from the mayor, four elected members and MLAs as well as a former legislator have announced that they are Covid-19 positive. Many PMC staff members have been advised to be home quarantined as a safety measure. After successfully conducting online standing committee meeting earlier this week, virtual meetings will be a regular feature now. "The civic administration has started to conduct online meetings to ensure that physical distancing is maintained. The aim is also to avoid the spread of the virus in civic headquarters," said commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad. According to him, 147 PMC staff members were infected by the virus out of which 70 have been declared Covid-19 free and discharged. "A couple of elected members and senior officials will be present in the office and chair the meeting from there. The weblink of video conferencing will be shared with the elected members. They will attend it from their respective homes," said Rahul Jagtap, head of PMC’s information technology department. He said that the civic body will conduct the meetings online till further notice. The date and time of the meetings will be conveyed to the civic officials and elected members in advance. It is mandatory to conduct the general body meeting every month. If the meeting is not conducted or any elected member remains absent for three consecutive meetings, then s/he can lose membership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-goes-virtual-with-all-important-meetings/articleshow/76882861.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
July 10, 2020||Bhopal||53 fresh infections in Bhopal||BHOPAL: As many as 10 people from Bairagarh were found corona-positive here on Thursday. Overall in the state capital, 53 people tested positive and one death was reported. So far, 116 people have died due to Covid-19 in Bhopal. According to the health department bulletin, 10 people tested positive in Bairagarh area, taking the total number of cases in the zone to over 80. Most of the patients in the zone have recovered. However, lack of social distancing in the commercial market is being cited as one of the reasons for the increase in infection. In other parts of the city, six people under quarantine in MANIT campus tested positive for the infection. It includes two minors. A 46-year-old woman tested positive in Char Imli area. She has been admitted to AIIMS Bhopal. Three people in Durga Nagar and two in Ishwar Nagar also tested positive for the infection. Apart from Bairagarh area, most of the new cases reported on Thursday, were from new Bhopal, confirmed a health department official. One person from Gwalior and another from Vidhisha tested positive in the state capital. 35 tested for Covid-19 in Press Complex: After an employee tested positive, 35 people in an MP Nagar office have been tested for COVID-19. The condition of the infected employee is said to be stable. He has been admitted to AIIMS Bhopal. Earlier this week, in the same area, a faculty member of Makhanlal Chaturvedi national university of journalism and communication was diagnosed with Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/53-fresh-infections-in-city/articleshow/76882114.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||Smart City staffers move HC against Mundhe challenging termination||Nagpur: Seven employees from Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) have approached the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court challenging their termination orders by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe in capacity of the company’s CEO. They prayed for declaring his appointment as CEO illegal and reinstating them by setting aside their termination.A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Shreeram Modak on Thursday issued notices to the central and state governments, along with Mundhe and mayor Sandip Joshi, asking them to reply within two weeks.Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, state urban development department’s principal secretary, NSSCDCL chairman Pravin Pardeshi, ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav, leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve, former NMC standing committee chief Pradip Pohane, collector Ravindra Thakare, police commissioner BK Upadhyay, NIT director Sheetal Ugale and other director of NSSCDCL have been made respondents in the case. NSSCDCL is a special purpose vehicle for implementing Smart City project in Nagpur.Petitioners Devendra Mahajan, Uday Giye, Shubhangi Gadhwe and others contended that they were arbitrarily removed by Mundhe in May and June without any authority.Through their counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar, they argued that the civic chief is indulging into sheer abuse of power and usurpation of CEO’s authority without any legal and valid sanction.Citing random lacuna and unsatisfactory performance in duties discharged by them, Mundhe first asked them to resign and when they refused, he terminated their services without issuing them mandatory notice of one month as per the HR policy, they said.Quoting Union minister Nitin Gadkari’s letter to central ministers Hardeep Singh Puri and Jitendra Singh, the petitioners’ said he too had raised grievance against the illegal, unlawful, unconstitutional and fraudulent affairs of Mundhe.Citing mayor’s police complaint against Mundhe and two officers last month, they said he posed himself as NSSCDCL CEO, started operating the bank accounts for the transaction and misappropriated crores of rupees.The petitioners pointed out that the civic chief wasn’t appointed by the company’s Board of Directors (BoD) and there was only telephonic conversation with Pardeshi.“Mundhe is not appointed in pursuance of any advertisement or any prior sanction of government as clearly stipulated in the ‘Article of Association’ of company regarding modality prescribed for the CEO’s appointment. He’s bereft of any power, sanctity or legal authority to hold CEO’s post. Therefore, all his actions are illegal, without any authority and in no case stand the scrutiny of law,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/smart-city-staffers-move-hc-against-mundhe-challenging-termination/articleshow/76882134.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 10, 2020||Bhopal||Covid suspects escape Chhatarpur quarantine centre, found in Delhi||BHOPAL: In a frantic search that lasted for three days, two Covid suspects were tracked down by the cops on Wednesday after they had run away from a quarantine centre in Nowgong. They had run away to Delhi while their swab test reports were still awaited. Though police tracked them down, their reports turned out to be negative. Later, husband and wife- Rahul Ahirwar 22 and Khushboo 19- the two suspects, told police, “ We were living in pathetic conditions in the quarantine centre and that was the reason why we ran away”. The migrant couple had returned from Delhi recently to Kalapani village of Chhatarpur district. After their return, they were lodged in the local panchayat Bhavan of Nowgong tehsil. Panchayat secretary and a rozgar sahayak of the panchayat were deputed to look after them. After spending three days at the quarantine centre, they fled the place on Tuesday, creating quite a sensation. Following a police report, the cops started searching for them. Initial probe revealed that husband and wife had gone back to Delhi and later they were located in Azadpur locality of Delhi. In a joint operation by the panchayat personnel and police, the duo was brought back. KK Khaneja, SHO of Nowgong police station later told the local media, “ After a report of the missing Covid suspects, we started looking for them. They have been brought back.” Though their reports are negative, they have been quarantined again in Nowgong.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-suspects-escape-chhatarpur-quarantine-centre-found-in-delhi/articleshow/76882131.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Pune||Stuck in Maharashtra, over 3,000 UAE-based NRIs look to fly back from July 20||PUNE: Over 3,000 UAE-based NRIs stuck in Maharashtra for four months can look forward to fly back to the Emirates on the 19 newly announced special repatriation flights between July 12 and 26. The flights will be operated by Indian carriers under Vande Bharat Mission and a private UAE-based airline scheduled on the Sharjah, Dubai and Abu Dhabi-Mumbai routes as well as Dubai-Pune and Dubai-Mumbai routes. The civil aviation authorities in India and UAE on Thursday gave a green signal to Indian and UAE carriers (charters and VBM flights) to carry back passengers stuck in India to UAE. A ministry of civil aviation notification in this regard clarified that the passengers flying back to UAE must be UAE resident visa holders and destined for UAE only. These are special arrangement flights under a 15-day window from July 12-26. Rahul Tulpule, vice-president, Gulf Maharashtra Business Forum, said the move would help people as they would no longer be required to spend over Rs 2-2.5 lakh per seat on private 13-seater business charters. “Apart from a private UAE-based airline expected to come with 14 flights to repatriate NRIs stuck in Maharashtra to UAE during this period, VBM has around seven flights scheduled to operate on the UAE- Mumbai route from July 20 to 31,” he said. Sachin Suramwar, a business development director in a Dubai firm stuck in Pune since March, said, “When I checked the airline’s website, it showed zero availability. So, I wonder when will I get to fly back?” Preeti Roongta, co-founder of Pune Expat Club, said, “UAE-based NRIs stuck in Pune have approached us in the last few days as they have had no repatriation flights from Maharashtra to UAE and wanted us to help them via our platform.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stuck-in-maha-over-3000-uae-based-nris-look-to-fly-back-from-july-20/articleshow/76882869.cms||Neha Madaan
July 10, 2020||Mysuru||26 fresh Covid cases reported in Kodagu||MADIKERI: A total 26 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Kodagu on Thursday. There are 105 active cases in the district now. Among the new cases, three cases were reported from a private resort at Kakkabbe village in Madikeri taluk. A total six health workers from across the district, and another front-line worker were among the new cases reported. The other cases include patients from across Somwarpet taluk, who had ILI. Meanwhile, 20 new containment zones were declared across the district on Thursday, including at a private resort, health quarters at Sampaje and areas at Talacauvery and Bhagamandala. The district has reported a total 122 Covid-19 cases so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/26-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-kodagu/articleshow/76882079.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Lucknow||Shiva saved my son in Shrawan: Vikas Dubey's mother||LUCKNOW: Sarla Devi, mother of gangster Vikas Dubey, was not surprised on his son’s visit to Mahakal Temple in Ujjain from where he was arrested on Thursday. She said Vikas visited Mahakal Temple during Shrawan month every year. “My son is a Shiva devotee and that is why he is still alive today,” she said. All those who made him what he is today, have destroyed him, she added. As the news of Dubey’s arrest trickled in, mediapersons rushed to the gangster’s house in Lucknow’s Krishnanagar area where Devi lives. Devi said Dubey’s in-laws live in Shahdol, Madhya Pradesh, and were picked up by UP STF on Wednesday. “I don’t have words to tell what I feel about my son,” she said. On being asked what treatment should be given to Vikas, she said the decision rests with the government and it is free to do whatever it seems apt. After the brutal killings of eight policemen by Dubey and his goons last week, Devi had said that her son deserved to die for his misdeeds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shiva-saved-my-son-in-shrawan-mother/articleshow/76883441.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Dehradun||2 healthcare workers among 47 who tested positive for Covid-19||Dehradun: Uttarakhand on Thursday recorded 47 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total count of positive cases to 3,305. Maximum 20 cases were from Dehradun, of which two persons are healthcare workers, while the majority have travel history to Gurugram, Mathura etc. Nainital recorded a dozen positive cases followed by Pauri and Tehri which got five new cases. US Nagar recorded three new cases and Champawat two cases. Meanwhile, 22 people were cured taking the percentage of recovery to 80.85%. So far, 46 positive patients have died in the state. In a bid to provide a round-the-clock testing facility, the health department has started 24/7 testing provision in government medical colleges in Haldwani, Dehradun and Srinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-healthcare-workers-among-47-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76880841.cms||Shivani Azad
July 10, 2020||Aurangabad||11 lawyers booked for birthday party in court||AURANGABAD: A total of 11 lawyers have been booked by Beed police after their photographs of celebrating the birthday of one of their colleagues on the court premises went viral on social media. In the photographs, the lawyers were not following the social distancing norm and barring a couple of them, most were not wearing masks. An offence against them was registered at Shivaji Nagar police station under sections sections 188 (disobeying orders duly promulgated by the authority), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code along with sections of Disaster Management Act. Senior police and district administration officials have expressed anguish over the lawyers rampantly violating the norms during the ongoing pandemic and the curfew. “Lawyers are the defenders of law, but unfortunately they have been caught breaking the law rampantly and that too during the on-going lockdown,” a senior official from the revenue department said. The preliminary probe has revealed that the lawyers celebrated the birthday of former president of Beed bar council and while doing so they also brought garlands. Some of them clicked the pictures and even uploaded them on social networking platforms. The birthday was celebrated on Tuesday, while the offence against them was registered only on Wednesday.  Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar said, “Nobody is above the law.” “Based on the directives of the administration, constable Feroz Pathan lodged a complaint against the lawyers identified in the picture following which an offence has been registered. In terms of initiating legal action against these lawyers, the police will not hesitate in going ahead,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/11-lawyers-booked-for-bday-party-in-court/articleshow/76882125.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Pune||Online games encourage team bonding as most employees work from home||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Companies are using online games for team building activities with a large number of employees still working from home. From classic games, such as ludo and tambola, to combat gaming like PUBG and call of duty, HR teams of various companies have been organising online tournaments to encourage teamwork. " Since working from home seems to be the way it’s going to be now, we are encouraged to play online games with our colleagues and it’s great fun," said Ganesh Kadam, an IT employee. Ashish Rao, a manager at a BPO, said that different departments were divided into teams for a recent PUBG tournament. "Everyone’s mics were on and people joked with each other. It was so much fun that we have decided to do this again in the near future," he said. When people don’t meet face-to-face, egos can get in the way. To ease friction between team leaders, or perhaps manifest it in a sporting way, Suraj Jagtap, a manager at a data management company organised a ludo tournament for his colleagues. "While playing, people got talking to each other and this broke the ice. We plan to have this sort of online team bonding exercises every fortnight," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/online-games-encourage-team-bonding-as-most-employees-work-from-home/articleshow/76882873.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||NHL docs want to be relieved from duty at SVP||Ahmedabad: NHL Medical College resident doctors made a representation to the municipal commissioner asking him to relieve them of Covid-19 duties at SVP Hospital. The doctors said there are only 239 patients at SVP as on Wednesday, for which 150 residents have been deployed from NHL Medical College. These doctors have been on duty for three months at SVP. “The NHL resident doctors have requested that since Covid case numbers are low, doctors from LG Medical College and Shardaben be deputed as they come under the Medical Education Trust, while NHL comes under the VS Hospital Trust,” said a senior municipal official. The NHL resident doctors have requested the commissioner that they be allowed to return to their parent departments. The doctors said that the number of patients presently at SVP can be handled by the existing staff of Medicine, Anesthesia, DM and EMD branches with ease. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nhl-docs-want-to-be-relieved-from-duty-at-svp/articleshow/76882168.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Nashik||Aaditya Thackeray reviews Covid scenario||NASHIK: State tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray on Thursday held a meeting with the Nashik municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game through video conferencing (VC) to review city’s Covid-19 scenario. During the meeting, Game informed Thackeray about various measures being taken by the civic body to treat positive patients and curb the spread of Covid-19. Game also informed him that although the number of patients has increased in the city, the number of beds have also been increased to ensure timely treatment and no shortage of beds. Later, Thackeray praised the civic chief for adequate measure and asked him to increase the contact tracing of Covid-19 patients and also increase the numbers of oxygen concentrators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/aaditya-reviews-covid-scenario/articleshow/76880861.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 10, 2020||Pune||Pune municipal corporation may let hotels take in patients||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation is considering a proposal that allows hotels near hospitals to house people who are asymptomatic. Officials said move will clear up more beds for those with serious illness. But this will not mean a blanket permission for all such hotels to open, officials said. Permissions will only be given to certain cases. “The managements the hotels and the hospitals should be on the same page here. A hospital can shift its asymptomatic patients to a hotel that's adjacent to its building,” municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad told TOI on Thursday. Officials said the patients will have to pay the room charges at these hotels, which have also been allowed to provide medical facilities along with doctors. “Both the hospital and hotel managements should work out the modalities for this tie-up. Vacant hotel infrastructure can indeed be used for the treatment of asymptomatic patients,” the civic commissioner said. The state government had given hotels with lodging the green signal to resume operations. But the PMC said it has decided to wait and watch. Gaikwad added that the civic body has secured 900 more beds in the last couple of days. But the proposal to move patients into hotels may face objections. “Hotels are not geared up for something like this,” a source from the Poona Hoteliers' Association (PHA) said. “Hotels are already quarantine units for Vande Bharat Mission guests. It might be risky to have asymptomatic patients in the same premises. Also, many hotel staff have gone back to their hometowns. And those who stayed back are for basic activities like room service and reception area management. Staff may refuse to turn up because of the asymptomatic patients,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/symptomless-may-soon-be-able-to-move-into-hotels/articleshow/76882880.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
July 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Private hospitals overcharging Covid-19 patients will face strict action: Rajesh Tope||AURANGABAD: Amid mounting complaints of overcharging by private hospitals while offering treatment to Covid-19 patients, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has said the hospitals would face stern action if found guilty. “We have decided to appoint auditors to look into bills charged by private hospitals. The hospitals will face the heat if any inflated bills are found during the audit process,” he said, asking the hospitals to strictly follow the rate chart fixed by the government. Tope, who was in Aurangabad to review the Covid-19 situation, said health establishments should arrange for CCTV and LCD screens for interaction between patients and their relatives. “Emotional support plays a crucial role in recovery. Patients in the ICUs should not feel cut-off from the world,” he said. “Rapid antigen tests would soon start in different parts of Aurangabad. Preparations are on to carry out plasma therapy trials also,” he said. Around 900 antigen tests will be conducted per day in Aurangabad from Friday. The civic body has formed 17 special squads to carry out these tests. Tope, who held review meetings with different authorities, also stressed on the need to enhance the capacity of institutional quarantine. Aurangabad district guardian minister Subhash Desai, who attended the meetings, asked people to follow the lockdown planned from Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/private-hospitals-overcharging-covid-19-patients-will-face-strict-action-tope/articleshow/76882142.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Dehradun||ST commission issues notice in suicide of woman constable||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Scheduled Tribes (ST) Commission has issued a notice to the state police department to investigate the matter regarding the alleged suicide of a young woman police constable who belonged to the Jaunsari tribe and was posted at the Jhabreda police station in Haridwar. The family members have alleged that the constable was being physically and mentally harassed by one of her colleagues, primarily because of her ST status. The family members have also claimed that they were denied possession of the deceased’s mobile by the police. They said the phone might have contained some strong evidence and alleged that the phone has been destroyed by now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/st-commission-issues-notice-in-suicide-of-woman-constable/articleshow/76880881.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 10, 2020||Dehradun||SHO removed in Piran Kaliyar for not wearing face mask||Roorkee: Taking strict action against a police officer for not wearing a face mask during the Covid-19 pandemic, Haridwar SSP on Thursday removed Piran Kaliyar police station in-charge from the post and sent him to district police lines. The SSP made it clear that if any policeman is found disobeying the mandatory rule of wearing a face mask, strict departmental action will be taken against him without considering the ranks. Police have fined more than 12,290 people for not wearing face masks across the district, but removal of a cop was probably the first of its kind. Some residents of Piran Kaliyar near Roorkee had reportedly taken photographs of Prakash Pokhriyal, the station officer (SO) of Piran Kaliyar police station, while dealing with people without wearing a face mask himself. When the SSP found the peoples' complaint against the SO to be true, he immediately removed Pokhriyal from the post and appointed Jagmohan Ramola in his place. "Anyone who disobeys Covid-19 guidelines will be punished without considering his/her ranks," the Haridwar SSP told TOI. Till now, 12,291 people have been penalised since the Covid lockdown, while a total of Rs 23,75,550 has been collected as fine, mainly for not wearing face masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sho-removed-in-piran-kaliyar-for-not-wearing-face-mask/articleshow/76880887.cms||Tapan Susheel
July 10, 2020||Dehradun||In a U-turn, transfer order of 11 forest officials cancelled in 48 hours||Dehradun: Within 48 hours of issuing transfer notice to 11 Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCFs), the state government on Thursday revoked the order. The government cancelled the transfers of all the DCFs, including those of Mussoorie, Nainital and Terai East. The officials, however, refused to comment further on the matter. “It is a decision of the state government and we are simply following the order,” said Anand Bardhan, principal secretary, forest department, Uttarakhand. A few IFS officers, whom TOI spoke to, said several such names were added in the list which were ‘not even presented before the civil services board’ for transfers, whereas those on the deputation have been given additional charge of the department which is in violation of the law. Some of the officers who have been transferred and their orders not cancelled were not even put before the board, an IFS officer alleged. “Some of the 11 transfers are of officials who have already completed their stipulated duration of three years in one place, but despite that their transfers have been cancelled,” said an IFS officer on the condition of anonymity. “There is a procedure fixed by the Supreme Court for the transfer of All India Service officer in the TSR Subramanyam judgment. In that case, it was decided that without the approval of the civil services board no transfer can be done. It is completely surprising and shocking that transfer of officials was being done in such an arbitrary manner,” said the IFS officer. TOI tried to connect with forest minister Harak Singh Rawat, but he remained unavailable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-u-turn-transfer-order-of-11-forest-officials-cancelled-in-48-hours/articleshow/76880857.cms||Shivani Azad
July 10, 2020||Dehradun||274 Gorkha soldiers, kin cross border, collect pension||Pithoragarh: On Thursday 274 pensioners of Indian Army from Nepal came to India from three different places to collect their pensions. Most of them were Gorkha soldiers or their family members. Friday will be the last day for the pensioners to come to India and collect their dues. More than 1,600 Gorkha soldiers of the Indian Army, living in Nepal, have bank accounts at State Bank of India’s Jauljibi, Dharchula and Jhulaghat branches, but due to Covid-induced lockdown, both countries had closed their borders and these soldiers could not withdraw their pensions. The soldiers requested Nepal authorities to talk to the Pithoragarh administration to allow them to cross over to India. After a go-ahead from the MHA, the Pithoragarh district administration allowed these pensioners to visit India from July 8-10. Officials said that on Thursday, the second day of the border being opened, 148 pensioners, came to SBI Jhulaghat and withdrew Rs 1.10 crore, while at Dharchula, 51 pensioners or their family members withdrew Rs 26 lakh. At Jauljibi, 75 pensioners, including family members,withdrew Rs 30 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/274-gorkha-soldiers-kin-cross-border-collect-pension/articleshow/76880870.cms||Prem Punetha
July 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Engineer jumps from 11th floor of building, dies||PUNE: A 25-year-old engineer, working for private company in Chikhali, ended his life by jumped off the 11th floor of a building in a housing complex in Moshi on Wednesday evening. Police said they were not immediately able to ascertain the reason behind the extreme step and that they were looking into the matter. Police have registered a case of accidental death. The engineer, originally from Wai in Satara district, had been staying with a friend in Pimpri Chinchwad police said. Just before jumping on Wednesday, police said the engineer updated his status on WhatsApp, which read, “Love you Mom and Dad (sic). I am going to another world. Please take care of my parents and sister.” Pujari said the police have recovered the victim’s cellphone. “It is locked. His friends told us about the WhatsApp status. We have informed his parents,” sub-inspector Amardeep Pujari of Bhosari MIDC police said . Pujari said the engineer claimed he had some work in the housing complex and gained entry around 3.30pm. “While entering his details at the security gate, the engineer told the guard to give him a key to the building’s terrace, claiming he had some work there,” Pujari said. When the guard did not give him a key, he went to the topmost residential floor of a building. “He placed his backpack and cellphone on the floor and jumped,” Pujari said, adding, “The guards witnessed this and rushed him to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead.” The police have yet to record the friends’ statements and said they will complete this in a day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/engineer-jumps-from-11th-floor-of-building-dies/articleshow/76882877.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Dehradun||Three IPS officers transferred||DEHRADUN: The state government on Thursday transferred three senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officers. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Udham Singh Nagar district Barinderjeet Singh has been transferred and made the commandant of Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB)-I at Ramnagar in Nainital district. SSP Pauri district, Dalip Singh Kunwar, is going to be the new SSP of Udham Singh Nagar, while P Renuka Devi, commandant of IRB-I, will replace him as the new SSP of Pauri district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-ips-officers-transferred/articleshow/76880897.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC: Provide clarity on Covid test for pregnant women||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Thursday pulled up the AAP government for failing to clarify its stand despite repeated chances on the issue of pregnant women needing mandatory Covid-19 tests if they land up in hospital. The court said a genuine problem has been turned into a “bureaucratic nightmare” since the government is not stating if a pregnant woman who goes to a hospital for delivery or urgent treatment is required to undergo a Covid-19 test, even if she is not showing any symptoms. If mandatory, the court made it clear that sample collection and declaration of results should be done in a minimum period of time instead of 48 hours. “A genuine human problem has been made into a bureaucratic nightmare. It is inexplicable. How long do we wait? Four to five opportunities have been given to address the issue since filing of the petition,” a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan noted while hearing a PIL on the matter. The court wondered if the officials concerned were “confused.” It pointed out that “when a pregnant woman goes for delivery or surgery, they cannot wait for 48 hours for a result. Sometimes they go at the last moment. Your secretaries should understand that pregnant women do not go 48 hours before a delivery.” The court said that current Covid-19 medical guidelines say that a patient, even if a pregnant woman comes for delivery, she will be kept in isolation till declaration of results without a family member close by. “What kind of society are we living in,” the court said, giving a last chance to the authorities to clarify their stand. Its observations came after examining the AAP government’s July 5 order to hospitals for testing of high-risk patients and its status report. The court noted that in its July 5 order, the government has said that all “high-risk people” such as the elderly and those suffering from serious ailments like cancer, need to undertake the Rapid Antigen Detection Test (RADT) before being admitted in a hospital for treatment of non-Covid ailments. While the order is silent on the category of pregnant women, the government’s status report said they were also included, the bench noted highlighting a contradiction. It also wondered if pregnant women without any symptoms need to undergo RADT and directed the AAP government to correct the contradictions and clarify.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-provide-clarity-on-covid-test-for-pregnant-women/articleshow/76882886.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bank sealed for SOP breach||Ahmedabad: AMC has sealed the State Bank of India, Meghaninagar branch, for not following social distancing rules. The civic body on Thursday notified eight more micro-containment areas, taking the total number to 156.The decision to notify these areas as micro-containment zones was taken after a meeting chaired by Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary, forest and environment, and municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar. Gupta is in charge of Covid-19 control in Ahmedabad.Gupta said that the government has announced a standard operating procedure (SOP) for banks and offices to follow, but the of State Bank of India, Meghaninagar, was not following it, and the social distancing rules were also violated.He said that henceforth all premises found violating the SOP will be sealed. He said that the government had laid down the SOP for offices.In many cases, it was noticed that all the staff were called for duty in violation of the rules. The eight areas declared micro-containment zones on Thursday include — three floors each of Block A, B and C of Gurukul Park (Thaltej), three floors each of Block M and L in Indraprastha Tower (Thaltej) and Block D and F of Akshay Apartment, Chandlodia. All three areas are in North West Zone.The other areas are A/2, Swaminarayan Park, Naroda, in North Zone; two areas — Ayojan Nagar (Vinzol) and Saraf ni Chali (Gomtipur) — in East Zone. The other two areas in South Zone are Shreenath Heights (Lambha) and some houses in Hariom Society (Vatva).Standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that micro-containment zones were notified after officials found three or more cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bank-sealed-for-sop-breach/articleshow/76882282.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Gamblers also booked for spreading Covid-19||AHMEDABAD: Apart from conducting Covid-19 tests on people caught for various offences, police are also being thorough about Covid protocols. When LCB personnel raided a gambling den on Wednesday, besides slapping charges of illegal gambling, they also booked the accused for not wearing masks and sitting close to each other. In the FIR filed with Infocity police, Gandhinagar, local crime branch (LCB) cop Rakesh Mukeshsinh states that based on a tip-off they raided the house of Rakesh Patel in Vinayak Flora flats, Raysan village, and held eight people for illegal gambling and breach of Covid-related notification. LCB sleuths found six persons sitting in a circle without masks and two others sitting near them. Police seized Rs 2.04 lakh cash, nine phones worth Rs 37,000 and three cars worth Rs 8.41 lakh. The FIR states the accused were booked for gambling, and violation of notifications regarding negligence likely to spread an infection. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gamblers-also-booked-for-spreading-virus/articleshow/76882201.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Delhi||School owner bail: Doctor in net for ‘fake’ document||NEW DELHI: A scrutiny of the documents provided by the owner of Rajdhani Public School, Farooq Faisal, an accused in the northeast Delhi riots, through which he had allegedly applied for bail has led to the arrest of the doctor who issued them. The medical documents recommending surgery of Faisal’s relative have allegedly turned out fake, police sources said. Cops found that the doctor, Gajendra Nayyar (61), had issued similar documents earlier to secure the release of other undertrials, after which his medical licence was suspended by Delhi Medical Council. Nayyar and his associate, Mukesh Sangwan were arrested on Thursday. DCP (Crime) Rakesh Pawaria said they are probing other cases in which the accused had been involved. Cops found that DMC had mentioned that the conduct of the doctor was “unbecoming of a medical practitioner” and had revoked his name from the state medical register for a year up to November 2020. Nayyar had come under Delhi high court’s scanner after he allegedly issued a fake medical certificate to help a man in an attempt to murder case. The accused had sought bail, claiming his wife had to undergo a surgery. While checking the medical documents, cops found all OPD slips, submitted as evidence in the Faisal case, were issued from the same clinic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/school-owner-bail-doctor-in-net-for-fake-document/articleshow/76882898.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: EPCA reviews readiness to prevent farm fires||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the crop stubble burning season, which tends to start around October 15 in parts of northern India, the Supreme Court mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) on Thursday held a meeting with the states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The body reviewed the preparations made by each state in order to prevent stubble burning this year. EPCA has directed each state to submit a compliance report, along with the actions taken so far, stating a review meeting will be held fortnightly along with the timelines in which work should be completed. EPCA member Sunita Narain said the meeting was in continuance with the Supreme Court order from February, which had directed each state to carry out directions to incentivise farmers and provide machines to reduce instances of stubble burning. The meeting on Thursday included members from the state pollution control board and state agriculture departments. “There is a clear plan in place for each state already. Now the work that has already been completed needs to be monitored along with the pending work with fixed timelines. This will then be monitored for the next three months and the aim is to ensure it gets completed before the stubble burning season,” Narain told TOI. Among other directions, states have been asked to set up custom hiring centres in each district where equipments will be provided to farmers to manage stubble. A mobile app — ‘CHC Machinery’— that was released last year will be assessed by each state for the number of farmers registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/epca-reviews-readiness-to-prevent-farm-fires/articleshow/76883445.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 10, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Nod for sole Rs 490 crore bid for Jet Airways office at Bandra-Kurla Complex||MUMBAI: Lenders have approved a Rs 490-crore bid by Vrihis Properties—a Brookfield company—for two floors of office space owned by the now bankrupt Jet Airways in Bandra-Kurla Complex. As the sole bidder, the Canadabased private equity fund had bid at the reserve price and did not face competition, banking sources said. At that price, the 1.7 lakhsqft office space in Godrej BKC Building works out to Rs 29,000/sqft. Bankers said it was a good price given the market conditions and uncertainty over real estate prices. Its sale was delayed as although lenders had initiated bankruptcy proceedings, the floors were mortgaged to HDFC. Jet bid Rs 826 crore for plot in 2008Bankers are unlikely to get the sale’s proceeds. Bulk of funds will go to HDFC and a small amount will clear airline debts from US Exim Bank. Jet Airways, which shut down last year, had bid Rs 826 crore during an MMRDA auction to develop the BKC plot in 2008. The cash-strapped airline later tied up with Godrej Properties in 2011 to jointly develop the plot. In 2015, drug-maker Abbott India bought 4.35 lakh sq ft space in the building for Rs 1,479 crore. HDFC said the property was mortgaged to it by Jet. A report by real estate consultancy firm JLL said workplace design will see a shift over time due to Covid-19 with a mixed response from occupants. While telecommuting will become more mainstream, leading firms worldwide will embrace flexible workplace arrangements and take steps for social distancing and good hygiene, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nod-for-rs-490cr-bid-for-jet-office-at-bkc/articleshow/76882675.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: From food to laundry services, private hospitals’ help for patients at home||PUNE: Private hospitals in the city have formed a team of 8-10 doctors dedicated only for Covid-19 patients recuperating at home. From packages ranging from Rs1,000 to Rs3,000 a day, hospitals offer video counselling, consultation, home tests, digital check- up for temperature and blood pressure to even food and laundry services are being provided by the hospitals. Patients opting for isolation at hotels are also getting similar treatment. Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital medical director Dhananjay Kelkar said, “We have created a separate consultation room for home isolation patients to know if they are eligible for the treatment. We have made a set-up for the system and check the patients through a specially created video about the care they need and the procedure that needs to be followed.” As per government guidelines, mild cases of Covid-19 and confirmed asymptomatic patients do not require hospitalization if they have requisite facility to self-isolate at home. The patients, during home isolation, get an option to carry a kit comprising pulse oximeter and thermometer, among other things. Three consultation sessions are provided to patients through a link on WhatsApp, where doctors consult patients through live video. Since Deenanath Hospital is empanelled with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the patients are charged only for consultation. At Jehangir hospital, patients are offered a per day package of Rs1,400 for a period of 17 days and they get medication for all the days. The investigations of the patients are carried out on the first and seventh days. A hospital official said, “The first-day hospital visits and investigations are important to decide if a person is suitable for isolation at home. Once it is decided, the patient is provided with daily video consultation, medicines and pharmacy kits, among other services.” Ruby Hall Clinic medical director Sanjay Pathare said, “The patients are provided with 24x7 nursing cover on home visit and later as and when required. They are also provided with food and laundry services. Those opting for hotel isolation are also provided care at facilities arranged by the hospital. The services range from Rs1,000 to Rs3,000 per day.” The Bharati hospital and Research centre has dedicated a 400 sqft space to cater to patients requiring home isolation and their first day or follow-up consultations. The medical director at the Bharati Hospital, Sanjay Lalwani, said, “We are also providing patients with information booklets.” A PMC health officer said patients who could not afford home isolation expenses offered by private hospitals are accommodated free of cost in hostels and stadia converted into isolation centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/from-food-to-laundry-services-pvt-hospitals-help-for-patients-at-home/articleshow/76882891.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
July 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur youth becomes a ‘home barber’ for disabled||KOLHAPUR: One youth from Kolhapur has been offering free haircuts and barber services to people with disabilities. Even during the strict lockdown, he would take his cycle and got to people’s home to offer his service free of charge. Vijay Shinde, 26, who works as a security guard at a bank, said he started the initiative last year and didn’t let the lockdown become a roadblock. Shinde, after completing his duty at the bank, would earlier work at a salon during the day. Around one-and-a-half years ago, he started offering free barber services to the disabled. Over a short span of time, he became the regular barber for almost 60 individuals. After the lockdown was imposed, the restrictions on movement even within Kolhapur city were proving to be a hindrance. Since the policemen were largely stopping bikers, he decided to ride his cycle to the residences of his ‘clients’. “During the lockdown period, police used to stop if found using bikes. So, I travelled across the city on my bicycle. Now, I have purchased battery operated e-bike to carry out my service. Risk is everywhere and you can’t assure about anything in such virus condition. Staying safe and taking all the precautions while carrying out the work is what we should do. If it has to happen then it will happen anyhow,” he said. He said that he could carry on with his service only because of the support of his family. “People used to laugh at me but my parents supported my initiative,” he said. He said that he has almost 60 clients, whom he visits every fifteen days. “I keep their record and if anybody new wants to register, then I take their Aadhaar card and their medical certificate for my record,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-youth-becomes-a-home-barber-for-disabled/articleshow/76882199.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
July 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Covid-19 positive auto driver visits police to file complaint||PUNE: The Dehu Road police were in for a huge scare on Tuesday evening when a Covid-19 positive autorickshaw driver put in home quarantine reached the police station and demanded that he should be either admitted in a hospital or a case be filed against his neighbours for not allowing him to step out of his house for buying necessities. The man’s wife was admitted in a hospital after she tested positive for Covid-19. Being a high-risk contact, the authorities had tested the autorickshaw driver’s swab sample too, which came positive recently. However, due to non-availability of beds at hospital, he was put in home isolation. Senior inspector Manish Kalyankar of the Dehu Road police told TOI, “As he was alone in his house, he started facing problems. On Tuesday evening, he came out for buying some essentials and his neighbours told him to go inside and started abusing him.” He then left home in his autorickshaw and started hurling abuses at people while driving around the place for half-an-hour, police said, adding that he reached the Dehu Road police station and demanded the personnel there to either get him admitted in a hospital or register an offence against his neighbours who were not allowing him to step out of his house. Personnel at the Dehu Road police immediately put on their PPE kits and tried to calm him down for two hours. He was later admitted in a Covid care centre in Talegaon. “We took a rapid test for Covid-19 thereafter. Thankfully, we all tested negative,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/positive-auto-driver-approaches-police-after-neighbours-stop-him-from-stepping-out-of-house/articleshow/76882904.cms||Mihir Tanksale
July 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Demand zooms for car rental services as buses stay off road||Kolhapur: Car rental services have seen a huge demand over the past few weeks as the buses continue to stay off the road. The service providers are, however, facing hiccups in getting e-passes approved.Abhijeet Pasare, owner of Asosheel tourism, operating car rental service said, “Stranded individuals are giving priority to renting cars. We offer a sanitized car and a driver with proper medical fitness certificate to the customers.”According to the government rules, any person wanting to travel between district has to get a travel e-pass from the police, which is granted only in case of emergencies or medical reasons. Moreover, only two passengers can travel in a car apart from the driver. He said that the travel e-passes not getting approved and it is proving to hamper their business.Another car rental service provider, Mahesh Mane, said, “We have clients but drivers fear being put into quarantine after the assignment is over. We have taken our vehicles on loan and managed to pay the instalments till now, but won’t be able to pay any longer if things don’t improve.”He added that the government should offer some relief in tax or in the insurance amount of the tourist passing vehicles. “With the diesel prices climbing high, we have made 50 paise to 1 rupee hike in per kilometre rate to survive this difficult period,” he said.The Kolhapur District Car Operators association has given many applications to the district collectorate but still no action has been taken. Nitin Moog, president of the association, said, “Several applications have been given to the district collectorate, asking for relaxation in quarantine if the driver returns within 24-hours,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/demand-zooms-for-car-rental-services-as-buses-stay-off-road/articleshow/76880910.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
July 10, 2020||Lucknow||Vikas Dubey: From local don to godfather of guile||KANPUR: Gangster Vikas Dubey used his scheming mind to exploit government resources and built an army of supporters and an intricate network of informers to give a slip to cops whenever they snooped down to snare him. Dubey had used more than Rs 12 lakh from government fund released for RCC road for constructing a ‘secret foot over-bridge’ over Pandu river when his wife Richa was member of district panchayat. Soon after killing eight policemen in the ambush, Dubey had used the same ‘secret foot over-bridge’ to cross Pandu river that divides Kanpur Nagar from Kanpur Dehat to reach Shivli where he stayed put undetected for 48 hours while over 50 police teams scoured UP and neighbouring states to nab him. Villagers said Dubey had constructed several hideouts, including a bunker and escape routes in his house in Bikru village. “There were several secret exits, besides a bunker which he used to evade arrest whenever police came to arrest him,” said a villager preferring anonymity. It was common belief among locals that it’s impossible to arrest Vikas from his fortress-like residence. “Police came several times over the years to arrest him from his house, but always went empty-handed. Every time police came, he got prior information and escaped using secret exits specially built for the purpose,” said a village elderly. He also had a strong information network and an army of loyalists who even blocked the path of police teams in devious fashion to give Dubey time to escape. “There were some escape routes in his house. There was also a secret foot over-bridge over Pandu river,” said a police official. After the murder of minister Santosh Shukla in 2001, when cops went to Bikru village to arrest Vikas, they could not find him. He later surrendered. “Even this time, while we were checking all approach roads connecting his village and combing the region, he escaped through the secret over-bridge,” said Billhaur inspector Santosh Awasthi. Watch Vikas Dubey encounter: How the gangster used a secret escape route to evade cops on July 3||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gangster-used-secret-bridge-to-hole-up-in-forest/articleshow/76883446.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||24x7 tight vigil proposed at containment zones||Ahmedabad: Senior officials of the AMC and the police departments in a meeting held here on Thursday decided to keep a round-the-clock vigil at the 148 micro-containment zones in the city. The AMC officials claimed that the Covid-19 positive cases have gone down drastically because of the micro-containment measures. The city registered more than 200 cases of Covid-19 in mid-June. The number has gone down to over 170 cases per day. The officials said more such micro-containment zones will be created to contain the Covid-19 virus. The AMC demanded round-the-clock police bandobust at such containment zones. City police commissioner Ashish Bhatia sought proper barricades and sitting facility for the police personnel deployed at containment zones. He said this would help in properly monitoring the movement of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/24x7-tight-vigil-proposed-at-containment-zones/articleshow/76882270.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Prepare for the worst, warn doctors||KOCHI: Three doctors from Kerala, who were part of a healthcare team that went to Mumbai to help the authorities there to fight Covid-19, have submitted a report to the state government on what should be done in the state if the cases surge. They said we can learn a lot from Maharashtra and prepare accordingly in most crucial areas like calculating the days required for doubling the cases admitted to ICUs. Only a few patients who test positive for Covid-19 require intensive care in the state. “In Kerala, the number of days required for doubling the number of positive cases is being calculated. But the most important factor is calculating the days required for doubling the number of patients who require intensive care. In Mumbai, the daily death toll was about 40 in the first week of June. This rose to 100 by mid-June. As the cases increased to more than double in less than 10 days, the situation got out of hand there. The facilities arranged there were not adequate to cater to the increased demand at short notice. So, it is key to understand the number of days required for doubling the patient load in ICUs and plan accordingly,” said S S Santhosh Kumar, deputy superintendent, government medical college, Thiruvananthapuram, who headed the team that went to Mumbai. Besides Santhosh, Sajeesh Gopalan, intensivist and senior consultant anaesthesia, SP Fort Hospital, and Dr Aneesh Raj, intensivist and consultant anaesthesia, NIMS Medicity, Neyyattinkara, prepared the report. Mumbai recorded 1,413 Covid-19 positive cases on June 1, which climbed to 1,945 a day by mid-June. It has now come down to below 1,400 per day now. “The statistics show a consistent rise in the death toll over the month, but the number of positive cases is slowly falling. The reason for increase in death toll might be due to the non-availability of ICU beds and critical care. If we consider an average of 2,000 positive cases, we can infer that we need 100 to 200 ICU beds per day, anticipating that 5-10% patients require ICU. And if we apply a 15-day ICU occupancy per patient, the requirement might be between 1,500 and 3,000 ICU beds in another 15 days,” the study states. This underlines the importance of calculating the doubling of patients in the ICU and augmenting facilities. Considering the high demand for oxygen and infrastructure, it is quite evident that the Covid ICU facilities could not be decentralised. “In Maharashtra, there was an effort to start ICU facilities in decentralised and temporary set ups. But, the ICU facilities should be competent enough to treat the worst cases. For treating Covid patients in ICUs, it will require more oxygen than in normal times. High-flow nasal catheters, high oxygen flow non-invasive ventilation and other oxygen intensive therapies need at least 10-15 litres of oxygen per minute. Such a demand can’t be met by large cylinders which are normally used in hospitals. Even a 100-bed ICU for Covid patients might need one or two liquid oxygen tanks and plants. Oxygen cylinders can’t cater to the needs of Covid patients,” Dr Santhosh Kumar said. So, authorities in Kerala should prepare plans and execute it in advance, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/prepare-for-the-worst-warn-docs/articleshow/76880934.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Technological University to conduct exams in MCQ, OMR formats||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Technological University has decided to conduct online and offline (pen & paper) exams for final-year students in OMR and MCQ based question paper formats, respectively. The online exams will consist of 70 marks paper having 70 questions, the duration of which will be 70 minutes. This decision was taken on Thursday at a meeting of faculty deans from various GTU affiliated colleges. Plans are afoot to conduct the online exams before July 30. “It has been decided to conduct exams for final year undergraduate students in OMR format before end of this month. We are planning to do the same for post graduate candidates also,” said Navin Sheth, vice-chancellor of GTU. In the case of online exams, students can take the test using cellphones, laptops, desktops, tablets or other such devices with internet connectivity. For students who do not have access to internet, arrangements will be made by colleges like setting up of computer terminals or Wi-Fi hotspots. GTU is expected to announce the exam dates for pen & paper exams by August 15, said sources. For students who cannot take either of the two – the offline and online exams, the varsity will conduct special exams that will be held before September 30 according to University Grants Commission’s latest guidelines. Gujarat education department has directed all varsities to conduct online exams before end of July. An estimated 54,000 students are likely to participate in the GTU exams for final year. GTU will perhaps become the first university in Gujarat to hold the final semester exam in MCQ and OMR formats. Earlier the varsity had decided on conducting theory exams from July 2 however it had to cancel at the eleventh hour after the state government directed all universities to cancel exams till further directions from the Centre and UGC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-to-conduct-exams-in-mcq-omr-formats/articleshow/76882281.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Foggy glasses a concern while wearing face masks||PUNE: The mandatory covering of face with a mask while stepping out has become a concern for those who wear glasses. The fogging of the glasses from condensation caused due to the wearing of the mask has affected the ability of the bespectacled to see properly, many said. “When I go out with a face mask on and my prescription glasses, it gets difficult to see because the condensation from my breathing goes up inside the masks and makes my glasses foggy. When I breathe out, there is condensation on my lenses but when I breathe in, it clears out,” Nora Kazi, a banker, said, Samarth Patil, a student, said he used to wear slightly oversized glasses but found that the spectacles could not stay on his nose when he wears a mask. “It keeps slipping down over the mask, especially when I’m walking. I have dropped my spectacles several times since I started wearing the mask,” said Patil. “When anyone who wears a mask breathes, the warm air escapes out of the top of the fabric around the nose, and the water vapour condenses on the cool surface of the lenses, which forms the fog. It is a very common problem that people wearing spectacles have had to face even before mask became compulsory,” Mukesh Multani, an ophthalmologist, said. Multan stated that investing in an anti-fog spray will help in minimising the discomfort caused by fogging of glasses. “The spray will create a film on the lenses and protect it from condensation. Another trick is to wash your spectacles with soapy water and wipe it completely dry with a soft cloth. This will also create a layer on the lenses which will not allow for too much condensation,” he added, Ophthalmologist Neena Sankrawar said, “Buy a mask which has a nose bridge that provides a closing near your nose so that when you exhale, the warm air doesn’t go under your spectacles and condense on the lenses,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/foggy-glasses-a-concern-while-wearing-face-masks/articleshow/76882900.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Dehradun||Govt depts must submit reform & livelihood plan to CS in 15 days||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat held a meeting with officials on Thursday to discuss the new possibilities of livelihood in the state. The CM directed all departments to make 'Livelihood Plan' and 'Reform Plan' within a span of 15 days and forward it to the chief secretary (CS) for approval. Besides, the departments were also told to make a plan in 10 days on how to increase revenue in various areas of the state. Rawat said that after Covid-19, the state will have to make big efforts to improve its economy and connect people with employment. “To increase people’s livelihood, short, mid and long term plans have to be worked out. Our first goal is to make special efforts for the people whose livelihood resources have been affected due to Covid-19,” he said. Rawat further said, "Besides promoting local products, we should work towards their packaging, processing and marketing. There are many possibilities in the direction of medical and aromatic plants in Uttarakhand. Along with work on medicinal and aromatic plants, the forest department and horticulture department need to work in the direction of fruits, flowers and vegetation.” Apart from promoting local products, the CM said the state will also have to pay attention to their branding. He added that to increase the livelihood resources of the state's people, farmers should be encouraged in agriculture as well as other activities. “Further work needs to be done on the farmer-centric approach,” said the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-depts-must-submit-reform-livelihood-plan-to-cs-in-15-days/articleshow/76880909.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Factory capacity utilisation at 40%, industry jittery over rising Covid cases||JAIPUR: The spurt in number of positive cases in the industrial regions of the state is bringing back fears of another lockdown for the industry which is struggling to increase capacity utilisation. The second round of lockdown in some states to control the spike in infections is playing on the mind of industry in Rajasthan where the pandemic seems to be going out of control with larger case load in the past one week. Industry associations in Bhiwadi, Jodhpur, and Jaipur said any fresh lockdown will be more damaging because if the labour goes back now, it would be impossible to bring them back. “After much difficulty, the industrial units have brought back some of their employees. Even though it is a struggle, the companies have restarted their operations. But if there is any new curb on industrial activity, all the efforts to resurrect manufacturing will be futile,” said B M Mittal, president of Bhiwadi Manufacturing Association. Industry representatives in Jaipur said with demand recovery yet to gain momentum, manufacturers are unable to raise their production capacity which is stuck at about 40%. “Demand from domestic market is rising very slowly. Export orders still remain minuscule. Shortage of labour has become a handicap. There is fixed cost to all businesses. Businessmen cannot keep their factories shut for a long time as the liabilities will keep on piling up. While most have restarted their operations, it is very difficult for them to raise the production capacity which is stuck at around 40% now,” said Suresh Agarwal, president of Federation of Rajasthan Trade and Industry. Businessmen in Jodhpur, which has recently seen a sudden spike in cases, are also apprehensive, but they said the world has to live with the threat and there is no point in putting curbs on economic activities which are in any way not in a great shape. “Fortunately, there is not a single industrial worker found positive. But the bigger challenge is not to take any decision that would impact industry. Already, the industry is operating at a very small scale. Economic activity will be the key to provide jobs and livelihood to people. The corona pandemic will stay here for some time and we have to learn to live with it,” said Sunil Parihar, patron of Marudhara Industries Association in Jodhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/factory-capacity-utilisation-at-40-industry-jittery-over-rising-covid-cases/articleshow/76882905.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Chennai||Doors closed, library to opens online access||CHENNAI: When big libraries like the Anna Centenary library and the Connemara public library remain closed due to the pandemic-imposed lockdown but education continues online, there is a gap in access to resources. Keeping this in mind, the Roja Muthiah Research Library (RMRL) in Taramani is planning to make its content digital. The idea is to digitise books related to Sangam literature, folk, medical and popular culture. The work has just begun and will take a couple of months, said Sundar Ganesan, director of RMRL. Ganesan said the initiative is not only aimed at the research scholars, but also for lay readers. "We have seen a lot of readers who are interested and want to know more about Sangam literature and the vibrant folk traditions of Tamil Nadu. The research scholars will have a specific interest, unlike the lay readers, who are active in blogs and social networking sites. This will help them a lot," he said. K Mukunth, a research scholar of ancient history of Tamil Nadu, said his work could not progress despite all the time during the lockdown as he was unable to access the library. "All the libraries are closed due to lockdown. I am having a tough time. I appreciate RMRL’s initiative," said Mukunth. The RMRL has a collection of more than 4,00,000 items comprising books, journals, newspapers, printed ephemera and audio records, the earliest title being a book called ‘Gnanpattukalin Posthakam’, published in 1797. The library’s strengths are its holdings in classical and modern literature, literary criticism, indigenous medicine, religion and philosophy, cinema and the related culture of printed works (such as song books), folklore, metaphysics, Gandhian studies and numerous publications of historical value. It also holds the personal collections of Gift Siromani, Iravatham Mahadevan, A K Ramanujan, Robert Hardgrave, the Rudolphs, Milton Singer, Mu Arunachalam, R Champakalakshmi and several noted personalities. The library has some rare books and articles online, and the present project will focus on Sangam literature, folk, and medical literature and popular culture, said Sundar. "Converting the images into digital format is a challenge. It’s a difficult situation so we are trying to digitise the material that doesn’t have any copyright. Once it’s ready, then anyone can sit home and access the books. We hope to finish the work in a couple of months," said Sundar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/doors-closed-library-to-opens-online-access/articleshow/76882235.cms||M T Saju
July 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: ‘Aggressive testing key to curb community spread’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Any delay in testing people and getting the results of the samples would adversely affect the containment of ‘super spread’ that have been reported in certain parts of the state. Experts point out that the only way to curb this spread of Covid-19 is to focus on aggressive testing and isolation of all primary contacts without transmitting it into secondary contacts. “Test all symptomatic people within 48 hours and bring out the results in 24 hours. Any delay in getting the results would affect the isolation of the primary contacts. This will be riskier. Instead of waiting for RT-PCR, it is always better to go for antigen tests in such clusters as it gives faster results,’’ said internal medicine expert Dr Arun N M. Experts are of the view that Poonthura incident should be seen as a community cluster rather than a super spread. This should be seen as a path for massive community spread. “The state health department had issued a containment strategy when such clusters were formed in Malappuram. Testing is the key to curb such spreading. Test as many people and isolate them. There should be a total lockdown in such areas,’’ said Dr A Althaf, associate professor, Manjeri Medical College Hospital. The experts are also of the view that at least in Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam now travel history should not be made the criteria for testing. “Every person in such clusters should be tested as anyone can be a super spreader now. The biggest chance for super spreader are healthcare workers in those regions,’’ said Dr N Sulphi, state vice-president of Indian Medical Association. The inordinate delay in getting the results is a concern. RT-PCR test results are getting delayed for a week. In Thiruvananthapuram, the results of samples sent one week ago from Neyyattinkara hospital have not yet been received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/aggressive-testing-key-to-curb-community-spread/articleshow/76880949.cms||Rajiv G
July 10, 2020||Mumbai||MoU signed for railyway projects under MUTP-III||MUMBAI: An MOU was signed between Mumbai Railway Vikas Corporation (MRVC), state government and its development agencies for smooth implementation of railway expansion projects under Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP-III). MUTP-III was sanctioned by ministry of railways at a cost of Rs. 10,947 crore in February 2017. An MoU was signed in the presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) and City Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) are signatories to the subsidiary finance agreement with MRVC. CMO, in a release, said, “The agreement will accelerate execution of projects, including laying of a 28km suburban line between Panvel-Karjat (Rs 2,783 crore), construction of a 3.5km elevated line between Airoli-Kalwa (Rs 476 crore), quadrupling of of a 63km line between Virar-Dahanu (Rs, 3,578 crore), procurement of 47 rakes (Rs 3,491 crore) and trespass control (Rs 551 crore).” The state government approved the project through MRVC on the lines of MUTP-I and II with 50:50 financial participation. MUTP-III got Union cabinet’s approval in December 2016. MRVC initiated tendering but work on trespass control and Airoli-Kalwa link is in progress. Other projects will begin after the monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mou-signed-for-rly-projects-under-mutp-iii/articleshow/76882677.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Dehradun||Flight operations from Doon to Hyderabad via Bengaluru to begin on July 15||Dehradun: In a welcome news for loca residents and tourists, Dehradun will have air connectivity with Bengaluru and Hyderabad from July 15. The flight would operate for two days a week – Wednesday and Sunday. The flight will leave Bengaluru at 7 am and arrive at Jolly Grant Airport of Dehradun at 9:15 am. From Dehradun, it will leave at 10:15am and is expected to land at Bengaluru at 12:45pm. After a break of 75 minutes, the flight will take off from Bengaluru at 2pm and reach Hyderabad at 3pm. Meanwhile, efforts are underway to start flight service from Dehradun to Ahmedabad as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/flight-operations-from-doon-to-hyderabad-via-bengaluru-to-begin-on-july-15/articleshow/76880947.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 10, 2020||Bareilly||UP panel gives hope to 7k Sikh farmer families fighting for land rights they are tilling for 70 years||Bareilly: Nearly 7,000 Sikh families have now pinned their hopes on a committee formed by the UP government to look into their claims on farm lands they have been tilling for the last 70 years. Most of these Sikh families settled in Bijnor, Rampur, Lakhimpur Kheri and Pilibhit soon after the Partition and took up farming.According to locals, when the Sikh settlers came to the terai region, most of the tribes had not taken up farming in an organized manner. The settlers purchased the lands from tribals in some areas, while in some parts they got it from local rulers. “The area was inhospitable. But, due to their knowledge of advanced farming techniques and sheer hard work, the Sikh farmers transformed the region into a lush farming landscape,” a local said.But, a few decades later, tribals in some parts erupted in protests. They wanted their lands back. In the 1980s, the UP government put a ban on the sale of lands by tribals to non-tribals. The state also ordered that holdings of the settlers who had bought land from the tribals will not be regularized. And in some parts, it was also alleged that these farmers had occupied forest lands and turned them into farm fields. The forest department has long been alleging that nearly 9,100-hectare of reserve forest land was encroached by these farmers, including some parts of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR). But the farmers say that the areas were declared forest zones later.Since then, the Sikh farmers were fighting to get the land rights. Several cases are also pending in the court.Among them are 166 Sikh families shifted from a dam built in Pilibhit. Jasbir Singh Virk, SAD’s farmer wing leader of UP, told TOI, “Nearly 166 Sikh farmer families were shifted from Nanak Sagar Dam to Tatarganj in Pilibhit in 1962 when the dam was constructed and they were allotted 2,967 acres of barren forest land by the government at that time. They were not issued any letter then. Farmers worked day and night, survived floods in Sharda River, wild animals and made the land suitable for farming. Now the forest, revenue and Gram Samaj are saying that farmers have to vacate it. We had a meeting with UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and he has given us assurance that he will definitely resolve this issue.”He added, “At present, nearly 30% of Sikh families in the terai region, which is close to 7,000 families, are affected and many of them have approached court.”District magistrate (DM) of Lakhimpur Kheri, Shailendra Singh, told TOI, “The committee is formed to provide a report on the status of the land-related issues of these people living around the forest areas after Independence. These people belong to Sikh, Tharu and other communities. In each district, the committee is led by divisional commissioner along with the district magistrate, additional district magistrate, divisional forest officer, irrigation official and district cane officer. The land records will be sought from the revenue and forest department and the orders of the high court and Supreme Court would also be taken into account.”While divisional forest officer (DFO) of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (buffer) Anil Patel told TOI, “There are nearly 4,000 farmers who have encroached reserve forest land in Lakhimpur Kheri. We had served notices on nearly 200 big farmers and started legal proceedings against them. Now, after the formation of the committee, we will wait for the state government’s order before taking any further action.”Harjeet Singh, 67, an affected farmer, told TOI, “We are happy that the government has acknowledged our problems. But they have not said anything about withdrawing all the FIRs registered against our farmer brothers. Many of them had to leave the village or were sent to jail after they refused to vacate the land on which they worked for years to make it fertile.”On June 18, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal tweeted that UP CM Adityanath has assured her that no injustice will be done to the Sikh farmer families facing eviction from their lands in Bijnor, Rampur and Lakhimpur Kheri in the state. Harsimrat had raised the issue of the alleged forceful eviction of the Sikh farmers. “Spoke to UP CM about the forceful eviction of thousands of Sikh farmer families from their land in Bijnor, Rampur, Lakhimpur Kheri and Nanakmatta. Yogi ji has assured no injustice will be done to them,” Harsimrat tweeted.A three-member SAD delegation also met the UP CM and told him about the concerns of the farmers. Two days earlier, on June 16, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said that he will raise the matter before the UP CM. Singh later wrote letters to CM Adityanath and Union Home Minister Amit Shah raising the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-panel-gives-hope-to-7k-sikh-farmer-families-fighting-for-land-rights-they-are-tilling-for-70-years/articleshow/76877487.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 10, 2020||Lucknow||Ghost who walks: Dad of don’s bodyguard emerges after ‘death’||KANPUR: More horror stories bordering on the macabre are tumbling out from the rugged hamlet of Bikru, the fiefdom of gangster Vikas Dubey. The father of the don’s bodyguard, who was shot by UP Police in Hamirpur on Wednesday, suddenly emerged from his hideout, seven years after he was “declared dead in a road accident”. Sanjiv Dubey alias Sanju, father of gangster’s nephew Amar Dubey, walked out of his den with police in tow, just hours after news trickled into the village that Amar was shot by police. The bizarre incident unfolded after cops acted on a tip-off and smoked him out his seven-year hideout in Bikru village. Sanjiv had 12 cases, including attempt to murder, extortion and loot against him at Chaubeypur police station. “He went underground after the accident and asked family members to spread misinformation about his death to shut criminal cases against him,” said a police officer. On Thursday, when police reached Bikru village to inform family members about Amar’s death in an encounter, they received information that his father Sanjiv was still alive. The informer led the cops to Sanjiv’s hideout, where he lived in anonymity for nearly a decade. “Sanjiv was arrested when he came out of hiding after learning about his son’s death. During questioning, he told investigators he had survived the accident in which he lost a leg,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ghost-who-walks-dad-of-dons-bodyguard-emerges-after-death/articleshow/76883453.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Janata Vasahat now has 300 cases, added 50 within a week||PUNE: The Janata Vasahat slum, one of the largest in the city (population-wise), now has 300 Covid-19 cases. The most recent 50 cases were reported within a week. Authorities said extensive containment measures have now been deployed to stop the coronavirus from spreading further in the slum, which recorded its first cases in May. There have been 11 deaths so far in the slum — the highest number of casualties among Covid hotspots within the Sinhagad Road ward. Officials said patients with mild fever, cold and cough are also being monitored closely with from local doctors. The PMC has also deployed more staff to carry out door-to-door health surveys. The entire area was free of infection until the middle of May. But since then, there has been a steady rise in the number of cases. Data provided by the PMC shows the pocket registered patient number 100 on June 11. Another 200 cases were added to this tally within less than a month. Janata Vasahat has an estimated population of 60,000 residents. Fortunately, only about 2,500 residents (from 670 households) are currently within the micro-containment zone. Authorities said health workers will now visit every home in the area to gauge the condition of residents. An official said, “These staffers will collect data on the medical condition of at-risk individuals, including the elderly and those with co-morbidities. Teams of doctors and sanitation inspectors are also currently involved in contact tracing and isolation of people with symptoms similar to Covid-19.” The police have sealed entry and exit points from the slum and curbs have been enforced to stop people in the affected area from stepping out of their homes. Local corporator Shankar Pawar said the administration has received reports of residents breaking social distancing norms. “It’s difficult to enforce social distancing in densely populated areas like Janata Vasahat. But we continue to urge residents to avoid crowding. We don’t have more than 160 active cases and we’re hopeful of numbers reducing further.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/janata-vasahat-now-has-300-cases-added-50-within-a-week/articleshow/76882907.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 10, 2020||Jaipur||Hotels offer laundry service to stay linked with loyal clients||Jaipur: With tourism at a standstill, the hotel industry is Rajasthan is diversifying service offerings to activities that were unheard of. Following some national trends, the hospitality industry in the state is now going out of their way to offer laundry services matching rates offered by shops in local markets. Similarly, home delivery of food is opened to the specialty restaurants as well. Most of the hotels said these were not money-making exercises and they do it to remain connected with their loyal client base and for brand recall. For example, Holiday Inn is offering laundry services at prices which are comparable to any shop in the market. “We get some orders but it is not a business proposition. Rather, the idea is to remain in touch with our customers,” said Pankaj Gupta, general manager of the hotel. ITC has rolled out the laundry services in many cities. In Jaipur, they are also planning to offer it soon. “We have the infrastructure and expertise. Additionally, it also takes us closer to our loyal customers. We have everything in place to start the service now,” said Rishi Mattu, general manager of ITC Rajputana. Recently, the state government allowed restaurants in hotels to reopen. Night curfew time has also been pushed back to 10pm from 9pm. Some hotels have opened their restaurants and are receiving a few footfalls. But the home delivery of food service they had started about a month-and-a-half ago is only increasing. Mattu said, “Now, we are now offering home delivery from our specialty restaurants under the Gourmet Couch programme. Many of our regular customers want the specialty restaurant food served at their homes. We will serve them wherever they want, be it in restaurants or at home.” To deliver through Zomato and Swiggy is a new experience for star hotels that take pride in their ambience, service quality and famed dining outlets. But the pandemic has left them with no options. Vishal Gupta, general manager of Hilton Jaipur said, “We have reopened one of our prime restaurants but we have not stopped home delivery. The pandemic has hit many standalone restaurants. Although we don’t make much money from home delivery, it is a strategy to emerge stronger with a bigger brand visibility.”However, many hoteliers said people are now beginning to visit hotels. “Though the footfalls can be counted on fingers, we expect the wheels to start rolling from now onwards,” said another hotelier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hotels-offer-laundry-service-to-stay-linked-with-loyal-clients/articleshow/76882909.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC discusses illegal drainage connections||Ahmedabad: AMC standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt admitted that several industries in the eastern part of the city have illegally connected their drainage lines to the main drainage network of the AMC. After the standing committee meeting on Thursday, Bhatt said that illegal connections lead to overflowing of drains in Behrampura and several areas in the eastern parts of the city. Bhatt has asked the engineering department to immediately resolve the issue. He said the administration is working to ensure that no industrial waste is dumped in Kharicut canal. A senior officer said that the industries have illegally been taking connections to the drainage network for several years. “Even specials drives failed to deter them as they have the backing of councillors,” alleged the official. He said almost all societies near Kharicut canal release drainage water in the canal in the absence of a proper drainage connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-discusses-illegal-drainage-connections/articleshow/76882272.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ranchi||Covid +ve criminal escapes from Hazaribag hospital twice in three days||Hazaribag: A 26-year-old criminal, who tested positive for Covid-19 four days back and was undergoing treatment at the Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH), escaped once again, this time through the toilet’s ventilator, sending police into a tizzy on Thursday. He had earlier escaped on July 6, but was held after a raid. Hazaribag SP Karthik S said a special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to trace the culprit. “The criminal gave police a slip early in the morning when he had gone to the toilet. He was lodged at the prisoner’s cell in the hospital. When he didn’t come out for a long time, the guards broke open the door and found that he had escaped through the ventilator.” Karthik added, “We are also probing if there was any security lapse and will take action against those accountable for it.” The criminal is a habitual offender and mostly engaged in petty crimes, sources said. HMCH superintendent Dr Sanjay Kumar Singh said doctors have nothing to do with the escape as it was the duty of the police to ensure his custodial security. He added, "This is the second time he has escaped. He had run away on July 6 and was later nabbed after a raid was conducted." After he was arrested and tested positive for the virus, two police stations at Sadar and Korah had to be sealed and 79 personnel were kept under home quarantine. On Thursday, Katkumdag police station was also sealed after an arrested criminal brought to the police station tested positive. The district administration has also enforced Section 144 because of the spurt in Covid-19 cases in the district. Till Wednesday, the district recorded 227 cases of the virus of which 55 are still active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-ve-criminal-escapes-from-hazaribag-hospital-twice-in-three-days/articleshow/76882330.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||Sister, 20, on the run after killing 10-yr-old boy||Amravati: A 10-year-old boy was beaten to death with an iron pestle by his 20-year-old sister in Vyankatesh Colony here on Thursday. The sister fled home after the incident this afternoon. Police are looking for her. Police identified the deceased as Swaraj Gajanan Tupatkar. His father is an employee at a school in Badnera. The parents had been to a bank when the incident took place at home, police said. Police believe an altercation took place between siblings when they were at home alone over some matter. In a fit of rage, sister Nikita allegedly crushed Swaraj's head with the iron pestle. The boy died on the spot due to excessive bleeding. Leaving the brother in a pool of blood, Nikita fled from home, closing the door behind her. Suspecting something, neighbours called Kholapuri Gate police who came and opened the door to find the dead body of Swaraj lying in a pool of blood in the drawing room. Swaraj was a Std V student while Nikita is in first year of her graduation at a college near her home. It is learnt she had fled from home some 20 days ago but returned. Police said she was in love with a youth which was a cause of friction at home. Kholapuri Gate police have registered an offence of murder and have launched a search for Nikita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sister-20-on-the-run-after-killing-10-yr-old-boy/articleshow/76882226.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ranchi||Ex-MLA among 147 new cases, one more death takes toll to 23||Ranchi: A former legislator was infected by Covid-19 as the state reported 147 fresh cases from 17 districts on Thursday. One person also succumbed to the viral infection at a private hospital here, taking the toll in the state to 23. With Thursday’s fresh cases, the number of active cases in Jharkhand has crossed the 1,000-mark and stands at 1,106. In Palamu, a former MLA tested positive in less than 48 hours after cabinet minister Mithilesh Thakur and legislator Mathura Mahto were infected by the virus. The former MLA, who tested positive, had joined Ajsu-P days ahead of the assembly election that was announced last year. He was at his Ranchi house when his test results came in. According to health department officials, the former MLA was being shifted to the Rims Covid-19 ward at the time of filing this report. “We have got the information that one of our leaders have tested positive for Covid-19. We wish for his speedy recovery,” Ajsu-P’s chief spokesperson Devsharan Bhagat said. The latest coronavirus casualty was a 63-year-old man from Deoghar who died during treatment at Medanta Hospital here. A senior official of the hospital said, “The 63-year-old was admitted to our hospital on July 5 after he suffered a respiratory problem and was put on the ventilator since the time of his admission. He tested positive for Covid-19 on July 7. The patient also had other co-morbidities like hypertension, diabetes and pneumonia.” The cumulative Covid-19 cases in the state have now risen to 3,339; of which 2,210 have recovered and 23 people have succumbed to the viral infection. Bokaro, which has detected only seven cases in the last six days, saw a steep jump with 26 persons testing positive. Ranchi reported 22 fresh cases while Koderma, Chatra, Latehar and Hazaribag were the other four districts which saw a double-digit increase in the number of new cases. Koderma detected 16 cases, Chatra 14, Latehar 11 and Hazaribag reported 10 cases. Palamu reported seven cases while Giridih, Ramgarh and Lohardaga detected six cases each. Deoghar had five fresh infections while Dhanbad and Sahenganj reported four cases each. Godda and Gumla reported two each and Jamtara reported one case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ex-mla-among-147-new-cases-one-more-death-takes-toll-to-23/articleshow/76882277.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 10, 2020||Ranchi||Weeks since court rap, RMC yet to clean up Bada Talaab||Ranchi: Despite Jharkhand high court’s rebuke three weeks ago, Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) has been slacking in removing water hyacinth from Vivekananda Sarovar, commonly known as Bada Talaab. With just 10 cleanliness staff and 20% work finished till date, RMC said it will take at least six months to remove all the water hyacinth. RMC city manager (cleanliness and sanitation) Rupesh Ranjan said, “Till now, we have removed around 1,000 tractor loads of hyacinths from the lake. Ten cleanliness staff are working daily to clean it.” “It will take another six months to clean the pond as the it is spread over an area of 52 acre and we are cleaning it with the help of manual labour,” he added. In January 2019, former chief minister Raghubar Das had inaugurated a 33-feet tall Swami Vivekananda statue in the middle of the lake for public as a part of the former government’s Bada Talaab beautification project. The project was to be complete by March this year. The civic body had also proposed that cleaning the pond will be their priority under the beautification project and the work will be done using ‘phytorid technology’. However that too was shelved a year ago. Ranjan said, “We do not have a full proof technology to clean the pond as hyacinths cover it every year before monsoon and the only effective way is by deploying manual labour who are skilled for this work. We have around a dozen of our cleanliness staff who are expert in this and it is with their help that we have been able to clean around 20% of the pond.” On being asked about the inquiry made by the high court, an official at the legal section of RMC said, “The court has asked us to submit our beautification plan and has given us four-week’s time. “We will be submitting our reply before June 17 to the court as RMC failed to get any contractor to clean the pond even after floating tenders five times in the last one and a half years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/weeks-since-court-rap-rmc-yet-to-clean-up-bada-talaab/articleshow/76882309.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ranchi||JMM MLA Sita fires fresh salvo at Dumka DC over illegal stone mining in dist||Dumka: JMM’s Jama MLA and chief minister Hemant Soren’s sister-in-law Sita Soren once against upped her ante against Dumka deputy commissioner Rajeshwari B for her alleged role in patronising illegal stone miners of the district. The move came after the public relations department issued a statement denying the charges after Sita’s first tweet against the DC a few days back. On Tuesday, Sita had also demanded Rajeshwari’s dismissal along with district transport officer (DTO) Vinay Manish Lakda and Shikaripara circle officer (CO) Amrita Kumari after 42 trucks loaded with stone chips escaped from police custody on July 4. Sita had said, “The DTO and the CO had handed over the seized trucks to the police without the seizure list and the keys of the vehicles which enabled them to escape easily.” Sita’s tweet considerably embarrassed the Hemant Soren government after BJP leaded Babulal Marandi criticised Hemant and alleged his role in the illegal stone mining. “How much power does a DC have that without the chief minister’s nod she would let illegal mining take place in her area?” Babulal had said on Wednesday. On Thursday, Sita tweeted, “The district administration is sleeping despite hills been grounded by stone mafia at the cost of the environment.” Meanwhile, the statement issued by the public relations department on Wednesday said, “Rs 2.48 crore was collected as revenue against subsequent drives against illegal mining and transportation. Numerous FIRs were lodged against truck owners since 2018 as well.” However, the amount recovered is meagre against the scale of loss of revenue to the state exchequer and the damage to the local flora and fauna due to indiscriminate mining taking place in Shikaripara and other blocks of the district, experts say. The initial probe ordered by the district administration revealed that the registration numbers of the seized trucks were originally that of bikes, auto-rickshaw and tractors and registered in Bihar. “A probe is on by the SDO (civil) and the deputy SP and the report is awaited,” Dumka SP Ambar Lakda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-mla-sita-fires-fresh-salvo-at-dumka-dc-over-illegal-stone-mining-in-dist/articleshow/76882163.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||Over 300 schools physically reopen in Gadchiroli, Chanda||NAGPUR: Over 300 schools have physically reopened in Gadchiroli and Chandrapur district following approval from parents and respective district collectors. State’s education department on June 15 had issued detailed guidelines about school reopening which puts the onus on School Management Committee (SMC) to take the final call, if the local competent authority has permitted that activity. Majority of the schools are managed by Zilla Parishad (ZP), while private aided and unaided make up the rest. As of Thursday, another 147 ZP schools in Chandrapur had sought permission to open from August. In Gadchiroli where approximately 260 schools had opened till Thursday, district collector Deepak Singla instructed local education officials to ensure strict compliance of government guidelines. Singla said, “As per government guidelines, in areas where there are neither any Covid-19 cases nor containment zones, schools can open. But this decision has to be taken by SMC which comprises teachers and parents.” He added that more schools may continue to open as SMCs give their approval. On June 30, TOI had reported that school teachers in Gadchiroli were discussing with parents about the physical reopening of schools. At that time in Bhamragarh taluka, ‘offline education’ had started with teachers visiting homes of their students since there was not even a single case of Covid-19. In neighbouring Chandrapur too, 51 schools had opened till Thursday. Dipendra Lokhande, district education officer (primary), said, “We act upon requests sent by SMCs. All other guidelines of the state government and district collector have to be followed and our teachers are ensuring that.” For ZP schools, education plays an important social role as well. In Gadchiroli’s remote Bhamragarh taluka, which is a hotbed of Naxalite activity, education is the child’s only ticket out of a life of poverty and social deprivation. Bhamragarh’s block education officer Ashwini Sonawane said, “If schools were to remain physically closed for another three to four months, then majority of the children would have dropped out. Unlike urban areas, the natural environment is not conducive for education. Hence, our department and teachers’ role is to also motivate parents and keep the children engaged so that their interest in education never wanes.” The physical school reopening plan got a morale booster on Wednesday with school education minister Varsha Gaikwad interacting with Gadchiroli teachers via video conference. A teacher who was selected for the interaction told TOI, “It felt nice that our efforts were appreciated directly by the minister. The conditions we work in and the terrain that some of our schools are located in makes our job tough but the satisfaction of providing education to a tribal child makes it worthwhile.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-300-schools-physically-reopen-in-gchiroli-chanda/articleshow/76882249.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 10, 2020||Delhi||Rapid antigen tests soon at dispensaries, polyclinics in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A day after it asked the districts to carry out focused testing in corona-prone areas outside the containment zones and hotspots, Delhi government on Thursday decided to open its dispensaries and polyclinics for eligible individuals to walk in for rapid antigen testing.  An order issued by the directorate general of health services said, the dispensaries and clinics will remain open between 9am and 12 noon on all working days.  The DGHS has also assigned responsibilities to different districts to carry out focused testing of high-risk and special surveillance groups in different areas.  While the Central district will run a campaign of testing rickshaw/auto, taxi and goods carrier drivers, the Southeast district will have to set up a camp in and around Kotla Mubarakpur to ensure daily labourers, workers and masons are tested. The East and North districts have been given the responsibility to tests traders, vendors and labourers at Ghazipur and Azadpur auction yard.  With nearly 2,500 Covid-19 cases reporting every day, the DGHS said there must be 7-8 direct and high-risk contacts of each individual and the districts must carry out aggressive contact tracing and testing to meet the daily target of 20,000 testing. On Thursday, 12,570 rapid antigen detection tests and 9,719 RT-PCR tests were done. Watch Covid-19: Rapid antigen tests soon at dispensaries, polyclinics in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rapid-antigen-tests-soon-at-dispensaries-polyclinics-in-delhi/articleshow/76884106.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Business||State begins talks with Deocha people: CM||Birbhum: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that the state chief secretary and other government officials had a discussion with the local people and various stakeholders of Deocha Pachami coal block at Deocha in Birbhum on Thursday. In a tweet, the CM wrote: “Chief Secretary Shri Rajiva Sinha ji, other senior state & district officials have held detailed consultation with the people of Md. Bazar Block at Deocha. The entire coal mining project was explained at length & all queries by the relevant stakeholders were addressed.” In September last year, the Centre had cleared the decks for the handing over of the coal block having a reserve of 2.2 billion tonne, the second largest in the world. “We will create a model for India to execute large projects like Deocha Pachami Coal Block. This shall be done in phases & with full public support by adopting best mining practices in a time bound manner. Wheels of development in Bengal won’t stop even in times of crises,” Banerjee in another tweet. Earlier on the day at Deocha, the state chief secretary told the mediapersons that the government officials have come here to talk to the people directly. “The people here should have a clear conception about this project. We have answered their questions. We have clearly mentioned before them that it is a government project, not a private mining project. The target of the government is to utilise the asset lying under the ground and do welfare to the common people.” He informed all the stakeholders of the project that initially, PDCL will use the coal excavated from this mine and the government will implement the entire 3500-acre project phase by phase. “In the first phase, around 400 to 600 acres of the total project area will be readied for excavation. Rehabilitation of the affected people will also be done phase wise.” According to the state government estimates, investments worth Rs 12,000 to Rs 15,000 crore would be required in developing the block that has a potential of creating at least one lakh direct jobs. When asked about the beginning of the project, Sinha said, “We are pondering over exploration now and the exact mining may take some more time if not around one and half year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/state-begins-talks-with-deocha-people-cm/articleshow/76882333.cms||Someswar Boral
July 10, 2020||Delhi||2,187 fresh cases, 45 fatalities in Delhi in 24 hours||NEW DELHI: Delhi reported 2,187 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday taking the tally to 1,07,051. Delhi government's health bulletin revealed 45 fresh fatalities in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 3,258. The active cases stood at 21,567, the lowest in the past 28 days (since June 12). As many as 4,027 people have recovered, the highest in the past 19 days (since June 21), the government said. Pushing the recovery rate to 76%, 82,226 people so far have recovered in the capital, it added. The national recovery rate stands at 62%.  Meanwhile, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital aimed at increasing the number of ICU beds to 500 over the next two weeks, said Vinay Bhushan, nodal officer, GTB Hospital. It currently has 1,500 beds, of these, around 75 were ICU beds. The hospital has also arranged 45 tablets with which patients could make video calls to their families. A tender has also been floated to install television units in each ward. Earlier this week, CM Arvind Kejriwal had said that Delhi government ramped up the installation of ICU beds in Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital from 45 to 200, and in Lok Nayak Hospital it went up to 180 from earlier 60. "Currently, the demand for beds is low due to reduction in the number of infection. However, we have to remain prepared to face any eventuality," said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2187-fresh-cases-45-fatalities-in-delhi-in-24-hours/articleshow/76884111.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Goa||Draft rules notified to reserve 30% of housing board projects for locals||Panaji: In a move to ensure that locals get access to housing, 30% of residential flats built by Goa Housing Board (GHB) will be reserved for locals of the area where all future residential projects will be constructed. The move is part of the draft Goa Housing Board (Registration, Allotment and Sale of Tenements) Rules, 2020, which were released for public suggestions on Thursday. The draft rules also pave the way for companies and institutions to acquire units in housing board projects. “Notice is hereby given that the said draft rules shall be taken into consideration by the government after expiry of the period of fifteen days from the date of publication of this notification in the official gazette,” additional secretary for housing, Michael D’Souza said. Once the draft rules are implemented, GHB will do away with the lot-based system and will introduce e-auction of flats. The draft rules define a local as a person born in Goa and residing in the jurisdiction of the panchayat or municipality for at least 25 years where the housing project is proposed. The person also qualifies if the parents have been residing in the area for 25 years as on the date of applying for a residential unit. The reservation comes in light of complaints that non-resident Goans are able to easily purchase units in GHB residential projects while locals struggle for affordable accommodation. The allotment of residential units to locals will be through e-auction, and if after two rounds of e-auction some units remain unsold, then they can be sold to any person who has been residing in Goa for 25 years. Going a step further, the draft rules have increased reservation of homes for persons with disabilities from 1% to 5%. The draft rules also gives more time to successful allottees to pay the full amount, with the time period being increased to 60 days from the present 45 days. The managing director of GHB can also give a further 50 day extension by charging 2% penalty on the amount due. The draft rules also propose to reduce the amount that a person will have to forfeit for not providing all the required documents to 5% of the initial deposit.Presently, applicants stand to lose 15% of the initial deposit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/draft-rules-notified-to-reserve-30-of-housing-board-projects-for-locals/articleshow/77008840.cms||Newton Sequeira
July 10, 2020||Business||Promoters’ pie in Emami rises post-buyback||Kolkata: Emami on Thursday said post-closure of its share buyback, the stake of the promoter group rose to 53.9% in the company from 52.7% earlier. The FMCG major has bought back a total of 94,21,498 equity shares, and the total amount invested was Rs 191.9 crore (excluding transaction costs), which represents 99.9% of the maximum buyback size. “The price at which the equity shares were bought back was dependent on the price quoted on BSE and National Stock Exchange of India," the company said in a stock exchange filing. The equity shares were bought back at an average price of Rs 203.78 per equity share.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/promoters-pie-in-emami-rises-post-buyback/articleshow/76882341.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Nagpur||Kadao in crime branch custody till July 17||Nagpur: Political leader Mangesh Kadao, booked in five cases of cheating and extortion, has been remanded in the custody of crime branch till July 17. He was produced before the court on Thursday. He was arrested a day ago by the anti-extortion cell of the crime branch. It’s learnt that Kadao was arrested in the latest case where he, along with his wife Ruchita, had duped the Admane family by offering them to sell a property on Manewada Road but later mortgaged the same premises with a bank for Rs50,000. Ruchita too was arrested. The crime branch had sought a 10-day custody of Kadao but defence counsel Prakash Jaiswal argued for granting custody till July 14. The court granted custody till July 17 for recovery of documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kadao-in-crime-branch-custody-till-july-17/articleshow/76882380.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold prices touch peak of Rs 50,900, fall again||Ahmedabad: Continuing its rally, gold prices touched a peak of Rs 50,900 per 10 gram on Thursday during the day and as markets closed, settled at Rs 50,750 per 10 gram. Gold prices touched an all-time high just a day before on Wednesday itself, to settle at Rs 50,750 per 10 gram. Analysts suggest that international price of gold went up because of which, the domestic gold prices also shot up. “Gold prices are on an upward trend, owing to the looming uncertainty globally in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. With a fresh spike in coronavirus cases being reported in the US as well as other countries, concerns over the adverse impact on the economy have led to an increase in international price of gold,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA). “Central banks of various countries are heavily investing in gold over concerns of a global recession. Moreover, with stock markets across the world are extremely volatile and therefore, high networth individuals and big investors are heavily investing in gold, as a safe-haven investment as a result of which, yellow metal prices showed a rise,” he added. Analysts also indicate that gold prices are further expected to rise over the uncertainty about global economy. Jewellers however fear that the high prices will prove to be deterrents in attracting consumers into jewellery purchases. “There is barely any business because gold price is inching towards Rs 51,000 per 10 gram mark and it is a huge deterrent for jewellery purchases,” said Jigar Soni, vice-president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA). “Only those people who have an occasion coming up in their family purchase gold jewellery and that too in exchange of old gold. People are facing a major liquidity crunch and therefore, with weakened spending capacity, the overall business took a hit,” said another jeweller, on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-prices-touch-peak-of-rs-50900-fall-again/articleshow/76882528.cms||---
July 10, 2020||Goa||Morjim and Pernem chosen as model village panchayats for implementation of green norms||Panaji: The state government has notified Morjim in Pernem and Nuvem in Salcete as model village panchayats where all environment norms, including solid waste management guidelines will be implemented. Complying with the National Green Tribunal order of April 10, 2019, and as decided by the state-level committee last week, the government has notified two new model villages panchayats in lieu of Aldona and Uguem, which were earlier notified, panchayat director Narayan Gad said. “Morjim and Nuvem village panchayats shall take all necessary steps to ensure complete compliance of all the provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, and extended directions of the NGT issued in this regard,” Gad said. In its April 10, 2019, order, NGT had directed that at least three major towns and villages in both districts be notified on the government website within two weeks as model towns and villages. The NGT had given the state government six weeks to comply with the rules. The NGT bench had indicted the state government for failing to meet commitments on solid waste management, treatment of biomedical waste and plastic waste management processes. The bench also asked the Pramod Sawant-led government to evaluate the damage caused by the failure to adhere to green norms and the cost required for restoration of areas affected. While the model towns and villages have six months to be fully compliant with notified environment norms, it is the responsibility of the government to extend the implementation to other towns and villages within a year. Earlier villages including Old Goa, Aldona and Oxel in North Goa, and Navelim, Chicalim and Uguem in South Goa were declared as model villages. The towns selected were Panaji, Cuncolim and Valpoi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/morjim-and-pernem-chosen-as-model-village-panchayats-for-implementation-of-green-norms/articleshow/76883122.cms||---
