July 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Pandemic drowns out din from bustling Russell Market||Even though Bengaluru, like the rest of the country, has cautiously stepped into Unlock 2.0, one of the city’s oldest and bustling market areas, Russell Market, is yet to gather steam. As the fear of contracting the disease still looms large among people, the often-crowded commercial neighbourhoods in the city are now avoided. This, however, cuts a sorry figure, as street vendors and small shopkeepers eagerly wait for customers to keep their businesses afloat. With hardly any customers visiting this iconic market area in the city, most shopkeepers seem to be waiting all day for some activity to pick up. Quite a double-edged sword, this pandemic is! The Bangalore Times lens catches the gloomy mood in frames…||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pandemic-drowns-out-din-from-bustling-russell-market/articleshow/76900175.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Drive-in cinema offers respite in the time of COVID-19||Watching a movie together at a theatre with family or friends may not be possible in the near future. Considering this, event organisers in Bengaluru have come up with a new way to keep city folk entertained — movie-watching experience in namma ooru just got a notch better with drive-in cinema. Bangalore Times finds out more… ‘MOVIE LOVERS ARE DRIVING TO THE VENUE, BUT WITH CAUTION’“Drive-in theatre is a popular mode of entertainment abroad, which is now in our city. We had our first event in the city earlier this month,” says event organiser Safdhar Adoor. So, what happens in a drive-in theatre? “It allows people to watch a movie while sitting in their cars. We ensure contactless food delivery, restrooms are regularly disinfected, and other precautionary measures are taken. The number of people in each car is limited to two or three, and not more than 50 people are allowed to be at the venue at one time,” he adds. PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES IN PLACE AT DRIVE-IN CINEMA EVENTS● Temperature checks and hand sanitisation ● Restrooms are regularly disinfected ● To ensure social distancing norms, even cars are parked six feet away from each other ● Audiences can either use contactless food service or carry along their own food ● Not more than three people allowed in a car ‘DURING A PANDEMIC, THIS IS THE MOST WE CAN DO FOR A SCREENING OUTSIDE’“We recently went for a drive-in cinema, and the experience was good. The best part about this is that even the cars are parked away from each other, meaning social distancing is maintained within the vehicles as well,” says Shivani. “At a time like this, drive-in theatre is definitely a welcome move. Since Covid-19 doesn’t seem to be disappearing any time soon, watching a film from the comfort of your car definitely seems to be a safer option and we don’t mind if it’s an old film. We would love to have a nice evening out, nevertheless,” says Sherry, who was also present at one of the recently held events. ‘IT’S AN INTERIM SOLUTION, BUT IT GIVES HOPE OF SUSTENANCE FOR THE INDUSTRY’Given the current situation, drive-in cinema seems to be a feasible option, but organisers say it’s only an interim solution. “Nothing can replace the experience of watching a film at a theatre. This is just a temporary solution, which, at this point, is one of the few modes of entertainment available,” says entertainment entrepreneur Viren Khanna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/drive-in-cinema-offers-respite-in-the-time-of-covid-19/articleshow/76898891.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
July 11, 2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine unlikely before 2021, House panel told||NEW DELHI: A global or Indian vaccine for coronavirus will only be ready by 2021, a parliamentary standing committee on science, technology, environment and forests was told on Friday at its first in-person meeting since the countrywide lockdown was announced in March. The assertion by officials came on the heels of a controversy over an ICMR letter last week that spoke of an August 15 deadline for launch of a vaccine for public health use. The premier agency, however, later clarified that the letter was only meant to “cut unnecessary red tape” and “speed up recruitment of participants”, and not to “bypass any necessary process”. Though no direct reference was made to the ICMR letter at Friday’s parliamentary panel meeting, principal scientific advisor to the government, K Vijay Raghavan and senior officials of the department of biotechnology (DBT), department of science and technology (DST) and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) briefed the committee and assured that India will “either lead in finding a Covid-19 vaccine or in manufacturing it”, since almost 60% of the world’s vaccines are developed in India. The submissions were part of wider discussions on the role of science and technology in dealing with coronavirus, and the lessons it served for India. Discussions are also understood to have dwelt on manufacturing low cost medical equipment and developing vaccines and drugs that are not dependent on import of intermediaries from China. With travel restrictions in place, only seven of 30 MPs on the standing committee were able to attend the meeting. Though Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu expressed satisfaction over resumption of regular meetings of department-related standing committees, senior lawmaker and chairman of the panel on science and technology, environment and forests, Jairam Ramesh, insisted that virtual meetings should be permitted to allow better participation. “I am glad that department-related parliamentary standing committees have resumed functioning, three-and-a-half months since the last sitting of Parliament on March 23,” Naidu said on Twitter. Responding on Twitter, Ramesh said, “Our parliamentary standing committee is having a most informative and useful meeting with DBT, DST, CSIR and principal scientific advisor on the issue of science and Technology and Covid-19. Too bad we are not allowed to have virtual meetings so that more MPs could have participated.” He urged Naidu to allow virtual meetings of parliamentary panels “given that the House is unlikely to meet for the next month at least”. Kerala MP Binoy Vishwam, who could not attend the meeting on account of the lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram, told TOI, “While the government talks of Digital India, Parliament is unable to adapt to virtual meetings, now the new normal. At this time, MPs need to be in their constituencies and meetings can as easily be held through the virtual route.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-vaccine-unlikely-before-2021-house-panel-told/articleshow/76901348.cms||Swati Mathur
July 11, 2020||India||Aadhaar must for buying two Covid drugs||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra Food and Drug Administration issued a circular on Friday that made it mandatory for the kin of patients to produce Aadhaar card details, doctors’ prescription, consent form, a Covid positive report and contact details for the purchase of the anti-viral drug remdesivir and anti-inflammatory medicine tocilizumab. The regulatory authority is investigating if hospitals are hoarding the drugs after procuring these directly from the manufacturers. FDA minister Rajendra Shingne said the decision was taken in the wake of complaints of a shortage and concerns about the experimental drugs being sold in black. “We have received information that people who do not need the drug are trying to purchase it and then selling it at an inflated rate,” the minister said. “These documents will now have to be produced by people buying it from druggists. This will help us track the sale and use of these drugs.” Some doctors said it was unfair to demand so many documents from harrowed relatives. The minister made surprise checks at Masina Hospital in Byculla and a store of a wholesale druggist, SK Distributor, in Ghatkopar. FDA officials who accompanied the minister said they did not find any discrepancy in the purchase and sale records at these places. Videos of hundreds of people thronging the Ghatkopar store had gone viral on Thursday evening. “Since these drugs may have shown encouraging results on critical Covid-19 patients, their demand has gone up in the last few weeks,” Shingane said. “We have asked the licensed companies to expedite production.” An FDA official said that over 2,100 vials of the remdesivir drug from Cipla arrived in the city late on Thursday, of which 1,600 doses went to private hospitals and the rest to BMC hospitals. The BMC had received 6,000 vials of remdesivir last week from Hetero.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aadhaar-must-for-buying-two-covid-drugs/articleshow/76901503.cms||Bhavika Jain
July 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Back to business: Markets and malls see increased footfall in Gurgaon post unlocking||Since Unlock 1.0 rolled out last month, markets and malls in Gurgaon have been reopening in phases. Three months of lockdown meant that the residents of the Millennium City started visiting the markets from day one itself, with most of them citing some intense FOMO. In June, popular markets like CyberHub, Sector 29 and Galleria reopened to residents and while they did not have people making a beeline, there was some footfall right from the get go. Since then, the numbers have only increased. The Galleria Market had some essential supply shops open throughout the lockdown. So the market was the first to see some footfall as a few other joints opened up. Deepali, a Sector 53 resident, tells us, "There were some people on day one itself. I have been to the market a few times to buy essentials and food since then and each time I see more shops open and more people there. It's encouraging." A few fast food joints have opened in the popular Sector 29 market as well even as restaurants await further normalcy. Shatakshi, a South City-2 resident who went for lunch at an Indian fast food joint in the market, tells us, "It had been almost three months since I ate out and so I had to go. I know the threat of the virus still exists but it will remain for some time. We can't stop our lives for it. So if we take necessary precautions and maintain social distancing, we should be ok." The footfall in these markets – while much lower than the pre-COVID days – has already doubled since they opened last month. Most major markets and malls have thermal screening in placeShoppers say that they are getting used to the new normal and if they take precautions and follow safety measures, they feel safe. Paarkhi Mehrotra, a Sector 33 resident, says, "I went out with my husband to the Galleria Market for a cup of coffee last week. We were out for a few hours but it did not feel unsafe. All the shops and joints are taking necessary precautions and since there are fewer people in the markets, social distancing isn't an issue." Akash Singhal, who made a similar trip to a cafe in CyberHub, adds, "Most of these stores have good standards of hygiene so I am not worried. It’s the crowd that would deter me and I think there will be low crowds for some time. All you need to do is wear a mask and stay safe." Shoppers are exercising caution as they visit shops and mallsThe malls in the city reopened last week as well as Unlock 2.0 began. Similar to the markets, the footfall was low for the first few days but picked up on the weekends as several shoppers said they had been waiting for this for weeks now. Sector 34 resident Amit Sinha, who went to a mall on Golf Course Road with his wife, tells us, "I just wanted to go and shop for a few things and figured there is no point waiting or seeing how things go. If this is the new normal, we might as well get used to it." Wearing of masks is a mustWith the malls and the stores inside adopting extensive safety measures, shoppers have been re-assured to some extent. As per the state government’s guidelines, the city malls have adopted a standard operating procedure (SOP) which mandates social distancing, apart from compulsory use of masks and the Aarogya Setu app. Additionally, children below the age of 10 and senior citizens above 65 are not allowed inside the malls for now. There are contactless screening areas at the entrance, isolation rooms for sick shoppers and measures to sanitise products tried by customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/back-to-business-markets-and-malls-see-increased-footfall-in-gurgaon-post-unlocking/articleshow/76894466.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
July 11, 2020||Delhi||A month after reopening, average daily footfall in malls reaches 10,000-12,000||While the footfall is still a lot lower than it was in the pre-COVID era, malls are hopeful and say that footfall has been gradually increasingOn June 8, malls in Delhi, Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad reopened after the nationwide lockdown. While they had few customers initially, malls say the average footfall has reached around 10,000-12,000 shoppers a month later, and on weekends, this number rises. Malls hopeful as shoppers returnBefore the pandemic hit, most malls had 30,000-35,000 visitors on weekdays, and up to 40,000-45,000 visitors on weekends. Currently, the average footfall across NCR malls is 10,000-11,000. Abhishek Bansal, Executive Director, Pacific Group, says, "Around 96% of our Tagore Garden branch is operational. On average, the footfall is around 11,000 on weekdays and on weekends, it is close to 25,000." A spokesperson for Ambience mall, Vasant Kunj and Gurgaon, says, "The average footfall at the Vasant Kunj branch is around 8,000-9,000 per day. The Gurgaon branch reopened on July 1, and the average footfall has been around 10,000-12,000 daily." Nimish Arora, Director and CEO, Select CITYWALK says, "During the past month, we saw a steady increase in footfall. Our efforts have been to create a warm and welcoming environment and maintain stringent safety SOPs in place." Manoj Gaur, Managing Director, Gaurs Group, says, "Mall visits are between 3,000 and 3,500 on weekdays and between 5,000 and 6,000 on weekends. It is encouraging and we expect it to go up gradually." It's raining discounts at mallsAt Pacific mall in Tagore Garden, people queue up outside stores offering huge discounts. At Select CITYWALK, stores are offering between flat 40% and 70% off. Some store owners at these malls say that from next week to August 15 more discounts will be rolled out by brands. Anuradha Karn, who recently visited a mall, says, "When I went to the mall, I was surprised that people were standing in a queue outside stores because only limited persons are allowed in the store. I found it so safe that I can go again." Food courts at malls are following social distancing norms as well, with tables and chairs laid out at a safe distance from each other||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-month-after-reopening-average-daily-footfall-in-malls-reaches-10000-12000/articleshow/76898034.cms||Niharika Lal
July 11, 2020||India||Media crews trailing STF stopped ‘for checks’ 15 mins before Dubey encounter||LUCKNOW: At least 10 news channel crews were following the heavily armed STF convoy carrying Vikas Dubey soon after it entered UP at Aith toll plaza in Jalaun district. However, as the convoy reached Barajod toll plaza near Kanpur at around 6.30am, all other vehicles were stopped. They were told it was for routine checking of papers. Barely 15 minutes later, news spread that Dubey had been shot as a special task force vehicle carrying him had overturned and he had opened fire after snatching the weapon of a constable. Mediapersons on the spot raised the issue and alleged that they had been deliberately stopped as the enounter killing had been planned. UPADG Prashant Kumar trashed the charges. “You (media) should have disclosed your identity that ‘I am from the press’, (sic) we would have allowed (sic). Who knows if men trailing the team were working on behalf of somebody or not? Police never hide anything. We got him from MP after signing the papers. He was not wanted there, but in UP. They didn’t hand him to us and asked us to go and kill him,” he said. IGP (Kanpur range) Mohit Agarwal told TOI: “In that critical phase also we ensured that vehicles with proper documents and credentials were allowed to go.” He also refuted claims that video footage showed Vikas Dubey sitting in a vehicle which was not the one that had overturned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/media-crews-trailing-stf-stopped-for-checks-15-mins-before-dubey-encounter/articleshow/76901935.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
July 11, 2020||India||NIA: Kerala gold smuggling money could be used to fund terror||NEW DELHI/KOCHI: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday said initial investigations into Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case had revealed that proceeds from the gold being smuggled from offshore locations into India could be used for financing terrorism in India. Sources said the consignment detected on Sunday was only the latest one in a series of consignments of gold smuggled as part of an organised racket with national and international linkages, and received by the suspects in India. “As the case pertains to smuggling of large quantities of gold into India from offshore locations threatening India’s economic stability and national security, it amounts to a terrorist act as stated in Section 15 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967,” NIA said in a statement. The agency informed the Kerala high court that various provisions of the anti-terror law, UAPA, had been invoked in the FIR registered on Friday. A counsel representing NIA made the submission before justice Ashok Menon during the hearing of anticipatory bail plea filed by Swapna Suresh, one of the accused in the case. NIA listed the accused as Sarith PS (currently under arrest), Swapna Prabha Suresh, Sandeep Nair, all from Thiruvananthapuram, Fazil Fareed from Ernakulum and others and registered the FIR under Sections 16, 17 and 18 of UAPA against the accused. TOI had reported on Friday that NIA would invoke Section 15, 16, 17 and 18 of UAPA in the case. As per sources, the case generated particular interest as accused Swapna Suresh has named a diplomat in UAE consulate-general office in Thiruvananthapuram, and alleged that it was on his directions that she had contacted the airport officer regarding the cargo. This is likely to be examined by NIA, which has an SP-level officer heading its Kochi branch office, and further steps may be taken as per laid down diplomatic procedures. Watch Kerala gold smuggling money could be used to fund terror, says NIA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nia-kerala-gold-smuggling-money-could-be-used-to-fund-terror/articleshow/76902100.cms||---
July 11, 2020||India||Former senior cops outraged, call for inquiry into Dubey encounter||NEW DELHI: Vikas Dubey’s death in an encounter has left former top cops across the country disappointed and fuming. They called the incident “unfortunate”, “outrageous”, “untenable in a civilised society” and called for an inquiry given the “circumstances under which it happened” and that it indicated a “growing culture of custodial deaths and encounters”. UP ex-DGP Prakash Singh called it unfortunate and disappointing. “Unfortunate, because Dubey’s interrogation would have helped expose the criminal-politician nexus. Disappointing, because this is not how such a high-profile accused is handled in custody,” he said. Singh, known for initiating police reforms across the country through a PIL in Supreme Court, said with Yogi Adityanath as CM he was sure Dubey would have been punished in a court through fast-track trial. “That would have set a good example,” he said. Former Kerala DGP NC Asthana called it an “outrageous story”. “The vehicle is seen lying conveniently on its side, all doors closed. Note the road condition. No reason to overturn so softly. Open fields all around. Even a fool with a paunch would not consider running away in open,” tweeted Asthana. “The man supposedly climbed out of an overturned van though injured, ran for life, had an exchange of fire with police and eventually got killed. But the mask remained in place. Took the corona orders seriously. Police ko mask to utaar dena tha to make it realistic.” Former UP DGP Bikram Singh called for a fair inquiry into the assets accumulated by Dubey to establish how many IAS, IPS officers and politicians benefited from him. “No one is a saint here. Today, many households in Kanpur won’t cook a meal,” he said. Some, however, differ. Former Mumbai encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma said “such hardened criminals deserve to meet such a fate”. Delhi police ex-commissioner Neeraj Kumar said questions are raised after every encounter. “But no one raises a question when a policeman gets killed by a criminal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/former-senior-cops-outraged-call-for-inquiry-into-dubey-encounter/articleshow/76902492.cms||---
July 11, 2020||India||Covid-19: Lakhs being offered for plasma donations||HYDERABAD: With plasma donations not being regulated, those who have recovered from Covid-19 say they are getting offers ranging from Rs 60,000 to Rs 3 lakh for a single donation. Warangal lawyer Akhil Ennamsetty, who has been trying to match patients and donors in the city, said, “You can get 400ml of plasma for up to Rs 3 lakh. With the official system being limited, donor-patient contact is moving off the grid.” Ennamsetty, a Covid-19 survivor, was the first person in Telangana to donate plasma. He has been requesting the state government for an official database of recovered patients so that the system can be streamlined. “Desperate families are willing to pay any price. This is a dangerous situation because it robs the poor of an equal chance at finding eligible donors.” Sources add that NRIs were pushing up costs as they can afford to pay up. In one case, the kin of a senior citizen even offered a chartered flight to bring a donor from Delhi. This informal market seems to be booming despite paid donations of blood and blood components being banned through a Supreme Court order of 1996. With families of patients unable to access record of donors, people are being forced to fend for themselves and are getting duped. Prerana Appineni, who flew back from the US on a repatriation flight after her father fell ill, said the family agreed to a request to meet travel costs of a potential donor only to be cheated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-lakhs-being-offered-for-plasma-donations/articleshow/76902622.cms||Uttara Varma
July 11, 2020||Patna||Jitan Ram Manjhi defers call on GA, Chirag for poll postponment||PATNA: The Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) leader and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi on Friday deferred the crucial decision that he was to take on his party’s stay in the Grand Alliance. However, the party took a decision contrary to that of RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who wants the assembly elections to be postponed in view of the rising coronavirus cases in the state. “On the issue of the desirability of holding October-November state assembly elections amid rising number of Covid-19 cases our party line is different from that of RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav,” HAM(S) spokesman Danish Rizwan said. On the other hand, the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) president Chirag Paswan has taken a rather ambiguous stand on the issue. While maintaining that the state’s assembly elections should be postponed amid the pandemic cases, but added that the Election Commission alone can take a decision on the matter. In contrast to their line of thinking, the stand of HAM(S) is closer to that of the other two NDA constituents – the JD(U) and BJP. “The stand of the HAM(S) is that if the Election Commission wants to hold the assembly elections, it should do. Our party is prepared for it,” Rizwan said. Otherwise, in view of the week-long lockdown imposed by Patna DM Kumar Ravi, the core committee meeting of the HAM(S) could not be held, even as the core committee members turned up for it. “The core committee members, as per the information given to them, arrived at the venue for the meeting, but it was cancelled. They, however, had informal discussions with our party leader Manjhi,” Rizwan said, adding, the decision on the continuance of the HAM(S) with the grand alliance would be taken soon. Earlier, Manjhi had said he would formally decide HAM(S)’s stay in the grand alliance at a meeting of his party’s core committee members to be held on Friday. Manjhi had been demanding from RJD the constitution of a grand alliance coordination committee. On the advice of Congress, he had deferred the formal announcement of his ties with the grand alliance till July 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-defers-call-on-ga-chirag-for-poll-postponment/articleshow/76900861.cms||Abhay Singh
July 11, 2020||Kolkata||School involves kids’ guardians in fee-waiver process in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A school with four branches in the city and surroundings has allowed parents to be part of the committee that will look at school-fee waivers. This is the first time that a school has included parents in the decision-making process in order to make the system more empathetic and more acceptable to parents and guardians. Julien Day is also choosing prominent members of the community to be part of the Grievance Redressal Committee that is being constituted. Representatives of the trust that runs the school and principals of the four branches will also be part of the committee. Like most other schools in the city, all four branches of the school — on Elgin Road, Ganganagar, Kalyani and Howrah — have a large number of students’ parents who have not paid the fees for the first quarter and are demanding waivers. Parents have written to the school citing loss of job, salary reductions or folding up of businesses as the reasons behind non-payment of fees. They have also shown their willingness to produce documents to corroborate the claims. Following recent trends, some parents have also said that the school should clarify its financial status while debating on fee waivers. School authorities said that lest the crisis worsened, they will allow parents’ representatives and some prominent members of the city, especially lawyers, to look at every case that comes up demanding a waiver. There will be no cap on the number of parents who can apply. A notice has been issued explaining that no parent will be refused and a format has been drawn up for application of waivers. The documents will be scanned by the committee to arrive at the percentage of waiver that may be offered. The school has also assured that no child will be disconnected from online studies or struck off the rolls for non-payment of fees. The format looks into the income of both parents and even if one of them is going through a financial crisis, the case will be considered. “The problem is not the same for everyone and, hence, there cannot be a blanket waiver. Since there will be parents’ representatives on the panel, one can expect the decisions to be acceptable to parents,” said Colleen Smith, principal of the school’s Elgin Road branch. Parents unhappy with the initial decision of the committee on the waiver amount can apply for a review. If the parent is still unhappy, s/he can apply to the trustees, who will take the final call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/school-involves-kids-guardians-in-fee-waiver-process/articleshow/76901082.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 11, 2020||Business||China central bank cuts HDFC stake to below 1%||MUMBAI: People’s Bank of China (PBoC), the Chinese central bank that owned a little over 1% in mortgage finance leader HDFC as of March-end, has sold some shares from its holding during the April-June quarter. This has resulted in its stake in the blue-chip company coming down to below the mandatory disclosure limit of 1%. According to markets regulator Sebi, all listed companies need to disclose the names of entities that hold at least 1% equity in them. HDFC’s latest shareholding disclosure to the bourses, which has the names of all the entities holding 1% or more stake in it, does not list PBoC. HDFC’s shareholding pattern for the January-March (Q4FY20) quarter showed that PBoC was holding about 1.75 crore of the total 173.2 crore shares issued. The latest shareholding pattern for April-June quarter (Q1FY21) shows that, during these three months, the home finance company’s total outstanding shares increased by about 25.6 lakh shares to 173.5 crore shares. So, even if PBoC held the same 1.75 crore shares, its holding in HDFC would still be above 1%. Calculations show that PBoC must have sold at least about 2 lakh HDFC shares to get its holding in the mortgage finance major to below the 1% threshold limit. Since July 2018, when PBoC received an RBI nod to be registered as a foreign portfolio investor (FPI) in India, the Chinese central bank has been building its portfolio of stocks in select blue-chips. In addition to HDFC, the bank also has small stakes in Ambuja Cement and Piramal Enterprises, as TOI reported on July 7. The value of its stake in these three companies is worth about Rs 3,500 crore. Market players said that PBoC is believed to be holding small stakes in a few other Indian companies too, but the same has not been disclosed because those are below the 1% disclosure threshold limit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/china-central-bank-cuts-hdfc-stake-to-below-1/articleshow/76900689.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Business||Rossari Bio gets Rs 149 crore ahead of IPO||MUMBAI: The initial public offer (IPO) for Rossari Biotech, the first such offer since the coronavirus-induced pandemic started, mobilised Rs 149 crore from a handful of top investors including Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, Goldman Sachs, SBI MF and HDFC MF ahead of the launch of its offer on Monday. The company, a speciality chemicals manufacturer, allocated a little over 35 lakh shares at Rs 425 per share to 15 institutional investors, called the anchor investors. The IPO will open for subscription on July 13 and close on July 15, at a price band of Rs 423-425 per share. The company is proposing to raise nearly Rs 500 crore, of which Rs 446 crore is the offer for sale while Rs 50 crore is via fresh issue of shares. The net proceeds from the fresh issue will be used to prepay or repay certain debts, including accrued interest, fund working capital requirements and for general corporate purposes, a company release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rossari-bio-gets-rs-149cr-ahead-of-ipo/articleshow/76900830.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar: Bihar’s recovery rate better than national average||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday said people should not panic as Bihar’s recovery rate from Covid-19 infection is 71.54% against the national average of 62.42%. He urged the people to follow the social distancing norm and use masks outside their homes. Nitish further asked the health department officials to enhance the rate of testing for Covid-19 infection at any cost and increase the number of beds at the dedicated Covid hospitals, health and care centres. He also ordered for an adequate increase in the number of beds at different isolation wards across the state in view of the recent increase in the number of positive cases. Nitish said the Covid-19 infected people were returning home every day after getting cured at the government hospital. “Even today, 459 people returned home from different hospitals after being fully cured. Hence, people need not panic,” he said. “People should have patience, remain alert and follow the instructions issued from time to time by the government and health department,” the CM said. Nitish asked the officials of the disaster management department (DMD) to remain in ready mode in view of the possibility of floods in certain parts of the state due to heavy rain in the recent days. “The DMD should make all necessary preparations for safe and quick exit of people living near the embankments in case of floods,” he said and asked the officials of the water resources department to remain in alert mode to ensure protection of embankments during the floods. The CM further asked the officials of food and consumer protection department to complete the task of distribution of new ration cards among all the eligible families within the stipulated time frame, so that poor families could avail the facilities available at the public distribution system (PDS) shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-bihars-recovery-rate-better-than-national-average/articleshow/76901094.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Rajkot||New high for Bhavnagar with 71 cases||RAJKOT: In a highest single day rise in Bhavnagar, altogether 71 people tested positive on Friday.Total 519 cases of Covid-19 have been registered in Bhavnagar district till date, of which 300 are active cases. Bhavnagar district collector Gaurang Makwana said, “There is very high influx from Surat which is the main reason behind the rise in number of positive cases in the district. We will scan more strictly in our checkposts to identify symptomatic persons.” In Rajkot, 53 people tested positive in the city on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/new-high-for-bhavnagar-with-71-cases/articleshow/76901165.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Allahabad||Virus claims another life, Prayagraj Covid tally crosses 500-mark||PRAYAGRAJ: An increase of 49 new cases led to another record spurt in novel coronavirus (Covid-19) patients in Prayagraj district on Friday. The new patients included five healthcare professionals and five policemen. The district’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 500-mark and jumped to 544 on Friday. The disease claimed another life on Friday. The deceased was a 75-year-old man who lived in Jasra. Till now, 15 patients have died of Covid-19 in the district. The number of fresh cases reported in the district touched 50 for two days in a row. On Thursday, 52 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “The patients were between the age groups of 22 and 75 years. Most of them contracted the disease after coming in contact with other patients.” Sahai said that most of these patients lived in urban pockets of the city. Meanwhile, Prayagraj district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami on Friday inspected the isolation ward at Covid-19 Level Two Hospital in Beli Hospital on Friday. He directed health department officials to offer better facilities to patients. He also asked them to ensure strict compliance with social distancing norms. Health officials were told to set up adequate beds at the isolation ward and maintain ample hygiene. In the past 10 days, more than 200 patients were diagnosed with Covid-19 in the city, forcing the health department to chalk out a fresh plan to check the spread of the disease. A senior health official said, “Most of cases which were reported over the last 10 days were between the ages of 18 and 45 years.” He also said that most of them contracted novel coronavirus after coming in contact with another patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/virus-claims-another-life-city-covid-tally-crosses-500-mark/articleshow/76900997.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Business||India must avoid capital account convertibility: Rodrik||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The Indian economy, even after recovering from Covid, cannot return to the same path of hyper-globalisation and export-oriented growth. According to Dani Rodrik, Ford Foundation Professor of International Political Economy at the John F Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, India should welcome foreign investments but should avoid capital account convertibility as it is not advantageous to developing economies. Speaking at the SBI Economic Conclave, Rodrik, author of ‘The Globalization Paradox’, said that world trade increased at a much faster pace during the Breton Woods period compared to the much more open hyper-globalisation practised post-’90s. “The paradox is resolved by understanding that a system of moderation, that is modest and allows nations to pursue strategies in line with the domestic objective, is not only better in terms of domestic harmony but also allows faster growth of trade and investment. Countries with social peace are more likely to be open to investment,” said Rodrik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-must-avoid-capital-account-convertibility-rodrik/articleshow/76900613.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 11, 2020||Patna||DSP posted in Patna HC tests positive for Covid-19||PATNA: A deputy superintendent of police (DSP) posted at Patna high court, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, was sent for home isolation. The DSP was in charge of the security of entire high court premises. Following the development, a team of health officials reached the high court and collected samples of 30 people, including several security personnel. The samples of home guards deployed at DSP’s residence were also collected. Three more constables deployed in the high court, including two women, have also complained about Covid symptoms. Their samples were also collected on Friday. All of them have been asked to remain in home isolation. Altogether 213 police personnel are deployed in high court for security purposes. The high court premises and the DSP’s office were sanitised after the development. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said Kotwali ASP would look after high court security till the DSP recovers from the disease. The DSP told TOI over phone that he had gone to Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) on July 4 for check-up. “My test results came positive on Friday. I am in home isolation now. My family members are safe as they don’t reside with me here,” he added. Meanwhile, the high court administration issued a notice on Thursday, asking employees and lawyers to work at reduced strength on rotation basis in view of enforcement of fresh lockdown in the city. Entry of unauthorised people into the court campus has also been barred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dsp-posted-in-patna-hc-tests-positive-for-corona/articleshow/76901125.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 11, 2020||Mangaluru||FIve repatriation flights to UAE from M’luru from July 13||Mangaluru: Air India Express will operate five repatriation flights in two weeks between Mangaluru and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) starting July 13. The first flight is scheduled on July 13, and will take off from Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) at 7.30 am and arrive at Sharjah Airport at 9.30 am (local time). The next flight is scheduled to depart at 9.30 am on July 16 from MIA. It will arrive at the Dubai Airport at 11.20 am. The third flight from MIA will be at 11 am on July 19, and land at Sharjah Airport at 1 pm. The next day, the fourth flight from MIA will take off at 7.30 am and will land at Sharjah at 9.30 am. On July 26, the final flight will take off from MIA at 8am and land at Abu Dhabi at 10.20 am. The flights will allow only resident permit passengers returning from India to UAE on board. The UAE residents travelling back must have a valid ICA/GDRFA approval. The passengers must carry a Covid-19 negative test result of the PCR test conducted, not more than 96 hours before departure. They must submit a health declaration form as well as quarantine undertaking form. Two repatriation flights land at M’luru  Two chartered repatriation flights from Sharjah in the United Arab Emirates and Dammam in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, landed at the Mangaluru International Airport on Friday. The flight from Sharjah was chartered by Sayyad H, an entrepreneur, and had 180 passengers on board, and landed at Mangaluru at 8.10pm. The flight from Dammam was chartered by Abubakar, CEO, Raisco Group, and landed in the early hours of Friday. Abubakar thanked former deputy chairperson, NRI Forum of Karnataka, Dr Arathi Krishna for helping in documentation work, and becoming a bridge between embassies and the government. Yatish Ullal, assistant commissioner, Puttur in-charge of Vande Bharat Mission and repatriation flights, said that all the passengers, after initial health screening, were sent into institutional quarantine for seven days. After their institutional quarantine gets over, they will have to remain in home quarantine for another seven days. Their throat swabs will be collected and tested for Covid-19 after three days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/five-repatriation-flights-to-uae-from-mluru-from-july-13/articleshow/76900313.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Patna||Khadi board to launch app||PATNA: The Bihar State Khadi and Village Industries Board (BSKVIB) is to launch a mobile phone app for selling khadi products across the country. As most markets have been disrupted owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the board had launched a website, www.Biharkhadi.com, on June 18. BSKVIB CEO Suresh Kumar said on Friday the motive behind developing the mobile app is to give local artists an online platform to sell their products. “The pandemic has completely damaged the market, including that of khadi products. The local artists are affected badly. Giving them an online platform is not just an alternative to the traditional way of marketing but will also be a morale booster,” he said. Primarily, products of artisans and weavers already connected to Patna Khadi Mall will be sold online. “Many weavers and artisans weave clothes or make paintings for selling at the mall. The items will be delivered to the buyers by our courier agents. Apart from these, hundreds of small-scale weavers will also be given a chance to use this platform,” said Ramesh Chowdhary, manager of Khadi Mall in Patna. Ramesh said a letter for approval to create the app has been sent to the industries department. “The pandemic has introduced a different kind of marketing style to the local artisans. Most people are, however, not very comfortable in shopping via website. Hence, we have planned to launch a mobile app. Several e-commerce companies are making good business with their apps,” he said. “As far as the website is concerned, tens of hundreds of people have purchased products from the online platform and the most sought-after items are masks, shirts and ‘murabba’. Besides, people from across the country, including Delhi and Mumbai, are purchasing khadi products and Bihari food items. With the launch of the application, we are sure the sales will quadruple,” Ramesh added. Asked if new weavers or artisans could register themselves for the application, he said they should either have Udyog Aadhaar or should be registered with the industries department in order to sell their products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/khadi-board-to-launch-app/articleshow/76901145.cms||Archi Rani
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||SFJ claims to start drive from Haryana gurdwara, shrine refutes||KURUKSHETRA: An audio message, allegedly from Khalistani Gurpatwant Pannun of US-based Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), claimed to organise an event related to the secessionist movement ‘Referendum 2020’ at Gurdwara Patshahi Chhevin in Kurukshetra on Saturday. It prompted Kurukshetra DC Dhirendra Khadgata and SP Astha Modi to contact the management of the Shiromani Gurdwara Management Committee (SGPC)-run gurdwara. Gurdwara Patshahi Chhevin manager Amrinder Singh told, “I, along with ‘kathawachak’ Gurpal Singh, visited Kurukshetra DC office. The message claimed that SFJ is going to organise an ‘ardas’ at our gurdwara and after that it is going to launch the voting process for the ‘Referendum 2020’.” Amrinder said, “Gurdwara Patshahi Chhevin in Kurukshetra is managed by SGPC. We have no link with SFJ. After consulting with higher officials of SGPC, we released a video message refuting the claims made in the audio message.” DC Khadgata said, “These audio messages are being circulated with a motive to spread hatred.” Giving more information, Amrinder said, “SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal was scheduled to visit the gurdwara on Saturday for ground breaking ceremony of a sarai (inn), which is to be built within the premises. Following the viral audio message, the visit of SGPC president has been postponed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sfj-claims-to-start-drive-from-hry-gurdwara-shrine-refutes/articleshow/76901618.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 11, 2020||Patna||Patna: Stagnant water sparks fears of mosquito-borne diseases||PATNA: Many localities in the city turned into a pool of water after two hours of light to moderate rainfall on Friday. Residents of low-lying areas like Kadamkuan, Kankarbagh, New Patliputra Colony, Thakurbari Road, Bazar Samiti, Mithapur, pockets of Rajiv Nagar and east Ram Krishna Nagar complained of waterlogging. Some said the overflowing sewage mixed with rainwater and entered their houses. Aayan Ahmed, a resident of Karbala Road in Phulwarisharif, said the area got waterlogged last week. “Water is not receding due to blockage in the drainage network. The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) is responding to our complaints,” he added. Saurabh Shrivastava, a resident of Indirapuri Colony, said stagnant water would give birth to mosquito-borne diseases in the locality. “In times of Covid-19 pandemic, even seasonal fever would confuse people. The civic body should sanitise the area after draining out water,” he said. The PMC, on the other hand, claimed that around 500 workers have been deployed to drain out rainwater from the affected localities through portable motor pumps and other means. It said disinfectants are also being sprayed in the waterlogged areas. S K Mishra, executive officer of Kankarbagh circle of PMC, said rainwater has receded from areas like Jaganpura and Karbigahiya, while workers are draining out water from Sipara, Jyotish Path and other areas in southern parts of Kankarbagh. “We discharge the water in Badshahi Pan. However, the water level in the nullah has been increasing due to silt,” he said, adding the irrigation department should de-silt the nullah regularly. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said teams in each circle are monitoring the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stagnant-water-sparks-fears-of-mosquito-borne-diseases/articleshow/76901231.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Kanpur||GANGSTER VIKAS DUBEY MEETS BLOODY END, SHOT IN POLICE ENCOUNTER NEAR HOME TURF||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui Kanpur: Seven days after the Bikru village bloodbath in which eight policemen were ambushed and killed by Vikas Dubey and his henchmen, the 48-year-old gangster whose guile and brutality captured the imagination of the nation, was shot dead in an encounter with UP police on a highway in Kanpur, barely 22 km from his home turf, where he held kangaroo courts to deliver instant justice. Dubey was handed over to UP’s Special Task Force after his dramatic arrest from Mahakaal temple in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, on Thursday and was being escorted back to Kanpur by an 18-member UP Police team. After a four-hour journey through the night in a police convoy comprising three escort vehicles, the unarmed gangster was gunned down when he allegedly snatched a gun from an STF commando and opened fire after their Scorpio overturned while swerving past a buffalo herd amid pounding rain, police said. Dubey, who tried to flee after the mishap, took three bullets in his chest and one in the arm and collapsed in a pool of blood near Sachendi area, 10km from the district headquarters, while four cops suffered injuries, said ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar. During the gangster’s funeral at Bhairavghat on banks of Ganga in Kanpur, his wife Richa told reporters, “I will pick the gun to give justice to my beloved husband.” While the police encounter has come under cloud and triggered a flood of unanswered questions, what stirred a bigger controversy was the police action to bar the media entourage following the police convoy, barely 600m from the shootout site on Panki Road. Just 15 minutes later, gunshots were heard and the don lay dead. Speaking to reporters, ADG Kumar said, “In the disarray after the police SUV overturned, Vikas wriggled out and pounced upon a STF personnel and snatched a gun and opened fire, leaving four police personnel injured. In retaliatory action, Vikas was shot at and critically injured. He was rushed to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital, Kanpur, where doctors declared him brought dead.” SSP, Kanpur, Dinesh Kumar Prabhu, said, the SUV carrying Vikas was speeding to stay ahead of other vehicles behind the convoy, when it suddenly overturned. Sources said, media persons were following the police convoy since it left Ujjain at 3:15 am on Friday. Two STF commandos were among the four injured policemen and they have been admitted to LLR hospital, Kanpur. Senior police officials, including ADG Kanpur zone JN Singh, IG Kanpur range Mohit Agarwal and SSP Dinesh Kumar Prabhu visited the hospital to take stock of the situation. Dr RB Kamal, who treated the injured policemen said, “The condition of three cops is stable. Bullets had grazed past their chest.” The gangster, who was catapulted into India’s most-wanted league, had been on the run since July 2 night when a police party, which went to arrest him from his house in Bikru village in the Chaubeypur area of Kanpur, was ambushed. Since then, three people have been arrested, six accused, including Vikas Dubey were killed, seven people have been sent to jail and 12 wanted criminals are still on the run.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gangster-vikas-dubey-meets-bloody-end-shot-in-police-encounter-near-home-turf/articleshow/76901403.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 11, 2020||Business||Yes Bank sets FPO floor price at Rs 12||MUMBAI: Shares of Yes Bank fell over 4% to Rs 25 after the bank announced a floor price of Rs 12 per share in its forthcoming public offer. The bank informed the stock exchanges that the capital-raising committee of the board today approved a floor price of Rs 12 and a cap price of Rs 13. Moreover, a discount of Rs 1 per equity share would be extended to those bidding under the employee reservation portion. The minimum bid has been fixed at 1,000 equity shares and multiples of thereafter. The SBI-led bailout team that had invested Rs 10,000 crore as part of the resolution plan had acquired equity at Rs 10 per share. According to the scheme of reconstruction of Yes Bank, there will be a three-year lock-in period for 26% of SBI’s investment in the bank, while for other members of the consortium there will be a three-year lock-in period for 75% of their investment. The second round of investment in the private lender will not face any restriction in terms of lock-in. SBI has committed to invest Rs 1,760 crore in Yes Bank’s follow-on public offer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yes-bank-sets-fpo-floor-price-at-rs-12/articleshow/76900675.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Mangaluru||In Dakshina Kannada, people opt for voluntary lockdown||Mangaluru/ Madikeri: The unceasing spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in most parts of the state has prompted the citizens, independently of any directions from the authorities or the government, to adopt drastic measures to arrest the transmission of the novel coronavirus. In Dakshina Kannada for instance, residents of several localities, both in the district’s rural boroughs and urban pockets, have decided on a self-imposed lockdown on Saturday to check the spread of the infection. In Bajpe, Ullal, Bantwal, Harekala and Mulki, among other places in the district, where the source of the infection of a large quantum of the reported cases remains unknown, traders and merchants have voluntarily decided to down the shutters of their establishments at least for a few hours on Saturday. On the other hand, an online campaign has been launched exhorting people to cooperate so the lockdown may be enforced voluntarily. On the one hand, Ullal and Harekala went into voluntary lockdown a week ago, while in Bajpe, merchants have decided to keep their shops closed after 2pm till June 22. In Mangaluru city, the perpetually bustling Urwa Market will remain open only between 7am and 1pm. In Moodbidri too, merchants have decided to down the shutters after 2pm. Mangaluru City Corporation commissioner Shanady Ajith Kumar Hegde told TOI that they had decided to prohibit entry of public inside the office premises in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city. BJP member Raveendra Shetty Ulidottu said that residents of Harekala were on board with the decision of the gram panchayat to have a self-imposed lockdown. In Bantwal taluk, Puddu gram panchayat has decreed that the village will close down after 2pm for the next fortnight to keep the novel coronavirus at bay. Business community countenances shutdown in Madikeri The Madikeri Chamber of Commerce has taken the lead in advocating a voluntary lockdown on Saturday in the hilly town, which is the district headquarters of Kodagu district. Kodagu, which had been in the safe ‘Green Zone’ before the lockdown restrictions were eased, has seen a spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases thereby prompting citizens and the authorities to contemplate severe measures. On the one hand, the chamber of commerce has decided to down the shutters on Saturday, while Kodagu district in-charge minister V Somanna, who chaired a meeting to review the hilly district’s preparedness, on Friday asked the authorities to isolate people suspected of being infected after their samples were collected. In addition to the curfew on Sundays, all business establishments in Madikeri have decided to shut shop on July 18 and July 25. The chamber of commerce has also asked merchants to restrict business between 6am and 4pm till July 26. MLA Appachu Ranjan called for people arriving in Kodagu from other districts and states to be stamped to help identify and trace them, if the need ever arose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/in-dakshina-kannada-people-opt-for-voluntary-lockdown/articleshow/76900414.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Cops try to break up fight, assaulted||MANGALURU: Four police personnel, including an assistant sub-inspector attached to Bantwal town police station were assaulted when they tried to stop a fight between truck drivers and the public in Melkar late on Thursday night. ASI Shailesh T and three others sustained injuries in the incident. They were assaulted by Sulaiman, 28, resident of Goltamajalau, Bantwal. According to police, on the night of July 9, they had received information about a fight that broke out between truck drivers in public in Melkar. Shailesh and three police constables, who were on duty, rushed to the spot. They noticed that Sulaiman was wielding an iron rod to assault others and police tried to stop him. Irked Sulaiman assaulted the police and also damaged police vehicle. However, the public who came to the rescue of police, thrashed Sulaiman, who too sustained minor injuries. Accused has been booked under Indian Penal Code section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 504 (provoke breach of the peace) and others of KPDLP Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cops-try-to-break-up-fight-assaulted/articleshow/76900820.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Patna||Maoists kill two in Munger village||PATNA: A group of 15 to 20 suspected CPI (Maoists) swooped down at Jatatari village under the Haveli Kharagpur police station area in Munger district around 11 pm on Thursday and kidnapped two people—Brajnandan Tudu (39) and Arun Rai (36)— and subsequently killed them on the suspicion of being police informers, police said on Friday. Before leaving the village, the Maoists also threatened the villagers with dire consequences for being hands in glove with the police and leaking information about their movement in the region. The beheaded bodies of both Rai and Tudu were recovered from Bagel Hills on the outskirts of the village on Friday morning when the family members with the police started searching for them. The throats of both the captives were slit with a sharp-edged weapon. An investigating officer said that one of the victims, Brajnandan, was earlier associated with the Red outfit but he later joined the main steam. “The Maoists were not happy with him and decided to settle their score,” he added. The villagers told police that the attackers were in police uniform and warned the special police officers (SPOs) to mend their ways failing which they would also be subjected to similar treatment. An inspector of police Nijamuddin said that a hand written pamphlet was also recovered from the site. Haveli Kharagpur police station SHO Mintoo Kumar Singh said the Maoists had killed both Tuddu and Rai on charges of being ‘police informers’. “Raids are on to nab them,” he told TOI over the phone on Friday. Later, DIG (Munger range) Manu Maharaaj said the killing of the villagers was a fallout of frustration among the rank and file of the banned outfit. “The Maoists are losing their support base in rural areas. Hence they are targetting the villagers. The villagers are also not providing them shelter,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/maoists-kill-two-in-munger-village/articleshow/76901052.cms||Ramashankar
July 11, 2020||Patna||Mixed scene in Patna streets on Day 1 of Lockdown 5.0||PATNA: The state capital wore a comparatively desolate look on Day 1 of the week-long lockdown on Friday. Marketplaces, shopping malls, religious places, private offices and other establishments were shut following DM Kumar Ravi’s orders to contain the surge in Covid-19 cases in Patna. Police personnel were seen enforcing the lockdown restrictions. “As movement of people for essential services is allowed, we are only checking if they are following traffic rules and precautionary measures such as wearing masks. The local cops are keeping a vigil on the shops that have been prohibited from opening,” said City SP (Central) Vinay Tiwari said. Only shops dealing with essential commodities such as grocery, fruits and vegetables, dairy products and meat are allowed to open while commercial markets and shopping complexes are shut. While shop owners agree that the lockdown is necessary to contain the virus, they are worried about spending another week without much business. Asharam Singh, chief security officer of a shopping mall in Kurji, said the lockdown period will be used for proper sanitization of the mall. “Unlike the last time, we have asked the grocery retail shop to down their shutter as we don’t want any kind of public interference during the cleaning process,” Singh said. Rajesh Kumar Dabloo, president of Maurya Lok Shopkeeper Kalyan Samiti, said the lockdown won’t affect the shopkeepers much as they were already facing losses due to lesser footfall of customers. Private offices in the city, however, were already working from home despite relaxations. Praveen Kumar, director of a private firm, said safety of his employees is his topmost priority. “Even if one employee tests Covid-19 positive, the entire firm will have to suffer. Therefore, it’s good that the district administration has taken such steps,” he said. Government offices also witnessed thin attendance. Even the secretariat wore a deserted look as several offices, including that of deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, has been sealed after few of his staff tested positive for the virus. The management committees of religious bodies advised devotees not to visit temples, gurudwaras, mosques and churches and protect the city from entering the community spread phase. Takhat Shri Harmandir Gurudwara Committee’s secretary MS Dhillon said he was sceptical about reopening the gurudwara even during the unlock phase. “At this point of time, staying indoors is the best for everyone,” Dhillon said. Even though, public transport has been allowed, auto-rickshaw drivers said the number of passengers has gone down by 80%. Ranjay Kumar, an auto-rickshaw driver, who was waiting at Patna Junction from Friday morning, hardly received three passengers. “Lockdown is never a good idea for people like me, who are dependent on people. Even if I get saved from Covid-19, I will die of hunger,” he said. Union law minister and Patna Sahib MP Ravi Shankar Prasad, on the other hand, said AIIMS- Patna should be declared a Covid-19 dedicated hospital to handle the rising number of Covid cases. In a statement issued on Friday, the Union minister also urged state health minister Mangal Pandey to increase testing and isolation facilities in Bihar. The Patna Sahib MP urged residents to strictly follow the lockdown imposed by the district administration. “People should stay indoors and wear masks while going out. They should also maintain physical distance for their safety,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mixed-scene-in-patna-streets-on-day-1-of-lockdown-5-0/articleshow/76901272.cms||Archi Rani
July 11, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: SGPC members rejects panel to probe missing birs||AMRITSAR: Former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Sewa Singh Sekhwan, who is SGPC member from Gurdaspur, has asked Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to get the incident of 267 saroops of Guru Granth Sahib going missing from an SGPC-run gurdwara probed by a retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court. Sekhwan told TOI on Friday that he along with other SGPC members, including Kiranjot Kaur (Amritsar West), Harpreet Singh Garcha (Pakhowal, Ludhiana), Amrik Singh (Shahpur, Dera Baba Nanak) and Mohinder Singh Hussainpur (Balachaur, Nawanshahr), had submitted a memorandum to the jathedar, seeking his intervention to dislodge the SGPC constituted sub-committee to investigate the issue and get the inquiry done by a person with indepth knowledge of Sikh affairs. “We have urged him to get the inquiry done by a gursikh retired judge of the high court,” he said. On June 26, the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) had sought an inquiry from the SGPC into the incident. PHRO had claimed that 80 of the 267 saroops of Guru Granth Sahib, damaged in fire and rain, were later cremated clandestinely. Lok Insaaf Party MLA Balwinder Singh Bains also lodged a complaint with the Amritsar police commissioner, seeking police investigation into the incident. Sekhwan said, “How can we expect an impartial inquiry by the members by the sub-committee in whose tenure, between 2016 and 2020, the incident had happened?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sgpc-members-rejects-panel-to-probe-missing-birs/articleshow/76901622.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 11, 2020||Mysuru||Four die of Covid in Mysuru||Mysuru: Three senior citizens were among the four who died due to Covid-19 in Mysuru on Friday, taking the death toll in the district to 20. All the four had pre-medical conditions and were hospitalized with severe acute respiratory illness along with fever and cough. Among them, an 83-year-old man died a week after fighting the virus. He was hospitalized on July 3. Another man aged 72 died a day after he was admitted while a 65-year-woman died on the same day. A 42-year-old man too has succumbed to Covid-19. On Friday, 51 tested positive, taking the total cases to 690 in Mysuru. About 25 people got discharged the same day. As many as 307 individuals are under treatment. MLA’s office cordoned-off The office of BJP MLA SA Ramadas at Public Offices Building has been cordoned-off after two of the staff tested positive. They were sent on leave after they fell sick a week ago and both of them tested positive on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/four-die-of-covid-in-mysuru/articleshow/76899466.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Surat||4 docs, 21 diamond workers test positive||Surat: Four doctors and 21 from the diamond industry were among the fresh positive cases on Friday, while three more people have succumbed to Covid-19 infection on Thursday. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, diamond hubs of Varachha and Katargam continued to record high numbers of positive cases. On Friday Katargam, Covid-19 hotspot, reported 52 cases followed by 33 in Varachha (A) and 32 in Varachha (B). Three Covid-19 patients succumbed to the virus on Friday taking the death toll to 267 in the city. One patient each from Varachha (B), Rander and Udhana zone succumbed to the infection. On the same day, 132 patients were also discharged in the city after they had fully recovered from the disease. Meanwhile, Surat rural reported 67 fresh cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 1,124. Kamrej reported the highest with 16 cases, followed by Palsana with 15, Bardoli and Mangrol 12 each, Choryasi 5, and Olpad 4 cases. Valsad district also recorded five Covid-19 positive cases on the same day, taking its tally of cases to 329 on Friday. Following increase in Covid-19 positive cases in Navsari district, the administration has ordered retail shops, showrooms, shopping malls etc to operate from morning till 2pm only. Navsari district recorded 27 cases, Bharuch registered 27 new cases emerging on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/4-docs-21-diamond-workers-test-positive/articleshow/76899930.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Business||Don’t expect extension of general moratorium: SBI||MUMBAI: State Bank of India chairman Rajnish Kumar has said that, after the current six-month moratorium ends in August, he expects a calibrated response from the RBI based on the impact on each sector. The statement by the chief of the country’s largest bank indicates that lenders are not expecting a general extension of the moratorium. Kumar said that by providing a six-month moratorium and back-ending payments on term loans, lenders have already absorbed a substantial portion of the economic shock and done a “mini restructuring” of loans. Speaking at the SBI’s annual economic conclave, which was held online this year, Kumar said that going by his bank’s data, stress among borrowers seems to be manageable and that he was not “over-worried” as many corporates have deleveraged and banks have made provisions for their stressed loans. On the outlook for interest rates, the SBI chairman said that while the economy was in a soft interest rate regime, which was required under the circumstances, the same is not enough to revive investments. “Even if interest rates come down to zero it does not mean there will be investments. We have already come down substantially on rates and that has not led to investment. A lot of equity capital is also required. Private capital comes in only when it is assured of return and no hassles. This is where the role of central and state governments come in,” said Kumar. He said that borrowers have been cautious in increasing their liabilities and while corporates have opted for a moratorium on repayments, it was more to preserve cash and not a reflection of their ability to repay. “Certain sectors like aviation, tourism, hotels, gems and jewellery would certainly need help,” said Kumar “But everyone does not need the same level of help. Nothing is required across the board,” said Kumar. He said that the bank’s approach would be to place borrowers into three categories — those who can get back on their feet after a moratorium, those that will need some relief and businesses that need deep restructuring where someone else has to bear the pain. Speaking at the same event, Crisil MD & CEO Ashu Suyash said that the NPA situation in banks was much better than in the ’90s, and banks are a lot more resilient. However, a Crisil analysis has shown that in 52% of the 40,000 companies it analysed, there was a sharp reduction in paycheck, which meant that the recovery would be slow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dont-expect-extension-of-general-moratorium-sbi/articleshow/76900805.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Mangaluru||CISF officer among 8 Covid fatalities in DK||Mangaluru: Covid-19 cases and fatalities continued to rise in Dakshina Kannada (DK), with eight more deaths taking the toll in the coastal district to 38 deaths on Friday. Meanwhile, out of 38 deaths, 23 were reported in the district in the past 10 days. The eight Covid-19 deaths that DK reported on Friday included seven men and one woman with co-morbidities. This includes an officer from the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on duty at the Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL). CISF@CISFHQrs tweeted: “DG #CISF & all ranks are deeply saddened on the tragic loss of our #CoronaWarrior ASI/Exe K B Premsha of CISF Unit MRPL Mangalore who laid his life at the altar of duty battling #COVID19 infection. We express heartfelt condolences to the grief-stricken family members.” The youngest person who died of the disease on Friday is a 35-year-old man, who was also suffering from obesity, and the oldest victim, a 68-year-old man, was suffering from hepatic encephalopathy, liver cirrhosis and diabetes. The district also recorded 139 cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the total cases to 1,848. While the district has 1,057 active cases under treatment, 51 were discharged on Friday. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said an expert committee has been formed to analyse the cause of death in the eight fatalities reported on Friday. Meanwhile, former health minister U T Khader said there is community spread of the disease in the district. “Don’t panic just because the number of positive cases increases. We should change ourselves and learn to live with it. Community spread is there in the district and state law minister J C Madhuswamy himself has agreed to it. We have to manage the situation properly. Random checking should be made compulsory in all the districts where the number of cases are increasing. We are lucky here since Wenlock Hospital has sufficient number of beds, and there are many medical colleges and private hospitals in Mangaluru,” Khader said. Khader said that random sampling camps were held in Ullal in a bid to check the spread of Covid-19. A helpline will be set up in the constituency in association with NGOs to tackle the crisis. Meanwhile, ward committees have been constituted in each ward of the Ullal city municipality limits, to tackle the situation. 23 fatalities in 10 days Date Fatalities July 1 - 3 July 2 - 1 July 3 - 1 July 4 - 3 July 6 - 2 July 7 - 1 July 8 - 2 July 9 - 2 July 10- 8||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cisf-officer-among-8-covid-fatalities-in-dk/articleshow/76900227.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Patna||352 new Covid-19 cases take Bihar’s tally to 14,330||PATNA: The state on Wednesday reported seven deaths, taking the toll to 125. However, the health department has officially reported only 111 deaths so far. The number of Covid-19 cases have reached 14,330 with 352 cases registered on Wednesday, including that of the hospital manager of one of the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. With 10,251 recoveries, active cases now stand at 3,966. Three deaths were reported at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, two at AIIMS-Patna and two more at Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH), Bhagalpur. The three NMCH deaths include two from Begusarai and one from Siwan. “One of the Begusarai deceased was a 19 year old boy and had asthma. The second Begusarai deceased was a 58-year-old, who died of cardiac arrest. The third was a 63-year-old woman from Kasera in Siwan. She also died of cardiac arrest,” said NMCH epidemologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh. He further said that 490 people were discharged from the hospital till Friday evening and 260 people are admitted of whom three are in ICU. AIIMS-Patna nodal in-charge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar confirmed two Covid deaths at his hospital. He said one 58-year-old man from Mughalpura in Patna City and a 55-year-old man from West Champaran were the two who died on Friday. Two deaths were also reported from the JLNMCH. “One was a 62-year-old male and had comorbidity, another was a 30-year-old female who had no medical history,” said Dr HS Sharma, Covid-19 nodal in-charge of the hospital. Sources said attendants of one of the deceased at JLNMCH forcefully took the dead body without following protocol. “They physically abused hospital staff after the death of a Covid-19 positive person and then took the body,” said a staff member of the hospital. According to the state health department, cases on Friday were reported from 27 districts, with maximum cases from Bhagalpur where 84 had tested positive. ther districts with large number of cases include Patna (73), Muzaffarpur (34), East Champaran (21), Supaul (19), Madhubani (15), Nalanda (13), West Champaran (12) and Khagaria (10). Health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh stated that 459 people had recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the recovery rate to 71.54%. In the same time period, 352 new cases were registered and 7595 samples were tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/352-new-covid-cases-take-bihars-tally-to-14330/articleshow/76901043.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 11, 2020||Patna||Six-day lockdown in Begusarai from today||BEGUSARAI: DM Arvind Kumar Verma has ordered lockdown in the district for six days from Saturday. In his order, the district magistrate said it was necessitated following spike in Covid-19 cases in the last three weeks and as per the ministry of home affairs guidelines in order to contain further spread of the virus. All shops and markets will remain closed, except those dealing in grocery items, dairy products, fruits and vegetables, meat and fish. However, such shops will be allowed only from 6am to 10am and 4pm to 7pm. The central and state government offices will also remain closed with exceptions of those involved in essential services like defence, public utilities, power, water services, banks, post offices and police among others. Public transport, except buses, are barred on road. Religious places will also remain closed. Altogether 634 persons were found Covid-19 positive in the district till Wednesday with 153 active cases only. However, the alarm bell set ringing after surge in positive cases during the last few days with large number of cases from Mungeriganj area in the town besides Balia and Naokothi. As per a status report till Wednesday, as many as 10,970 people were tested in the district with reports received for 10,604. The district administration has been running awareness campaign, asking people to wear masks while going outside. Those found without masks are being fined Rs50. However, despite all efforts, a large number of people still venture out on roads without masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/six-day-lockdown-in-begusarai-from-today/articleshow/76901243.cms||Rajiv Kumar
July 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Hubby among 3 held for killing pregnant woman||PATNA: The incident of road rage and a pregnant woman’s murder at Chainpur village under Gopalpur police station area in Patna on Thursday turned out to be a well-planned murder by the husband himself as he wanted a male child. It was revealed in the interrogation of the deceased’s husband Shambhu Rajak (35), who said he had hired two contract killers for killing his wife Ruby Devi (32). Police arrested Shambhu and his information the alleged killers Rishi Kumar (22) and his associate Navin Kumar (20) from Jaiprakash Nagar under Jakkanpur police station area. Police also seized the bike and pistol used in the murder. Ruby was killed when she and Shambhu were going to their residence at Jhaichak under Parsa Bazaar police station area from Lohanipur in Kadamkuan after health check-up. Shambhu runs a laundry at Sipara. Two bike-borne criminals had shot Ruby in her head. Police said the couple’s two daughters aged two-and-a-half years and seven years were also on the bike that time. City SP (east) Jitendra Kumar said Shambhu had hired Rishi for Rs2.5 lakh to kill Ruby. “He had paid Rs50,000 in advance. Shambhu told police that Ruby was four months’ pregnant,” he said. “It was on Friday morning that Shambhu, after continuous interrogation from Thursday, confessed that he had hired contract killers,” he said. “He wanted a son. That was the main reason behind killing Ruby. He also used to have long conversation with Ruby’s sister. Probably he was planning to marry her later for a male child,” the SP said. He said police suspected Shambhu as he was giving contradictory statements. “We took him to spot where Ruby was shot and the place where the two bikes had allegedly collided. But his statements kept changing,” he said. “Rishi had shot Ruby while Navin was driving the bike. Rishi is accused in a criminal case lodged with Jakkanpur police station,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hubby-among-3-held-for-killing-pregnant-woman/articleshow/76901218.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 11, 2020||Nashik||Lockdown in Nandurbar city on Sundays||Nashik: Collector Rajendra Bharud has announced that a lockdown would be imposed in Nandurbar city between 9am and 9pm every Sunday in the wake of the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Nandurbar district. Of the 225 Covid-19 cases reported from the district, 146 patients i.e. more than half the positive cases are from Nandurbar city alone. Currently, there are 61 active cases in the district of which 33 alone are in Nandurbar city, 21 in Shahada taluka and the remaining cases are scattered in the four talukas. “The lockdown will be observed every Sunday to break the chain and curb the spread of Covid-19,” said Bharud. The district administration pointed out that the restrictions were limited only to Nandurbar city. Other restrictions about shops closing their business every day at 4pm stands valid for across the district. “The business will be as usual for all days across the district, except Nandurbar city which will remain closed on Sunday. The milk supplies and other essentials will be allowed to stay open only till 9am after which the curfew will be implemented. No one will be allowed to move out unless it is a medical emergency,” said an officer from the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lockdown-in-nandurbar-city-on-sundays/articleshow/76898915.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Surat||Surtis’ love for diamonds now sparkle on masks!||SURAT: There is something in the bling that Surtis can’t seem to resist and find all convenient spots — from tooth to lenses — to get one fitted for the extra sparkle. So, now in Covid times’ new ‘sanitized’ normal, they found a ‘tod’ to add swag even to a humble protective gear — diamond-studded face masks! Masks with N95 rating certification and 3-ply protection, studded with real and synthetic diamonds, are the latest craze in the Covid market. According to the jewellers, diamonds — both real and synthetic — adorn the borders of the N95 masks. That’s not all — some even have an extra dangling diamond strip on the side for that extra bling! Dipak Choksi, owner of D Khushaldas Jewellers in the posh Athwalines, told TOI, “The idea for designing diamond-studded masks came up after a few customers wanted something unique for the weddings that took place last month. We designed masks for both the bride and the groom with hanging diamond strip and the borders studded with diamonds.” Choski further said that N95 and 3-ply masks are ideal for studding diamonds. “We also embellish the designs on the masks with diamonds. A thin gold casket is first fitted on the mask and then diamonds are studded on it. The synthetic diamond masks are sold in the range of Rs 1 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh, while the real diamonds costs around Rs 4.5 lakh,” said the man who owns his own manufacturing unit and has also sold about eight such glittery masks till date and counting orders from the city and outside. “Each mask could be studded with 150 to 400 diamonds depending on customers’ budget,” Choksi added. Another jewellery manufacturer, Nainesh Pachchigar, said that it’s a challenge to keep innovating designs to please the demanding customers. “It is very difficult to stud diamonds on the N95 masks and special care has to be taken to ensure there is no damage even when the masks are washed for the reuse,” he said. Pachchigar said that his firm has used lab-grown diamonds for designing the face masks, which are then cost-effective. “They are more than 60% cheaper than real diamonds. These masks costs anywhere between Rs 60,000 and Rs 1 lakh,” he added. Salim Daginawala, president of Surat Jewellers Association said, “The coronavirus pandemic and high gold prices have reduced jewellery business by 20%. Jewellers will have to come up with such unique ideas to attract consumers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surtis-love-for-diamonds-now-sparkle-on-masks/articleshow/76901211.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Swaminarayan sect head Purushottampriyadasji Swamiji Maharaj critical||AHMEDABAD: The spiritual head of Maninagar Shree Swaminarayan Gadi Sansthan, Purushottampriyadasji Swamiji Maharaj, who is hospitalized for the last two weeks, remains critical. “He is in severely critical condition and has been put on a ventilator,” said Bhagwat Priyadas Swami, mahant of the Maninagar Swaminarayan temple. Born on May 28, 1942 in the town of Bharasar in Kutch, he was initiated as a sant on March 21, 1962 by Jeevanpran Shree Muktajeevan Swamibapa at Swaminarayan Mandir, Maninagar. Purushottampriyadasji Swamiji or P P Swamiji is regarded as the current and fifth heir in the lineage of ascetic Acharyas, which descends directly from Lord Shree Swaminarayan. He is the incumbent Acharya of Shree Swaminarayan Gadi. He tested Covid-19 positive a few days ago, and was treated with plasma therapy. P P Swamiji has presided over the establishment of more than 250 temples affiliated with the sect and his followers across the world are praying for his recovery. Exemplifying his devotion unto his Guru, he has spearheaded the work to build a memorial called Shree Muktajeevan Swamibapa Smruti Mandir in Ghodasar, Ahmedabad. This marble temple has unique architecture, art and sculpture, all describing Jeevanpran Swamibapa’s service to society. He has established schools, colleges, hostels, hospitals, clinics and drug rehabilitation centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/swaminarayan-sect-head-critical/articleshow/76901070.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hubballi||Revenue dept stage dharna against assault on govt staff||Hubballi: Mini Vidhan Soudha here on Friday witnessed a rare protest headed by tahsildar and the revenue department employees wearing black stripes on their shoulders. The protest was staged condemning the killing of Bangarpet tahsildar B K Chandramouleshwar. Speaking at the protest, Hubballi urban tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal urged the government to arrest miscreants assaulting revenue department employees under Goonda Act. “The retired teacher, who murdered on-duty tahsildar, should be convicted within a year. A special act should be passed to prevent assaults on government employees,” he added. Assistant commissioner Mahmad Zuber, who received the memorandum, said the attack on tahsildar by a retired teacher is a worrisome incident. “It shows the need for security of tahsildars and staff involved in field work. Revenue department staff work hard, especially during emergencies like election, flood, drought and pandemic, apart from their routine works,” he said. He suggested the employees to seek police protection if they face any threat while discharging their duties. Hubballi rural tahsildar Prakash Nasi, additional tahsildar Vijay Kadkol and others also took part in the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/revenue-dept-stage-dharna-against-assault-on-govt-staff/articleshow/76900584.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Patna||Met issues red alert for heavy rain in north Bihar||PATNA: Light to moderate rainfall occurred at most places and heavy to very heavy rainfall at some places in northwest and south-central parts of the state on Friday even as India Metrological Department (IMD) issued forecast for isolated heavy rainfall in the state on Saturday as well. The IMD also issued a red alert for moderate to severe thunderstorm with lightning and very heavy rainfall in several districts in north Bihar on Saturday and Sunday. Red warning issued by IMD stipulates the authorities to take action in light of forecast issued for extreme weather conditions. According to the evening bulletin issued by Patna Meteorological Centre, districts for which red warning has been issued for Saturday are West Champaran, East Champaran, Gopalganj, Siwan, Saran, Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga and Supaul. The expected thunderstorm and heavy rainfall conditions have been attributed to monsoon trough line running close to the foothills of the Himalayas. The trough line is an elongated low-pressure area which stretches from west to east and monsoon rainfall normally hinges along it. The daily weather bulletin issued by Patna Meteorological Centre on Friday evening stated that southwest monsoon had been active in the state during the past 24 hours. The places which received significant rainfall in the state included Triveni in West Champaran (140mm), Bikram (110mm), Kesariya and Bhore (70mm each), Hathua, Bagaha, Katoria and Gaunaha (60mm each). Anand Shankar, meteorologist at Patna Metrological Centre, said rainfall was witnessed at majority places in Bihar in the last 24 hours. “Monsoon trough line is passing along the terai region in Bihar, due to which few districts in north Bihar adjacent to Nepal are likely to witness heavy to very heavy rainfall in the next 48 hours. Majority districts in north Bihar and some districts in south Bihar are likely to witness heavy rainfall during the same time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-issues-red-alert-for-heavy-rain-in-north-bihar/articleshow/76900951.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 11, 2020||Patna||Covid testing resumes at Gaya hospital, suspect dies||GAYA: Testing for Covid-19 resumed at Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College (ANMMCH) on Friday. According to the medical college principal, Dr HG Agrawal, “The testing kit was received late on Thursday evening. Tests were suspended for two days due to non-availability of the kit.” Meanwhile, one Covid-19 suspect died at level-three ward of special ANMMCH on Friday afternoon. Confirming the death, hospital nodal officer Dr NK Paswan said that in the morning the patient was brought to the hospital in a critical condition. “Swab sample has been collected. The suspect’s body will be disposed off as per Covid protocol. The principal added that two types of Covid-19 confirmatory tests are being conducted. Besides the RD- RP test conducted through additional attachment in the TrueNat machine, RT PCR test was also being done in the microbiology department of the college. “The test capacity has now gone up to 300. Earlier, it was about 100. The microbiology department of the college has also received 500 samples from Muzaffarpur,” said Dr Agrawal. Asked about the criteria being followed in respect of the two tests, the principal said there was no hard and fast rule in this respect and any sample can be put to any test. “As of now, 32 covid patients are undergoing treatment,” said the nodal officer. Dr Paswan further said that according to the revised guidelines, admitted patients having shown no symptoms during the last ten days and were being discharged without any further test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-testing-resumes-at-gaya-hospital-suspect-dies/articleshow/76901166.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Business||Pay restored, to cut monthly burn: Zomato||BENGALURU: Zomato has said that revenues in the fiscal ending March 2020 grew 105% to $394 million, compared to last year, while losses stood at $293 million — an increase of just 5%, according to its unaudited results. The online restaurant discovery and food delivery platform said in a blog post that in July it expects revenues of $23 million, which is about 60% of its pre-Covid-19 pandemic peak, but monthly losses will come down to $1 million. For context, Zomato was losing $45 million a month in March 2019 and $20 million in October 2019 which came down to $1.5 million in June this year. The Ant Financial-backed company has also started making Rs 27 per order in Q1FY21 as against losing Rs 47 per order in Q1FY20. As its business recovers, Zomato said that it has also reinstated salaries of its employees who faced cuts since April and is paying back all the deductions. In addition, it has also given employees who took a voluntary salary cut additional ESOPs worth three times the amount of deduction as a reward. “We expect to make a complete recovery over the next 3-6 months, while continuing to maintain tight control on costs/profitability,” said the company founder Deepinder Goyal in the blog post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pay-restored-to-cut-monthly-burn-zomato/articleshow/76900860.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Patna||Patna: Train passengers to undergo home quarantine for 14 days||PATNA: Passengers reaching by trains from different parts of the country will have to go for 14-day home quarantine. Railways has issued an advisory based on the Patna DM’s directive on Friday in the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases. East Central Railways (ECR)’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the ministry of home affairs (MHA) had also issued an advisory recently for home quarantine of passengers travelling by flights, trains or road transport. According to the CPRO, about 11,000 passengers were reaching Bihar every day from New Delhi and about 5600 from Mumbai. Besides, passengers were also coming from Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Pune, Secunderabad, Ahmedabad and other places in large numbers. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said railways will strictly follow the advisory for the passengers reaching Patna district. “Railways has passengers’ details. Thus, it will ensure that they follow home quarantine norms during their stay in Bihar,” he said . Sunil said the DRM office in Khagaul has been closed from July 10 to 16 as per the lockdown advisory issued by the Patna DM. “Railways has decided to utilize this period to sanitize the entire office building and strengthen further safety measures related to coronavirus,” he said. Offices of the essential services like Danapur control room, Patna Junction station superintendent and all other station masters’ offices on Patna-Gaya, Jhajha-Patna-Buxar-Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya Junction, Bakhtiyarpur-Rajgir and Kiul-Gaya sections will function as usual during the lockdown period. “Each employee belonging to essential service category has been asked to follow health protocol strictly while on duty. Wearing face mask, gloves, sanitization and maintaining social distancing are other advisories issued by the railways on Friday,” the DRM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/train-passengers-to-undergo-home-quarantine-for-14-days/articleshow/76901068.cms||Kumod Verma
July 11, 2020||Patna||Lockdown effective in most Bihar districts||NAWADA/ KHAGARIA/ARARIA: Complete or partial lockdown enforced in several districts including Khagaria, Nawada, Buxar and Araria among others on Friday, was by and large effective as most people preferred to stay indoors In Nawada, by and large no commercial activity was witnessed on Friday, the first day of the three-day lockdown. Shops and commercial establishments remained shut. However, despite intense police patrolling and appeals by the administration to remain indoors, some people were seen moving on the roads without masks. In Khagaria, residents thronged markets to buy essential commodities on the first day of lockdown in early morning hours. A number of people, however, were seen moving in the market without wearing face mask and not maintaining social distancing. In Araria, DM Prashant Kumar C H issued an order on Friday to enforce complete lockdown till July 19. Earlier on July 9, the DM had already issued an order for partial lockdown till July 25. The order stated that all government and public sector offices will open only three days in a week, that also from 10am to 1pm. The offices will remain open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The order issued on Friday on the other hand, imposed restrictions on commercial activities, but allowed grocery shops and others dealing in essential items to open in different time slots. Besides, there will be restriction on vehicular movement, except essential goods carrier, ambulance, government vehicles, fire brigades and emergency vehicles. Private vehicle owners are required to obtain a pass from the district administration or district transport office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-effective-in-most-bihar-districts/articleshow/76901190.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Nine more cases push Salt Lake Covid count to 764||KOLKATA: As the fresh containment-zone lockdown entered its second day, Covid figures in Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area continued to increase with another nine reported on Friday. This has taken the total case count to 764. There has been a massive increase in the number of cases in the past week. In the entire month of June, 339 cases were reported and the total figure stood at 480 on June 30, the first 10 days of July have already witnessed an addition of 284 cases. Civic officials said councillors of the affected areas were keeping watch on the situation while police and the block committees were reaching out to the affected families to provide help. “A helpline has been set up by the block committees and cops so that those in the containment zone can call us up during any difficulty,” said Bidhannagar Ward 28 councillor Banibrata Banerjee who lives in FD Block. Four houses in the block feature on the containment zone list. In Duttabad, where the Barpara area at back of Tarun Sangha Club in Ward 39 has become a containment zone, the civic authorities are regularly conducting drives to spread awareness about masks and crowds. In New Town, the NKDA has chalked out an action plan in case any containment zone comes up there. However, the authorities are continuing with the Covid-preventive campaigns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/9-more-cases-push-salt-lake-covid-count-to-764/articleshow/76901038.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rights body notice to Rajasthan govt over RTE norms||JAIPUR: Taking suo moto cognizance of the TOI report titled ‘New norms keep pre-primary classes out of RTE Act ambit’ published on July 4, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), Delhi has served a notice to the state government seeking its response on one of the guidelines related to the Right to Education (RTE) admissions within seven days. The letter was issued on Friday. This year, the state in its RTE guidelines issued on July 4, stated that admissions under RTE 2020-21 will be given in Class I or entry-level above I. The move has disallowed the beneficiary students of pre-primary education in private schools have caught the attention of the NCPCR. The letter reads, “The said guidelines issued by the state department for admission under section 12 (1) (c) are violating the provisions of the act and by doing so the state is not only violating the basic provisions of the act but also misinterpreting the role and powers of re-appropriate authorities under the Act.” The letter signed by chairperson of the NCPCR Priyank Kanoongo explained that pre-school shall be the entry point for the admission under Section 12 of RTE Act. Hence, the guidelines issued by the elementary education are in contravention to the provision under the Act while quoting the Section 2 of the Act. The letter acknowledges that the state is empowered to issue guidelines related to the said Act, however, any deviation of change in provision under the Act amounts to a violation of the central Act. “The appropriate government may, by notification, make rules, for carrying out the provisions of the act. Section 38 (2) of the act, enlist the specific matters that the state rules may provide rules either partially or fully like reimbursement of expenditure to private schools,” said the letter. The news report highlighted the impact of the provision on the economically weaker and disadvantaged groups. Last year, out of 2.10 RTE quota admissions, 1.20 lakh students were given admission in pre-primary classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rights-body-notice-to-govt-over-rte-norms/articleshow/76901623.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Two olive ridley turtles rescued in Udupi||Udupi: Two injured sea turtles have been rescued and are being treated in Kundapur. Forest Department officials along with volunteers from Clean Kundapur Project and Field Services and Inter-cultural Learning - India, rescued the two olive ridley turtles to the ReefWatch Marine Conservation Centre, in Kundapur on Thursday. Dr Shantanu Kalambi, veterinarian, Reef Watch Marine Conservation said the turtles are being given fluids and treated for their wounds. He is assisted by Dr Medha Rao. The rescue operation was supported by range forest officer Prabhakar Kulal. Dr Shantanu told TOI that last month they recorded at least 14 dead sea turtles from Gokarna to Mangaluru. Many sea turtles had died after getting entangled in fishing nets. “Out of the eight reported stranded sea turtles over the last 10 days in Kundapur, two were severely injured while one was found dead,” he said. Ghost nets are discarded fishing nets disposed of in the sea and are a growing problem in coastal areas. They cause the deaths of numerous marine species and studies have shown that they can hamper fish stocks over time, especially in areas under intense fishing pressure. “We hope the fisheries department takes cognizance of this growing issue and establish proper disposal systems for fishing nets going forward,” Dr Shantanu added. Last year, Marine Megafauna Stranding Network had documented the carcasses of 36 sea turtles and eleven dolphins across Karnataka’s coast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/two-olive-ridley-turtles-rescued-in-udupi/articleshow/76900541.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: High-rises not on list enforce own safety rules||KOLKATA: As Covid cases get reported from high-rises and gated communities with increasing regularity, residents of several complexes that do not figure on the containment zones list have put in place measures keeping their own safety in mind. “There have been multiple Covid cases in our complex. The latest was just two days ago and the family members of the person are yet to be tested. We have appealed to the local councillor and the police to implement lockdown protocols in our complex. But they say Covid cases in our complex don’t feature on their list. We are worried and are maintaining every possible precaution individually,” said a senior citizen in Merlin Warden Lakeview in Ultadanga. Deepak Jaiswal, president of the complex association, said the situation was under control. “There have been only two positive cases in our complex of 275 apartments. We are maintaining precautions and every common space is sanitized multiple times a day,” Jaiswal said. Some complexes have started implementing near-lockdown norms. “We have stopped entry of guests and have asked grocery and food trucks selling essentials to be stationed outside the complex. The sports arena which was opened for residents in the unlock phase has been closed again and there is also a bar on movement of drivers,” said Sunil Agarwal, a resident of South City complex where residents from multiple families have tested positive in the past few weeks. Some complexes, like South City Galaxy on Elgin Road, have once again barred entry of part-time domestic helps, drivers and e-commerce delivery personnel. Guests are allowed, but only a select few. “We are taking all precautions possible on our end to limit the spread of infection. We are also asking residents to not step out of the complex unless necessary and always with masks on,” said Amarjit Banthia, a senior resident of the complex. At Urbana, a resident tested positive on Friday, but the four persons have been cured. The number of active cases in the complex off EM Bypass stood at eight on Friday evening. “We are extremely concerned since around 1,800 outsiders enter our complex everyday. We had tried stopping them, but faced resistance from a section of the 750-odd flat-owners. We were expecting an instruction from the government, but found our complex didn’t feature on the containment zone list. However, the local police station officers are regularly in touch with us. We are maintaining whatever precaution is possible. But unless the entry of outsiders can be stopped, it will be difficult to contain the infection here,” said Debjani Mukherjee, senior VP, facility management of Urbana Residential Complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-rises-not-on-list-enforce-own-safety-rules/articleshow/76901048.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 11, 2020||Vadodara||Life triumphed in Vadodara amid lockdown: Survey||VADODARA: While the effectiveness of the lockdown to prevent spread of Covid-19 may be debated, details gathered by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) reveal that it did save lives even if these were not necessarily related to Covid-19. As a part of its efforts to keep track of Covid-19 cases and deaths, the administration had taken the decision of monitoring daily deaths in the city. This was done by taking daily reports from crematoriums and burial grounds in the city. “We wanted to see if there is any trend of undetected Covid-19 deaths. Interestingly, we have seen an actual decline in total number of deaths for Vadodara in 2020 in the months of March, April, May and June when compared to 2018 and 2019,” said officer on special duty for Vadodara for Covid-19. While the reason for the decline would need a detailed study, sources said that fatal accidents and mishaps of various kinds had gone down significantly during the lockdown. With lesser anxiety and tension related to work, studies as well as exam and issues, deaths due to stress-related ailments may also have come down, the officer opined. Sources said that since people were not eating out and staying less outdoors in general, they did not contact several other infections. The period also saw lesser prevalence of vector and water-borne diseases. An official in the civic body said that a minor part in the fall in last rites could also be that bodies of many who died outside Vadodara may not have been brought to the city due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/life-triumphed-in-vadodara-city-amid-lockdown-survey/articleshow/76899569.cms||Sachin Sharma
July 11, 2020||Mumbai||Two teens beat odds, score big||Two teens have fought tough circumstances to score well in ICSE. Worli’s Arijeet Patil (17), who is visually impaired, got 96%. Khar’s Beacon High School student said, “My biggest hurdles were maths, science and geography. I had to imagine formulas as symbols so that I could use, say, a square symbol for square root.” Patil aims to be an advisor in IT and social science field. Ayush Rathod (16) from Thane’s Billabong High International School scored 87%. He was heartbroken when he couldn’t take his boards last year as he was diagnosed with bone cancer. He was treated but was again detected with it before this year’s exams. “I had made up my mind to take the exams though I was in chemotherapy till almost a month before the date.” Rathod aims to be an automobile designer. — Shrutika Sukhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-teens-beat-odds-score-big/articleshow/76901597.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
July 11, 2020||Patna||‘Viksit Bihar-Nitish Kumar’ is new JD(U) slogan for Bihar polls||PATNA: JD(U) national general secretary (organisation) R C P Singh on Friday said the party would go to the forthcoming assembly polls with the slogan of ‘Viksit Bihar- Nitish Kumar’. Addressing a virtual meeting of the party’s Mahadalit cell through social media platforms, Singh asked the members to keep their morale and willpower high because they have a leader like Nitish Kumar who has vision and dream for a developed Bihar. “This time, we will go to the election with the slogan of ‘Viksit Bihar-Nitish Kumar’ and do more work for development and progress of the disadvantaged class in the next tenure,” he said. Making a veiled attack on the leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for tendering an apology for the “mistakes that might have been done during the 15-year-rule of his parents from 1999 to 2005”, Singh told the JD(U) workers, “Your leader (Nitish) do not require to tender apology for any work he did in the past.” Singh said Babsaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar ensured participation of the members of disadvantaged communities in the Parliament by providing them reservation. “Nitishji extended that reservation up to the panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) in Bihar in 2006. He provided 16% reservation to the members of scheduled castes in the PRIs,” he said. Singh also attacked RJD for not providing quota to Mahadalit community in the PRIs. He also pointed out that Nitish constituted a State Mahadalit Commission and later formed a Mahadalit Vikas Mission for overall development of the communities identified as Mahadalit. He said the total budget for the welfare of SC/ST in Bihar was just Rs 40 crore in 2005. “Today, it has increased to Rs 17,415 crore. It shows Nitish government’s commitment for development of the Mahadalit community,” Singh said. JD(U)’s Mahadalit cell’s state chief Rubel Ravidas presided over the virtual meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/viksit-bihar-nitish-kumar-is-new-jdu-slogan-for-state-polls/articleshow/76900850.cms||Madan Kumar
July 11, 2020||Business||Covid may hit 40% of banks’ capital: Kotak||MUMBAI: Veteran banker Uday Kotak has said that around 40% of the banking sector’s capital base could get impacted if 4-5% of their loans turn bad due to Covid. Kotak has said that the financial sector will need recapitalisation despite some profits from bond valuations. In his annual letter to shareholders, the MD & CEO of Kotak Bank said that the financial sector will end up bearing the costs of Covid that cannot be borne by businesses or the government. “The banking sector’s loan book is around Rs 100 lakh crore and the total capital of all banks is Rs 11-12 lakh crore. So if 4-5% of the loans turn bad, the capital position would get impacted by around 40%,” he said. Pointing out that Kotak Bank was among the earliest to raise Rs 7,400 crore through a qualified institutional placement, he said that “only the strongest boats will see through the storm”. He added, “A fortress balance sheet is a must and this was one of the objectives of the bank’s qualified institutional placement.” Explaining the buoyancy in the capital markets despite the global economic slowdown triggered by Covid, Kotak said, “First, there has been a significant monetary expansion by central banks worldwide. Second, investors and analysts have already discounted earnings downside for FY 2021 and are looking at earnings of FY 2022 and FY 2023.” He added that the government and industry should take a leaf out of the capital markets and not worry too much about the current fiscal year but plan and work towards a medium-term growth strategy. While lending in the post-Covid world, Kotak said that the bank would stick to sectors that it is comfortable with, be cautious of companies with fixed high operating costs and be mindful about dealing with companies with high leverage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-may-hit-40-of-banks-capital-kotak/articleshow/76900737.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Varanasi||Property of Mukhtar Ansari’s aide seized in Jaunpur||VARANASI: In its drive against the network and economic empire of the jailed mafia don Mukhtar Ansari, the police confiscated properties worth Rs 3.71 crore of one of his aides and fish mafia Ravindra Kumar Nishad in Jaunpur district on Thursday. According to Jaunpur SP Ashok Kumar, Nishad’s properties including a shopping mall worth of Rs. 2.9 crore at Jogiyapur, vehicles, house, and bank balance have been confiscated under Gangster Act. Nishad was arrested on July 4 and booked under Gangster Act. In Mau, the wife of a henchman of Mukhtar was also booked for procuring arm licence by hiding the crime history of her husband. Mau SP Anurag Arya said that a case was registered with Kopaganj police against Sarojlata Pandey, wife of Rakesh Pandey alias Hanuman Pandey for hiding facts in procurement of a gun in 2005. Earlier, the properties of over Rs 6 crore of another jailed mafia don Dhruv Singh alias Kuntu Singh, who hit the limelight after the murder of former MLA Sarvesh Singh Sippu in 2013, had also been confiscated in Azamgarh district. The confiscated properties included two houses and a plot in the name of Kuntu’s wife Vandana Singh and a polytechnic college campus. Kuntu is presently lodged in Ballia jail, He is involved in 40 cases including murder and others. Besides, the Mau police had also confiscated property worth of over Rs 60 lakh of Mukhtar’s sharp-shooter and land mafia Brijesh Sonkar, who was booked under Gangster Act. He was co accused with Mukhtar in Ram Singh Maurya murder case in Dakshintola area in Mau, in 2010. Mukhtar’s associates have been in police radar since the drive against the organised gangs started in May end. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said the drive against the mafia elements, gangsters and their close ones would continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/property-of-mukhtars-aide-seized-in-jaunpur/articleshow/76900448.cms||Binay Singh
July 11, 2020||Hubballi||Asha workers stage dharna||Hubballi: Boycotting their Covid-19 duties, ASHA workers staged a dharna as part of their state-wide agitation, here on Friday. Bharati Shettar, an office-bearer of Karnataka State Samyukta ASHA Workers’ Association (KSSAWA), said that from tracing contacts of infected patients to raising awareness about Covid-19 among the public, ASHA workers have been at the vanguard of Karnataka’s fight against the pandemic. “We want the government to provide us personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and a hike in honorarium to Rs 12,000 per month. However, our demands are not being met, nor have we been called to discuss these issues. As many as 42,000 ASHA workers have been visiting each and every household across Karnataka.” “We have been instrumental in reaching out to nearly 1.6 crore households, many of which were in containment zones. We have been deployed at fever clinics, for collecting swabs and have been working in tandem with screening teams. The Union health ministry too has appreciated the role of ASHA workers of Karnataka” she added. Another leader, Sujata Hiremath, said that Asha workers were working without PPE kits at their workplaces, while an error in the software used by them had made uploading of data an onerous task. “We have been demanding that our monthly honorarium be fixed at Rs 12,000. Since the government has turned a deaf ear to our pleas, we have stopped working from Friday, till our demands are met,” she stated. ASHA workers Laxmi, Vinoda Manvachari, Laxmi Sambalmath, Manjula Badiger, Sarvamangala Kodihalli and Swapna Raikar were present at the protest, and submitted a memorandum to the Hubballi taluk health officer on the occasion. Surveillance affected HDMC Commissioner Suresh Itnal said that surveillance work was partially affected at the buffer and containment zones in the city, due to the strike by ASHA workers on Friday. “ASHA workers play a crucial role in surveying the health of residents. We wish that they resume work at the earliest,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/asha-workers-stage-dharna/articleshow/76899629.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Mysuru||Mandya clash: Ex-MLA taken in procession after getting bail||Mandya: Former Congress MLA Rameshbabu, who was arrested on Thursday for assaulting the driver of an earthmover during an encroachment drive at Arakere in Srirangapatna, was released on conditional bail on Friday. He and his supporters turned the occasion into a grand celebration, throwing Covid guidelines to wind, thereby incurring public wrath. Shockingly, though the celebrations took place right in front of the police station, cops remained mute spectators. Rameshbabu was arrested by Arakere police when he and his supporters attempted to stop a drive by the PWD officials and police personnel to raze illegal structures in the village during road widening work. The situation turned tense after Rameshbabu attacked the driver of the JCB vehicle and assaulted him. He was arrested and produced before the additional district judge. However, Rameshbabu was granted conditional bail on Friday. After hearing that he would be released, hundreds of his relatives gathered in front of the police station, unmindful of Covid protocol. None of them wore masks. The former MLA was taken out in a procession by his supporters who didn’t care a hoot about social distancing, even as the police personnel, who should have dispersed the crowd and taken swift action against those who were violating Covid guidelines, silently watched the procession. When questioned, a senior police officer said that he would seek a report from local police about the purported violation of Covid-19 norms and check visual evidences before initiating any action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mandya-clash-ex-mla-taken-in-procession-after-getting-bail/articleshow/76900890.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Rajkot||Temple town Dwarka under water even after three days||RAJKOT: Flood waters in temple town Dwarka are yet to recede even after three days of heavy rain . The main markets of Dwarka and Okha towns are in knee-deep waters, damaging goods and properties of nearly 300 shopkeepers. Videos showing the traders’ plight have also gone viral. In Dwarka, many residential areas are still waterlogged and houses inundated. These include those in Iskcon gate to Rabari gate, Teen Batti Chowk and others. According to sources, flood water has also entered banks, post offices and restaurants. Old Bhimgaja lake started overflowing near Dwarka town amid fears of damage to around 1,000 villagers of the nearby Rajpara village. They were evacuated on Thursday night. However, after the situation turned normal the next day, people returned to their homes. District collector NK Meena said, “Dwarka received its annual average rainfall in just two days, which made the situation very difficult. We have got a 100 HP pump from Gandhinagar and four 50 HP pumps from corporates to pump out flood water. We expect to finish the task by Saturday morning.” Meena said that the government has approved storm water drainage line for Dwarka, work for which will start after monsoon. “We hope to complete it before the next monsoon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/temple-town-dwarka-under-water-even-after-three-days/articleshow/76900441.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Kolkata||Containment zones shuffled, Kolkata now has 28||KOLKATA: The containment zones in the city saw a change on Friday, barely a day after Kolkata witnessed the establishment of 25 such zones. There was an addition of three new containment zones, taking the overall number to 28. In reality, the city managed to shed some containment zones and added six. Among the notable containment zones that went off the list are Satyam Towers in Alipore, Motilal Basak Road in Kankurgachhi and GS Road in Kasba. The containment zone count in the state, however, is now 463. Three of the six new zones are in south Kolkata and the rest fall in eastern suburban Kolkata. In the south, a few blocks of Garcha Road in Gariahat, Bakulbagan Row in Bhowanipore and a portion of Pran Nath Pandit Road in Ballygunge feature on the list. A part of P9 Block of CIT Road, a complex on Maniktala Main Road and a few blocks of Ramkrishna Samadhi Road have also made it to the list. Police and KMC sources said that more areas are likely to be excluded in the weekend after several patients reportedly recovered from Covid. Similarly, a decision on possible additions is also awaited. These changes, said sources, may be limited to the sub-clusters within a containment zone or might affect the zone as a whole. “We are taking another look at the list. There are some suggestions about certain areas in the eastern suburban and south divisions too,” said a KMC official. On Friday, there were instances of violation of lockdown protocols at containment zones in multiple pockets that alerted the city police commissioner Anuj Sharma who visited several spots. Sharma started his visit from Ultadanga, followed by Telengabagan, Beliaghata, Girish Park and the rest of the city. “I asked everyone in the containment zones to follow the lockdown norms,” Sharma told reporters during the visit. Till Friday evening, most complaints of violation came from the Bijoygarh neighbourhood, where family members of a Covid patient even left their home by removing barricades. “When we informed cops, officers knocked on their door, but they refused to open,” said an elderly resident of the area. At 9am at Ultadanga’s Karbagan, a number of residents were found trying to enter and leave the locality. The breach was later “rectified” after cops fortified the barricades. In some containment zones, like Karbagan and Hazar Basti, KMC conducted swab tests. At the mixed zones, testing was carried out even in apartments. In addition to containment zones, restrictions were also imposed in some other pockets leading to confusion. Garia Balia resident Partha Sarathi Chakraborty said, “The roads leading to our houses were closed even though the area is not on the list. Cops have asked us to not to move out of our houses for seven days.” “Our area is not on the list, but cops said three residents had recently tested positive, which led them to seal the area as a precautionary measure,” said Upasana Saha, a resident of Selimpur . Similar instances were reported in Baguiati’s Jagatpur and Dum Dum’s Italgachha Road, where cops only allowed shops selling essentials to stay open, but only till sundown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-containment-zones-shuffled-city-now-has-28/articleshow/76901016.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 11, 2020||Kolkata||Bidhannagar gets new police commissioner||KOLKATA: The Bengal government on Friday posted Mukesh as the new police commissioner of Bidhhannagar while outgoing commissioner L N Meena became IG of CID. Recently, Anand Kumar had been posted as another IG of CID while Vishal Garg was posted as IG of North Bengal. Mukesh was earlier DIG (Murshidabad) range. That post has been given to Sunil Choudhary, who was serving as DIG, CID (operations). Ranendra Nath Banerjee, who was joint commissioner (headquarters) of Bidhannagar police, has been posted as DIG (border), IB. Officials hinted that more transfers were on the cards before the Puja. This week, SP of Midnapore (east) Indira Mukherjee was transferred as SP of STF and Sunil Kumar Yadav was posted in her place. L N Meena was posted as commissioner in May 2019, soon after the 2019 LS polls. Before that, he had been the commissioner of Asansol-Durgapur police. However, before Meena became Bidhannagar commissioner, four officers had been transferred within a week. N Ramesh Babu, who was posted as commissioner by the EC, was shifted to his old posting and Gyanwant Singh, who was commissioner earlier, became ADG (law and order). On two successive days, Nishat Pervez and B L Meena were posted as police commissioner of Bidhannagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-gets-new-police-commissioner/articleshow/76901060.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Police rope in SPC to tackle spurt in student suicides||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Police are trying to tackle the extraordinary situation of rising suicide tendency among schoolchildren by using their peers. Police will be forming a 15-member team of student police cadets in each district to act as student counsellors to interact with the vulnerable category among students. These teams will work as part of the ‘Chiri’ project that is being implemented by the state government’s Our Responsibility to Children programme. According to officials of the project, the service of student police cadets will be used as a follow-up action to cases handled by the professional counsellors. The state police have set up a facility named CAP (Children and Police) Centre in the capital city. The centre will act as a helpdesk where officials of police department along with professional counsellors will be assigned. Parents, who suspect that their wards are going through emotional problems, can sought the service of this helpdesk and the counsellors here will over their services over phone. If necessary, face-to-face counselling sessions will also be provided. The role of Student Police Cadets comes in the second stage. The selected cadets will be assigned to contact the students who had sought the service of the Chiri helpdesk at regular intervals and interact with them. “The basic idea behind utilizing student police cadets is to be there as a friend for the vulnerable group and listen to their problems,” said an official of ORC. With schools remaining closed due to the lockdown induced by Covid-19 pandemic, the children may not be able to share all their problems with parents and this lack of avenues to share their emotional problems is assumed to be the reason for the rise in suicides among students. The cadets will be given training for this task too. The helpdesk will become operational soon and the helpline number will also be given out in the coming days. It was on Thursday, during his news conference the chief minister announced that the number of cases of alleged suicides among children under the age of 18 had alarmingly increased during the lockdown. Since March 25, there has been of total of 66 cases of child suicides reported in the state. The reasons cited for these suicides are varied. While some allegedly committed suicide for being scolded by parents for not attending online classes, there are others who allegedly chose to end their lives after being caught watching explicit videos online. Broken relationships between parents too is another concern. The government has also formed a high-level committee to conduct a detailed probe into the suicides reported during the lockdown. Fire and rescue services director R Sreelekha will head the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-rope-in-spc-to-tackle-spurt-in-student-suicides/articleshow/76899962.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
July 11, 2020||Business||Vodafone Idea pays off Rs 1,252 crore bonds with Franklin||MUMBAI: Financially stretched telecom services provider Vodafone Idea has made a full payment of Rs 1,252 crore on its bonds to the six debt funds of Franklin Templeton MF that are proposed to be closed down. The payments from Vodafone Idea, which include principal and interest, will allow the fund house to pay the investors in these funds, later in the month, a press release said. The bonds matured on Friday and was paid back in full, the fund house said. In January this year, Franklin Templeton MF had downgraded its holdings in these bonds and had created separate books, called ‘segregated portfolios’ in industry parlance, for each of these six funds, which held only the Vodafone Idea bonds. The fund house said of the total amount it’s received from Vodafone, its Ultra Short Bond Fund received Rs 804 crore, Low Duration Fund Rs 198 crore, Dynamic Accrual Fund Rs 96 crore, Short Term Income Fund Rs 86 crore, Income Opportunities Fund Rs 47 crore and Credit Risk Fund Rs 22 crore. The Rs 1,252-crore payment from Vodafone is the ‘full and final payment’ for the segregated portfolios and will be made by extinguishing all the outstanding units held by each unit holder in those portfolios. Investors who hold units of these funds, in physical or demat mode, are expected to receive their share of the amounts between July 14 and July 20, the fund house said. On April 23, Franklin Templeton MF had announced closure of these six debt schemes. However, after that decision, several investors moved court and finally the Supreme Court transferred all the cases to Karnataka HC, where the proceedings are currently on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/voda-pays-off-rs-1252cr-bonds-with-franklin/articleshow/76900648.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Residents criticize stringent move, raise concerns over poor planning||PUNE: Citizens have criticized the government’s decision to impose a 10-day stringent lockdown in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Local resident stated that such actions will not yield positive results. Many residents have questioned how the lockdown would help contain the spread of the virus and stressed on the need to spread awareness as well as crack down on people flouting the norms. Malav Parekh, a working professional from the city, said, “First, there was a lockdown followed by creation of micro-containment zones to check the spread of the coronavirus. Another purpose of such zones was to ensure that people living outside of these particular areas can slowly start getting back to normal life. Such abrupt decisions will impact everyone’s lives. How will people continue to live without opening their shops or resuming business? The government isn’t thinking of the people at all. No tax exemptions or relaxations have been offered for anyone. How will people survive another phase of lockdown?” A resident of NIBM road Shaheen Ghasia pointed out, “This is extremely poor planning. One announcement of a lockdown that is going to start four days later has created so much panic among the citizens. People started queuing up outside stores to buy groceries and other items as soon as the announcement was made. What if this turns into a long-term lockdown, like we had to face earlier this year, because it does not look like the cases will drop in a period of just 10 days.” A Kothrud resident Girish Jalan said that perhaps lockdown relaxations should not have been offered at all. “The planning of the lockdown has been extremely bad. The authorities were aware that the number of cases would increase once the lockdown rules were relaxed. Mission Begin Again should not have been announced at all until we had a better control on the spread of the coronavirus,” Jalan mentioned. Another local resident Yuvraj Chaudhary shared, “Awareness and enforcement are the key factors that contribute towards checking the spread of the coronavirus. Now that we are going into a lockdown once again, can we say for certain that the number of cases will not spike once again after the lockdown is lifted? We need long term solutions to the issue at hand rather than such abrupt decisions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-criticize-stringent-move-raise-concerns-over-poor-planning/articleshow/76901625.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||17 more containment areas in city||Ahmedabad: The AMC on Friday added 17 more societies in the micro-containment list. With this, the number of micro-containment zones has increased to 171. Sixteen houses of Anand Flats in Bapunagar with a population of 80 persons were removed from the list of containment areas. The 17 new areas have 488 houses and a population of 2,019. Six are in the western part of the city. The societies in the western part include two floors each of Mangaljyot Apartment (Jodhpur Crossroads) and Palak Enclave near Prernatirth Derasar (Jodhpur) in South West Zone, while two floors each of Block I and A in Alaknanda Residency (Chandlodia), two floors of Block C and three floors each of Block D and F in 42 Park View Residency (Gota) and house No. 41 to 54 in Aarti Tenement in Ghatlodia.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/17-more-containment-areas-in-city/articleshow/76901085.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Pune||Traders concerned about losses over 10 days||Pune: The Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) has also opposed the lockdown citing heavy losses already incurred by all traders. “There has been no income but expenses have been constant, in terms of salaries, loan instalments and interest, electricity and utility bills, shop rent, household expenses and others. We are not in a position to bear more expenses after staying in a lockdown for over 100 days,” the federation stated. The traders added that after analysing the three-month-long lockdown in detail, they have realized that keeping shops shut is not a solution for preventing the spread of the coronavirus. “Only cracking down on shops and keeping them shut will not contain the spread of the virus. There is a need to crack down on citizens as well. People can be seen flouting rules like moving around without masks, riding double seat on two-wheelers and so on. We appeal to the government to avoid a lockdown and allow shops to keep functioning throughout the week. Stringent action must be taken against shops that are flouting norms,” the federation mentioned in a letter addressed to the chief minister, deputy chief minister and senior authorities in the city. Earlier this week, members of the trade association met with Rajya Sabha MP and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar to petition for a larger space to shift wholesale markets away from the city centre. The meeting was termed fruitful as Pawar assured them of a follow-up with the state government. However, now, with the lockdown announced in the city, the focus has once again moved away from development issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traders-concerned-about-losses-over-10-days/articleshow/76901630.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Fredy Bosco admits to hiring Prijin before firing incident||By: N V Ravindranathan Nair KOLLAM: The owner and captain of fishing vessel St Anthony that was involved in the Enrica Lexie case said Prijin A used to work for him, but denied the boy was on the boat when it was fired upon in February 2012. Speaking to TOI over the phone from Poothurai, Fredy Bosco said he used to hire the boy, one of his relatives, whenever there was a shortage of hands. The boy’s father, Antony Pillai, too, used to work for Fredy. TOI had reported on Friday that Prijin’s family had approached the central government seeking a compensation of Rs 100 crore from the Republic of Italy. The family had claimed that Prijin, then aged 14, was part of the fishing crew, when Italian navy marines aboard Enrica Lexie fired at the boat, killing two. It was alleged that Fredy shifted the boy to another boat mid-sea, before proceeding to Neendakara harbour. The boat with Prijin reached the Kerala coast two days after St Anthony’s arrival, his mother and sisters claimed. The family said Prijin was an assistant cook on the boat. Fredy kept the name of Prijin under wraps, fearing criminal proceedings for employing a minor. There were reports that Fredy had admitted it to some media persons in Kollam. The boy’s family claimed that he had slipped into severe depression after the incident and committed suicide on July 2, 2019. On Prijin’s suicide, Fredy offered a different motive. He said a love affair with a girl from a rich family led to his suicide. “The girl's family was opposing to their relationship. The day before his suicide, the girl’s uncle had a quarrel with the boy. Prijin’s mother, who got angry over the affair, also scolded him,” Fredy said. The man said he suffered the most following the incident. While the families of the two fishermen were given Rs 1 crore each, he got only Rs 17 lakh. Of the Rs 17 lakh, he shared Rs 8 lakh with the other eight fish workers and used some for repairing his boat. During the Okhi disaster, he lost a boat and incurred huge lose. “Following Okhi, I decided to stop fishing and started a small fabric shop adjacent to my house on my wife’s advice,” he said. Peter Mathias, state president of All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators Association said that they had no knowledge about the presence of the minor boy in the fishing vessel involved in the case. He also added that what happened to the fishermen and boat owner was unfortunate, and the country could not bring justice to their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fredy-admits-to-hiring-prijin-before-firing-incident/articleshow/76901090.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Mumbai||Patient flees hosp, found dead on road||Kalyan: A 50-year-old Covid -19 patient on oxygen support died after fleeing a civic-run hospital in Dombivli on Thursday night. Local residents spotted him 100 metres from Shastri Nagar hospital and alerted its staff. According to the locals, some hospital employees reached the spot in 30 minutes and took him to the hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The incident has raised questions about how the patient could flee despite guards being posted at the hospital. He was admitted on July 7 with breathing problem. A passer-by, Vikas Khairnar, told TOI, “On seeing the patient I called up the hospital on its landline number but no one answered, so I went there personally.” Khairnar said it took around 30 minutes for staff to come to the spot and take the patient to the hospital. Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation-run Shastri Nagar hospital’s chief medical officer, Suhasini Badekar, said, “Our records show our staff last checked the patient at 7.30pm, after which they were busy identifying and wrapping up the body of a Covid-19 patient. The 50-year-old patient took advantage as no one was inside the ward and fled.” The hospital claimed they were providing proper treatment and he did not have any complaint against staff. But Dombivli activist Mahesh Nimbalkar said the patient may have tried to flee due to improper facilities and demanded action against the staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/patient-flees-hosp-found-dead-on-road/articleshow/76902121.cms||Pradeep Gupta
July 11, 2020||Dehradun||Two Ayurvedic docs held in admission scam||Haridwar: Two Ayurvedic doctors were arrested on Friday in connection to an alleged admission scam at a college in Haridwar. Police claimed that the accused doctors prepared fake documents of aspiring students and gave entrance exams in place of them. Earlier, police arrested 14 accused in the matter, while these two doctors were absconding. They have been identified as Dedar Singh, resident of Kichha in Udham Singh Nagar district, and Gaurav Tamta of Bairinag in Pithoragarh. Both were practising in Rudrapur city, said police. SHO city police station Amarjeet Singh told TOI, “A case was registered in 2016 after an admission scam surfaced in Haridwar. Police arrested 14 accused in this case earlier and now two doctors in connection with this scam were arrested. Both are doctors of the 2013 batch and currently worked as ayurvedic doctors in a private hospital in Rudrapur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-ayurvedic-docs-held-in-admission-scam/articleshow/76899966.cms||MS Nawaz
July 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: The big, fat, ‘affordable’ Malayali wedding||KOTTAYAM: Marriages, candle light dinners and honeymoons at luxury hotels and resorts are no longer a preserve of the elite class, thanks to Novel Coronavirus.After a lull, the tourism sector has been slowly picking up and high-end hotels and resorts have started offering attractive packages, eyeing the middle class. High-end resorts have launched special packages for marriages, honeymoon and other family functions by strictly adhering to Covid-19 protocols. The Taj Hotel at Kumarakom has come up with a special marriage package at Rs 90,000. The package for 50 people, the maximum number allowed for a marriage, includes lavish menu, two rooms for bride and groom’s family for eight hours and a complimentary first night stay for the couple in their luxury villa with a candle light dinner. For many, the amount seems reasonable as the rent for a hall in the nearby Kottayam town during the pre-Covid era was around Rs.1 lakh. "We started this package last week," said a hotel official adding that the hotel has also started giving takeaways at affordable rates for local residents. Raj Gopaal Aiyer, CEO of Uday Samudra group of hotels, said their wedding packages at the resort in Kovalam ranges from Rs.75,000 to Rs 2.5 lakh. "We have already conducted several marriages and have introduced a concept called ‘room dining’. We have converted our rooms into dining areas. Guests can dine-in in separate rooms maintaining social distancing," he said. Prasad Manjali, director of Contour Island in Wayanad, said the resort has become the most sought-after honeymoon destination. "Despite the pandemic, marriages are taking place by following government guidelines. However, there are no places for the newlyweds to go for honeymoon," he said. Considering this, we have introduced honeymoon packages at Rs 9,999 for two nights, he said, adding that we have even launched a package for families who want to relax at a tourist destination without affecting online classes of their children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/the-big-fat-affordable-malayali-wedding/articleshow/76899972.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
July 11, 2020||Nashik||Phone to the rescue of jail inmates barred from meeting kin||Nashik: With authorities of Nashik Road Central Jail not allowing inmates to meet their relatives to prevent the chances of Covid-19 outbreak in the premises of the prison, people lodged in the jail are making use of the phone facility to keep in touch with their near and dear ones. The phone facility had been installed in the premises of the prison for the convenience of the inmates even before the pandemic. Superintendent of Nashik Road Central Prison Pramod Wagh said that though the number of relatives coming to meet the inmates of the jail had plummetted significantly after the lockdown, jail authorities have barred people from coming to meet the inmates given that the threat of Covid-19 is still looming large. Senior officials at the Central jail said every day, they allowed some 100 inmates to meet their relatives who came to meet them at the jail. “Thus, on any given day, there would be 500 people in the premises. If we still allowed relatives to come and meet their relatives, it would have increased the chances of infection,” said officials. Officials said so far, not a single Covid-19 case has been reported inside the jail. Jail authorities have also made a separate arrangement for undertrials at a nearby school where 150 people can be kept.There are approximately 3,000 inmates lodged inside the Central jail, of which 400 have been released on bail as per government instructions in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Officials said that another 700 inmates would be released on bail soon.-Santosh.Sonawane||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/phone-to-the-rescue-of-jail-inmates-barred-from-meeting-kin/articleshow/76898922.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 11, 2020||Dehradun||Three held in car advert scam||Dehradun: Dehradun police on Friday arrested a gang of three who allegedly duped several local residents in a car advertisement scam worth lakhs of rupees. The three accused, Udit Chaddha, Sohail Ahmed and Raghav Gupta, all natives of Jammu, launched an advertisement company, through which they offered an attractive buy-a-car-and-advertise scheme. “Under the offered scheme, the customers were supposed to pay only 20 per cent down payment for the new car and rest of the amount was promised to be paid by the company against displaying advertisements on the new vehicle for next five years,” said Arun Mohan Joshi, Dehradun SSP. Complainant Ehsaan Ahmed said the accused also promised him and other victims to pay Rs 11,000 as a booking fee for the new vehicle. However, when he reached the company’s office, the office was locked and the mobile numbers were all switched off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-held-in-car-advert-scam/articleshow/76899973.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||CM lays foundation stone for Ooty medical college hospital||Udhagamandalam: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday laid the foundation stone for the medical college hospital in Ooty through video conference from Chennai. A sum of Rs 447.32 crore has been sanctioned for the new medical college hospital extending to an area of 40 acres. While the share of the central government stands at Rs 190 crore, the contribution of the state government is Rs 135 crore besides an extra fund of Rs 122.32 crore towards extra budget considering the hilly terrain of the district. The government has also sanctioned a helipad for the new government medical college hospital to facilitate heli-ambulance.The upcoming medical college will have 150 seats. With 21 departments, the medical college hospital will be provided with 650 beds.As in the first stage, a sum of Rs 110 crore and Rs 50 crore has been released by the Tamil Nadu government and the central government respectively. While the cost of the proposed medical college construction is estimated at Rs 141.30 crore, the medical college hospital is at Rs 130.27 crore. Construction of staff quarters and students’ hostel is estimated at Rs 175.75 crore.Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said the facility is a boon to the local indigenous and the tribal people besides the estate workers.Later, a ‘bhoomi puja’ was conducted at Indu Nagar in the presence of Divya, Ooty medical college dean Dr. Ravindran, Nilgiris SP V Sasikumar and MLAs of the three constituencies in the district, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cm-lays-foundation-stone-for-ooty-medical-college-hospital/articleshow/76901632.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Singer Sidhu Moose Wala fails to join probe||PATIALA: Despite being asked by the court 10 days back to join investigations within a week, controversial Punjabi singer Shubhdeep Singh — popularly known as Sidhu Moose Wala — has failed to turn up for the probe so far. While granting bail to Moose Wala on June 30 in a case over use of firearms at Ladda Kothi police firing range in Sangrur, the court had asked him to join the investigations within seven days. The deadline ended on July 7, but the singer is yet to show up for the probe. When contacted, investigating officer in the case SP Gurmeet Singh said the singer has sent his medical report, stating that he is not keeping well and is unable to join the investigations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/singer-moose-wala-fails-to-join-probe/articleshow/76901627.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||Campaign begins in Jaipur to create awareness on traffic fines||JAIPUR: The city traffic police on Friday started a week-long campaign to raise awareness about the changes in the penalties for violations that are compoundable. The officials said that during these seven days they will make the motorists aware about the fines, which have been increased as per the national Act brought in last year but implemented in the state from Thursday. The traffic police will start imposing the revised penalties once the campaign ends. Adarsh Sidhu, the newly appointed DCP Traffic said, “As the state government has issued notification for revision of various compoundable traffic offences, it was decided that initially a grace period of one week should be followed to make the motorists aware about the penalties. During this week, we have planned various activities to make the public aware.” According to officials, street plays, flexi banners, rallies etc will be used throughout the week to raise awareness. “The traffic personnel at various junctions will also educate the motorists about the violations and the revised fines. After the week long campaign, we will start implementing the fines,” added the DCP. The penalty rates range from Rs 100 for common offences like jumping red light to Rs 40,000 for serious offences. The fine amount under the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act-2019, which came into effect from September 1, 2019.The penalty for serious traffic rule violations is as prescribed by the Centre. According to the proposal approved by the Transport Department, the penalty amount for driving offences of less serious in nature ranges from Rs 100 to Rs 1,000. While the fines for first time offenders have been kept low, the amount is increased manifolds for repeat offenders. For general offences such as red light jumping, disregarding road signs, breaking parking rules, unauthorised sirens or lights, no wipers, black filming on windows, the fine amount has been kept at a minimum of Rs 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/campaign-begins-to-create-awareness-on-traffic-fines/articleshow/76901633.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Temple, mosque to be built at new secretariat, says Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: Before the controversy over demolition of Nalla Pochamma temple and a masjid on the old secretariat premises could escalate further, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday announced that a new temple and a mosque would be constructed in the new secretariat complex. The CM’s assurance came after several religious leaders expressed unhappiness at the manner in which the temple and the mosque were brought down during the demolition of buildings in the old secretariat. Expressing regret, the CM said: “I will meet with the temple and mosque organisers soon. This incident (damage to the religious structures) happened unexpectedly and everyone should understand that there was no prejudice.” He said Telangana is a secular state and will always remain one. KCR said the government would not hesitate to spend crores of rupees on the temple and masjid. The mosque was located adjacent to the C Block where the CM used to function, while the temple was standing right opposite to the CM’s chambers. Official sources said before taking up the demolition in the early hours of Tuesday, officials performed homam at the temple. Assuaging the feelings of the religious heads, the CM further said: “I came to know that during demolition of the multi-storey old buildings, the temple and mosque adjacent to the old blocks got damaged as debris on them.” The CM said the government’s intention was to build a new complex by demolishing the old blocks without causing damage to the temple or the mosque.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/temple-mosque-to-be-built-at-new-secretariat-says-cm/articleshow/76901114.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala banks on ‘Covid-19 Jagratha’||KOZHIKODE: Covid-19 Jagratha, initially developed by the Kozhikode district administration as an online health monitoring system in the early days of the Covid-19 pandemic with the help of a small team from the district office of National Informatics Centre (NIC) and Kerala State IT Mission, has grown to become the comprehensive Covid-19 management solution for the entire state. The number of users who have accessed the web application for various services has crossed 92 lakhs within less than four months since it was launched on March 19. Apart from travel facilitation for public by registration for inbound and outbound travellers, the official machinery in the state has been banking on the web application for total Covid-19 management. It has been providing real-time information for enabling surveillance, safe travel, safe quarantine, hospital management for Covid-19 test and result recording, etc. It has become the crucial tool in the Covid-19 fight by bringing all Covid-19 prone persons into a single platform and providing information for people right from RRTs at ward and LSG level to health officials and district and state level authorities for their surveillance, monitoring of health status and management. On the ground level, the solution enables surveillance by ward RRTs, reporting of health status of quarantined people and self-reporting by those under quarantine. Any change in the health status of a person is updated in the system on real-time basis and it is made accessible to various stakeholders from medical officer to top state health department officials. The application has been developed by the district level team of DIC and IT Mission staff led by Mercy Sebastian, senior technical director and district informatics officer (DIO), Rolly T D, ADIO and Midhun Krishna C M, District project manager, Kerala State IT Mission. With the number of users touching 50,000 within one week of launch, it was developed into to a full-fledged portal with a dedicated URL and with the application which was hosted in the local server at the collectorate was shifted to the NIC data centre in Thiruvananthapuram following which a team in the state capital is also helping in the maintenance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-banks-on-covid-19-jagratha/articleshow/76899990.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Patients wait long for tocilizumab||Ahmedabad: Even as fresh cases of Covid-19 are on the rise and reached the rate of at least 800 a day, the non-availability of adequate stock for tocilizumab, an injection used for critical Covid patients remains a concern. Medicine stockists indicate that limited supply of the injections, which are imported, is causing supply chain woes and due to this, patients need to wait for around five days for the drug. “Since it is not manufactured in India, only one pharmaceutical company – Cipla is importing it and the stocks are limited. The demand is very high and it is supplied to a select few stockists only. Thus, procurement takes time,” said Devang Davawala, a medicine stockist based in Ahmedabad. “We’ve been getting inquiries from at least five patients every day; however, we are forced to turn them down. The pharmaceutical company which imports it has listed a certain supplier; however, upon approaching them the requests are usually turned down citing lack of stock,” said another chemist based in Ahmedabad. H G Koshia, commissioner, Food and Drug Control Administration – Gujarat, said, “Ever since Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) included tocilizumab in its treatment protocol for Covid care, the demand has shot up in all states. Yet, we have been trying to ensure that adequate stock of the injection is made available according to requirement. In June, some 20,000 vials were imported to India of which, 4,000 were procured for Gujarat alone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/patients-wait-long-for-tocilizumab/articleshow/76901098.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||In Andhra Pradesh, Covid patient’s family faces social boycott||VIZIANAGARAM: The Covid-19 pandemic seems to be giving rise to a new form of untouchability in Andhra Pradesh. Around 15 family members of a Covid-19 patient at Ethamanuvalasa village in Pachipenta mandal in Vizianagaram district are reportedly facing a social boycott after one member of their family tested positive. The patient’s family members are currently staying at a cowshed in the outskirts of the village as they have being barred from staying in the village. Recently, a migrant worker working in Hyderabad returned to his home at Ethamanuvalasa and was staying with his family. A few days ago, he tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to a Covid Care Centre and the health department asked his family to stay in home quarantine. However, on suspicion that the family members of the patient may spread the virus, the villagers boycotted the family from the village and asked them to stay in the cowshed in the village outskirts. The family is facing immense difficulty in finding food and other essentials. They have appealed to authorities to shift them to a quarantine centre. However, officials of the medical and health department say that they are not aware of the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-patients-family-faces-social-boycott/articleshow/76901099.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Inter-agency coordination, quality info must for air action plan||Nagpur: To strengthen the city’s air action plan, inter-departmental and inter-state coordination mechanisms along with integrating city-specific source information on pollution trends is needed. This and various other aspects related to mitigating air pollution in the city were discussed during an online convention ‘Determining an Action Agenda for Improving Air Quality in Nagpur post-Covid-19’ held recently. TOI has been reporting how the city’s ambient air quality has drastically improved post the lockdown. During the convention, Leena Buddhe, director of Centre For Sustainable Development (CFSD), and Sudhir Paliwal, convener of Vidarbha Environmental Action Group, demanded that Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and other NGOs and organizations representing citizens should be involved in the plan for better transparency and effective implementation. Sub-regional officer of MPCB Hema Deshpande stated the monitoring data showed a substantial dip in PM 2.5 and PM 10 values during the lockdown. Neeri director Rakesh Kumar stated there were several valuable lessons learnt during the Covid-19 lockdown, which need to be kept in mind. He also emphasized that citizens’ participation was crucial in fighting air pollution. Buddhe stressed on the need for elected representatives, including the mayor, to be a part of the steering committee as it will “help ensure accountability and also keep people updated about the implementation of action plans.” Supporting her demands, Paliwal stated the city’s clean air plan had been made for the benefit of citizens but they were not aware about its content and had never been even once consulted for their views. Stating that the city had an excellent mobility plan, Sameer Deshkar, assistant professor at department of architecture and urban planning at Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, said, “Post Covid-19, public transportation needs to be re-imagined. Plans related to promoting non-motorized transportation in the city only remain on paper.” Highlighting the need for revisiting the clean air action plan, founder of Waatavaran Foundation Bhagwan Kesbhat said, “We need to understand the challenges faced by local implementing agencies and identify how we can build back better post the Covid-19 pandemic. This has to be a people’s movement where citizens work hand-in-hand with the government to reduce emissions and make air clean.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/inter-agency-coordination-quality-info-must-for-air-action-plan/articleshow/76901639.cms||Manka Behl
July 11, 2020||Chennai||Chennai bypass could turn model NH at Rs 90 crore||CHENNAI: Users of the 32km Chennai Bypass can look forward to having a pleasant drive as the road could get a Rs 90 crore facelift. It is part of a national drive to modernise national highways. The entire stretch — from Perungalathur to Madhavaram — will be lit up without a dark spot and a proposal for the project has been sent by NHAI officials in Tamil Nadu to their headquarters. It includes setting up vertical gardens at designated spots on the road, modernising toll plaza with multiple lanes and upgrading several other features such as signages and crash barriers. Pawan Kumar, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) regional officer of Chennai and Madurai regions, told TOI, “We will take up tender process for the project once we get the approval. It will be a model for other NHs in the region.” The Chennai Bypass is one of the 57 stretches across the country selected under a special project for upgradation. In all, 1,735km of NHs near various state capitals would be upgraded as model NHs, said another senior official. “The programme is aimed at maintaining the highest standards of road safety and artistic beauty,” said the official, noting that it would help the state score some points as the NHAI introduces a ranking system for roads. Under the project, the existing toll plaza at Vanagaram will be demolished and a modern plaza would come up at a cost of Rs 15 crore. It will have 18 lanes to reduce waiting time for vehicles at the plaza. Porur bridge, Maduravoyal flyover and four other spots along the stretch would turn into a cynosure as they have been identified to set up vertical gardens, to give a soothing effect to the eyes of the travellers. Safety features, keeping the pedestrians as focal point, will be given paramount importance under the progamme. “CCTV cameras will be installed at vulnerable locations,” said an official. The NHAI would gradually replicate the model along other main stretches in TN, Pawan Kumar said. “We are also planning to take up a few of the NH stretches in Madurai region. We have asked the officials to identify suitable stretches to improve standards under the programme,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-bypass-could-turn-model-nh-at-rs-90cr/articleshow/76901130.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
July 11, 2020||Pune||Politicians and retd bureaucrats question curbs||Pune: Politicians and retired bureaucrats have questioned the administration’s decision to announce a 10-day total lockdown from July 14 in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits and parts of rural Pune at a time when economic activities were slowly returning to normal. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday issued a statement that “such tough decisions have to be taken when people don’t follow rules” and cited the increased Covid-19 cases in Thane as the reason for the locdown there. However, there was no word from the administration on any lockdown in Mumbai, which also has more patient load than Pune. Of the 95,647 active cases in the state, Thane and Mumbai’s shares were 30,977 and Mumbai 23,035, resectively. Pune has 18,680 cases.(till 8pm on Friday). Pune MP Girish Bapat said lockdown was not the solution to tide over the Covid-19 crisis. “It is just the easy way out. On the one hand, the state government is announcing unlock measures. On the other hand, a lockdown is announced here without any discussion with the people’s representatives.” A former bureaucrat, who did not wish to be named, said, “Lockdown is an easy thing for the administration to do. But it weighs down heavily on the citizens. When businesses were slowly commencing, the administration should have provided some solutions. Instead, it went for a lockdown.” Another former senior government official said he could not understand the logic of the 10-day toral lockdown. “It defies scientific understanding. If cases are rising, solutions to that cannot come in 10 days,” he said. Dheeraj Ghate, leader of the house in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said, “The total lockdown across the city will cause more harm than good. Focusing on ways to ensure discipline in daily lives should have been the way forward for the administration.” Ajay Shinde, city unit chief of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS), said, “The civic administration should have taken efforts to curtail activities that are causing the virus spread. Sale of gutka and tobacco is rampant.” Aam Aadmi Party’s Pune chief, Mukund Kirdat, said, “The city’s healthcare system has several loopholes. Oxygen and ventilator beds are inadequate. The government is failing in strengthening the healthcare infrastructure.” NCP city chief Chetan Tupe said, “The non-containment zones in the city have also seen a large number of positive cases. The lockdown will help the administration curb the Covid-19 spread.” Ulhas (Aba) Bagul, leader of Congress in the Pune civic body, said a balance between the day-to-days life and measures to curtail the spread of coronavirus should be maintained. “However, if people are not adhering to the government’s orders, stringent actions are a must,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/politicians-and-retd-bureaucrats-question-curbs/articleshow/76901635.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 11, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Unoccupied for 27 years, Tardeo tower to be razed||MUMBAi: An 11-storey Tardeo building that has been “95% complete” for 27 years will be demolished ultimately. The structure has been at the centre of a court battle between the builder, who wanted to demolish it on the grounds that its condition had deteriorated, and flat buyers who were opposing it. Seven months ago, the Bombay HC had referred the building, Pushpakunj, to a civic technical advisory committee to take a call on the structural stability after perusing two opposing reports last year. The BMC panel has said the building needs to be “vacated and demolished immediately”. It found the structure had “deteriorated and was dilapidated” and said “it may collapse, endangering life and property”. It falls in the C-1 category of dangerous buildings “beyond logical repair and unsafe for habitation”, the panel added. Although 95% complete, the building was never occupied as the 5% unfinished work had left it without an occupancy certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/unoccupied-for-27-years-tardeo-tower-to-be-razed/articleshow/76902128.cms||Swati Deshpande
July 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala minister puts ball in TN court||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Expressing helplessness to act based on the report of a minor boy aboard fishing vessel St Anthony, fisheries minister J Mercykutty Amma, on Friday, said it was up to Tamil Nadu to initiate further action, since the teen hailed from that state. The security detail of Italian tanker Enrica Lexie had opened fire at the boat, killing two fishermen, some 20 nautical miles off the Indian coast on February 15, 2012. The boy, Prijin A, was witness to the high-sea killing, which affected him and consequently, he committed suicide in July 2019, according to his family’s lawyer Yash Thomas Munnally. The family, residing in Kanjampuram, Kanyakumari, is now seeking a compensation of Rs 100 crore. Responding to a TOI exclusive, “14-year-old was on boat when Italian marines shot two dead,” the minister said nobody had pointed it out during the thick of the controversy or the protracted legal battle that followed. “It’s for the first time that we came across such a report. The Kerala government doesn’t know anything about any underaged boy on the fishing boat,” she said. Kollam MP N K Premachandran said the claims of the boy’s family calls for a reinvestigation of the firing case that is nearing conclusion at the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague. “I have no clue about the boy or the complaint filed with the central government. If the claims made by the family through the advocate are true and tenable, they shouldn’t be denied justice. They should be compensated adequately. For that to happen, a reinvestigation of the case would be required,” he said, adding that it was intriguing that the family members remained silent all these years. National Fish Workers Forum general secretary T Peter expressed doubts over the Kanyakumari family’s claim. “Our workers have actively intervened in the case from day one. We have never come across any such incident even in casual talks with others in the boat,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/minister-puts-ball-in-tn-court/articleshow/76901138.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Grocery shops and petrol pumps gear up for scramble, once again||PUNE: Citizens began scrambling for essentials, as well as liquor, within an hour or so of the announcement of another lockdown in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and other parts of the district starting July 14. Sources in the retail grocery and liquor industry said the rush was likely to increase on Saturday and Sunday, as the city prepared to go in another lockdown. Grocery retailers began getting calls from customers for orders of essential supplies, with many fearing that the dearth of items could once again become the new normal. Sachin Nivangune, president of the Pune District Retail Traders’ Association, told TOI, “Within an hour of the news going live on social media and news channels, people began flocking grocery stores. Many started calling the retailers to place their orders, as they feared a shortage of supplies.” Mulchand Chowdhary, the manager a grocery mart in Model Colony, said, “By 4:30pm, queues began forming and we saw 20-25 customers all at once at the store. They mostly wanted essentials such as milk, bread, flour, oil and pulse.” A source in the liquor retail industry said by 4:30pm on Friday, customers began flocking wine stores. “Customers at the shops have been few at any time during the last few weeks. After the news of the lockdown began circulating on Friday, we saw a change: queues began forming outside wine shops as customers started panic buying out of fear that wine shops would also close during the lockdown,” he said. A wine shop owner told TOI, “There is likely to be a mad rush at wine shops from Saturday. Many functional shops had queues of 20-25 people easily by Friday early evening.” Sameer Ladkat, president, Petrol Dealers Association, Pune told TOI that the rush at the petrol pumps also increased after the lockdown announcement. “After 4pm on Friday, petrol pumps recorded an average increase of 10-15% in customer footfall. We expect the rush to increase on Saturday.” People had finally resumed normal lives. But the sudden announcement of the made them wary of what is likely to follow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/grocery-shops-petrol-pumps-gear-up-for-scramble-once-again/articleshow/76901637.cms||Neha Madaan
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Old City sees heavy bandobast||Hyderabad: The police on Friday made elaborate bandobust amid reports of a possible protest against the demolition of a mosque and a tempple at the secretariat. Rapid action force and local police were deployed in and around the Mecca Masjid. Many Muslim organizations, including United Muslim Forum, have criticized the state’s decision of razing the places of worships. While police pickets were posted at many mosques in the south zone, sleuths of the state intelligence department and special branch were also pressed into service. Meanwhile, MBT spokesperson Amjedullah Khan Khalid was placed under house arrest at his farm house in Chandrayangutta area. Khalid on Friday filed a complaint with Saifabad police against KCR in connection with the demolitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/old-city-sees-heavy-bandobast/articleshow/76901131.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP to follow NCERT on alternative calendar||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh school education department has decided to follow the guidelines issued by the National Council of Education Research and Training (NCERT) with regard to the alternative academic calendar till the time schools reopen. Institutions affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will adhere to the instructions of the board. The NCERT recently issued an eight-week alternative calendar for the primary stage. The calendar lays down guidelines for teachers on use of technology and social media on imparting education in interesting ways. The alternative calendar also takes into account the varying levels of access to such tools. The Andhra Pradesh school education department has however already developed a 10 week-long bridge course for children at the primary stage. The course material has already been distributed among children and is being followed since June. Now, teachers and headmasters have been asked to develop such material for children from classes 6 to 10 under the guidance of SCERT. In a proceeding issued to all district education officers and other officials, the school education department asked them to ensure that no private un-aided school commence their regular academic activities until reopening of schools. Officials have been asked to ensure that all the academic activities, which are being done by the private school managements with respect to Covid-19 pandemic, should be aligned with the alternative academic calendar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-to-follow-ncert-on-alternative-calendar/articleshow/76903778.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Revamp plan for Meharchand market gives traders hope||NEW DELHI: After more than two years, there is finally a glimmer of hope for 135 sealed shops at Meharchand Market on Lodhi Road as South Delhi Municipal Corporation is considering a report on a redevelopment plan. The chief town planner of the town planning department has submitted a report to the standing committee according to which a floor area ratio (FAR) relaxation of up to 350 will be permitted for all 152 shops in the market and the traders will be allowed to rebuild their shops. The entire cost of redevelopment will be borne by the traders and a uniform building plan will be provided for individual units comprising two and half floors in addition to basement. Out of the 152 shops, 114 have a plot area of 36.69sq m while the corner shops have 40sq m. A senior official said the plan was discussed in Friday’s meeting and will be taken up again in the next meeting. The layout scrutiny committee has recommended that all existing structures will have to be demolished and the front corridor in the redeveloped market will be strictly meant for pedestrians. “All plastered walls and columns will have beige-colour finish up to the bottom of signboards on the ground floor while high pressure laminate cladding of maroonish red colour will be maintained above it for visual harmony,” the plan states. All shutters will be painted silver while verandas and steps will be paved with ruby red granite stones. The Meharchand market traders association estimates that each allottee is expected to pay around Rs 4 lakh for regularisation. Located right next to the Lodhi art district, the market houses designer boutiques, fancy restaurants, trendy cafes, jewellery shops and modern salons. Once perceived as an extension of Khan Market, it witnessed a turnaround in fate in January 2018 when most shops were shut on orders of a Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee for violating building norms and constructing beyond the permitted 150 FAR. During Partition, single-story shops with a veranda were allotted to refugees. “Over a period of time, most turned them into two-to-three-storey buildings. The market already had rampant violations when it was handed over from the central Land and Development Office to the corporation in 2006,” an official said. Ashok Sakhuja, who heads the market association, said the plan had been shared with them. “It will help in desealing the shops,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/revamp-plan-for-meharchand-mkt-gives-traders-hope/articleshow/76901642.cms||Paras Singh
July 11, 2020||Dehradun||SIT probe ordered in ‘encroachment’ on Municipal Council land||Mussoorie: The commissioner of Garhwal has ordered a SIT probe in the matter involving alleged encroachment and sale of Mussoorie Municipal Council (MMC) land located at Kincraig. In a letter sent by commissioner Ravinath Raman to the state secretary of urban development, he has mentioned that an inquiry conducted into this matter by the district magistrate has revealed that a sale deed of the said MMC property was done with the intention of obtaining ownership of the land illegally. Thus, he has ordered a departmental probe against the MMC as well and a SIT probe against those accused of making efforts to illegally obtain the ownership of MMC land. Speaking to TOI, MMC chairman Anuj Gupta said that this matter pertains back to the period between 2007 and 2010. “I have asked MMC officials to examine and verify all lease agreements that were issued by the MMC at Kincraig and submit a report. We will ensure that stern action is taken against those found guilty,” Gupta told. It must be mentioned that in 1995, the MMC had given its land on lease to a social club to build a vocational training centre for youth. In 2007, the club transferred the lease of the said land to a private party and the then chairman of MMC gave written acceptance of this lease transfer. Subsequently in 2010, the club ostensibly “sold” the building on the said MMC land to the private party for consideration of Rs 3 lakhs. Earlier, the commissioner of Garhwal initiated an inquiry through the district magistrate on the basis of the complaint filed by a social activist. During the probe, certain anomalies came to light. Meanwhile, the persons allegedly accused of “selling” the MMC land have given written statements in the office of Tehsildar (who was conducting the probe). They have mentioned that they have only sold or purchased the building that was constructed on the said land and that the ownership of the land remains with the MMC. “These allegations are baseless. We have followed all legal procedures and are not engaged in any illegal activity,” said Sunil Goyal, who currently runs a petrol pump on the said property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sit-probe-ordered-in-encroachment-on-municipal-council-land/articleshow/76900028.cms||Anmol Jain
July 11, 2020||Dehradun||As Nepal plays irate tunes on border dispute, U’khand officer mellows pitch in song ‘for Nepal’||Dehradun: An officer in Uttarakhand hopes to achieve with soft power what political representatives have been trying to secure for a while now. While belligerent songs about the India-Nepal border dispute from the other side of the border — ‘Humra Ho Lipulekh, Humra Ho Kalapani (Lipulekh and Kalapani should be ours)’ and ‘Lutiago Humro Bhoomi (our land was stolen)’ — top the charts on local radio stations, Bhupendra Basera, senior private secretary to Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has released a song in a mellower vein in response, asking the people of Nepal why they are “annoyed” with India. “Dhamki dinya ke ho ki lai karnia bawala … Kasto bhanyo timilaye jo mitra Nepala,” goes the song, asking Nepal why it is miffed with India. And then, appealing to the ties between the two, the three-stanza song continues, “Roti beti na sambandhya ho, ekai sa hoyo humra devta, devalaya.” The placatory tone, he said, comes from an acknowledgment of belonging. “We know our beloved Nepal is doing what it is because of pressure from China,” the 42-year-old told TOI. “We must try and sort things out amicably. I am dedicating this song to our centuries-old friendship.” It is not the first song to come out of the Basera oeuvre. He has written about the Citizenship Amendment Act, the National Register of Citizens and the reading down of Article 370 over the past year with his signature tongue-in-cheek style. He was a close aide to late senior BJP representative Prakash Pant before taking on his present position. Between 1997 and 2005, he was with the Uttarakhand police force. He recorded his first song when he was still with the police, in 2001. He took a break, a long one, and after 17 years, made a comeback in 2018. He has recorded 40 songs since. And he plans to come up with more songs about the Nepal dispute, he said. As do his counterparts, channeling their collective indignation in Nepalese songs. In the villages of Uttarakhand along the Nepal border, it is not uncommon to suddenly tune into a song calling for the return of disputed border areas to Nepal. Played between news bulletins, most taunt Nepalese political representatives for “not doing enough” to get back the territories. “Many are now popular on YouTube as well,” a local in a border village said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-nepal-plays-irate-tunes-on-border-dispute-ukhand-officer-mellows-pitch-in-song-for-nepal/articleshow/76900018.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 11, 2020||Allahabad||Launch combing operations to trace corona cases: HC tells UP government||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has asked the state government to carry out combing operations to trace corona infected persons in all the districts of Uttar Pradesh, especially in Gautambudh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Agra, Bareilly, Kanpur Nagar, Lucknow and Varanasi. Hearing a PIL seeking better treatment to corona patients at quarantine centres, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar further directed that the state may also make available the rapid testing kit (antigen) throughout the state, as and when they are required by the health department. The challan money which has been collected by the state from people who were not wearing masks may also be used for the purpose of buying these kits, the court added. Emphasizing the importance of rapid testing kits, the court observed, “We also find that the rapid testing kit (antigen) has greatly assisted the health department in tracking down the people who came in contact with persons who had been found to be infected.” While fixing July 13, 2020, as the next date of hearing, the court directed the additional advocate general to inform as to how the operation of tracing, testing and treatment, which is being done in the district of Prayagraj, is also being done in the above named districts of the state. During the course of hearing, the medical department informed the court that in Prayagraj district there are 1,875 teams comprising two workers in each team who were responsible for finding out as to which of the residents of Prayagraj have been affected by influenza like illnesses. Since the Covid-19 infection is mainly increasing in the urban areas, the court was informed by the doctors present that as many as 448 teams were functioning in Prayagraj and each team was having two members from ASHA and ANM. Each team was visiting around 50 households everyday and it was informed that in the city of Prayagraj, where there are around 2,95,700 households, 22,400 households were being visited everyday and each team contacted 50 households. The doctors present informed the court that in this manner they were covering the complete city of Prayagraj in a period of 15 days. Taking the above submissions on record, the court observed, “We conclude that in the given resources the administration is doing a commendable work. However, we find that there are certain shortcomings.” First shortcoming, which the court pointed out is that the district administration and the health department have not been able to do anything worthwhile for maintaining physical distancing. Secondly, the district administration and the health department has not been able to install the testing machine, i.e., the bigger capacity RT-PCR which is being offered by the Central government and which it has been informed is not being installed as the room in which the machine has to be installed has yet not been made available. The administration informed that at least two-month time was required to build the room where the machine could be installed. The court also directed that on the next date fixed, the Prayagraj Nagar Nigam and the police administration shall inform as to why illegal kiosks near public buildings were not being removed, which are giving rise to gathering of public, thereby endangering the spread of corona. The court directed them to also bring before the court a blueprint by which they propose to maintain physical distancing in and around shops/ kiosks which are authorized to do business in the city of Prayagraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/launch-combing-ops-to-trace-corona-cases-hc-tells-up-govt/articleshow/76901026.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
July 11, 2020||Rajkot||200 Dalits threaten exodus from Rajkot’s Charel village||Rajkot: Nearly 200 Dalits living in Charel village of Jamkandorna taluka in Rajkot district have threatened mass exodus on July 13 alleging that the district collector and rural police have failed to act on their memorandum given last month. In May, a 27-year-old Dalit woman Chandrika Boricha was allegedly killed on the outskirts of the village when she was going with two other women, who are prime witnesses of the case. The accused Yuvrajsinh Jadeja had consumed pesticide to end his life and shifted to Rajkot Civil Hospital for treatment.Dalits in the village work as farm labourers, but community members allege that the upper caste people have stopped giving them work after the incident. However, Jamkandorna mamlatdar on Friday requested them not to leave looking at the Covid situation. The villagers plan to reach Rajkot collector office on July 18 and they submitted a memorandum to the collector demanding rehabilitation in other villages where they can get employment. Charel has a population of nearly 2,000 out of whom 200 are Dalits while majority are from Rajput community. They also demanded action against the police sub-inspector of Charel and taking back investigation from DySP SC/ST cell. Dalit leader Yogesh Bhasha alleged, “We have no option but to take this step because people are living in extreme poverty as they have no work. We want action against the police because PSI tried to convince eyewitnesses to turn hostile. The collector office did not investigate our allegations.”Rajkot collector Remya Mohan told TOI: “The district development officer, me and other senior officials held a meeting with them and tried convincing them not to take this step. The victim’s family also received compensation of Rs 4 lakh from social justice department and the accused is in police custody. We are doing everything to fulfil their demands."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/200-dalits-threaten-exodus-from-rajkots-charel-village/articleshow/76900638.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra ICSE success rate at 99.9%, may affect junior college admissions||MUMBAI: After months of anxiety, the ICSE and ISC results announced on Friday brought cheer to nearly three lakh students across the country. India’s success rate rose marginally to 99.3% compared with 98.5% in 2019. Similarly, ISC students bettered their performance as 96.8% passed, up from 96.5% last year. CISCE was unable to conduct six exams for ICSE students and eight for ISC due to the pandemic. For the cancelled papers, students were scored on the basis of the average marks of exams they had appeared for and internal assessment. As the board was not able to conduct all exams, it did not announce a merit list. Keeping with the national trend, the state’s ICSE success rate improved a near-perfect 99.9% from 99.85% last year. The ISC success rate, though, was marginally down to 98.5% from 99.3% in 2019. Most city schools saw a higher number of students score above 90% than earlier. The upward scores, though, are likely to impact junior and degree college admissions. As state board students have appeared for nearly all their papers, some principals say CISCE's higher scores might make the competition at top colleges fiercer. Some, though, say the Covid-19 scare could result in students selecting colleges closer to home to avoid travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-icse-success-rate-at-99-9-may-affect-jr-college-admissions/articleshow/76902139.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court dismisses PIL on K Chandrasekhar Rao’s health status||HYDERABAD: Describing it as a political gimmick, the Telangana high court on Friday refused to entertain a plea that sought to know the whereabouts of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and his health status. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this when advocate Umesh Chandra made a mention about a PIL filed by journalist Ch Naveen Kumar and sought its urgent hearing. “There is a lot of confusion and speculation on CM’s health and hence it needs to be heard,” he said. The judges told him that the CM is hale and healthy. “This is a politically motivated plea. A mere political gimmick. We do not allow this court to be turned into a platform for such purposes,” they said. The judges further said, “If the chief minister is unwell, we wish him the fastest recovery” and declined to take up hearing in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-dismisses-pil-on-kcrs-health-status/articleshow/76901158.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||12 more found Covid +ve, Chanda patient count 162||Chandrapur: Twelve new Covid-19 patients were detected in Chandrapur on Friday taking the total number of cases to 162. Five of them had contracted the infection during a marriage ceremony, health department has informed. Officials claimed four positive patients from Chandrapur city belong to Bhanapeth, Indira Nagar and Dadmahal wards. Bhanapeth resident 29-year-old had returned from Hyderabad. Indira Nagar resident 21-year-old woman and Dadmahal ward resident 21-year-old woman had returned from Hyderabad and Jalgaon, respectively. Two others including 21-year-old Secunderabad-returnee and 45-year-old Patna-returnee too have been detected positive. They all were in institutional quarantine. Four Covid patients have been detected in Somthana village in Warora tehsil. They all belong to a family and had participated in a marriage ceremony at Jalna. Another person from Bhadrawati town, who too had attended the marriage, has also been detected positive. A 27-year-old from Warora, who had returned from Madhya Pradesh, has also been found Covid positive. A seven-year-old boy from Ballarpur town has tested Covid positive. A family of five, including the seven-year-old, had returned from Mumbai in a car. Other four travellers, however, tested negative for Covid infection. As on Friday, health department has treated and discharged 93 Covid-19 patients. There are 69 patients under treatment in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-more-found-covid-ve-chanda-patient-count-162/articleshow/76901641.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Kids with speech, hearing disabilities miss out on therapy sessions amid Covid curbs||GUNTUR: Children with speech and hearing disabilities seem to be among the biggest sufferers amid the Covid-19 outbreak. The outbreak has forced most therapy centres to remain closed over the last three months and therapists don’t seem to be in the mood to return to coaching centres yet for fear of contracting the virus. Training sessions of hundreds of children, mostly below three years of age, stopped abruptly three months ago. Parents of these children are under severe mental strain as they are unable to take their kids to training centres. “We are literally panicking by the day because our child is missing the classes,” said Majula, the mother of a four-year-old with speech-related disabilities. Experts worry that many such children may cross the age of language acquisition owing to the curbs imposed in the state to stop the spread of Covid-19. “It is really painful to see children miss out on their classes. We are unable to return due to the prevailing situation,” said Dr Tanguturi Narender, a noted audiologist and speech language pathologist (SLP). Dr Narender explained that the process of language acquisition is a natural process of the brain and majority of children start learning language on their own when they are nearly nine months old. “Most children will begin spelling words by the age of three. Children who have trouble in speech may need slow and rigorous training to make them fluent in languages,” Dr Narender added. While many parents are appealing to therapists to train their children online, therapists till now have refused to take that route. Therapists say that it is very difficult to train children through video streaming which is why they are reluctant to do sessions online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kids-with-speech-hearing-disabilities-miss-out-on-therapy-sessions-amid-covid-curbs/articleshow/76901161.cms||Samdani MN
July 11, 2020||Dehradun||Safety audit of bridges in Kumbh Mela area||Haridwar: The Kumbh Mela administration is conducting the safety audit of all bridges in the Haridwar and Rishikesh region. The aim of the audit, officials said, is to ensure that no untoward incident like stampede occurs during the Kumbh mela and it will be also helpful in "crowd management". To recall, in 2010, many pilgrims were killed in a stampede that occurred on Birla Bridge in Haridwar. A joint inspection team has been created for this purpose which would involve officials of PWD, police and irrigation department of Uttrakhand and Uttar Pradesh. There are around 51 bridges on Upper Ganga canal in which some of them were built during the British-era in 1854 and these bridges are still in operation despite warnings issued by irrigation department of Uttar Pradesh. Earlier, mela administration had conducted audit on the banks of Ganga river. On Friday, Kumbh mela officer Deepak Rawat told TOI, “A joint committee has been made to conduct a safety audit of all the bridges under Kumbh mela region of Haridwar and Rishikesh area. It will help us to prevent any untoward incident.” Vikrant Kumar, SDO of Upper Ganga canal, told TOI, “We have around 51 big and small bridges from Haridwar to Roorkee in which some of them have passed its validity. We placed caution boards on bridges and asked the police to not allow heavy traffic, but these bridges are still in operation. We are also part of the safety audit committee and will raise this point in the report.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/safety-audit-of-bridges-in-kumbh-mela-area/articleshow/76900035.cms||MS Nawaz
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||Smart city official, agent held for bribe||Udaipur: A special team of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, Jaipur, arrested a financial advisor of Udaipur Smart City Limited for allegedly taking Rs 2 lakh bribe here on Friday. The financial advisor took the bribe through his agent from a contractor against passing payment bills that were pending for some months, said police. The advisor Abid Khan and his agent Arif were arrested from the USCL office situated in Udaipur Municipal Corporation campus in the afternoon. A day ago, the duo had taken Rs 1 lakh from the contractor, which was seized by the ACB sleuths in a raid from the accused's flat in an apartment in Bhuwana area of the city. Additional SP Sanjeev Nayan led the special team which conducted the trap. The main accused hails from Jhalawar and has a house in Kota. The local teams held searches in the corresponding places too.  “In a search from his Kota house, the team found documents of a plot, five bank accounts and some minor fixed deposits. Investigation is underway,” Thakur Chandrasheel, ASP Kota said. “The contractor Pravin had given a complaint to the ACB headquarters at Jaipur, against the financial advisor stating that the latter had been in practice of demanding money from him in lieu of clearing his payments for works related to the Smart City Project. Pravin had the tender for manpower supply and maintenance of vehicles used in garbage collection from various parts of the city. His bills had been due and the accused demanded Rs 3 lakh for clearing those bills,” Nayan said. On Friday, when the complainant went to the USCL office to give the bribe money, the accused called the agent who received the money from the contractor and gave it to him. The role of the accused’s peon in the bribery episode is also being investigated, the officer said. Sources said that the contractor was regularly bullied by the accused with unethical claims for money ever since he bagged the tender and the latter even threatened of cancelling the tender if his demands were not fulfilled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/smart-city-official-agent-held-for-bribe/articleshow/76901164.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Business||CIL meets 117% of Q1 capex target||Kolkata: The capital expenditure (capex) of Coal India (CIL) at Rs 844 crore during the first Quarter of the ongoing fiscal breached the provisioned target of Rs 720 crore achieving 117% of the target utilisation. A CIL official said that even amid Covid 19-induced slowdown, the current year’s first quarter capex spend was 4.2% higher compared to the same quarter of the last fiscal. CIL spent Rs 810 crore on its capital expenses in April-June 2019 period. “Though the procurement process of certain equipment was completed execution was delayed due to Covid,” he added. Capex is a key scoring performance parameter in the MoU that CIL signs every year with its administrative ministry — ministry of coal, said a senior executive of the Company. The capex utilization of the state owned Mahartana mining monolith received a boost from three of its subsidiaries South Eastern Coalfields (SECL), Northern Coalfields (NCL) and Central Coalfields (CCL) who between them accounted for 81% of the capital expenditure, ending June '20 Quarter. SECL topped the list with Rs 435 crore actual spend followed by NCL with Rs149 crore and CCL, Rs 102 crore. Of the actual capex of Rs 844 crore, Heavy Earth Moving Machinery (HEMM), other plants and machinery accounting for Rs. 393 crore was the major capex component. This was followed by the spend on coal evacuation transportation infrastructure like first mile connectivity including coal handling plants, silos, crusher, railway sidings/corridors worth Rs241 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cil-meets-117-of-q1-capex-target/articleshow/76902481.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Dehradun||Over 15k register for CM Swarozgar Yojana||Dehradun: More than 15,000 Uttarakhand locals, who returned to the state in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, have registered themselves for the CM Swarozgar Yojana. Besides, over a lakh queries have been made for the scheme under which subsidised loans are provided for starting works in different sectors. Out of the total number, 1,574 have registered in Almora, 517 in Bageshwar, 429 in Chamoli, 674 in Champawat, 3,777 in Dehradun, 688 in Haridwar, 1,390 in Nainital, 1,616 in Pauri, 353 in Pithoragarh, 2,365 in Rudraprayag, 1,818 in Tehri, 2,066 in Udham Singh Nagar, and 388 in Uttarkashi. In a bid to motivate reverse migration in the hills, the Uttarakhand government had announced Mukhya Mantri Swarozgar Yojana for all people who have returned to the state amidst the pandemic. An advance budget provision of Rs 15 crore has been made by the state for the project. The project has been divided into two sectors – construction and service. A subsidy ranging from 15% to 25% – in accordance to the project cost – would be given. A maximum of Rs 25 lakh has been permitted for the construction sector and up to Rs 10 lakh in the service sector. The state has also decided to provide loans ranging from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 25 lakh to people interested in setting up solar power plants. Interested people will be given a chance to open a 25 megawatt (MW) solar plant and the per unit price of solar price has been increased to Rs 4.49 per unit, which usually ranges between Rs 2 and Rs 3 per unit. According to the norm, any resident of the state can apply for CM Solar Swarozgar Yojana. State's urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “For a 25 MW solar power plant, any person above 18 years can apply and the plant can be set up on a 400 square metre area. The loaning provisions have been kept the same as the CM Swarozgar Yojana. This will encourage many people to set up their solar plants. These units can give them an annual profit of around Rs 80,000." Kaushik claimed that the government has set up a target of 10,000 solar power plants in the initial phase. “A unit of solar power was in the range of Rs 2 to Rs 3 but to encourage people, we have now fixed it at Rs 4.49 per unit,” the minister said. Kaushik added that by Thursday, 3.27 lakh locals, who had registered on the government's website, returned to Uttarakhand. “Several others had returned just before the lockdown as well. Therefore, we assume that around 5 lakh people have so far returned to the state,” he said. He claimed that the efforts of the state government to ensure that these returnees can start their own work in Uttarakhand has started to pay dividends. “As many as 15,109 people have registered themselves with the CM Swarozgar Yojana which aims to provide them the required financial assistance and relief in setting up their own work,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-15k-register-for-cm-swarozgar-yojana/articleshow/76900058.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 11, 2020||Dehradun||Met issue very heavy rainfall alert in parts of U’khand||Dehradun: The regional meteorological centre on Friday issued a red alert of heavy-to-very rainfall at isolated places in majority of the districts of Uttarakhand on Saturday. Districts in Kumaon division—Nainital, Champawat and, Udham Singh Nagar — are likely to receive heavy to very rain spells on July 11 while Dehradun, Tehri, Pauri, Haridwar, Uttarkashi and Almora district of Garhwal division may witness heavy thunder showers. Meanwhile, downpour in Chamoli district on Thursday night triggered recurring landslides that led to frequent blockage of Badrinath and Kedarnath highway. While the Rishikesh-Kedarnath highway remained blocked at Guptkashi, the Badrinath highway was obstructed after a landslide at Pipalkoti. The Tanakpur-Pithoragarh highway was also blocked near Delhi bend, according to state emergency operation centre (SEOC). However, the Tanakpur-Pithoragarh highway was opened after the concerned agencies cleared the debris. The obstruction at Kuhed on Badrinath highway was also cleared by Friday evening. Several places in Uttarakhand have received heavy rainfall since Thursday night. According to the Met office, Sama in Chamoli district witnessed 120 mm rain, followed by Chamoli city (90 mm), Didihat (60 mm), and Dharchula (40 mm).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/met-issue-very-heavy-rainfall-alert-in-parts-of-ukhand/articleshow/76900065.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Class X, XII results: SPM students grab top slots||Ludhiana: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) declared results for classes X and XII on Friday even as it decided against bringing out merit list this year due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Sat Paul Mittal (SPM) School, Dugri Students of Sat Paul Mittal School, Dugri, reserved the top slots in both the classes. Parents of the toppers were elated with the success of their wards. In class X science stream, Kriti Garg secured the first position with 98.8 % marks, Divyam Sareen secured the second position with 97.2 % marks and Aiman Jain secured the third position with 97.0 % marks. In the commerce stream, Prachi Bansal topped with 98.0 % marks, followed by Aarushi Sethi with 97.4 % marks and Innayat Jain securing the third position with 97.2 % marks. In class XII science stream, Suvidhi Jain secured the first position with 98.25 % marks, Hiyanoor Ghosh secured the second position with 96.5 % marks and Aakarsh Jain secured the third position with 96.25 % marks. In commerce stream, Ritin Malhotra topped with 97.75 % marks, followed by Ryna Kalra with 97.5 % marks and Aaditya Goyal and Adish Samsukha securing the third position with 96 % marks. In humanities, Mehak Bakhshi topped with 99.25 %, Palkin Lohia secured the second position with 95.75 % and Krisha Mehra secured the third Position with 95.5 % marks. Bhupinder Gogia, principal, Sat Paul Mittal School, applauded the efforts of the students and congratulated the parents and the staff for the stellar achievement. It is pertinent to mention that the CISCE will not release the merit list this time due to some exceptional circumstances. The class X and XII results of the pending papers are based on the performance of students in previous exams and internal assessment. This year, students will get digitally signed marksheet after 48 hours of the result declaration. They can download the same from DigiLocker App. The pending exam was not conducted due to the increasing cases of coronavirus. However, students of the ISC and ICSE will get option to write the remaining papers if they want to improve their marks. Optional exam will be held when the situation turns conducive. Sacred Heart Convent School, Chd Road In class X, Ratanjot Singh Chawla, Manvi Mogla and Khushal Malhotra secured 97.2 per cent marks. Second position was secured by Samreet Kaur with 96.8 per cent marks. Samridhi Aggarwal and Divya Vaid shared the third position by securing 96.4 per cent marks. In non-medical stream, Ishita Dhiman secured the first position by securing 97.75 per cent marks. Mitika Singla secured the second position by obtaining 97 per cent marks. Vaishnavi secured the third position with 95 per cent marks. In medical stream, Ridhima Khanna occupied the first position by securing 95 per cent marks, while Muskan stood second with 92 per cent marks. Third position is shared by Lakshay Gulati and Sunaina by scoring 91.75 per cent marks. In class XII commerce stream, the first position is shared by Karishma Guglani and Manleen Kaur, who scored 91.75per cent marks. Anmol Verma bagged the second position by achieving 90.75 per cent marks. Simran Kaur Chahal secured the third position by securing 88.25 per cent marks. School director Rev Fr Davis and principal Rev Sr Sherin Thomas said, “Total 196 students appeared for the examination and the school got 100 per cent pass result. Due to Covid-19, the result was made available to students through online module as safety of students is our main concern.” Sacred Heart Convent Sr Sec, Sahnewal Sacred Heart Convent Senior Secondary School, Sahnewal, locked 100 % result in the ICSE and ISC examinations 2020. In class X, Nazampreet Kaur bagged the first position by securing 97.8 %, the second position is secured by Hardil Singh with 97.4%, and the third position is secured by Ekam Saran and Gursimran Kaur by obtaining 96.2%. Many students who scored above 90% this year in class X include Arshjot Kaur (95.4%), Gurnoor Kaur and Diya Kapila (94.8%), Mehakdeep Kaur (94.6%), Simranjeet Kaur (93.8%), Azad Vashishth Gande (93.6%), Dilpreet Kaur (93.4%), Nikhil Sharma (93.2%), Ritika (92.8%), Hargagandeep Kaur (92.4%), Rishu Sondhi (91.8%), Simran Kaur Sandhu (91.6%), Mantaj Singh (91.4%), Uday Garg (90.6%) and Simranjeet Kaur (90.2%). In class XIII non-medical, Evleen Kaur secured the first position by scoring 94.8% marks. In medical stream, Jeevanjot Kaur obtained 93.3% marks. In commerce stream, Vipanpreet Kaur scored 88% marks. Students who scored above 90% are Seevam Aujla, Sanjana Sukhija, Gurjot Singh and Chirjot Singh (92%), Jaijeet Singh Dhillon, Mohit Bhatia and Jasmanjit Kaur scored 91% and Gurleen Kaur scored 90%. Rev Fr William Sahota, director and principal Rev Sr Crispin Maria DM said, “Many more students scored above 85% and brought laurels to the school. There were number of students who bagged 100% in individual subjects too. We are really proud of the achievements of our students which speak volumes of devotion and competence of our teachers.” Ram Lal Bhasin Public School, Dugri In class X, Mehakveer got first position by securing 91%, Nirmaljot scored 90% and stood second, while Srishti secured the third place by scoring 89.5%. In class II, Jasnoor Kaur secured the first position by scoring 90%, Mehak secured second position and Luv Dogra secured the third person. School president Balraj Bhasin and principal Raman Oberoi congratulated the students and their parents for their success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/class-x-xii-results-spm-students-grab-top-slots/articleshow/76900066.cms||Mehak Jain
July 11, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi to be developed as export hub of GI products: Dy CM||VARANASI: Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said that as part of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India), the parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be developed as an export hub of its fame products like Banarasi fabrics and other GI (Geographical Indication) tagged exquisite handicrafts. Talking to reporters through video conferencing on Friday, Sharma said that several schemes of MSME have been undertaken to manufacture and promote the local goods. “We intend to develop Varanasi as a ‘prerak sthali’ (inspirational place) of self-reliant India for the nation”, he said adding that the district has a potential to set an example in this regard. He said that there are schemes for the export promotion of GI certified goods. Sharma said that efforts are being taken for the promotion of tourism in post Covid time for the revival of tourism sector. Special emphasis would be given on Buddhist circuit with certain packages to attract Buddhist tourists from across the world after the Corona crisis is over. The development of Kushinagar airport as an international airport is a major step in this regard. Besides, attention would also be given on religious pilgrimage in Varanasi, which is an importance centre of pilgrimage. On the pattern of CBSE, the UP Board would also rationalize the course up to 30 per cent in view of the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, he said. As per the guidelines of the UGC, the final examinations of colleges would be conducted in the end of August or in September, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-to-be-developed-as-export-hub-of-gi-products-dy-cm/articleshow/76900464.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||College of fisheries celebrates National Fish Farmers’ Day||Ludhiana: College of fisheries at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Gadvasu) celebrated the National Fish Farmers’ Day on Friday and online tributes to fish farmers. Dr Harish Kumar Verma, director of extension education (Gadvasu), Dr R S Chauhan, dean college of fisheries, GB Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar (Uttarakhand) and Dr R A Pawar, professor, college of fisheries, Ratnagiri (Maharashtra), addressed farmers and apprise them of innovative interventions for sustainable development of aquaculture sector and role of academia – farmer linkages in technology transfer and capacity building, followed by a fruitful interactive session. Dr Hira Lal Chaudhry’s gift of induced breeding technology to ‘Blue Revolution’ in India was acknowledged through encomium address by all the speakers. An online poetry and poster-making competition on the theme “Gratitudinal Tribute to the Fish Farmers of the Nation” was also held, depicting their contribution towards food and nutritional security of the country, and entries were invited from the students of fisheries colleges of the country. Top three posters and poems were selected by a team of jury. The winning posters were displayed, while poems were recited by the winners during the meet. Dr Prabjeet Singh and Dr Sachin O Khairnar, assistant professors, college of fisheries, coordinated the meet. Dr Meera D Ansal, head, department of aquaculture, thanked the fish farmers for their outstanding contribution towards quality animal protein into the food basket of the country and making India the second largest aquaculture producer in the world. Recognising unmatched hardships and perseverance of the farming community, Dr Kulbir Singh Sandhu, dean, college of fisheries, and Dr Asha Dhawan, consultant fisheries, Gadvasu, also applauded the role of fish farmers in providing healthy nutrition to humans. KVK’s of Gadvasu situated at Booh (Tarn Taran), Majra (SAS Nagar) and Barnala also celebrated this day. Fisheries scientists working at these KVK’s also contributed their knowledge, services and expertise to uplift the fish farming in the respective areas. Dr H K Verma, DEE, interacted and appreciated the faculty and farmers of all these KVK’s through virtual platform. Congratulating the fish farmers on the occasion, Dr Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor, Gadvasu, assured continued hand holding to the farming community for sustainable development of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairy sectors of the state, through innovative technological interventions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/college-of-fisheries-celebrates-national-fish-farmers-day/articleshow/76900074.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Ooty school to turn Covid care centre||Udhagamandalam: The Good Shepherd International School will function as a 120-bed Covid-19 care centres from Monday, catering to the patients of the hill district apart from the Ooty Government Headquarters Hospital, Coonoor Government Lawley Hospital, Gudalur Government Hospital and the nodal hospital of the district, ESI hospital in Coimbatore.According to the district administration, Ooty GH will start Covid tests from Monday to ease the procedure and to minimize delay in test results.The district, which was Covid-free for 36 days till June 15, started witnessing positive cases owing to imported cases and travel history of the locals. Now, the tally stands at 181, with 127 active cases.“As the positive cases are increasing, we started treating Covid patients at the Ooty GH from last week. The Coonoor GH has also been roped in,” collector J Innocent Divya. “However, high-risk and vulnerable categories are sent to the ESI hospital. From Monday, we will utilize the facility at the Good Shepherd International School.”The Ooty GH has been provided with infrastructure and lab technicians to carry out Covid-19 tests, the collector said.While the Ooty GH has 100 beds for Covid patients, Coonoor GH has 60 and the Gudalur GH, 45.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ooty-school-to-turn-covid-care-centre/articleshow/76901651.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chennai||Parents move Madras HC over government nod to collect fee||CHENNAI: A day after the Tamil Nadu government informed the Madras high court that it had decided to permit all private schools and colleges to collect fees for the lockdown period in three instalments, a group of parents on Friday moved the court opposing the decision. “Non-government educational institutions are mandated to maintain 15% of the fee collected as reserve funds as per the bylaws of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). Such reserve fund is meant to be used during exigencies such as the Covid-19 lockdown,” advocate M Purushothaman said representing the parents. The salary component of the institutions would not exceed one-fourth of the fees collected, he said, adding that if they are permitted to collect fees, only the salary component should be allowed to be collected. He said the government arrived at the decision without consulting parents. Purushothaman made the submissions while making an urgent mention before Justice N Anand Venkatesh, who was scheduled to hear a batch of pleas moved by institutions seeking to permit them to collect fees. “Yesterday, the advocate-general submitted that the government had taken a decision and an order will be passed soon. Therefore, the pleas were adjourned to July 17. Parents can also make their representation to the AG which would be considered on July 17,” the judge said. A government affidavit filed on July 10 said educational institutions would be permitted to collect fees in three equal instalments in August, December and April 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/parents-move-hc-over-govt-nod-to-collect-fee/articleshow/76901168.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Animal rights bodies wants panel to probe death of 30 elephants||Nagpur: The country’s apex animal rights organizations have petitioned to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to create a national level committee for investigating the deaths of 30 wild and captive elephant deaths across the country. According to the data compiled by them, 30 elephants have died between May 27 and June 29, following the death of elephant Soumya in Kerala by consuming a fruit snare with explosives. The incident had created a national outrage. In a letter to union environment minister Prakash Javadekar and officials, animal welfare organizations Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organizations, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals India, People for Animals Goa, Let it Live Tree Foundation, Kodaikanal Society for Protection and Care for Animals and a few others have stated that elephants were an endangered species and protected under the International Union for Conservation of Nature and United Nations Convention for Migratory Species. “They are officially recognized as a national heritage animal in India with the highest protection under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972,” they added. The documented deaths are from states of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Assam, Meghalaya, Uttarakhand and Kerala. According to activists, the deaths in most cases seemed to be deliberate killings that demand an investigation. “In some cases, it is even clear the deaths are linked to networks of illegal poaching for ivory. They indicate a growing pattern of abuse and violence,” activists wrote to the minister. The concerned activists have demanded stricter laws for the protection of elephants. At present, the forest department remains the primary custodian of all elephants whether captive or wild. Under Section 9 of Wildlife Protection Act, hunting of animals is a crime with an imprisonment for a term that can extend up to three years or minimum fine of Rs10,000. Activists have demanded that the scope of Section 9 should be extended to protect elephants from criminal violence against them. They have said the national level committee should have representatives from investigating agencies, forest departments, wildlife crime control bureau and other experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/animal-rights-bodies-wants-panel-to-probe-death-of-30-elephants/articleshow/76901648.cms||Manka Behl
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi lost 6% of its GDP to bad air in 6 months: Study||NEW DELHI: Of the 28 metropolitan cities around the world, Delhi has borne the highest economic cost — 5.8% of the GDP — due to air pollution in the first six months of the year despite the lockdown, a new online analysis by IQAir AirVisual and Greenpeace Southeast Asia has found. The study estimated that Delhi lost around 24,000 lives in the first half of 2020 due to high PM2.5 and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels, while the economic cost was around Rs 26,230 crore (US$3.5 billion). It analysed 28 major metropolitan cities and found that air pollution impacted 1-5.8% of the city’s GDP, depending on the varying levels of pollution. These costs included absences at workplaces due to sick leave, number of people suffering from asthma and asthma-related trips to hospital, years of life lost and years lived with the disability and preterm births. “Despite cleaner air because of the lockdown, pollution continues to be a serious public health crisis and a threat to our economy,” said Avinash Chanchal, climate campaigner, Greenpeace India. Chanchal added that as the governments looked towards rebuilding economies, it was more important than ever that investments were directed toward green, just and sustainable sectors. “Rather than providing a last lifeline to the fossil fuel industry, we must invest in more economically viable solutions like renewable energy and clean-powered public transport systems, which also help the less privileged,” he said. In Mumbai, air pollution from PM2.5 and NO2 was responsible for the loss of an estimated 14,000 lives and a cost of Rs 15,750 crore (US$2.1 billion) since January 1. These figures were expected to grow further in winter. The study was built on a similar tool developed by Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA), which pegged Delhi on top of the list of metros that were most impacted by air pollution, followed by Beijing, Mumbai, Shanghai, Jakarta, Guangzhou, Bangkok, Moscow, Hong Kong and Seoul. The other causes for consideration included prevalence of risk factors for chronic diseases and level of healthcare services available. “In Delhi, non-communicable diseases and lower respiratory infections have been intensified by PM2.5 and NO2, resulting in deaths, years of life lost and years spent living with the disability. Lower respiratory infections in children have resulted in deaths and years of life lost. Over 4,000 new cases of asthma in children have been attributed to high levels of NO2,” said the CREA analysis. Subsequently, the number of children suffering from asthma increased by 16,000. Exposure to PM2.5 led to over 15,000 asthma-related emergency room visits for children. The costs of children’s lives lost due to PM2.5 reach $310 million, said CREA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-lost-6-of-its-gdp-to-bad-air-in-6-months-study/articleshow/76901654.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan dams spring back to life after first spell of monsoon||JAIPUR: Many water reservoirs in the state have got a new lease of life from the first spell of southwest monsoon. Bisalpur Dam, Jawai Dam and other dams in the state have witnessed elevation in their water levels, while some of the dams are yet to see any rise in their water levels. Despite a deficit rainfall, many districts have witnessed a good amount of rainfall which has brought good water in the catchment areas of some of the dams in the state. Rana Pratap Sagar in Chittorgarh had received a good monsoon rainfall due to which it currently has 2,094.450 cusec metre of water against its full capacity of 2905.230 cusec metre. “Presently, it is 72% filled and it needs two good spells of monsoon. We have set up our flood control cell and are ready to welcome monsoon,” said an engineer at the dam. Bisalpur Dam that caters to the drinking water and irrigation needs of Tonk, Ajmer and Jaipur was merely 5.93% filled last year prior to the onset of monsoon is presently 55% filled. “It was 56% filled prior to the monsoon so it needs good rainfall in its catchment areas to get further elevation in the water levels. So far, water has depleted from the dam,” said an officer at the dam. Similarly, other dams including, Mahi Dam (Banswara), Kota Barrage (Kota) and Jawahar Sagar have got elevated water levels due to good first spell of the monsoon. “Hadauti region always gets a good monsoon. Even in the first spell, except for Bundi, most of the other districts in the Hadauti have got good rainfall and all the dams have got their water level up to 90%. As a contingency plan, if excess rainfall takes place in rest of the spells of the south-west monsoon, we will have to figure out safe areas to release water,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-dams-spring-back-to-life-after-first-spell-of-monsoon/articleshow/76901170.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Workers unpaid, waste piles up in Chitlapakkam||CHENNAI: Residents of Chitlappakkam now live amid a constant stink as garbage collection in 18 wards in the suburb has come to a standstill. The conservancy workers have not been paid salaries and this was the reason for the civic chaos, an official from the panchayat said. President of Chitlapakkam Muthulakshmi Nagar Welfare Association, L Sundararajan said members of ‘Kizahdi Women Self Help Group’ were engaged in door-to-door garbage collection in the area. “They collected waste from every street with tricycles and minivans. But the garbage collection was stopped as the panchayat had not paid salaries of the workers,” said Sundararajan. When a petition to this effect was sent to the chief minister’s cell last month, workers collecting garbage on tricycles were paid but not those who collected waste in minivans. An official from the panchayat, on condition of anonymity, confirmed to TOI that there were salary dues. “Due to non-payment of charges, garbage collection from 60% of the streets in Chitlappakkam and door-to-door garbage collection have been affected,” the official added. With fear of Covid-19 all around, residents fear the uncleared, rotting garbage will be an added threat to their health, Sundararajan said. Chitlappakkam has 365 streets with more than 50,000 people living in nearly 10,000 houses. Garbage is currently being collected from only 11 of the 365 streets and garbage is piling up in front of every household in the remaining streets, he added. When contacted, executive officer of Madambakkam town panchayat, Ganesan, who is also in charge of Chitlappakkam, said while issues over payment of salaries were being sorted out. “Those collecting garbage on tricycles have been paid. Soon, the issue with minivans will be put in order”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/workers-unpaid-waste-piles-up-in-chitlapakkam/articleshow/76901177.cms||P Oppili
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||17 new Covid-19 cases take Chanda patient tally to 150||Chandrapur: Seventeen new Covid-19 cases were detected in the district taking the total patient tally to 150 in the last 24 hours. Officials claimed that a positive patient was detected on Wednesday night, while 16 others on Thursday. Chandrapur has taken a leap of 50 patients in just seven days. The first Covid patient was detected on May 2. It took 46 days to reach the mark of 50 patients. However, next 50 were added in just 16 days. From there, it took only a week to rise to the mark of 150 patients. As per statistics, the first 50 patient mark was reached on June 16 and by July 2, the numbers had doubled. However, it took just seven days to reach from 100 to 150 mark of Covid-19 patients. Health department has informed that a 19-year-old youth in Gadisurla village in Mul tehsil tested positive on Wednesday night. Five new patients detected on Thursday are from Bhadrawati town, which has been put under complete lockdown due to increasing number of Covid cases. Another five Covid cases were detected in Bramhapuri tehsil. They include a person each from Bramhapuri town, Khade, Betala, Sondri and Mudjha villages. Three patients are from Mul tehsil which include two from Janala village and one from Bembal. Three other positive patients are from Gadchandur town. Officials claimed that condition of all new patients is stable. So far, 80 patients have been cured and the district is left with 70 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/17-new-covid-19-cases-take-chanda-patient-tally-to-150/articleshow/76893484.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 11, 2020||Lucknow||ICSE, ISC pass percentage rises in Uttar Pradesh this year||LUCKNOW: After recording a dip last year, the pass percentage in ICSE and ISC in Uttar Pradesh rose this year. While the pass percentage for ICSE increased by 1.42% — from 97.14% in 2019 to 98.5% this year, in ISC it was a marginal increase of 0.5% — from 95.33% in 2019 to 95.8% this year. Nationally, 99.34% students cleared ICSE while 96.84% were declared passed in ISC. A total 44,550 students, including 19,121 girls, appeared in class X exams from UP. Of this, 43,910 students were successful while 640 failed the exams. In class XII, 30,475 students, including 13,220 girls, took the exams. A total of 29,198 were declared passed while 1,277 flunked. UP has 367 ICSE and 295 ISC schools. The pass percentage for ICSE and ISC in 2018 was 98.5% and 96.2%, respectively. Chief executive and secretary, Council of Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), Gerry Arathoon said that given the exceptional circumstances this year, CISCE has not published the merit lists for ICSE and ISC examinations. Arathoon commended the students for showing exemplary resilience and fortitude during the corona pandemic, faced with the agony of a long wait for a possible delayed examination in the remaining papers, the subsequent prolonged wait for the results, while simultaneously continuing their studies of the next class or preparing for the entrance examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/icse-isc-pass-percentage-rises-in-state-this-year/articleshow/76903860.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: CM was privy to shrines’ razing||Hyderabad: Congress on Friday demanded that a sedition case be booked against those involved in the demolition of a temple and a mosque in the old secretariat premises and charged that the dismantling was carried out with the full knowledge of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. The party said it would approach the Supreme Court as no permanent structures are allowed in the vicinity of the Hussainsagar lake. TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, working president A Revanth Reddy, former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir, former MP Konda Vishweshwar Reddy, TPCC general secretary Syed Nizamuddin and city Congress minority wing chairman Sameer Waliullah addressed separate media conferences and alleged that KCR had not given an assurance to construct these places of worship in the places where they existed. Uttam said KCR was trampling upon the religious sentiments of the people. Reddy said the secretariat buildings, temple and mosque were demolished to satisfy the superstitions of KCR to make his son KT Rama Rao the next CM of Telangana. “As per Supreme Court directions, no permanent structure can be built near Hussainsagar. Why are BJP and MIM silent,” revanth asked. Shabbir Ali said the CM did not promise that the mosque would be constructed at the same site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-cm-was-privy-to-shrines-razing/articleshow/76901174.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||PCR cop challaned for not wearing mask||Ludhiana: A PCR cop was issued a challan of Rs 500 for not wearing a mask on Friday. ASI Raj Kumar was challaned on Hambran road when he and his colleague ASI Manjeet Singh stopped a man for not wearing a mask. When ASI Manjeet Singh issued a challan to the man, who refused to sign it and pay the fine and raising objection on another cop for roaming around without a mask. The man while arguing with ASI Manjeet Singh, demanded issuance of challan to the other cop. The man also captured the argument in his mobile. When the cop realised that he was making a video, he issued a challan to ASI Raj Kumar as well. Later, the video also went viral on social media and reached the Ludhiana commissioner of police, Rakesh Agarwal. CP Agarwal stated that rules are equal for all. All police personnel have been ordered to wear mask. The police will issue challans to them as well for any violation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pcr-cop-challaned-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/76900081.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ludhiana||45-yr-old man run over by train||Ludhiana: A 45-year-old man was run over by a Delhi-bound superfast train at Ladhowal railway crossing during early morning of Friday. The identity of the deceased has not been ascertained as no documents were found. Jaswant Singh, investigation officer at Dhandari Kala (GRP station), said a lineman informed the control room of the government railway police on Friday morning, following which a police party reached the spot. “During the initial investigation, it was found that the deceased was trying to cross the railway tracks from an unmanned crossing at Dhandari railway and was run over the train, which was heading towards New Delhi,” said the investigation officer. “The police have kept the body at the civil hospital for the post-mortem. A case has been registered under Section 174 of the CrPC,” said the police. The body will be kept at the hospital for the next 24 hours for identification, said the cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/45-yr-old-man-run-over-by-train/articleshow/76900087.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||In Ahmedabad, land broker lands in ‘girlfriend’ text trap||AHMEDABAD: Sola police on Thursday arrested six persons including a woman for allegedly extorting a Satellite real estate broker last month after trapping him with an offer of friendship from a woman.  Manan Parikh, 38, resident of Maruti Hills in Prahladnagar, Satellite, stated in his complaint that on June 12, he had received a message from an unknown number in which a woman, calling herself Heli, showed interest in friendship with him. On June 17, Parikh and the woman met near a private hospital on SG Road. The woman came to the spot on a scooter, while Parikh went in his car. The woman wanted Parikh to give her a tour of the area. Parikh stated that he gave her a ride in his car and then returned to the spot from where he had picked her up. However, as soon as he arrived, five men who were waiting at the spot dragged Parikh out of his car, took him into a car with tinted glass and no number plate, and travelled to Adalaj. They beat up Parikh and forced him to record a video confessing that he had been with the woman. The accused then demanded Rs 10 lakh to settle the matter and asked Parikh to call up his friends and arrange the money. Parikh gave them Rs 75,000 in cash and his gold chain worth Rs 1.25 lakh. The men then demanded another Rs 5 lakh, and said if they didn’t get the money they will defame Parikh. When they continued to harass him, Parikh told his wife what had happened. Then the couple came to cops and Parikh filed a complaint. Sola police inspector J P Jadeja said that multiple cars were used by the accused when abducting Parikh, and from the registration number of one of those cars police were able to trace the accused and arrest them. The accused were identified as Akash Desai, 25, resident of Ghatlodia, Mehul Desai, 23, resident of Chandkheda, Jayesh Desai, 23, resident of Asarwa, Shubham Desai, 21, resident of Chandkheda, Varun Desai,20, resident of Chandlodia and the woman as Shivani Sadhu, 25, of Shertha village in Gandhinagar. Sadhu, who earlier worked at a private hospital, was Mehul Desai’s girlfriend, and they along with Jayesh Desai had planned the conspiracy after obtaining Parikh’s number, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/land-broker-lands-in-girlfriend-text-trap/articleshow/76901702.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Exams of universities and colleges to be held between August and September||DEHRADUN: The higher education department at a meeting attended by Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday announced the holding of exams for the final year students between August 24 and September 25. Apart from the above decision, the department has decided to declare results by October 25 while the new session will begin from November 1. During the meeting, the issue of several state universities and degree colleges being currently used as quarantine centres was also raised. Regarding this, CM Rawat said that the higher education authorities should write a letter to the concerned district administration and ask them to shift it from the university or college by July 25, so that, the institutions are sanitised well before the beginning of the new academic session.  Notably, there are around 80,000 final year students enrolled in various universities or colleges of Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/exams-of-universities-and-colleges-to-be-held-between-august-sept/articleshow/76900089.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Focus on inclusive growth: Andhra Pradesh CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Friday told the officials to focus on inclusive growth across the state. He also told them to ensure that no eligible beneficiary is left out of the welfare schemes. The chief minister held a review with the officials on implementation of various welfare schemes in the state at his camp office on Friday. The chief minister said that applications should be made available for the people to enrol themselves for the benefits. He wanted the village secretariats to open the enrolment after the launch of every scheme. The chief minister also told them to ensure that the benefit amount is deposited directly into the beneficiary’s bank account. He reiterated that no eligible beneficiary is left out of the scheme for any reason. “Except the general eligible criteria, no other criteria should be followed. Give the benefits to every individual irrespective of their political affiliations,” the chief minister said. He said that the state government had released financial benefit to the people under Vahana Mitra on June 4, Jagananna Chedodu on June 10, Nethanna Nestham on June 20 and Kapu Nestham on June 24. He said that these schemes were rolled out despite financial crisis in the state. He also told them that the second instalment of Vahana Mitra was rolled out six months ahead of the original schedule as people were badly hit by the Covid- 19 lockdown. The chief minister wanted the officials to keep in mind the commitment that the government has towards the people in extending the financial benefits despite the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/focus-on-inclusive-growth-cm-jagan/articleshow/76901178.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Firozepur division generates Rs 175cr revenue in a month||Ludhiana: Amid the lockdown crises due to coronavirus pandemic in the country and after the railways cancelled all the long-route trains from the past four months, the revenue earned by the local railway authorities (Firozepur division) has increased by 17 per cent by only running freight trains to several states in the past one month. The divisional-level authorities have shared details about total earnings in June this year by running maximum number of goods trains, which has touched Rs 175 crore and is 17 per cent more than the revenue generated last year by running goods trains. Last year, the division had earned Rs 152 crore, of which Rs 40 crore (approx) came from passenger trains and Rs 110 crore from freight earnings, while Rs 2 crore was categorised as miscellaneous earnings. In 2020, the railway authorities have faced a huge downfall in their earnings after the central government took the decision of imposing strict lockdown in the country following the rise in cases of Covid-19. But, the railway authorities turned the tough situation into a new opportunity and increased their revenue by running special trains carrying goods and parcels to several parts of the country through their day and night working. Sources in the railway department have revealed that the Firozpur division of the Northern Railways has emerged as one of highest exporters of essential goods by transporting more than 14 lakh tonne essential commodities goods through several trains to rest of the nation by providing continuous service. Divisional railway Manager Rajesh Aggarwal said, “The Firozepur divisional-level railway authorities had pitched in almost 50 special parcel trains in June for transporting huge amount of essential goods to different parts of the country and this resulted in generating highest revenue of Rs 175 crore, which is highest ever collection as compared to past year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/firozepur-division-generates-rs-175cr-revenue-in-a-month/articleshow/76900101.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 11, 2020||Dehradun||DMC fines 24 during anti-dengue drive||Dehradun: The Dehradun Municipal Corporation on Monday issued 24 challans during its anti-dengue and malaria drive in 10 wards of the city. The officials had visited wards, including Vijay Park, Rajpur, Doon Vihar, Arya Nagar where stagnated water was found outside houses and commercial complexes. Meanwhile, the Dehradun district administration also challaned 68 people for not wearing face masks at public places which includes 21 challans in Doiwala, 23 in Rishikesh, and 12 in Sadar Tehsil. District Magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava said “We have held meetings with shopkeepers from Aarhat Bazaar, Hanuman Chowk, and Paltan Bazaar for ensuring social distancing in the market places. The instructions for keeping their surroundings clean have also been issued. If any trader or individual is found throwing garbage at public places, a case will be registered against the individual." The DM also said that students who have returned to Uttarakhand from other states and are undergoing home quarantine for 14 days should avoid moving out as any legal action taken can hamper their professional career as well. The district administration is also taking help from the mobile service companies for tracking the locations of the people under quarantine. If the tower location of such a person sees a change, the companies will alert the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-fines-24-during-anti-dengue-drive/articleshow/76900097.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Heavy rain across country sends veggie prices spiralling up, burns pockets||Ludhiana: With the heavy rainfall disturbing life across the northern region of the country, middle-class families are already facing a tough time with prices of vegetables coming from far-flung areas of the nation registering a steep rise. Prices of tomatoes, green peas, capsicum have increased by 30 per cent in the past 15 days. Commonly consumed vegetables like ginger, garlic, taro roots, broccoli and capsicum are too out of bound for middle-class families. Sambhu Yadav, a vegetable vendor in the city, said, “Due to heavy rainfall in various parts of Bihar and Maharashtra from the past several days, vegetables transported from these places got affected and prices of tomato and green peas touched skyrocket in only 15 days. We are selling these for above Rs 80 per kg.” Moreover, there is a possibility of hike in prices of onion, cucumber and lemon as these vegetables are transported from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. Another vendor from Jalandhar bypass vegetable market, Amit Kumar, said, “After hike in prices of petrol and diesel from the past few days, the road transportation has got costlier, thus increasing vegetable prices by 20 per cent to 30 per cent. We are selling tomato for Rs 80 per kg or above since the beginning of this month.” Middlemen or agents are earning huge profits as they have started selling vegetables stored in cold storages from the past many months. In the meanwhile, residents, especially women, are upset over the rising prices of vegetables. Speaking on the same issue, Shivani Verma, said, “This year brought with it a lot of challenges for the middle-class families. Increased prices of ginger, garlic and lemon have disturbed the household budget and now hike in tomato and green peas are burning the pocket of a common mam. The central government should make some policies to control the prices of vegetables.” Rajni Gupta, a homemaker from Sarabha Nagar, said, “At a time when most of the people have lost their jobs due to enforcement of lockdown in view of the coronavirus outbreak, hike in vegetable prices has added to the problem. These vegetables are used daily in preparation of food items. We are still purchasing these in small quantities and trying to manage our household budget. It has become a regular affair to increase prices of commonly used vegetables as there is no check by government authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/heavy-rain-across-country-sends-veggie-prices-spiralling-up-burns-pockets/articleshow/76900092.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh cabinet to meet on July 15||VIJAYAWADA: The state cabinet will meet at the Velagapudi secretariat on July 15. This would be the second cabinet meeting during the Covid-19 lockdown. The earlier meeting was held on June 11. Though chief minister had decided to hold cabinet meetings twice a month, it could not happen because of the lockdown and the spread of Covid-19 in the state. Recently, more than a dozen employees at the secretariat tested positive for Covid-19. Chief secretary Nilam Sahwney has sent a circular to all heads of departments (HoDs) to send the items for agenda of the cabinet meeting. She has asked the officials to send their issues to her before July 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-cabinet-to-meet-on-july-15/articleshow/76901183.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Tax book won’t get you power connection||COIMBATORE: The city corporation has withdrawn its request to the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) to provide electricity connection to buildings based on tax assessment book after the commissioner of municipal aministration, K Baskaran, directed all the civic bodies to abide by the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019, that insists on building completion certificate for permanent electricity connection. In May, Tangedco had in a circular directed its officials to disconnect temporary electricity connection to buildings immediately after completion of construction work and provide permanent connection only after receipt of building completion certificates. However, exemptions were given to residential buildings that were up to 12 metres high and not exceeding three dwelling units, other buildings up to 750 square metres and all industrial buildings. Shortly after Tangedco started insisting on building completion certificates for permanent electricity connection, city corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar had on June 30 shot off a letter to the chief engineer (distribution) of Coimbatore circle, asking them to consider tax assessment book for the purpose. He also said tax assessment was done only for buildings that were fully constructed. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Municipal Administration on July 7 instructed all the corporations and municipalities stick to the TN combined development and building rules. Its direction was based on a memo that Tangedco issued to its chief engineers, asking them to insist on building completion certificates for permanent electricity connection. Subsequently, the city corporation on July 9 wrote to Tangedco to keep the previous letter ‘in abeyance’, stating it would adhere to the rules. K Kathirmathiyon, secretary, Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said, “The purpose of the rules is to bring down the number of unauthorised buildings. If permanent electricity connections are given based on tax assessment books, it won’t serve the purpose. Because, as per the norms, building completion certificate would be given only by competent authority if the building was constructed as per the building plan approval. Whereas, tax assessment is done for all the buildings, no matter whether they are constructed in violation of norms.” Senior Tangedco officials said they had not provided any electricity connections based on tax assessment books in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tax-book-wont-get-you-power-connection/articleshow/76901674.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||‘File FIRs against repeat offenders of power theft’||JAIPUR: Cracking down on power thefts, principal secretary energy and chairman discoms Ajitabh Sharma on Friday ordered to register FIRs and arrest repeat offenders of power theft instead of settling the cases by charging penalties. He said that in repeated cases of power theft, ensure arrest of the culprits after filing FIRs. This would instill fear among the people. He also said that elements who put hurdles in initiating action be identified and action be initiated against them as well. The power department is concerned about the huge transmission and distribution losses, which according to the Uday scheme must have be brought under 15% long time back. While reviewing the performance of Jaipur discom, Sharma said that vigilant checking would reduce power thefts and improve revenue of the discoms. Besides, Sharma ordered awaited posting orders (APO) for two executive engineers for poor performance after review.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/file-firs-against-repeat-offenders-of-power-theft/articleshow/76901179.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn to monitor returnees in quarantine through video calls||Coimbatore: City corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar on Friday launched the surveillance of returnees from other districts and states through video calls, to ensure their adherence to home quarantine norms.In a press statement, he said the initiative was launched after they received several complaints pertaining to violation of home quarantine norms. As per the government guidelines, people who have returned from other districts and states have to remain in home quarantine for 14 days.From now on, he said, corporation school teachers would make WhatsApp video calls to the people, who are in home quarantine, to ensure they were following the guidelines strictly.The corporation had roped in 865 teachers and 104 non-teaching staff from 82 corporation schools to help compile and categorize data that was obtained through door-to-door survey. Corporation workers and self-help group members have been collecting data on returnees and people with flu-like symptoms daily.Sravan Kumar said there were about 22 containment zones in the city corporation limits and steps were being taken to provide essential commodities and medical assistance to the residents there. District collector K Rajamani, meanwhile, inspected the containment areas of Telungu Street and Salivan Street and directed the corporation and revenue officials to ensure that the residents get essential commodities without any difficulties. He also directed them to disinfectant the areas regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-to-monitor-returnees-in-quarantine-through-video-calls/articleshow/76901659.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Secretariat work: Hyderabad activist wants SC to intervene||HYDERABAD: A social activist from the city has sought the intervention of the Chief Justice of India and Chief Justice of Telangana to prevent any construction or demolition near the Hussainsagar lake. In her letter, Lubna Sarwath said despite the apex court ordering a stay on constructions “in, on or around Hussainsagar”, the government of Telangana has undertaken massive constructions/demolitions. The letter reads: “We are of the opinion that no further permanent structures including those involving commercial activities may be allowed to be raised on or near the water spread or catchment area.” Objecting to the demolition of secretariat buildings, the activist said that the buildings were at a sheer distance of around 80 metres from the Irrigation department FTL geo-coordinates. “Thus, right at the buffer zone/FTL boundary of Hussainsagar (which) is an ongoing contempt of the SC order of severe proportion even as the case is currently pending at high court,” she said. The former convenor of Save Our Urban Lakes (SOUL) asked for immediate justice in terms of the demolition, especially at a time when the city is in the grip of a pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sectt-work-activist-wants-sc-to-intervene/articleshow/76901181.cms||---
July 11, 2020||India||Solar projects represent Atmanirbhar Bharat: PM||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said solar energy would power aspirational India in the 21st century and the country was emerging as the “most attractive market for clean energy” because of the “exemplary progress” made in this field. Dedicating the 750MW Rewa project in Madhya Pradesh to the nation, Modi described solar energy as “sure, pure and secure”. He said such large-scale solar projects were a representation of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India)’. The project, promoted by a joint venture between the state government and SECI, the central agency implementing the national solar mission, is being described as the first solar plant to supply power to an institutional customer — Delhi Metro Rail Corporation — outside the state. The PM said India’s solar policy and strategy reflected the government’s thinking of “keeping our environment, air, water pure”. He added that all government programmes gave priority to environmental protection and ease of living. “India has resolved the economy versus ecology dilemma by focussing on solar energy and other environment-friendly measures. Economy and ecology are not contradictory but complementary to each other,” he said. Modi said MP would soon become India’s main centre of solar energy with similar large projects in progress in Neemuch, Shajapur, Chattarpur and Omkareshwar. The state’s poor, middle-class, tribals and farmers would be the biggest beneficiaries, he added. He expressed confidence that the state’s farmers would also make use of the government’s ‘KUSUM’ programme and will install solar energy plants in their land for an additional source of income. Watch Solar power will be a medium of energy needs of the 21st century: PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/solar-projects-represent-atmanirbhar-bharat-pm/articleshow/76902694.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Tablighi case: 72 foreigners walk free, 82 others get bail||NEW DELHI: Delhi courts on Friday allowed 72 foreign nationals to walk free after imposing a fine and a lenient punishment, and granted bail to 82 Bangladeshi nationals - all of whom were chargesheeted for attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid in Nizamuddin and allegedly violating visa conditions and government guidelines following the Covid-19 pandemic. Of the 72 foreigners, 11 belong to Saudi Arabia and the rest are Malaysian nationals, who were represented by advocate S Hari Haran. Chief metropolitan magistrate Gurmohina Kaur held that the 11 Saudi Arabian convicts be deported back to their country as per the law as they had served their sentence and paid the fine. The court, meanwhile, accepted the personal bonds of Rs 10,000 for each of the 82 foreign nationals while granting them bail. The lawyers will be filing the plea-bargaining application on Saturday. On Thursday, 60 Malaysians had walked free after paying a fine of Rs 7,000 each. Nationals of Thailand and Nepal are slated to appear in court on Saturday following summons. While filing chargesheets, Delhi Police had dropped charges for offences of “culpable homicide not amounting to murder” and “criminal conspiracy” against 956 foreigners from 36 countries. The court took cognisance of charges relating to violation of visa conditions under the Foreigners Act, 1946 and norms of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The court also took cognisance of Section 51 (obstruction) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, read with Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tablighi-case-72-foreigners-walk-free-82-others-get-bail/articleshow/76901690.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao should call Muslim leaders & scholars, says Asaduddin Owaisi||HYDERABAD: AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday welcomed the statement of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao expressing regret on the demolition of two mosques inside the secretariat and promising to build a new mosque in the new secretariat. He urged the government to remove Telangana State Waqf Board chairman Mohammed Saleem. In a tweet, Asaduddin said: “Detailed statement will be issued by United Muslim Forum very soon, I welcome the statement issued by @TelanganaCMO expressing government regret on the demolition of Masjids and Temples during demolition of the Secretariat buildings (sic).” He said CM should immediately call Muslim community leaders and scholars on the issue and reiterated the demand for both masjids. It may be recalled that in 2019, AIMIM MLA from Bahadurpura Mohammad Moazam Khan in the assembly had demanded that the government give an assurance that temple and two mosques in secretariat would not be touched and kept open for prayers even during construction of a new secretariat complex. Upping the ante against Saleem, Asaduddin, meanwhile, suggested two names for TSWB chairman. AK Khan, former IPS officer who had served as Hyderabad police commissioner, and Malik Motasim Khan, a member of TSWB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-kcr-should-call-muslim-leaders-scholars-says-asad/articleshow/76901192.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||DIG tells cops to build rapport with public||COIMBATORE: Deputy inspector general of police K S Narenthiran Nayar on Friday directed police personnel to desist from using force against the public. “Cops should be gentle and kind in dealing with the public and build rapport with public,” Nayar told the 50 sub-inspectors, who attended a meeting held at the PSG College of Arts and Science here. “You can register FIRs against those who violate the prohibitory orders but not arrest them. Work with restraint and show dignified conduct during the lockdown.” Police personnel should be careful when dealing with those under custody. The special branch (SB) should give senior officers up-to-date information, he said. The DIG also instructed superintendent of police Sujit Kumar and deputy superintendents of police to brief inspectors about the recent circulars issued by the DGP office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dig-tells-cops-to-build-rapport-with-public/articleshow/76901694.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Lucknow||All in a day: Appearance, arrest, end of bloody saga||LUCKNOW: When Vikas Dubey made a surprise appearance at Ujjain’s Mahakaal temple on Thursday after six days of unbridled run covering five states, it was just the beginning of another action-packed day of political barbs, wild rumours and an encounter. It all started around 7.45am on Thursday when the fugitive don reached Mahakaal temple. He then bought a VIP ticket and stood in the queue of devotees for aarti and shot a selfie video. Soon after aarti, a private security guard “identified” him and informed Mahakaal police station. Read AlsoKanpur encounter: Vikas Dubey may’ve had 11 houses, 16 flats in UP; ED may launch probeThe Enforcement Directorate has sought details of immovable and movable assets owned by gangster Vikas Dubey — who was killed in a police encounter on Friday — his family as well as his close associates from Kanpur police. According to police sources, Dubey’s aides had purchased penthouses in theWhen cops rushed to the spot and nabbed him around 9am, he shouted, “I am Vikas Dubey, Kanpurwallah”, while being forced into a police vehicle. A cop was seen whacking on his head while Dubey continued to shout that he had been arrested. Read Also‘We are free now,’ say villagers once terrorised by DubeyThe people in Shivali village in Kanpur on Friday distributed sweets after gangster Vikas Dubey was killed in a police encounter. “We are very happy a big terror from our area has been eliminated. We are feeling free. Earlier we used to be scared that he could do anything. We would like toThe gangster was then taken to the Police Training School in Ujjain and handed over to the UP Police team. All this while, debate raged on if it was an arrest or surrender. Rumour mills also worked full throttle as reports started doing the rounds that Dubey would be taken to UP in a chartered plane. Read AlsoKanpur encounter: Collateral damages happen when cops are attacked, UP’s new ADG saysPolicemen are legally empowered to defend themselves when attacked, UP’s new ADG (law &amp; order) Prashant Kumar said on Friday, calling "encounter deaths and injuries" collateral damages. As Meerut zone’s ADG, Kumar’s team carried out 2,273 encounters in its eight districts. "During my tenure inThe STF team which had finally arrived by road in three SUVs started for a return journey from MP at 8.45pm. Here also, the movement was filled with suspense soon after the team hit the highway. A fleet of cars and jeeps started following the convoy. The ASP-rank officer of the STF and in-charge of the team also made an SOS call to some of the senior officers posted at the DGP headquarters about the development. Read AlsoVikas Dubey: Caught alive, brought deadExactly a week after killing eight cops in a guerrilla-style ambush on a police team, UP gangster Vikas Dubey met his end on Friday in typical “encounter” fashion – following a car accident that, according to the police, gave him the opportunity to snatch a gun from an STF commando, open fire andLocal intelligence had already informed the police that there could be “some provocation” on the stretch. As a result, some of the vehicles were also changed in between the passages. Twice the vehicles were changed and the cops too. When things seemed to be working fine then again around 4.46am, some media persons had to stop near a toll plaza in Jalaun as trucks were lined due to heavy rain. “A man had slept on the main highway stopping the movement of vehicles,” said one of the mediapersons who was following the convoy from Ait toll plaza. Read AlsoWhy retribution almost always follows killers of policemenOn November 26, 2012, Delhi Police head constable Ram Kishan and his colleagues were posted on routine duty at Jonti border in outer DelhiThe passage was only cleared after senior officials intervened. Similar situation prevailed near Barajod toll plaza near Kanpur. All vehicles trailing the convoy were stopped here on the pretext of ‘checking’. The STF convoy moved towards Sachendi from there. Later, police said that one of the SUVs overturned after which Dubey tried to flee the spot but was shot by cops at 6.45am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/all-in-a-day-appearance-arrest-end-of-bloody-saga/articleshow/76902200.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
July 11, 2020||Surat||Covid infected trader ends life in Surat||SURAT: A 63-year-old diamond trader committed suicide by jumping under the Rajdhani train near Udhana railway station on Friday morning, after he tested positive for Covid-19. The deceased, Kumarpal Natwarlal Shah, was a resident of Dena Jyoti Palace apartment in Nanpura. Police recovered a suicide note where the deceased had mentioned that he was taking the extreme step as he had tested positive for Covid-19. It also mentioned that he was suffering from diabetes and other ailments. Sources said that the police found a motorcycle parked at the entry of the railway station. However, when police searched for the vehicle owner, they found the body of the deceased on the railway track, a few miles away from the station. Sources said that the deceased is survived by his wife and a son, who had returned from Mumbai two days ago. His son is living with his wife and a kid at a separate apartment in Nanpura. “Primary investigation revealed that the deceased had gone to the private laboratory for Covid-19 testing on Tuesday after he developed symptoms including fever, cough and breathlessness. The next day, his report came positive for Covid-19,” said Yashvant Vaghela, inspector of the Surat railway police station. “In the suicide note the deceased had mentioned that he was committing suicide as he had tested Covid-19 positive. For the last one year, the deceased had not visited the diamond market due to health issues,” Vaghela added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ncov-infected-trader-ends-life/articleshow/76899965.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: No new case in Faridabad, but Haryana set to cross 20,000||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 count on Friday reached 19,934 cases and 290 deaths, as 565 more people were found infected with the virus and three patients succumbed to it. Barring Faridabad, which had been topping the table of new patients, and Charkhi Dadri, all districts in the state got new patients. Also, 394 patients receovered from the virus, taking the number of recoveries to 14,904 and the recovery rate of 74.77%. With a doubling rate of 20 days, the state has total 4,740 active patients, of whom 73 are critical. A death each was reported from Rohtak, Ambala and Fatehabad districts. Gurugram got the highest number of cases, 111. With 967 patients still under treatment, the district’s overall count for the virus has risen to 6,578 cases, It has reported 103 deaths. Mahindergarh, Rewari and Hisar emerged as new hotspots. Sixty-eight new cases were reported in Mahindergarh, and 66 each in Hisar and Rewari. Also, 50 new patients were from Sonipat. It was followed by 38 in Panipat, 27 in Ambala, 24 each in Rohtak and Karnal, 18 in Nuh, 16 in Jhajjar, 15 in Palwal, 10 in Sirsa, eight in Jind, seven in Bhiwani, five in Kaithal, Panchkula and Fatehabad, and one each in Kurukshetra and Yamunanangar. The testing rate rose to 13,899 tests per million of population as 3,52,243 persons had been tested for the virus so far. Of them, 3,26,679 had tested negative so far and reports of 5,730 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-new-case-in-fbd-but-haryana-set-to-cross-20k/articleshow/76901680.cms||Manvir Saini
July 11, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Gambler ends vice with ‘dayro’ at chowki||RAJKOT: Not all criminals have a change of heart after stepping inside the police station, but this gambler surely found his ‘moral’ mojo inside the Muli police station of Surendranagar district on Thursday. The accused took a novel route — the ‘dayro’ way — to permanently dismember vice from his life. In fact, the other face of gambling accused Jaymant Dave surfaced, when a video, in which he is seen singing and playing a harmonium inside the police sub-inspector’s D J Zala’s chamber, with the officer listening to the crooner in rapt attention went viral on WhatsApp and social media. According to the details of the incident, Dave was named as an accused in a gambling case where cops had raided a den in Sara village of Muli taluka on Tuesday. But Dave had absconded at the time of the raid. On Thursday, Dave, however, surrendered before Muli police station and obtained a bail also. During the police paper work, he happened to mention to Zala that he actually was a folk singer. And to prove his words, Dave burst out into a folk song dedicated to the goddess, in a lilting voice that could keep the audience glued. At least it did charm Zala, who pulled his chair closer and let him continue to sing the dayro, full length. “As he started singing, I did not stop him. And as he identified himself as a folk singer, I also paid him Rs 1,000. At this, Dave apologized to me saying that he would never indulge in gambling again,” Zala told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gambler-ends-vice-with-dayro-at-chowki/articleshow/76900654.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: No new case in Faridabad, but Haryana set to cross 20,000||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 count on Friday reached 19,934 cases and 290 deaths, as 565 more people were found infected with the virus and three patients succumbed to it. Barring Faridabad, which had been topping the table of new patients, and Charkhi Dadri, all districts in the state got new patients. Also, 394 patients receovered from the virus, taking the number of recoveries to 14,904 and the recovery rate of 74.77%. With a doubling rate of 20 days, the state has total 4,740 active patients, of whom 73 are critical. A death each was reported from Rohtak, Ambala and Fatehabad districts. Gurugram got the highest number of cases, 111. With 967 patients still under treatment, the district’s overall count for the virus has risen to 6,578 cases, It has reported 103 deaths. Mahindergarh, Rewari and Hisar emerged as new hotspots. Sixty-eight new cases were reported in Mahindergarh, and 66 each in Hisar and Rewari. Also, 50 new patients were from Sonipat. It was followed by 38 in Panipat, 27 in Ambala, 24 each in Rohtak and Karnal, 18 in Nuh, 16 in Jhajjar, 15 in Palwal, 10 in Sirsa, eight in Jind, seven in Bhiwani, five in Kaithal, Panchkula and Fatehabad, and one each in Kurukshetra and Yamunanangar. The testing rate rose to 13,899 tests per million of population as 3,52,243 persons had been tested for the virus so far. Of them, 3,26,679 had tested negative so far and reports of 5,730 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/no-new-case-in-fbd-but-haryana-set-to-cross-20k/articleshow/76907086.cms||Manvir Saini
July 11, 2020||Kanpur||All in a day: Appearance, arrest, end of bloody saga||LUCKNOW: When Vikas Dubey made a surprise appearance at Ujjain’s Mahakaal temple on Thursday after six days of unbridled run covering five states, it was just the beginning of another action-packed day of political barbs, wild rumours and an encounter. It all started around 7.45am on Thursday when the fugitive don reached Mahakaal temple. He then bought a VIP ticket and stood in the queue of devotees for aarti and shot a selfie video. Soon after aarti, a private security guard “identified” him and informed Mahakaal police station. Read AlsoKanpur encounter: Vikas Dubey may’ve had 11 houses, 16 flats in UP; ED may launch probeThe Enforcement Directorate has sought details of immovable and movable assets owned by gangster Vikas Dubey — who was killed in a police encounter on Friday — his family as well as his close associates from Kanpur police. According to police sources, Dubey’s aides had purchased penthouses in theWhen cops rushed to the spot and nabbed him around 9am, he shouted, “I am Vikas Dubey, Kanpurwallah”, while being forced into a police vehicle. A cop was seen whacking on his head while Dubey continued to shout that he had been arrested. Read Also‘We are free now,’ say villagers once terrorised by DubeyThe people in Shivali village in Kanpur on Friday distributed sweets after gangster Vikas Dubey was killed in a police encounter. “We are very happy a big terror from our area has been eliminated. We are feeling free. Earlier we used to be scared that he could do anything. We would like toThe gangster was then taken to the Police Training School in Ujjain and handed over to the UP Police team. All this while, debate raged on if it was an arrest or surrender. Rumour mills also worked full throttle as reports started doing the rounds that Dubey would be taken to UP in a chartered plane. Read AlsoKanpur encounter: Collateral damages happen when cops are attacked, UP’s new ADG saysPolicemen are legally empowered to defend themselves when attacked, UP’s new ADG (law &amp; order) Prashant Kumar said on Friday, calling "encounter deaths and injuries" collateral damages. As Meerut zone’s ADG, Kumar’s team carried out 2,273 encounters in its eight districts. "During my tenure inThe STF team which had finally arrived by road in three SUVs started for a return journey from MP at 8.45pm. Here also, the movement was filled with suspense soon after the team hit the highway. A fleet of cars and jeeps started following the convoy. The ASP-rank officer of the STF and in-charge of the team also made an SOS call to some of the senior officers posted at the DGP headquarters about the development. Read AlsoVikas Dubey: Caught alive, brought deadExactly a week after killing eight cops in a guerrilla-style ambush on a police team, UP gangster Vikas Dubey met his end on Friday in typical “encounter” fashion – following a car accident that, according to the police, gave him the opportunity to snatch a gun from an STF commando, open fire andLocal intelligence had already informed the police that there could be “some provocation” on the stretch. As a result, some of the vehicles were also changed in between the passages. Twice the vehicles were changed and the cops too. When things seemed to be working fine then again around 4.46am, some media persons had to stop near a toll plaza in Jalaun as trucks were lined due to heavy rain. “A man had slept on the main highway stopping the movement of vehicles,” said one of the mediapersons who was following the convoy from Ait toll plaza. Read AlsoWhy retribution almost always follows killers of policemenOn November 26, 2012, Delhi Police head constable Ram Kishan and his colleagues were posted on routine duty at Jonti border in outer DelhiThe passage was only cleared after senior officials intervened. Similar situation prevailed near Barajod toll plaza near Kanpur. All vehicles trailing the convoy were stopped here on the pretext of ‘checking’. The STF convoy moved towards Sachendi from there. Later, police said that one of the SUVs overturned after which Dubey tried to flee the spot but was shot by cops at 6.45am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/all-in-a-day-appearance-arrest-end-of-bloody-saga/articleshow/76903507.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
July 11, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19: No new case in Faridabad, but Haryana set to cross 20,000||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 count on Friday reached 19,934 cases and 290 deaths, as 565 more people were found infected with the virus and three patients succumbed to it. Barring Faridabad, which had been topping the table of new patients, and Charkhi Dadri, all districts in the state got new patients. Also, 394 patients receovered from the virus, taking the number of recoveries to 14,904 and the recovery rate of 74.77%. With a doubling rate of 20 days, the state has total 4,740 active patients, of whom 73 are critical. A death each was reported from Rohtak, Ambala and Fatehabad districts. Gurugram got the highest number of cases, 111. With 967 patients still under treatment, the district’s overall count for the virus has risen to 6,578 cases, It has reported 103 deaths. Mahindergarh, Rewari and Hisar emerged as new hotspots. Sixty-eight new cases were reported in Mahindergarh, and 66 each in Hisar and Rewari. Also, 50 new patients were from Sonipat. It was followed by 38 in Panipat, 27 in Ambala, 24 each in Rohtak and Karnal, 18 in Nuh, 16 in Jhajjar, 15 in Palwal, 10 in Sirsa, eight in Jind, seven in Bhiwani, five in Kaithal, Panchkula and Fatehabad, and one each in Kurukshetra and Yamunanangar. The testing rate rose to 13,899 tests per million of population as 3,52,243 persons had been tested for the virus so far. Of them, 3,26,679 had tested negative so far and reports of 5,730 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/no-new-case-in-fbd-but-haryana-set-to-cross-20k/articleshow/76907087.cms||Manvir Saini
July 11, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Two booked for holding exam in school||VADODARA: Principal and director of Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan’s have been booked for summoning students to the school for taking exams. The police have issued notices to principal, Rajiv Kumar Singhal and director Deepak Dalal on Friday. According to the police, it had received information that some students were called to the school for taking exams on Thursday. “The school authorities had asked eight students of Class IX to appear for exams in person at the school on Thursday. They flouted the notification that has banned gathering of students in the school amid the Covid-19 pandemic,” said R A Patel, Makarpura police inspector. “The school management could have taken online classes. But they risked the students’ lives by asking them to take exams in person. Also, they hadn’t taken any permission for the gathering. We have issued notices to them and will arrest them in the coming days,” Patel told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-booked-for-holding-exam-in-school/articleshow/76899731.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai launches plantation drive||NEW DELHI: Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Friday launched a 17-day mega plantation drive, during which 31 lakh saplings will be planted across the capital this monsoon season. Rai planted a sapling himself to launch Delhi government’s campaign ‘Paudhe Lagao, Paryavaran Bachao’ (Plant Trees, Save Environment) at the ITO nursery, near Yamuna bank. Rai said while the Centre had set a target for Delhi this year of around 15 lakh saplings, the AAP government is planting more than double of that. “These will include both trees and shrubs. Shrubs will primarily be planted along roads in order to curb dust pollution. This will help in reducing PM 10 levels,” he said. The minister said that Delhi government was also initiating measures early this year to tackle the rise in air pollution during October, when stubble burning starts in neighbouring states. “We all are now fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, but we need to keep in mind that every year, Delhiites suffer from air pollution. Delhi government is working tirelessly from the last few years to decrease the pollution level,” he said. Among the saplings being planted, 20 lakh will be trees, while 11 lakh will be shrubs. During the course of the drive, several cabinet ministers will also take part in planting saplings across Delhi in the next two weeks. These will include deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who will be planting saplings on July 13, transport minister Kailash Gahlot on July 15, social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on July 17, food minister Imran Hussain on July 20, along with health minister Satyendar Jain. The drive will culminate on July 26, when all 70 MLAs will be planting saplings in their respective constituencies. Various departments of Delhi government like Public Works Department, Delhi State Industrial Development Corporation and Delhi Transport Corporation, among others, will be planting nearly 18,000 saplings. Delhi government has decided that during this drive any resident of Delhi — who wants to plant saplings — can also get them free of cost from any of the 14 nurseries of Delhi government, said Rai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rai-launches-plantation-drive/articleshow/76901717.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Outfit pitches in to help goldsmiths||COIMBATORE: The Hindu Munnani on Friday petitioned district collector K Rajamani, seeking permission to open gold ornament manufacturing units. A few days ago, the city corporation had ordered all the units shut operations until further orders, citing rise in Covid-19 cases among goldsmiths. In his petition, Hindu Munnani state administrative committee member T Guna said after more than 30 goldsmiths tested positive for the virus at Ashok Nagar in Selvapuram, the city corporation had asked gold ornament manufacturing units on Raja Street, Big Bazaar Street, Karuppagounder Street, Sullivan Street, Chetty Street, Idayar Street, Telungu Street and at TK Market to down shutters for now. “This would affect the livelihood of more than 25,000 goldsmiths, who were out of any work in the past three months of lockdown. When they just started working after the unlocking of lockdown, the city corporation asked them to close. The district administration should intervene and grand permission to open the units by adhering to social distancing and other norms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/outfit-pitches-in-to-help-goldsmiths/articleshow/76901710.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||Coastal body says no to solar panels on Varca dunes||Panaji: The proposal of a private resort to install ground solar panels on sand dunes at Varca has been turned down by the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) at its meeting last month. The authority has approved of the other rooftop solar panels proposed to be installed, stating that the ground panels may harm geomorphology of the sand dunes as it will block sunlight. A GCZMA expert member had carried out the site inspection on June 2. The resort told the expert that it wants to utilise renewable energy from the sun by setting of captive solar PV installations in the form of rooftop mounted and ground mounted solar power generating and supply systems. “The authority after going through the inspection report observed that facilities for generating power by non-conventional energy sources is permissible in the areas not classified as CRZ-I . The authority took note of the fact that the ground mounted solar panels would be installed along the North-South boundaries of the property which appears to be a sand dune,” the GCZMA noted. As per CRZ-I, sand dunes form a part of conservation programme of the coastal areas and marine waters and hence no developmental activity is permissible, said the authority, deciding on the resort’s proposal. “In as far as roof mounted solar panels is concerned, the authority decided to approve the same minusing the ground based solar panels because the solar panels being opaque could result in affecting the geomorphology of the land beneath these solar panels due to non-penetration of sunlight,” the GCZMA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coastal-body-says-no-to-solar-panels-on-varca-dunes/articleshow/76901714.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Dehradun||ICSE, ISC results out: 99% students pass Class X, 96% clear XII||DEHRADUN: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) declared the results for ICSE Class X and ISC Class XII for academic session 2019-20 on Friday. The pass percentage of ICSE was recorded at 99.34% and that of ISC was 96.84%. In Uttarakhand, majority of the students passed the board exams. In Dehradun, several students of schools like The Doon School, Welham Girls, Brightlands and others secured above 90% marks. Anubhav Kashyap of Brightlands scored 98.6 % and become school topper in Class X while Bhavya Madan of the same school scored 99.75% in Class XII. Jahnvi Chandra from Welham Girls’ School secured 99.5%in Class XII. Class X student Krisha Khanna from the same school secured 98.6%. Almost 50% of the ISC Class XII students of The Doon School received an overall percentage of 90% (or above) and more than 81% of the board students secured above 80% marks. The school toppers in each discipline are — Pranav Goel (Science stream) with 98.0%, Samarth Mehra (Commerce stream) with 97.3%, and Vikram Jain (Humanities) with 97.3%. Similarly, Class XII student Jahnvi Chandra from Welham Girls’ School got 99.50% marks in her board exams. Class X student Krisha Khanna from the same school secured 98.6% marks. St. Jude’s School's Aditi Rawat got 98% in Class X board exams while Utkarsh Verma of Class XII scored 95%. In St. Thomas’ College, Soumya Shree and Vansh Sharma got 95% and 94% respectively in their Class XII exams while Anukalp Badola and Kshitiz Dahal scored 98.2% and 96.8% respectively in their Class X exams. The toppers for Shri Ram Centennial School were — Aditya Swami, Nidhim Soni, and Bhanu P Singh Vohra — who scored 97.8%, 96.2%, and 96% marks respectively in their Class X exams while Hunar Agarwal and Sifaan Ali scored 96% and 92% respectively in their Class XII exams. The Cambrian Hall's Pratyaksh Gupta and Pranchi Jhinkwan scored 96.6% and 96.4% respectively in Class X exams while Sahil Mittal and Akshita Dora scored 98.2% and 95.75% respectively in their Class XII exams. Seven Oaks School student Ankita Rawat scored 96.5% in Class XII and Gaurang Khator scored 98.2% in Class X exams. The Khrist Jyoti Academy saw Arpan Sooraj Pal scoring 92.06% and Anshika Balodi scoring 90% in Class X exams and The Doon Cambridge School saw Anisha Saini scoring 93% in Class XII while Aarohi Jaiswal scoring 91.2% in Class X. The Doon Blossoms student Nidhi Singh scored 98.5% in her Class X exams. In St Joseph’s academy, Stuti Uniyal remained the topper in Science stream in Class XII with 98% marks. The second toppers in the stream were — Aditya Jain and Nimish Rawat — both of whom scored 97.75% marks. Manya Chauhan stood third with 97.5%. In St Joseph’s Academy, Class XII Vikansh Muniyal from Commerce stream topped the school with 98% marks. Yashveer Singh Anand with 96.75% marks and Vasundhara Puri with 95.75% marks stood at the second and the third spot respectively. In Class X, Ashok Bhatt with 98.40% stood first and the second spot was shared by Suhani Anand and Manvi Chauhan with 98%. In Mussoorie, the Wynberg-Allen School saw Anushka Priya Chauhan scoring 98.2% in Class X while Class XII student Vahiste Sinor scored 100 marks in four subjects and got 93 marks in English. The Mussoorie International School saw Isha Sagar scoring 96.8% in Class X. Prachita Kothari and Barbie Agarwal of the same school scored 97.5% in Class XII. According to Brother Tommy Varghese, principal of St. George’s college, Rakshit Tiwari obtained 98.6% marks in Class X and five other students got more than 98% marks. Chirag Guha from St. George’s College secured 97% marks in Class XII. The Maa Anandmayee Memorial School (MAMS) of Haridwar saw Vivek Pokhriyal scoring 89.2% in Class X and Muskan Rawat scoring 90.5% in Class XII. In Sherwood College of Nainital, Raunak Jaiswal scored 94.6% marks in Class X and Kavya Gupta secured 97.75% marks in her Class XII exams. (With inputs from Ishita Mishra, Anmol Jain, and Prashant Jha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/icse-isc-results-out-99-students-pass-class-x-96-clear-xii/articleshow/76900152.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 11, 2020||Patna||Four Maoists gunned down in Valmikinagar encounter||BETTIAH/PATNA: Four Maoists were killed in an encounter with a joint team of Bihar Police’s special task force and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) in the Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) jungles bordering Nepal in West Champaran district on Friday morning. One policeman and an SSB inspector were injured in the shootout. The joint team recovered three SLRs, one AK-56 assault rifle and one .303 rifle from the spot. DIG (Champaran Range) Lallan Mohan Prasad said the joint operation was conducted by the Special Task Force of Bagaha police and the SSB on inputs received that Maoists were moving in the jungles. Deputy commandant Narpat Singh led the SSB’s ‘small action team’, SSB Patna frontier IG Sanjay Kumar said, adding the injured Rituraj was out of danger. The slain Maoists were identified as Vipul from Muzaffarpur, Kiran, Nakul and Chhotey Sahni alias Suraj. Suraj is from Valmikinagar. Vipul had been arrested in 2018 for the murder of Champapur-Gonauli panchayat mukhiya Manoj Singh in the VTR region. He was out on bail. “Bagaha SP Rajeev Ranjan has rushed in with reinforcements to intensify the combing operations made difficult by overnight rain that has brought the jungle rivulets in spate and made the dense jungle terrain sluggish,” the DIG said. IG Kumar said the four Maoists were from ‘Rajan’s Dasta’. Another senior SSB officer said Nakul was the right hand and bodyguard of Maoist commander Ram Babu Ram alias Rajan. STF sources said it was a big setback for Ram and his cadre and a major success for police and SSB in north Bihar before the upcoming assembly election. “Ram is a member of Uttar Pradesh-Uttar Bihar Special Area Committee (UU-SAC) of the CPI (Maoist),” a senior STF officer said. “His ‘dasta’ had 12 armed cadres and four of them have been neutralized,” he added. The encounter took place near Chautha nallah, about 30km northeast of Bagaha. This is one of the nine streams that flow perpendicular from the Bhapsa river running through the thick forests. In 2017, VTR authorities had refurbished an 18km-long jungle path from Harnataar to Naurangia Done to facilitate all-weather commute for the villagers around Naurangia. This road is the only connect for these forest villagers in the midst of VTR between Harnataar and Bagaha. About 10km of this road lies in the core area of the Tiger reserve. Chautha nallah flows through this core area, away from human habitation. In 2015-16, a case of tiger poaching had been reported from the vicinity of Chautha nallah, but investigations found local involvement in the crime. VTR authorities subsequently rebuilt the all-weather jungle road. An anti-poaching camp was set up on the border of the Gonauli and Naurangia forest ranges on this road. Poaching has since been checked. The Friday’s encounter has brought the focus back on the VTR jungles as a possible Moist hotbed after over 15 years’ hiatus. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, these jungles had been a refuge of Maoists from Telangana/Andhra Pradesh, too. Across the border, Nepal then was in the midst of the Communists’ ‘jan andolan’. (With inputs from Tirthraj Kushwaha in Bagaha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/four-maoists-gunned-down-in-valmikinagar-encounter/articleshow/76901219.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
July 11, 2020||Lucknow||Vikas Dubey encounter: Media stopped 15 minutes before shootout||LUCKNOW: At least 10 news channel crews were following the heavily armed STF convoy carrying Vikas Dubey soon after it entered UP at Aith toll plaza in Jalaun district. However, as the convoy reached Barajod toll plaza near Kanpur at around 6.30 am, all other vehicles were stopped. They were told that it was for routine checking of papers. Barely 15 minutes later, news spread that Dubey had been shot as an STF vehicle carrying him had overturned and he had opened fire after snatching the weapon of a constable. Mediapersons on the spot raised the issue and alleged that they had been deliberately stopped as the enounter killing had been pre-planned. IGP (Kanpur Range) Mohit Agarwal, however, told TOI: "We received inputs from the team that a fleet of 60 vehicles was following their convoy from Ujjain. It was dangerous as local intelligence inputs had also expressed some apprehensions of foul play," said Agarwal. So it became important for us to check the vehicles, he said. "In that critical phase also we ensured that vehicles with proper documents and credentials were allowed to go," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/media-stopped-15-min-before-shootout/articleshow/76902206.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ex-wife from Ahmedabad's Bapunagar threatened with acid attack||AHMEDABAD: A 23-year-old woman from Bapunagar, lodged a complaint against her former husband Rahul Guddekar and his friend Utkarsh Rajput, for threatening to throw acid on her and publish intimate photos of her on social media. Inspector of Bapunagar police station N K Vyas said they lodged an offence under Sections 294(b), 506 (1), 114 and 507 of the IPC against both the accused and arrested them after a Covid-19 test on Thursday. “Both accused were given bail by the court on Friday,” he added. According to the FIR lodged by the complainant, she met Guddekar at her maternal aunt’s office at Hirawadi in Bapunagar and had fallen in love with him. “The FIR states that the two had registered their marriage in court but they did not live together and had later got divorced. The complainant stated that the accused often came to her house to pressure her to accompany him,” said a police official. Police officials said that on June 8, Guddekar made a WhatsApp call to the complainant’s aunt’s daughter through Rajput’s phone and threatened that if the complainant did not go with him he would throw acid on her face and publish intimate photos of her on social media. When the complainant’s aunt’s daughter told her what Guddekar had said, she decided to lodged a complaint against the accused and his friend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ex-wife-threatened-with-acid-attack/articleshow/76901722.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Vilankurichi SEZ entices investors||COIMBATORE: Tech firms will soon be able to buy the 62-acre special economic zone (SEZ) land developed by the Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu (Elcot) at Vilankurichi at very affordable prices, Elcot managing director M Vijayakumar said on Friday. Elcot will set up a startup centre of excellence on 2.5 million sqft of the SEZ site, the official, who was speaking at a webinar organized by the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) in association with the state government, Elcot and the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) as a part of 19th edition of Connect Coimbatore, said. The webinar on ‘Digital Disruption – A Business Advantage’ was inaugurated by revenue and disaster management minister R B Udhayakumar. Over 250 participants from various sectors attended. In his inaugural address, the minister said that Elcot and other government agencies are working to extend the reach of fibre-optic internet connectivity to all villages to improve educational and healthcare services. Sufficient information and communication technology (ICT) infrastructure will be created to aid the development, he said. Considering the talent pool, educational infrastructure and salubrious climate, Coimbatore is the next best destination for the growth of ICT sector, additional chief secretary of the information technology department Hans Raj Verma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vilankurichi-sez-entices-investors/articleshow/76901716.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||Sawant forms committee to preserve heritage of Old Goa||Panaji: Almost two months after the chief minister convened a meeting to discuss measures to protect the Basilica of Bom Jesus in Old Goa along with other monuments, the government has constituted a coordination committee, to preserve the cultural heritage of Old Goa. The committee will also ensure better coordination amongst various government departments, religious bodies and the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Goa circle. The chief minister will head the committee which includes, the deputy chief minister, minister for archives, chief secretary, secretary archaeology, north Goa collector, principal chief engineer and chief architect - PWD, director of archives and archaeology, tourism director, chief engineer of the power department, chief town planning (planning), superintendents of police (north) and traffic, a representative from the national monuments authority, superintending archaeologist ASI and a representative of the archdiocese of Goa. The committee will meet once in two months or as frequently as required and its tenure is one year. The chief minister chaired the first meeting to set up the co-ordination committee to look after protected monuments in the state on May 5. The committee was constituted after the rector of the Bom Jesus Basilica in Old Goa pointed out the neglect of the monument by the ASI and after he shot off letters to authorities in Goa and Delhi. He complained that the roof repair work was left incomplete, resulting in water entering the Basilica during unseasonal rain. “They completed the roof work and have recently patched up walls which had deteriorated,” Fernandes told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-forms-committee-to-preserve-heritage-of-old-goa/articleshow/76901727.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: NDMC gives traders 15 days to comply with outdoor ad norms||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council has given 15 days to traders or shopkeepers in all the markets to resize signage, wall wraps, posters and flexes according to the Outdoor Advertisement Policy (OAP) 2017, and warned strict action and penalty in case of violation. The notice was issued to all the traders in Connaught place, Khan Market, Gole Market and other areas. An official claimed that people in some of the markets were displaying signage, wall wraps, etc., illegally and without paying any charges to the civic agency. “If this time traders won’t comply with the order and take corrective steps, legal provisions will be implemented, including removal of boards at their costs as per Delhi Prevention for Defacement of Property Act (DPDP) 2007,” said an NDMC official. As per OAP, self signage will not be allowed beyond the length of the shops or above 2.5 square metres. In case of bigger signage, special permission of the NDMC chairman is required, the order said. For commercial properties, signage above 2.5sq m will cost Rs 100 per sq foot per month, while for display through LED screens, double the amount would have to be submitted to NDMC. However, the width of the signage can’t be over 6ft. In case of display of product and services, Rs 900 per sq foot per month was fixed for CP and Khan Market, and Rs 600 for other NDMC areas. “Screens beyond the width of the shop or beyond 200 sq feet will not be allowed. In case of flexes, Rs 450 per sq foot per month beyond 27 feet and the width beyond that of the shop will not be allowed. In case of violation, penalty will be imposed, which will be two times of these rates,” mentioned the order. In June, too, the department issued notices to the traders, but to no avail, the official claimed. Meanwhile, the move has upset the traders who argued that shops were private properties and NDMC had no right to charge a fee for advertisement boards. “In the current time, when traders are suffering losses, to impose fines is not right,” said a CP trader. A senior NDMC official said, “Even if it is a private property, the advertisement is displayed in public domain, so the policy will be implemented. We have worked as per the norms and clarified the rates in the order. We have started a survey to identify the defaulters and will begin taking action after 15 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-gives-traders-15-days-to-comply-with-outdoor-ad-norms/articleshow/76901749.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 11, 2020||Goa||Only take up five cases in each session, courts told||Panaji: The department of law and judiciary has instructed all courts and quasi-judicial authorities under the control of the state government, including the children’s court, labour court, Goa Human Rights Commission and Goa Lokayukta among other authorities to restrict the number of cases to five in each session. No adverse orders should be passed in case a lawyer is unable to attend a hearing on a particular day, and lawyers should be accommodated in case of such difficulties, stated the circular issued by the under secretary of the law department on Thursday. “Proper social distancing should be maintained especially in the chamber/court of the presiding officers where such hearings are being taken up. The number of persons in the chamber/court of the presiding officer should be restricted,” the circular further stated. Instructions have also been issued to scrupulously adhere to the timings given for hearing in these courts and quasi-judicial authorities. The places for hearing must be regularly sanitised, and all instructions issued by the government on social distancing must be strictly adhered to, the instructions further state. Revenue courts, industrial court, administrative tribunal, labour court, RERA, Goa state consumer forum, Goa state consumer commission and other quasi-judicial authorities including rent controller, deputy director panchayats, mamlatdar, joint mamlatdars and block development officers have also been instructed to strictly adhere to the instructions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-take-up-five-cases-in-each-session-courts-told/articleshow/76901721.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb minister takes test after IAS officer couple found +ve||Chandigarh/Ropar: Two IAS and 13 PCS officers were confirmed positive for Covid-19 in Punjab on Friday. Punjab rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa underwent a test as his department’s director Vipul Ujjwal has tested positive. What’s more, Ropar district administrative complex was sealed too as Ujjwal’s wife Ropar deputy commissioner Sonali Giri and a sub-divisional magistrate posted there have also tested positive for coronavirus infection. Sources said Bajwa had convened a meeting on Thursday that also had Ujjwal in attendance, which prompted him to take the test as a precautionary measure. With an increasing number of bureaucrats and government employees testing positive, the state government has decided to issue stranding operating procedures (SOPs) for holding official meetings in the government offices. In addition, movement of outsiders in the Punjab Civil Secretariat has been restricted. Meanwhile, all officers who attended the meeting with Ujjwal have gone into quarantine and are getting themselves tested for Covid-19. As many as 14 Punjab Civil Services (PCS) officers have tested positive in the state, including SDMs of Ropar, Shahkot and Dirba, besides SSP Jalandhar Rural Navjot Singh Mahal. An official of the health department said samples of 34 PCS officers were collected, reports in five cases were still pending. Several PCS officers had attended a meeting of the Punjab Civil Services Officers Association in Chandigarh on July 3 to protest against the arrest of a fellow official. “There is an element of fear in the government offices as many of those who tested positive had met with employees before their reports came in. Till now, proper precautions were not being taken in the offices as it is not feasible to practice social distancing where the workstations are fixed in close proximity,” said an employee. Earlier, Giri told TOI that both she and her husband were asymptomatic. In addition to the couple, their eight-year-old daughter, one-year-old son and two relatives living with them were also found infected, confirmed sources in the evening. The health officials have taken samples of around 110 persons working in the district complex in Ropar. The complex has been closed for three days, at least. Covid nodal officer in Ropar Dr Rajiv Aggarwal said, “The administrative complex will be sanitised completely. So far two persons are isolated in our isolation ward, including SDM Ropar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-minister-takes-test-after-ias-officer-couple-found-ve/articleshow/76901709.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||Lawyers opt for hearings via video conferencing||Panaji: Advocates across courts in the state are attending hearings via video-conferencing to reduce the risk of contracting and spreading the infection during the pandemic. The bench devised a system that has been accepted by all bar associations. “All hearings as far as possible are conducted only through video conferencing facility. Very few lawyers go to court to argue in person. Regular hearings have minimised completely. Courts cannot take up more than 15 matters per session,” president of the Panjim lawyers forum Adv Gaurish Agni told TOI. The system for filing of a new matter involves the advocate preparing the subject matter and sending a summary of it, including the intention behind filing it via email to the registry. The advocate can go to court to physically file it, only after he/she is given a token number and a date and time. With swearing in court before a superintendent not taking place, the lawyer must get everything notarized and bring it to the registry and drop it in a drop box along with the token number. Even then physical contact is limited to minimize the risk of spreading the disease. “The papers are kept aside for 48 hours after which the registry will pick up the physical papers and process them. These are left for another 24 hours before they’re placed before the judge,” he added. Only in cases of extreme urgency is this procedure not followed. “In matters involving extreme urgency, the document has to be scanned and sent on the designated email ID. Then considering the urgency, the matter will be listed on the board,” he said. If any two lawyers want their matter to be taken up due to some urgency, they can make a joint request to the court to take it up. Litigants who wish to view the proceedings can do so in open court where screens have been installed, but at their own risk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lawyers-opt-for-hearings-via-video-conferencing/articleshow/76901731.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: E-Sachivalaya soon at civil secretariat||CHANDIGARH: Haryana is set to launch e-Sachivalaya, a digital platform, where the public would have an easy facility of seeking appointment for meeting ministers and officers. The e-Sachivalaya aims to bring government and its functionaries under one roof for better functioning, coordination and ensuring effectiveness in citizen interface, especially in the times of the Covid-19 pandemic. It was announced during a meeting chaired by chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora to review implementation of e-Sachivalaya and updation of data on the human resource management system and litigation management system with all administrative secretaries though videoconference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/e-sachivalaya-soon-at-civil-secretariat/articleshow/76901713.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: PSI held for graft suspended||AHMEDABAD: PSI Shweta Jadeja of the Women’s Police Station (West), who was arrested by the special operations group (SOG) for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs 35 lakh from a man who has been accused of rape, has been suspended.  SOG sources said the money had been sent to Jamjodhpur through an angadia firm whose office is on CG Road and was accepted by one Jayubha of Jamjodhpur, an employee of an angadia firm there. Jayubha, in his statement, said that the husband of Jadeja’s elder sister, Devendra Odedra of Upleta, had come to his house and collected the money. “We are hunting for Odedra and our teams are in various places in Saurashtra to arrest him,” said a senior SOG official. A complaint in this regard was lodged by Inspector R S Suvera of crime branch, based on an application received in February. The applicant had submitted that PSI Shweta Jadeja of Women’s Police Station had allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs 35 lakh to not put up a proposal for detention of the accused under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA). SOG sources said that complaint alleges that Jadeja called the complainant’s brother, against whom two rape complaints were filed, and threatened to put him behind bars under PASA if Rs 35 lakh was not paid to her. The FIR also states that the complainant had sent Rs 20 lakh through the angadia firm to Jayubha at her instance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/psi-held-for-graft-suspended/articleshow/76901734.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Lucknow||Justice done, but don’t spare those who colluded with don: Cops’ kin||LUCKNOW: Hailing the police for gunning down gangster Vikas Dubey, who orchestrated the killing of eight policemen in Bikru village of Kanpur on July 2, the families of slain cops said justice has finally been done. The families thanked Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for action and reposed their faith in the government. Kamalkant, relative of slain circle officer of Chaubeypur Devendra Mishra said those who gave patronage to Vikas Dubey should be brought to book. Residents of Mishra’s village also expressed statisfaction. Ramesh Bahadur Singh, father of sub-inspector Anup Kumar Singh, said the encounter was a tribute to eight martyrs. “Same treatment should also be done to those who supported the criminal,” he said. Dinesh, brother of slain constable Babloo Kumar, said: “Though I am satisfied with the encounter, I would have been happier had Vikas undergone the same pain that we have suffered. He should have been burnt alive.” Babloo’s father Chhotelal said the station officer who gave tip-off to the gangster should also be killed. Urmila, wife of constable Sultan Singh, said: “I’m happy over the development but how will we come to know as to who were backing Vikas Dubey?” “I am proud of UP police. The action has finally brought peace to my son’s soul,” said Tirath Pal, father of constable Jitendra Pal Singh who lost his life in the ambush. Devenarayan, father of slain SO Mahesh Yadav, said the government had done a good job. “The CM has delivered what he had promised,” he said. Constable Ajay Kashyap, who had sustained injuries in the attack, said people’s faith in the police force would be restored after the encounter. Kalika Prasad, father of sub-inspector Nebu Lal who died in action, said: “The souls of martyrs will now rest in peace. We are happy.” Rani Devi, mother of constable Jitendra Pal said also expressed satisfaction. Manoj Shukla, brother of senior BJP leader Santosh Shukla who was shot dead inside a police station by Vikas Dubey in 2001, said his brother’s soul would rest in peace after 19 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/justice-done-but-dont-spare-those-who-colluded-with-don-cops-kin/articleshow/76902221.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
July 11, 2020||Patna||AIIMS-Patna 4th dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Bihar||PATNA: AIIMS-Patna has been declared the fourth dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Bihar. State health department on Friday issued an order and instructed all the government hospitals to reserve 50% of the beds or at least 100 beds for corona patients. At present, NMCH, Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) at Bhagalpur and ANMMCH at Gaya were the three dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in Bihar with 2,344 beds. The decision was taken after the recent spike in Covid cases in Bihar. Till Friday, state recorded 14,330 corona patients, of which 3,966 were still under treatment. A letter issued by state health department additional secretary Kaushal Kishore said the decision about AIIMS-P was taken after a proposal and recommendation in this regard from the hospital’s superintendent and with the approval of state health minister. Kishore also asked AIIMS-P administration to take decision regarding non-Covid patients admitted there and how to reduce their number. AIIMS-P superintendent Dr CK Singh said the non Covid-19 patients would stay till they recovered and discharged. “New patients suffering from other diseases will not be admitted,” he said and added that the hospital had total 960 beds. AIIMS-P nodal officer incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said 400 beds were already reserved for Covid-19 patients. Health department principal secretary Udai Singh Kumawat, in a letter on Friday, directed the principals and superintendents of nine government medical college and hospitals to create an isolation ward with 50% of the beds for Covid-19 patients. Health department has also tagged 38 districts with the nine government medical college and hospitals where treatment of seriously symptomatic Covid-19 persons will be done. For example, patients from Patna, Saran, Siwan and Gopalganj will be treated at PMCH and those from Bhojpur, Buxar, Rohtas and Kaimur at NMCH, Patna. Kumawat has asked the hospitals’ administration to identify a separate block and start the treatment of Covid-19 positive people from Saturday. He also instructed them to ensure an oxygen cylinder with all the beds immediately and arrange for clinical services, support services and human resources within a week. Instruction for a separate block has been given to so that non-Covid-19 patients do not have any threat of getting infected. Hospitals and districts tagged PMCH: Patna, Saran, Siwan and Gopalganj NMCH: Bhojpur, Buxar, Vaishali, Rohtas and Kaimur DMCH: Darbhanga, Madhubani, Samastipur, Supaul and Begusarai JLNMCH: Bhagalpur, Banka, Munger, Khagaria, Jamui and Lakhisarai SKMCH: Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi and Sheohar ANMMCH: Gaya, Aurangabad, Jehanabad and Arwal VIMS, Pawapuri: Nalanda, Nawada and Sheikhpura GMC, Bettiah: East Champaran and West Champaran JNKTMC, Madhepura: Saharsa, Madhepura, Purnea, Araria, Katihar and Kishanganj||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-p-4th-dedicated-covid-hospital-in-bihar/articleshow/76901236.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||43 more positive cases take Coimbatore’s Covid-19 tally to 1,076||COIMBATORE: The district recorded 43 more cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total number of patients to 1,076. The death toll also increased by one, taking the total number of Covid-19 victims to 11. A 60-year-old woman from Kurichi, with multiple co-morbidities, who was admitted on Wednesday with breathing difficulty died on Thursday night. Health department officials confirmed that the woman, from Alif Street, in Kurichi, was brought to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Wednesday morning in a severe state of breathlessness. The family said she had been suffering from giddiness and breathlessness for the past two days. A chest x-ray on admission confirmed lung congestion, infection and pneumonia. She also had rheumatic heart disease and coronary heart disease along with heart valve issues. “Despite being put on the ventilator and testing positive for covid-19 she was too sick to be shifted to ESI Hospital and died around 36 hours later due to cardiac shock,” an official said. On Friday, a senior income tax commissioner was also hospitalized at PSG Hospitals because he developed flu-like symptoms. On admission, a chest CT, also showed that his lungs had slight pneumonic changes, said a health department official. Though officials refused to confirm him positive for the virus, they immediately drew samples from six people in his family including wife, son and daughter-in-law and placed them under home quarantine. The corporation also fumigated the office premises. The man had returned from New Delhi on Saturday, joined work on Monday and even travelled to Madurai on Wednesday. Meanwhile, many commercial outlets in the shopping hubs of the city are slowly turning into Covid-19 breeding hubs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/43-more-positive-cases-take-dists-covid-tally-to-1076/articleshow/76901728.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three persons cheated of Rs 91,319 in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Jayesh Girnani has lodged a complaint with Naroda police, stating that he has been cheated of Rs 91,319. In his complaint filed on Thursday, Girnani said that on June 27 he saw a high-end cellphone attractively priced at Rs 22,000 on a portal. He said he contacted the seller, Ajay Yadav. Yadav had Girnani transfer a down payment and then demanded the remainder. Later, Yadav also extracted insurance money. In the end, Girnani got nothing. In another case, Jeetendra Gurbani called an animal helpline on Thursday after spotting a sick monkey and lost Rs 10,000. When Gurbani called the helpline, he was told to fill a form. When he did so, the money was debited from his account. Sardarnagar police are investigating. Also on Thursday, Rajendrakumar Patel had his debit card swapped at a Naroda ATM by a youth. A Naroda police official said that Rs 52,816 has been stolen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-persons-cheated/articleshow/76901741.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||Selaulim dam overflows through duckbill spillway||Ponda: Selaulim dam started overflowing from its crest on Thursday evening, earlier than what has been observed in the past. The overflow normally occurs mid-July. The water began overflowing from the duckbill spillway on July 17 in 2019 and on July 11 in 2018. Water resource deparment’s (WRD) executive engineer K K Ravindran said the overflow is due to heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of Netravali and surroundings. “The phenomenon is likely to last until November, depending on the intensity of rainfall in the areas constituting the dam’s catchment area. The excess water flows into the Selaulim river and is used for irrigation,” Ravindran told TOI. The dam’s full reservoir level (FRL) is 41.15m. Sources said its unique ‘duckbill’ spillway is designed to let out a maximum flood discharge of 1,450 cubic metres per second. Of the total live storage of 226 cubic meters, 126 cubic metres are used for irrigation and the balance is for domestic and industrial use. The public works department (PWD) treats about 160 million litres per day (MLD) of water and another Japan international cooperation agency (JICA)-sponsored water treatment plant treats around 100 MLD water,.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/selaulim-dam-overflows-through-duckbill-spillway/articleshow/76901743.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
July 11, 2020||Goa||Goa’s micro food sector eyes boost via central scheme||Panaji: The directorate of industries, trade and commerce has been tasked with implementing and monitoring the Centre’s scheme for formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises (FME) in Goa. While director of industries Deepak Bandekar has been appointed as the nodal officer for the scheme, 12 departments have been named as nodal agencies for the scheme. The Narendra Modi government formulated the FME scheme to promote the micro-food processing sector by increasing access to such units. “To deal with all the issues pertaining to the effective implementation of the proposed scheme by Ministry of Food Processing Industries, the scheme for Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises (FME) in the state, the government of Goa has identified a nodal department, nodal officer and state nodal agencies, keeping in view the multi-sectoral nature of the micro food processing sector and to initiate advance action to identify agro-clusters including fisheries, poultry, dairy and minor forest produce,” said under secretary for industries A S Mahatme. The centrally sponsored scheme will see the state and the Centre sharing the expenditure at a 40:60 ratio. The scheme aims to assist at least 2 lakh micro-enterprises with credit linked subsidy. The scheme will be implemented over a five-year period till 2024-25 with a focus on perishables and a cluster approach. The scheme aims to increase revenues of the micro-food processing units, improve food quality and safety compliances, strengthen support systems and help such enterprises transition from the unorganised sector to the formal sector. The Centre wants to give special focus on women entrepreneurs and encourage waste to wealth activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-micro-food-sector-eyes-boost-via-central-scheme/articleshow/76901738.cms||---
July 11, 2020||India||Working on job plan for 1cr migrants who returned home: Govt||NEW DELHI: The Centre has informed the Supreme Court that Centre is undertaking a slew of measures to rehabilitate and re-employ one crore reverse migrated workers in rural areas including opening of more than 700 food processing/preservation and infrastructure projects in various parts of the country. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta presented an affidavit detailing various schemes and steps taken for rehabilitation and re-employment of migrant workers who were transported back to their home states during lockdown through Shramik special trains and other modes of transport. This was in response to a query of a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah in the suo motu proceedings initiated by it for ameliorating the plight of migrant workers. The Centre said, "More than 700 food processing/preservation and infrastructure projects sanctioned in various parts of the country under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana. These are at various stages of execution and a few have achieved completion, ready for commercial operation. In all these projects, including those under execution, the migrant workers can get employment opportunities." The Centre also listed the already announced schemes like Rs 1.7 lakh crore relief package to poor as well as migrant workers and their dependants under PM Garib kalyan Yojana; one free gas cylinder per month for next three months to benefit eight crore families; free ration to 80 crore people; and extension free food grains under PDS till November for migrant workers and families: extension of ICDS to children of migrant workers; and providing all women in rural areas, whether permanent or temporary residents, the benefits under centrally sponsored Anganwadi services; and raising the NREGA daily wage from Rs 182 to Rs 202, that could benefit 13.62 crore families. The Centre also mentioned the Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries (SFURTI) to enhance marketability of products of artisans for sustaining employment and providing them with mechanical or electrical traditional tools. It said the Department of Biotechnology has set up 31 Biotech Kisan Hubs covering all Agroclimatic zones, which will help migrant workers to earn livelihood through farming and expose them to innovative methods of farming high value crops. It said the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has "developed a geo-spatial platform as a decision support system for the current pandemic situation. In the portal various dashboards have been created - public dashboard, logistic management, risk index, quarantine alert etc which are being used by states for containment of spread of Covid-19." "The National Migrant Information System has database management of migration of stranded people. With this data, states will be able to visualise how many people are going out from where and how many are reaching where," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/working-on-job-plan-for-1cr-migrants-who-returned-home-govt/articleshow/76902709.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 11, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Engineer falls to death accidentally||SURAT: An electrical engineer succumbed to serious injuries he suffered after falling from the fifth floor of the stem cell building in the New Civil Hospital (NCH) campus on Friday. The deceased Jaswant Sihora (56), who lived in Sanjay Cooperative Housing Society in Parle Point, had gone for inspection of the ongoing electrical work at the building in the morning. Sihora accidentally fell from the fifth floor of the building which is located behind the designated Covid-19 hospital. Sihora was rushed to the trauma centre where the doctors declared him dead on admission. Iqbal Kadiwala, vice-president of nursing union at NCH told TOI, “The work at stem cell and kidney hospital is going on in full swing after CM announced allocation of Rs 100 crore for setting up Covid-19 facility there. The engineer had not donned any safety gears when he was brought to the trauma centre.” During his visit on July 6, chief minister Vijay Rupani had announced Rs 100 crore fund to convert the stem cell and kidney hospital buildings in the NCH campus into the Covid-19 hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/engineer-falls-to-death-accidentally/articleshow/76899977.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Patna||99.4% pupils clear ICSE, 98.4% ISC exams in state||Patna: Bihar registered a record of 99.48 pass percentage in the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (Class X) exams, 0.94% higher than previous year. The overall pass percentage in Indian School Certificate (Class XII) exams in the state stood at 98.46%. The much-awaited results of classes X and XII of the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) were announced at 3pm on Friday. This year, the CISCE has not released the list of toppers as the examinations had been suspended midway due to Covid-19 pandemic in the country. For the pending exams, the students were assessed on the basis of internal exams. In case a student is not satisfied, s/he can reappear for the exams at a later date. Altogether 5,021 Class X students cleared the exams and 26 flunked it. In Class XII, 1,154 candidates were successful and 18 failed in the state. Altogether 5,047 candidates, including 2,263 girls, had in ICSE and 1,172 students in ISC from Bihar. There are 36 ICSE and 12 ISC schools in the state. Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the council, said the CICSE has not published the merit lists this year in view of exceptional circumstances. “Despite all odds, the CISCE has successfully completed evaluation of ICSE and ISC papers and declared the results,” he said in a press release. Meanwhile, Don Bosco Academy, St Joseph’s Convent High School (Jethuli), St Joseph’s Convent High School (Bankipore), Lohia Nagar Mt Carmel High School and St Xavier’s High School in Patna claimed that they registered 100% success rate. Sr M Serena AC, principal of Carmel High School, said all 164 Class X students passed with first division. “Of 167 students in Class XII, 161 secured first division and six second division,” she said. Directress of International School Farhat Hasan said the school has secured 100% pass percentage in ICSE and all students passed with first division. The school has also secured 100% success rate in Class XII as well, she said. Anand Prakash, principal of St Paul’s High School, said the school has achieved 100% results. “In mathematics and computer science, some students have scored perfect 100,” Prakash added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/99-4-pupils-clear-icse-98-4-isc-exams-in-state/articleshow/76901256.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 11, 2020||Hubballi||10 inmates at Kalaburagi prison confirmed infected||Kalaburagi: A day after 10 inmates at the Kalaburagi Central Prison tested positive for the novel coronavirus, they were shifted to the Covid-19 ward at the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) on Friday. Nearly 60 inmates who had been released on parole as part of the precautionary measures taken by the law enforcement authorities to decongest prisons to arrest the transmission of the novel coronavirus returned to the jail recently. All of them had been housed in a single cell and were tested for Covid-19. When the reports confirmed that ten were positive for the novel coronavirus, it was decided to shift all of them to the Covid ward at GIMS. The other inmates who returned from parole to the prison have been quarantined in a separate cell. Chief superintendent of Kalaburagi Central Prison Ramesh said that, inmates who had returned from parole had been kept isolated from the other prisoners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/10-inmates-at-kalaburagi-prison-confirmed-infected/articleshow/76900908.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Lucknow||SUV toppled to save UP government: Samajwadi Party||LUCKNOW: Launching a scathing attack on the BJP over the death of ganglord Vikas Dubey in a police encounter, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said the police action has wiped off all the evidence that could have exposed the criminal-politician-bureaucrat nexus in the present government. Describing the encounter as the latest episode of chief minister’s “thoko niti” (encounter policy), he demanded a judicial inquiry into the killing by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court. Taking a jibe at the BJP government, Akhilesh said it seems that the SUV overturned to save the government from being toppled. “Vikas would have unmasked all those in power who had given him shelter and used him in return and the expose would come as a last straw for the government,” he said. He said the BJP and UP Police had given shelter to Vikas Dubey for years without which the gangster couldn’t have managed to build his empire. Akhilesh reiterated his demand that to unmask Dubey’s patrons, the government must disclose the past five years’ calls details of the gangster and bring to book all those who sheltered him over the years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/suv-toppled-to-save-up-govt-sp/articleshow/76902246.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||55-year-old man arrested for killing wife in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The city police on Thursday arrested a 55-year-old resident of the slum clearance board’s Ammankulam housing unit for killing his wife. M Thangaraj, a construction worker, had set his wife Kamala, 50, on fire on Wednesday following a domestic dispute, police sources said. The woman was battling for life at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) and died without responding to treatment on Thursday. Thangaraj had doused kerosene on Kamala and set her ablaze following an argument over his extra-marital relationship around 9.30pm on Wednesday. She suffered 50% burns. Based on Kamala’s complaint, Ramanathapuram police inspector Murugesan registered a case against Thangaraj under Section 307 (attempt to murder), 294 (b) ((sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words in or near any public place)), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him on Thursday. He was lodged in the Pollachi sub-jail. After Kamala died, the FIR was altered to include murder charge. Kamala’s body was handed over to the family on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/55-yr-old-man-arrested-for-killing-wife/articleshow/76901758.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||‘Use intranet for online education’||Margao: Demanding that the government urgently streamline online education, opposition leader Digambar Kamat on Friday suggested that the government make optimum use of the intranet facility installed in Goa which he said had already reached every taluka. “The intranet facility will help the teachers as well as students in online education, as the facility can give uninterrupted transmission of good quality video,” Kamat said in a press note. Stating that the facility was launched during his tenure as chief minister, Kamat said he had even conducted online meetings of various government officials of various talukas from his office. He said that the “government needs to network with the local cable operators through which the intranet facility can reach every household in remotest area of Goa.” The intranet facility, he said, was more effective as the signals are transmitted through optic fibre cables which are laid underground. Kamat also urged the CM to immediately issue orders advising teachers to work from home during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/use-intranet-for-online-education/articleshow/76901756.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||55-yr-old man arrested for killing wife||Coimbatore: The city police on Thursday arrested a 55-year-old resident of the slum clearance board’s Ammankulam housing unit for killing his wife.M Thangaraj, a construction worker, had set his wife Kamala, 50, on fire on Wednesday following a domestic dispute, police sources said. The woman was battling for life at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) and died without responding to treatment on Thursday.Thangaraj had doused kerosene on Kamala and set her ablaze following an argument over his extra-marital relationship around 9.30pm on Wednesday. She suffered 50% burns.Based on Kamala’s complaint, Ramanathapuram police inspector Murugesan registered a case against Thangaraj under Section 307 (attempt to murder), 294 (b) ((sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words in or near any public place)), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him on Thursday. He was lodged in the Pollachi sub-jail. After Kamala died, the FIR was altered to include murder charge.Kamala’s body was handed over to the family on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/55-yr-old-man-arrested-for-killing-wife/articleshow/76901755.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||Former secy to Parrikar transferred||Panaji: IAS officer P Krishnamurthy who served as secretary to former chief minister and defence minister Manohar Parrikar has been transferred to Lakshadweep. The 1997 batch officer held important departments as secretary during Parrikar’s tenure. When Parrikar became defence minister in 2014, he was appointed as his personal secretary. In March 2017, when Parrikar became chief minister of Goa after resigning as defence minister, Krishnamurthy was appointed as principal secretary of Goa with additional charge of principal resident commissioner, New Delhi. Mihir Vardhan, a 2003 batch officer, has been transferred to Goa from Lakshadweep. The order issued by Rakesh Kumar Singh, under secretary at ministry of home affairs stated that Vardhan will be relieved only after Krishnamurthy’s joining at Lakshadweep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/former-secy-to-parrikar-transferred/articleshow/76901750.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||MK Stalin donates Rs 1 lakh to tribal girl who secured 95% in Class X exams||COIMBATORE: Appreciating the 16-year-old tribal girl C Sreedevi who secured 95% in Class X Kerala board of examinations, DMK president MK Stalin on Friday donated Rs 1 lakh to her. On behalf of Stalin, former minister MP Saminathan, Madathukulam MLA R Jayaramakrishnan, district secretary (Tirupur South) of DMK Ela Padmanaban and other DMK functionaries handed over the cash to the girl at her settlement Poochukottamparai tribal settlement in Udumalpet range of ATR in Tirupur district. “Due to travel restrictions, the DMK chief could not meet the girl in person. But he spoke to the girl through video conference during our visit and assured to extend all kind of support for the girl to continue her education,” Jayaramakrishnan said. Sreedevi and her family members were happy, and she told us that she aspires to study science group to become a doctor, he added. The settlement has no power supply, transportation facilities or mobile network coverage. About a month ago, she travelled for more than 150km - on her father’s motorcycle up to the state border and in a Kerala government vehicle from there to the school - to take the remaining exams during the lockdown. Despite the odds, the girl, who is a student of Nayaranagadi Model Residential School at Chalakudy in Trissur district, has secured A plus grade in all the subjects. A few days ago, the forest department had felicitated the girl with a shawl and memento. Based on her request, deputy director of Pollachi division of Anaimalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) S Arokiyaraj Xavier got her a laptop with solar battery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/stalin-donates-rs-1-lakh-to-tribal-girl-who-secured-95-in-class-x-exams/articleshow/76901752.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man assaults ex-girlfriend in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 28-year-old woman from Amraiwadi lodged a complaint at Isanpur police station stating that her former boyfriend, Nishit Pandya, slapped and punched her near his house after she had gone there to return his gifts. Police officials said they registered offence under Section 323 and 294 (b) against the accused. According to the FIR, the complainant had a relationship with Pandya, who works for a private company near Income Tax Crossroads on Ashram Road. She stated as as she wanted to end the relationship, she went to his house in Isanpur to return the gifts and as he was not home she handed them over to his mother. “On her way back, Pandya intercepted her and started abusing her. Pandya then slapped her two or three times and punched her on the face and head,” added a police official. The FIR states that as she cried out for help, passersby gathered around and Pandya fled. “As the complainant was feeling dizzy she was taken to LG Hospital by 108 emergency hospital, from where she lodged a complaint against Pandya,” a police official said. Inspector K S Sankhala of Isanpur said they are looking for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-assaults-ex-girlfriend/articleshow/76901754.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Untested, 2,000 flyers enter Coimbatore district||COIMBATORE: The decision of the public health department to stop testing incoming passengers at the city airport since Monday could prove costly in the war against Covid-19 as nearly 2,000 passengers have entered the district through the airport from various cities in the country.  Even as the state government continues to emphasize that tightening district borders is essential to stop super spreaders and potential carriers from entering and moving around undetected, the health department has decided to stop testing passengers landing in the city from Chennai, Bengaluru, New Delhi and Hyderabad. At least three of these cities are major Covid-19 hotspots. The airport receives eight flights a day, carrying 450 to 500 passengers in total. Deputy director of public health, Dr G Ramesh Kumar, confirmed that they have stopped testing domestic passengers because the positivity rate was low. Their data shows that from May 26 to July 5, only 125 people tested positive at the airport, of which 48 were from Coimbatore. “When we run 200-300 samples, only one or two positive cases were emerging,” he said. But only last week, two people working at the airport, including a customs staff and a CISF personnel, tested positive. Besides not testing passengers, officials are not insisting on institutional quarantine either for a few days, to check if they develop symptoms. A health department official admitted that they don’t have a system to follow up and even check if passengers are home quarantining themselves effectively. “Though their addresses are noted down, we don’t have the staff to stick quarantine stickers outside all their houses and keep calling on them to check if they are following quarantine rules,” said the official. However, sources said this is just a measure to reduce the number of samples being tested, because the government lacks facilities to process more samples than this. CMCH can run 1,500 samples a day and ESI Hospital can run 250-odd samples a day, making it 1750 samples a day. Dr Ramesh on Friday told TOI that they collect only 2,000 samples a day, which is 33% less than the 3,000 odd samples they were collecting daily until Tuesday. This dip comes in the face of the district recording more than 50 new cases a day, and recording 98 cases on Thursday. Epidemiologists say that thermal screening of passenger temperatures, especially those from Covid-19 hotspots, is not enough. “A simple paracetamol is enough to pass through the thermal scanner. Passengers from hotspots like Chennai, New Delhi and Bengaluru should be tested, because they could be asymptomatic but spread the virus extensively,” said former director of public health Dr P Kulandiaswamy. “This is not an ideal time to reduce testing. If the circumstances are difficult, then we hope officials are practising extremely accurate targeted testing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/untested-2000-flyers-enter-district/articleshow/76901772.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Aparna residents’ mission: Beat the coronavirus||HYDERABAD: Aparna Cyber Commune is now all set to establish a full-fledged quarantine facility within its premises to ensure safety of people living in the gated community. The Aparna Cyber Commune Owners Welfare Association has ramped up sanitization within the society. Considering the rise in number of Covid-19 cases, the residents are now planning to set up an exclusive quarantine facility inside its club house. Currently, they have identified three guest rooms that can be utilised as quarantine facility. “Setting up a full-fledged quarantine facility within the community is in the pipeline. We are in discussion with some private hospitals for the same. Right from sanitizing the lifts every two hours to helping those who are under self-quarantine, we are taking all precautionary measures to ensure safety of our residents,” said Anand Rao, president of Aparna Cyber Commune, which houses close to 1,500 residents. The housing society is extending full support to those who are under quarantine. “We were under home quarantine for two weeks. During that period, all the deliverables were brought to us by the society members,” said Deepak Behra, a resident. The society members also ensured that fruits and vegetables were made available within the society during lockdown. They also organised two immunization programmes for infants in May and June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aparna-residents-mission-beat-the-virus/articleshow/76901257.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||Students urge govt to rethink forest clearances in Mollem||Panaji: Over 400 students have appealed to the member secretary and committee members of the central empowered committee constituted by the Supreme Court, the minister for environment, forests and climate change, chief minister Pramod Sawant and various other authorities to reconsider the three projects that will require forest clearances and to safeguard Mollem National Park and Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary, especially in wake of diseases being spread from animals to humans. The students raised concerns about the clearances which will disturb the fragile ecosystem balance in the protected area which is a part of the global biodiversity hotspot and Unesco’s world heritage site. Growing human footprint and its expansion into new geographical territories due to such intrusions increases the chances of human-animal interaction as well as the frequency of vectors and viruses coming into contact with humans, they stated, citing the example of Kyasanur forest disease (KFD). “Monkey fever was first reported in Karnataka in Kyasanur forest which then spread to neighbouring Goa and Maharashtra. At least 35 individuals in Sattari were affected by KFD where specific treatment is not available, putting marginalised forest dwellers at risk,” they pointed out. They added that as students, they have benefited from the undisturbed existence of Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park for their mental and physical well being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/students-urge-govt-to-rethink-forest-clearances-in-mollem/articleshow/76901762.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Lucknow||Mayawati demands probe by SC panel||LUCKNOW: BSP chief Mayawati said that along with the Kanpur incident involving the killing of eight police personnel, Dubey’s arrest in Madhya Pradesh and his alleged encounter should also be investigated by a Supreme Court monitored committee. She added that the political persons and police personnel who have been helping Dubey should also be brought to book. In a series of tweets, the former UP chief minister said: “A fair probe monitored by the Supreme Court should take place into not just the murder of the police personnel in Kanpur but also into Dubey’s arrest in MP, the overturning of the police vehicle in which he was being brought to Kanpur and the police firing at him when he tried to run away.” “The collaboration between police and the criminal elements within politics should be investigated and strict action should be taken against the accused. By taking such steps UP will actually become crime free,” she said. On Thursday, just after Dubey’s arrest by the MP Police, Mayawati had said that this would finally expose the nexus between criminals and the police, and the political class. However, while he was being brought back to Kanpur, Dubey was killed in a police encounter when he snatched a police personnel’s gun when the vehicle he was travelling in overturned, and tried to run away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maya-demands-probe-by-sc-panel/articleshow/76902252.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||GIDC panel for land permissions formed||Panaji: The state government on Friday notified the constitution of a committee under Goa Industrial Development Corporation, which will decide on land development applications and permissions for land that has been notified as an industrial area. As per the notification issued by under secretary for industries A. S. Mahatme, the six member committee will be headed by GIDC managing director Derrick Neto. The committee, which has been formed as per Section 37B of the Goa Industrial Development Act, will carry out the functions of planning and development authorities and will enable entrepreneurs to obtain necessary permissions. Section 37A gives GIDC the power to notify an industrial area. Among the six members of the committee, deputy town planner Anand Deshpande and director of Goa Industrial Development Corporation Jaivant Shivaji Desai will serve as members on the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gidc-panel-for-land-permissions-formed/articleshow/76901769.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Social distancing norms go for a toss at mantri’s meet||BHOPAL: Violating social distancing norms, minister Govind Singh Rajput organised a meeting of Brahmin Samaj in Sagar district’s Surkhi where minister Gopal Bhargava and BJP leader Anoop Mishra also participated. Seeking the votes of the community, Rajput said that he has grown in politics with the ‘aashirwad’ (blessings) of Brahmins. For the past few days, Rajput has been organizing caste-based political meetings to woo these communities. Surkhi in Sagar district is one of the constituencies going for by-elections in the state some time later this year. A Scindia loyalist, Rajput is one of the Congress ministers who had crossed over to the BJP leading to the fall of the Kamal Nath-led Congress government in March this year. On Thursday, large number of the community members attended the meeting organized at a hotel campus. They included several priests and local community leaders. Attributing his success in politics to the Brahmin community, Rajput said that he had grown because of their blessings. He also said, “I will try to have a Sanskrit college in Surkhi and will request the chief minister to sanction one”. Gopal Bhargava, a popular Brahmin leader of the region, shared the dais and said, “Now Gopal and Govind will serve the people in Sagar.”. He asked the community members present in the meeting to bless Govind Singh Rajput again in the elections. As a large number of people sat next to each other, majority of them without masks including the elderly, the social distancing norms went for a toss. The minister was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/social-distancing-norms-go-for-a-toss-at-mantris-meet/articleshow/76901262.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Monkeys rescued after 4 days in Ahmedabad's Ramol||AHMEDABAD: Officials of the forest department, fire brigade and the zoo department had a tough time over the past four days, trying to rescue four monkeys that had gotten stranded on a ledge atop the 24-lakh litre municipal overhead water tank in Ramol. A fire brigade snorkel finally managed to get the job done on Friday. Officials said that on Tuesday morning, local residents spotted the monkeys stranded on the ledge at the bottom of the tank, about 100 feet off ground. The forest department was informed and zoo officials also rushed to the spot. Officials said many methods were tried, such as trapping them using nets. “When all efforts failed it was decided to use the snorkel to rescue them,” says M F Dastoor, chief fire officer of Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services. Dastoor said that as the snorkel reached the ledge, two monkeys used it to clamber down on their own, while the other two had to be netted and brought down. An officer said the access gate to the tank must have been left open and the troop of monkeys must have used the staircase to get to the top. Once there, they must have jumped on to the ledge and would have been unable to jump back up. As there is no building or tree nearby, they couldn’t get down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/monkeys-rescued-after-4-days/articleshow/76901792.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Corporation ropes in self-help group members to fight Covid-19 pandemic||COIMBATORE: Self-help group members would be involved in Covid awareness and prevention programmes in Coimbatore. The city corporation has roped in about 1,000 women members for the purpose. As many as 200 members would be deployed in each zone of the corporation. The members would be utilized for door to door surveillance to identify people who had returned from other districts, members of vulnerable population like aged and sick, particularly those with diabetes, heart and kidney ailments. In case of people with cough, cold and fever, the members should immediately alert the civic body staff. The SHG members would also identify people who fail to follow the home quarantine norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-ropes-in-self-help-group-members-to-fight-pandemic/articleshow/76901783.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||‘Goa must learn to be self-reliant’||Panaji: Will tourism projects such as the Rs 350 crore marina at Nauxi make Goa self-reliant or does the state need to protect traditional occupations such as fishing and farming, stakeholders asked on Friday at Azad Maidan, Panaji. Activists and local fishermen took a dig at the state government, particularly environment minister Nilesh Cabral for claiming that the Goa government could not intervene in the decision to hold a public hearing for the marina. “If the Goa government has no say then it is clear the government cannot protect Goa,” said Suresh Palkar who is opposing the marina. Rama Kankonkar said the Goa government needs to learn to be self-reliant instead of succumbing to pressure from the Centre. Locals said they would hold a protest if the government did not cancel the public hearing slated for July 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-must-learn-to-be-self-reliant/articleshow/76901779.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bhopal||People who sheltered Vikas Dubey will never be exposed: Congress||Bhopal: State Congress leaders on Friday repeatedly raised questions on the entire episode of alleged Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey’s arrest in Madhya Pradesh and the subsequent encounter. While Congress stalwarts agreed that crime makes a terrifying end and that Dubey “deserved to die”, yet they claimed those who gave protection to him for anti-social activities will not be exposed after the encounter.Former chief minister Kamal Nath tweeted, “Lord Mahakal never spared a sinner. I said this yesterday and am reiterating it today that no sinner can be saved from the eyes of Mahakal. Notorious gangster Vikas Dubey faced his end but many questions remain unanswered.” The veteran Congress leader argued, “How did a dreaded criminal, who was being hunted by 40 police teams, safely reach till Ujjain in a UP registered car? How many days did he stay in Ujjain and under whose protection? How many accomplices did he have and where are they? He walked inside the premises of Mahakal temple fearlessly, who made his temple pictures viral?”Kamal Nath said that in the auspicious month of Savan, Mahakal temple is on high alert. “Under such circumstances, how did such a dreaded criminal penetrate the security of the temple and enter the premises easily? This raises questions on the security arrangements at the temple,” he said. “How did such a notorious criminal surrender so easily? After receiving information about the whereabouts of such a dreaded anti-social, the police personnel who came to apprehend him did not carry any weapon in terms of security? Why were police officers suddenly transferred a day before the arrest?” Kamal Nath asked. Eight police officers posted in Ujjain were transferred a day before the arrest of Vikas Dubey.The former chief minister questioned, “After all, what kind of political patronage did he have which made it all so easy? The truth must be revealed because the incident has once again shamed our state across the country. Government must answer these questions.”Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh asked why the pattern of all encounters are the same including snatching of police weapon by the arrested criminal. Three hours after the encounter, @digvijaya_28 tweeted, “It is necessary to find out why Vikas Dubey chose Ujjain Mahakal temple in Madhya Pradesh to surrender? He had come to Madhya Pradesh on the faith of which influential person here to escape the encounter by Uttar Pradesh police?”Former leader of Opposition Ajay Singh said, “The question is not why the encounter of Vikas Dubey took place, question is that after the encounter how will those persons get exposed who gave him protection. Everyone wants to know how Vikas Dubey reached Madhya Pradesh and what led to his dramatic surrender and arrest.”Congress Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha tweeted, “Vikas Dubey deserved to die, but by hanging to death on orders of court, not at the hands of police however justified their anger. Has UP government lost faith in the criminal justice delivery system?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/people-who-sheltered-vikas-dubey-will-never-be-exposed-congress/articleshow/76901284.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||TCP extends permissions till Oct 31||Panaji: The Town and Country Planning (TCP) department on Friday said that technical clearances issued by the TCP and the different planning and development authorities (PDAs) that were to lapse between March 2020 and June 30 will be considered extended to October 31. The decision, said chief town planner James Mathew, has been taken after considering the lockdown and the force majeure nature of the Covid-19 pandemic. Technical clearances and development permissions will be extended without any payment of additional fees. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tcp-extends-permissions-till-oct-31/articleshow/76901785.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||31 infected, 39 recover in Himachal Pradesh; corona count rises to 1,171||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported 31 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, but the state managed to register a drop in active cases as 39 patients recovered from the virus. With this, the state’s tally for coronavirus rose to 1,171 and active cases fell to 275. Solan got the highest number of cases, 16. It was followed by three cases each in Bilaspur, Hamirpur amd Shimla, two each in Kangra, and one each from Kinnaur, Chamba, Una and Kullu. Among the recovered patients, 15 are from Kangra, 13 from Hamirpur, seven from Una, two from Mandi, and one each from Solan and Lahaul-Spiti districts. So far, 872 patients have recovered in the state, 13 have migrated out of state, nine have died of Covid-19, and two infected persons died due to non-Covid reasons. Of the 16 new patients in Solan, three are 3 from Parwanoo, with one of them being a doctor engaged for collecting samples of suspected patients. Other patients in the district include one from Baddi, three of a private company at Punjehra and nine in Solan town, including two cops and a five-month-old child. In Bilaspur, three members of a family are the new patients. A total of 63,295 persons were put under surveillance in the state till Friday, of them 42,705 have completed their 28 days of surveillance, while 20,590 are under active surveillance. So far 96,268 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of whom 95,037 have been tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/31-infected-39-recover-in-himachal-pradesh-corona-count-rises-to-1171/articleshow/76901757.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||HC rejects Russian man’s plea against his detention||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has rejected a petition filed by a 28-year-old Russian man challenging an order passed by the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) directing him to reside at a detention centre at Mapusa. During the hearing, the petitioner’s lawyer C Collasso contended that there is a request for his extradition from the Russian authorities and that he was willing to return to Russia. As the foreigner is not wanted for any crime in India, there was no good reason for the government authorities to order him to reside at the detention centre, Collasso stated. The government replied that the petitioner was to be produced before the extradition court in New Delhi, but this was not possible on account of the Covid-19 situation. Advocate general Devidas Pangam replied that relocating the petitioner at this stage or producing him before the extradition court in New Delhi was not only contrary to his interest but would also put the lives and well-being of the escorting police officers from Goa at severe risk. Pangam further assured the court that as soon as the situation improved, necessary steps would be taken to produce him before the extradition court. After hearing the parties, a division bench comprising justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar observed, “In any case, at least prima facie, we are satisfied that the respondents are not averse to taking steps in the matter of extradition but the process has not progressed at the satisfactory pace only on account of the Covid-19 situation.” The court accepted the statement of the advocate general that the petitioner would be produced before the extradition court and directed the government to act on it. The petitioner had moved the court stating that he was being illegally held at the detention centre in Mapusa and should be released. He said he had arrived in India in February 2013 and had lost his bag containing his passport, mobile phone and money while travelling to Dehradun in August that year. After his arrival in Goa, he said he had contacted the Russian consulate in Mumbai in April 2018 and had paid the FRRO Rs 42,000 for overstaying. He told the court that he had subsequently purchased a ticket and was given a travel document by the Russian consulate, but was taken aside by officials at the Dabolim airport and sent to the Colvale central jail. The petitioner stated that upon his release that July, he was told he couldn’t leave Goa as the government was awaiting an order from Russia. While continuing to await intimation about his departure, he said he was arrested by the Pernem police in January 2020 and sent to the detention centre in Mapusa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-rejects-russian-mans-plea-against-his-detention/articleshow/76901791.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Disha case: Probe into encounter drags on||HYDERABAD: As a nationwide debate rages over the killing of gangster Vikas Dubey by the Uttar Pradesh police, in an early morning encounter on Friday, a Special Investigation Team (SIT) appointed by the Telangana government is yet to conclude its probe in the encounter that took place in the state, in December last year. On December 6, 2019 four people arrested for their alleged involvement in the gangrape and murder of a 26-year-old veterinary doctor, were killed in a police encounter at Chattanpally, Shadnagar. The incident took place when cops took them to the spot — not too far from where the victim, Disha’s, charred body was recovered — to recreate the crime scene. Police claimed that the accused were trying to flee from the site and had even attacked the men in uniform. But despite the lapse of over six months, since investigation into the encounter started, the SIT led by Rachakonda commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat, is still waiting for forensic reports and other findings. “The SIT is still conducting the probe. We are awaiting different reports, including forensic. Statements of some officials, part of the encounter, were recorded. The entire police force has been busy with Covid-related duties and, hence, the inquiry has taken a back seat,” an officer of the SIT told TOI. The SIT is expected to submit its report to a three-member commission appointed by the Supreme Court. However, sources, on condition of anonymity, said that the probe hasn’t made much headway. They added that the commission may soon conduct hearings through video conferencing. While the commission had planned on holding hearings in the case from March 23 in Hyderabad and even issued a notification to this effect, it later withdrew the notification and postponed the hearings in view of the pandemic. The authorities are now contemplating going online to conclude the case at the earliest. Sources say a notification in this regard might soon be issued. Meanwhile, repeated attempts by TOI to contact SIT chief Mahesh Bhagwat, failed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/disha-case-probe-into-encounter-drags-on/articleshow/76901289.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Credai seeks Telangana govt's intervention to arrest soaring cement prices||HYDERABAD: In a bid to provide some respite to the Covid-19 hit real estate sector, the Confederation of Real Estate Developers of India (Credai) Hyderabad chapter has sought the Telangana government’s intervention in bringing down cement prices that have shot through the roof since the pandemic struck. “Cement prices that were reigning at around Rs 230 per 50kg bag pre-Covid-19 have been jacked up by over 50% by cement manufacturers to about Rs 350-360 per 50 kg bag today,” Credai Hyderabad president P Rama Krishna Rao said on Friday. Rao pointed out that apart from cement prices, rising labour costs too are posing a problem for developers. “Though workers from West Bengal, Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand have begun returning to work and the sector now has about 35-40% of the required labour, we are having to pay 15-20% more to workers due to the labour shortage,” he said. While welcoming the Telangana government’s decision to allow developers to pay development and impact fee in instalments and grant extension of building permissions by 12 months without any additional fee, Rao urged the government to waive off, for a limited period, the 2% stamp duty on property registrations to encourage more people to buy property. He said Credai Hyderabad had also made a representation to the Telangana government to allow developers to pay NALA Tax (non-agriculture land assessment) to the sanctioning authorities like GHMC or HMDA to cut down on delays in getting NOC (no objection certificate) on the lines of Seiniorage charges that are paid to the mining department for material like sand used in construction through the sanctioning authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/credai-seeks-govt-intervention-to-arrest-soaring-cement-prices/articleshow/76901295.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Lucknow||‘Who shielded Vikas Dubey?’ Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demands probe||LUCKNOW: Attacking the UP government over the encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey, Congress on Friday demanded a judicial probe by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court to identify people who shielded the criminal. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted, “Fine that the criminal has died… but what about those who had been protecting him?” “Those who nurtured and shielded criminals like Vikas Dubey should be exposed. Till the time this truth and nexus between politicians and criminals is not exposed, justice will not be done to those eight policemen who were killed by Dubey,” she said. कानपुर के जघन्य हत्याकांड में यूपी सरकार को जिस मुस्तैदी से काम करना चाहिए था, वह पूरी तरह फेल साबित हुई। अलर्ट… https://t.co/MjtmX9CL4U— Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (@priyankagandhi) 1594278289000Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also raised suspicion through a couplet and said often silence is better as it answers many questions. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said: “The encounter raises several questions. Who were the people in the corridors of power who gave protection to criminals like Dubey?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/who-shielded-dubey-priyanka-demands-probe/articleshow/76902297.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||NSUI protests over varsity exams in Hry||Jind: Several students on Friday took out a march here under the aegis of the National Students Union of India (NSUI) to protest against the guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) for conducting final-year university examinations. The students staged a sit-in in front of the Chaudhary Ranbir Singh University (CRSU) and also raised slogans against human resources development (HRD) minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank for giving the go-ahead. Deepak Pindara, who led the protest, said, “We staged a dharna against the announcement to hold exams since Covid-19 cases are increasing across Haryana. Students will come from many parts of the country to appear in the exams. Who will be responsible if the virus infection spreads among us? The state government should not enforce the guidelines. If it goes with the UGC directions, NSUI will intensify its agitation across Haryana.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nsui-protests-over-varsity-exams-in-hry/articleshow/76901776.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man uploads obscene videos of colleague on social media, held||COIMBATORE: A 41-year-old man was arrested in Tirupur on Friday for raping a 24-year-old woman colleague and uploading obscene videos and photos of her on social media. According to the Tirupur North all-woman police, the man, a supervisor with a textile company in that district, had also stopped the victim’s marriage by sharing the pictures and videos with her fiancé. A police officer said the man was married with a six-year-old child. “He wooed the girl and entered into physical relationship with her by hiding that he was married. He had videographed them having sex and taken photos of them in compromising positions. When she found out that he was married, she started to avoid him. This infuriated him and he began to blackmail her with the obscene pictures and videos.” Meanwhile, her family found her a groom and fixed her marriage during the lockdown. “When the man came to know about that, he not only stopped the wedding, but also uploaded her pictures and videos on Instagram,” the officer said. Following this, the woman lodged a complaint with the Tirupur North all-woman police, who registered a case under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and various sections of the IT Act, 2008, and arrested him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-uploads-obscene-videos-of-colleague-on-social-media-held/articleshow/76901799.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb challenges high court order on pvt school fee||Chandigarh: Punjab on Friday challenged the judgment of the high court in the matter relating to payment of school fees for the lockdown period. In a Letter Patents Appeal (LPA), the state government has sought a stay on the operation of the single judge order of June 30 “in the interest of justice and fair play”. In his ruling of June 30, a single judge of the high court had given relief to the private schools to effectively collect all types of fee irrespective of whether or not it offered online education. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had earlier expressed concern over private schools charging fee from students even when no online/offline classes were held in during the lockdown. The matter had come up for discussion at Wednesday’s cabinet meeting and advocate general Atul Nanda had been asked to file the LPA in the High Court. The LPA points out that the private schools, despite pleading financial hardship and incapacity to meet their expenditures/charges, did not place on record any evidence or material to prove the same. It was further noted that the high court, in its ruling, had completely ignored the fact that the Government of Punjab had been constrained to issue orders directing private schools to charge only “tuition fee” (in respect of online education provided by them), in order to mitigate the emergent hardship faced by the parents due to the Covid-19 crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-challenges-high-court-order-on-pvt-school-fee/articleshow/76901767.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||No bail relief for Shiroda panch again||Ponda: The additional district and sessions court at Ponda on Friday rejected the bail application of Shiroda panch Suhas Naik, a resident of Haldai-Shiroda in Ponda taluka, in a murder case for the second time. Public prosecutor Satyawan Raut Dessai informed that bail was denied to the accused. Previous to this, his bail application was rejected by the court on February 17, Raut Dessai added. The accused is lodged in Colvale jail on the charges of murdering his neighbour Rajendra Naik, 50, he said. According to the police records, there was enmity between the accused, Suhas Naik, and the victim, Rajendra Naik, over auctioning of a local sluice gate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-bail-relief-for-shiroda-panch-again/articleshow/76901800.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Kolkata||Citizens seek Kolkata police help for Covid patients’ hospitalisation||KOLKATA: With the crisis of beds in private hospitals getting more severe with every passing day, Kolkata Police is now getting flooded with requests to arrange for beds for Covid patients. The requests are being placed on several platforms. While some are seeking help through the Kolkata Police’s official Twitter and Facebook accounts, others are sending SOS messages to main control room. A young man tweeted on Thursday evening tagging Kolkata Police and CM Mamata Banerjee. He has stated that his father, aged 67, is a cancer patient. Around the same time, another twitter user sought help for his friend’s father aged over 70 years. “One of my friends is in trouble with his father, a suspected Covid-19 patient. No hospital is admitting him. Tried (two private) hospitals. Called a hospital near EM Bypass where there was no bed, tried calling another located beside it and COVID helpline number but nobody picked up. They are taking him to Medical College. Please help,” he wrote. Police said they informed Swasthya Bhawan immediately and tagged a few private hospitals to the post. “An hour later, a private hospital tweeted back on both tweets saying they were trying to help. We also alerted the Bowbazar police to assist them at the Medical College. We were told at least one patient was admitted to a government hospital,” said an officer. The cops, though, were not always as lucky. On Friday afternoon, the 100 dial received a call from a man saying his wife who had just delivered at a nursing home in Garfa was detected as Covid positive. “The nursing home is asking her to leave as they fear spread among infants. But there is no bed in other private facilities,” said an officer. Till reports last came in, cops were trying to arrange for a bed for the new mother at KPC hospital. A sergeant’s 55-year-old relative has been detected with Covid at a Jodhpur Park facility and needs a ventilator immediately. “The southeast division and traffic department tried calling up six hospitals. One of them asked us to wait till midnight,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/citizens-seek-police-help-for-covid-patients-hospitalisation/articleshow/76901298.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Bikers deliver essentials to needy in Hyderabad, remote areas||HYDERABAD: City bikers are helping deliver food and medicines to the poor, especially in the far-flung areas, during the Covid-19 crisis. “The idea is to help people in emergencies. There are many who cannot travel because of the pandemic. We mobilized bikers to deliver essentials to remote areas without hassle,” Praveen Kumar, who leads the Road Thrill Hyderabad biker community, said and added that their 23-member core team is sub-divided into four groups. The Road Thrill community, which has 150 riders, is now working with traffic cops to fill the gaps in essential deliveries. “One of our teams worked for 14 days non-stop feeding migrants. We have another team serving orphanages,” said the 40-year-old biker. M S Sri Harsha, who is with the Royal Enfield Taurus Riding Club, has also been working with distressed families. “We have been giving ration to cops, old age homes and to the poor at check posts,” said 32-year-old, crediting his parents’ insistence on lending a helping hand for his effort. “At one old age home in Udyognagar, Balapur, I met an old lady who did not even remember where she was from. The lady had been left by her son at a market place after he promised to take her out for an outing. Her plight moved me as I realised that all one needs is a little empathy,” said Harsha who runs a start-up, Club of Harsha, for the needy. He says during the pandemic he has reached out to at least 400 people. Not just men, women bikers too are doing their bit during this unprecedented health crisis. Zooming around the city with her daughter in tow, Dimple Wadhwani (40) has been distributing food kits to the poor during the pandemic. “I came from a small town in Chhattisgarh where the easiest and safest means of commuting for a woman is a bike. After coming to Hyderabad, I continued to follow my passion.” The businesswoman has raised Rs50,000 alone and has been working with poor families in the Hafeezpeth and Kondapur areas. “It feels good to know that you can use your passion and do something meaningful with it. For me, this was reaching those desperate for help in these difficult times,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bikers-deliver-essentials-to-needy-in-city-remote-areas/articleshow/76901302.cms||Uttara Varma
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold hits new high of Rs 50,880 per 10g||AHMEDABAD: Continuing its upward rally, gold prices touches another record-high on Friday, settling at Rs 50,880 per 10g as the markets closed. While the international price of gold is already high, depreciation of the Indian rupee against the US dollar has caused gold prices to go up, according to analysts. “Gold prices are on an upward trend due to global factors. While central banks of various countries are heavily investing in gold, safe-haven investments in the yellow metal have increased because of the uncertainty in the global economy, due to concerns of the fallout of Covid-19 pandemic on business and trade,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA). “In the days to come, gold prices are expected to rally further and touch an all-time high in the international market as well. High-net-worth individuals are investing in gold and those who have liquidity, are also investing in gold exchange traded funds (ETFs), anticipating good returns,” said Acharya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-hits-new-high-of-rs-50880-per-10g/articleshow/76901813.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab starts verifying nurses online||Chandigarh: The Punjab State Nursing Registration Council (PNRC) on Friday launched a website for online verification of documents for nurses, who are willing to go abroad or already settled there. The website was launched by Punjab medical education and research minister O P Soni. The online portal at www.pnrconline.in will facilitate online application for foreign verification and good standing certificate to enable the applicants to apply through this website. After online application submission, applicants need not send the application/documents through post or submit by hand. The applicant will be informed through SMS and online update regarding status of their application. Soni said that PNRC was also going to start compulsory speed post of foreign verification form for all the candidates. Certificates will be sent through speed post only, so that the verification forms can be delivered in a safer, faster and more reliable way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-starts-verifying-nurses-online/articleshow/76901787.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||Verla Canca steps up swab test drive||Saligao: A swab testing drive was carried out by the Verla Canca panchayat at the government primary school on Thursday. The voluntary swab testing drive was organised by panchayat member Sangar Lingudkar in collaboration with a team from the Siolim primary health centre, led by Dr Sadahana Shetye. The swab testilng drive was held from 10am to 12.30pm. “A lot of people came forward and gave their swab samples as there is fear that the virus might spread further in the village,” said Lingudkar. It may be recalled that the woman, who was working at the Verna industrial estate had contracted the infection at her workplace, which later got transmitted to her mother-in-law. Both the infected persons have been shifted to the Covid care centre at Shiroda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/verla-canca-steps-up-swab-test-drive/articleshow/76901841.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Chocolate unit sealed for selling product as immunity booster||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Revenue officials sealed a chocolate manufacturing unit in Ooty on Friday for selling dark chocolates as an immunity booster against Covid-19. Food safety officials have cancelled the unit’s licence. The unit, M&N Chocolates, had advertised its dark chocolates in local television channels stating the product would help boost immunity against the novel coronavirus. When the district administration came to know about this, collector J Innocent Divya formed a team comprising district food safety officer, joint director of health services, deputy director of public health and district siddha medicines officer to inspect the unit. Dr J Thangavignesh, district food safety officer, said, “The unit had licence only to bake cookies and cakes, and not chocolates. It also did not have any certificate from the state or central government as proof to show its dark chocolates could boost immunity against Covid-19.” The food safety department has collected samples of the chocolates. “Based on the lab test results, a case will be filed against the unit under Section 61 of the FSSAI Act,” the officer said. Thangavignesh cancelled the unit’s licence, while Ramesh Krishnan, block development officer, Ooty, sealed the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/chocolate-unit-sealed-for-selling-product-as-immunity-booster/articleshow/76901827.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Kolkata||MCH plans to raise number of beds in Kolkata||KOLKATA: With the number of Covid cases shooting up, pressure is mounting on hospitals in the city — both private and the ones designated as Covid hospitals — where the bed occupancy is now as high as 70.3%. Medical College Hospital Kolkata (MCHK) is preparing to ramp up its bed strength. Currently, the tertiary level Covid hospital has 500 beds. As on Friday, the bed occupancy was close to 90%. The hospital is planning to create 120 Covid beds in the CB Building, add 50 more general beds and six CCU beds in the Green building and 15 HDU beds in the superspeciality building. “The CM had chosen this hospital as a tertiary level Covid hospital because of the quality care that patients get. After her intervention, the impasse with resident doctors was solved. Covid treatment can be carried out along with non-Covid services. Amenities like rest room and tower air-conditioners will also be installed for the doctors,” said Nirmal Maji, chairman, MCHK Rogi Kalyan Samity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mch-plans-to-raise-number-of-beds/articleshow/76901312.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 11, 2020||Rajkot||Man held in Bhavnagar for printing fake currency notes||RAJKOT: A man was arrested for allegedly running a fake currency printing racket from Nari Chowkadi in Bhavnagar city on Friday. The accused Ravji Makwana was found in possession of eight fake currency notes of Rs 200 and Rs 100 denominations. He has been booked under section 489 (A) (B) (C) (D) of Indian Penal Code. He will be formally arrested once he undergoes Covid-19 test, said police. “We had received a tip-off that Makwana was into the illegal business of printing fake notes, which he ran from his house. Acting on this information, we raided his house in Panchnath Nagar near Nari Chowkadi,” said V V Odedara, inspector with Bhavnagar local crime branch (LCB). “We have seized one scanner-cum-printer worth Rs 10,000, one laptop worth Rs 20,000, one smartphone worth Rs 10,000, a pair of scissors and a scale, an electricity bill and an original note of Rs 100, all worth Rs 40,295, from Makwana’s house,” said N G Jadeja, sub-inspector with Bhavnagar LCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-held-for-printing-fake-currency-notes/articleshow/76900707.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad woman duped of Rs 85,000 by fraudsters||HYDERABAD: A woman was duped of Rs 85,000 by fraudsters posing as persons seeking money to help patients in need. Cyberabad police said that the woman from Nizampet had received a message seeking medical aid from one Anthony, who is also her Facebook friend. “The accused told the victim that his grandmother sustained serious injuries after she fell down and is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Delhi. He had sought monetary help from the victim. Later, an unidentified person called her from Delhi and confirmed about the admission of a patient at the hospital. On believing the story, she deposited Rs 85,000 into the bank account of the fraudster,” police said. The fraudsters are collecting the phone numbers and email IDs of people using different social media platforms. Police said many have fallen into the trap of the fraudsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-duped-of-rs-85k-by-fraudsters/articleshow/76901310.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Lucknow||Food parks on both sides of upcoming expressways in UP||LUCKNOW: For the promotion of the food processing industry in the state, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to set up food parks along both sides of upcoming expressways. He has said that the industry can be developed on the lines of ‘one district one product’ scheme in which produce specific units will be established in districts or climatic zones where a certain produce, like potatoes or corn, grows. While reviewing the food processing policy of 2017, the CM said the government should take maximum benefit of food processing related provisions in the Centre’s new economic package. He has asked the department to prepare a proposal which can be presented to the Centre. “The CM has said that youth can be encouraged to join the industry through the CM Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme. He has added that the food processing department must identify areas where a specific produce is grown and ensure food processing industries related to it are set up in those areas. This work can be done on the basis of districts or climatic zone,” said an official. Principal secretary, food processing, Babu Lal Meena said that in organised areas, there are 62,325 registered units while in the unorganised sector, 3.5 lakh micro units are functional in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/food-parks-on-both-sides-of-upcoming-expressways-in-up/articleshow/76902301.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi to get its second plasma bank||NEW DELHI: The capital is all set to get another plasma bank to help Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms source the crucial component from the recovered novel coronavirus patients. The new plasma bank, which is coming up in east Delhi’s GTB Hospital, is likely to become functional next week. AAP legislator Dilip Pandey, who is helping the government set up the bank, said the final approval from Drug Controller General of India was awaited to make it operational. The new bank will initially have one plasmapheresis machine, which has been installed and tested. Pandey said more machines could be installed later as per requirement. The first plasma bank in the city was opened on July 2 at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj with three machines. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday spoke to a few plasma donors and thanked them for taking the step. While the requirement of plasma has been increasing day by day considering that the convalescent plasma (CP) therapy has proved to be successful in faster recovery of patients with moderate symptoms, there is a huge gap between demand and supply. While the existing bank gets over 20 requests for plasma every day, donations are not more than 10-12 per day. Till date, the ILBS plasma bank has recovered over 100 donations. In view of this, the government has made it mandatory for all patients requiring plasma to bring a donor along for replacement. Pandey said apart from fear of again falling ill, the recovered patients often didn’t go for donation as the only bank is located in south Delhi and was far from many parts of the city. “This GTB bank will cater to a large population living in east and north Delhi,” he said. On if donors will like to come to GTB Hospital as it treats Covid-19 patients, Pandey said the bank had been set up in an isolated corner where no other person from the hospital was allowed. Pandey said a person eligible to donate plasma would have to call the helpline number to register his request and express the preference of the bank where he/she would like to make the donation. “Like ILBS, anyone donating plasma at GTB will also be reimbursed the travelling expenses and given the certificate of appreciation signed by CM Arvind Kejriwal,” he added. A plasma bank collects the blood component from an “eligible” recovered Covid patient. It is later infused in a patient through the convalescent plasma therapy. It helps bringing respiratory rate of a moderate Covid-19 patient into control and increases oxygen saturation rate apart from stabilising various other factors, reducing the stay in ICU and hospital and improving the recovery chances. Meanwhile, after thanking plasma donors, the chief minister shared the audio of his conversations with them on Twitter. “When I hear stories of plasma donors, I feel very proud of my fellow Delhiites. So I decided to call and congratulate some donors. Do listen in to my conversation with plasma donors Srishti and Bhumika,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-to-get-its-second-plasma-bank/articleshow/76901857.cms||Atul Mathur
July 11, 2020||Vadodara||Two VMC engineers among 69 new cases||VADODARA: Two engineers working with the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) were amongst the 69 new Covid-19 cases in the city and district since Thursday evening. The total number of cases in the city and district rose to 2,922. Sources said that the engineers diagnosed with Covid-19 included an assistant engineer and a deputy engineer. One of them was posted with the drainage department while the other was posted in the administrative ward three. The offices where the duo worked were also sanitized after they tested positive. The new cases were identified from 488 tests that were conducted since Thursday evening. The largest number of fresh tests were reported from the south zone where 19 persons tested positive. This was followed by the north zone where 16 cases were identified. Eight cases were reported from the west zone and seven from the east zone of the city. The rural parts of the district outside VMC limits also saw 19 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-vmc-engg-among-69-new-cases/articleshow/76899752.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||I quit: PhD scholar hangs herself at IIT-Gandhinagar||AHMEDABAD: The suicide of a 32-year-old research scholar at the IIT Gandhinagar (IIT-Gn) campus on July 6 sent a shockwave through the education corridors of the state capital. The victim, Piue Ghosh, who was from of West Bengal, left a moving ‘I Quit’ on the wall of her residence. Gandhinagar police are yet to ascertain the reason behind her extreme step. IIT-Gn officials remained tight-lipped about the incident and attempts to reach Prof Sudhir Jain, the institute director, through phone and email yielded no results. A statement from the IIT-Gn public relations team read, “The incident is currently under investigation by police and the institute is committed to fully cooperating with them. We are unable to release any information or comment while the investigation is under way.” The response identified Ghosh as a PhD scholar at the electric engineering department of the institute. M H Solanki, the sub-inspector with Chiloda police station who is investigating the case, told TOI that Ghosh had hanged herself at her quarters on the campus. “She had written ‘I quit’ and a few more lines on a wall, directing that her belongings be given to the needy and her organs donated,” he said. “Apart from this writing on the wall, no note on paper in digital format has been found that could be considered a suicide note,” he added. Solanki said the statements of her family and faculty members are yet to be recorded. “Her parents are based in West Bengal and her husband is in the US,” he said. Sources privy to the developments said Ghosh had returned to the campus from her parents’ home only recently. Due to the lockdown and subsequent online classes, only a few students are living on the campus. They added that her postmortem report is yet to arrive through which the precise time of death could be known. “It is possible that her suicide occurred a couple of days before the body was found,” a police source said. Ghosh’s profile on the IIT-Gn website identifies her as doctoral student writing her thesis on the subject ‘Synthesis of gold nanorods with tunable surface plasmon resonance for the development of a bio-chemical sensing platform’ under Prof Arup Lal Chakraborty. Her project aimed at designing a biomolecular sensor for simultaneous detection of multiple biomolecules. She had completed her BTech and MTech from Calcutta University before taking admission in IIT-Gn for its doctoral programme in 2015. Posts on IIT-Gn’s social media pages announced several of her academic achievements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/i-quit-phd-scholar-hangs-herself-at-iit-gn/articleshow/76901837.cms||Ashish Chauhan
July 11, 2020||Lucknow||BJP online meets to steer 2022 poll drive||LUCKNOW: After roping in senior functionaries including party chief JP Nadda to address virtual rallies in the state, BJP has decided to organise conventions at all 403 assembly seats, in yet another crucial move to get battle-ready for assembly elections in 2022. Party sources said that the conventions, scheduled to start from Saturday, would be organised virtually and live streamed to people through social media platforms. “The idea is to identify issues at the assembly seat level and reach out to people. We cannot get people assembled, hence would reach them virtually,” UP BJP general secretary Vijay Bahadur Pathak told TOI. On Saturday, the party would address conventions at 31 assembly seats. Pathak said that senior party leaders cannot go on a ‘pravas’ (sojourn) of various regions because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The party has thus decided to decentralise its functioning while asking its functionaries to work where they are located,” he said. Adding that the party was working among people even during the corona crisis, Pathak said, “The party distributed 4 crore food packets and 1 crore face masks among people.” He also stressed that the party kept up communication with the cadres through around 300 video conferences in the period. A senior party leader said that the recently held video conference with PM Narendra Modi was also a part of the exercise to frame strategies and keep the organisation spruced up accordingly. The decision to organise assembly seat-wise conventions is learnt to have been taken at a recently held meeting of state party chief Swatantra Dev Singh and organisational general secretary Sunil Bansal with party workers. Sources said it was pointed out that these conventions would further up party activities at the booth level, the grassroots platform. BJP sources said that the party has also hammered out an exhaustive blueprint to keep its cadre geared up to take on an assertive opposition camp at the grassroots. A senior party leader said that these conventions would lay the foundation for the party’s organisational structure. The party has already organised district-wise meetings besides electing its booth-level functionaries. “The assessment of party functioning is being done from top to bottom,” said a BJP leader, underlining the fact that conventions have also been organised by various wings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-online-meets-to-steer-2022-poll-drive/articleshow/76902306.cms||Pankaj Shah
July 11, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Koel Mallick, kin test +ve, baby ‘fine’||KOLKATA: On Friday evening, Tollywood star Koel Mallick tweeted to say that she has tested positive. Her tweet also mentioned that her parents and husband have tested positive and are “self-quarantined”. On May 5, Mallick and husband Nishpal Singh had announced the birth of their son. When Singh was asked about the health of their two-month-old son, he said the little was doing “fine”. He assured that all care is being taken for him. “We are following the doctor’s advice. Koel and I are at our Ballygunge residence,” Singh said. As for Koel and his health, Singh said, “Koel is absolutely fine. But I have fever.” Meanwhile, actor Ranjit Mallick and wife Deepa, who have also tested positive, are at their Golf Garden residence. “They are both doing fine,” Singh said. Singh, who helms Surinder Films Television, currently produces multiple Bengali serials. They include ‘Ekhane Akash Neel’, ‘Netaji’ and ‘Beder Meye Jyotsna’, among others. When Singh was asked if shooting for the serials will continue, he replied in the affirmative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/koel-mallick-kin-test-ve-baby-fine/articleshow/76901325.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Prisoners to be tested randomly for now||Nagpur: A day after 132 prisoners of the Nagpur central jail tested positive through Covid antigen test, the authorities now have put a brake on further testing to be able to get adequate time to control the damage. They have now decided to shift to random testing instead of testing all 1,700 prisoners. On Friday, three family members of jail staff tested positive while 10 positive staffers recovered and were discharged. Testing schedule of 400 prisoners was stalled to make arrangements for the 219 known positive cases since June 30. Prison authorities, who had converted three barracks into Covid care centre (CCC), were tackling the situation with 21 prisoners positive there until the antigen testing began in the jail on Wednesday. The spike of 132 cases is learnt to have sent the system in disarray. Sensing trouble, city police chief BK Upadhyay moved some forces at the jail gate under the supervision of Zonal DCP Vinita Shahu. An armed picket was set up under an officer for any emergency intervention inside the jail which is facing turbulent time since the outbreak of disease. Addl DG, prisons, Sunil Ramanand, said the 219 prisoners of Nagpur Central Jail would be shifted to Mankapur sports complex. “We have also requested for additional homeguards to help the staffers and make up for the manpower crunch,” he said. Ramanand, now camping in Nagpur, also said the tests would be resumed once positive prisoners recover. “We will follow the high court guidelines to go for random testing. In case someone is found developing symptoms. Immediately medical facilities would be extended to anyone developing illness inside the prison,” he said. The Addl DG also claimed that prison administrations across the state had faced the Covid crisis successfully with four deaths that included suicide of one who was later found positive. “The Covid care centre barracks in the prison would serve as temporary shelter for the prisoners who would be later shifted to Mankapur sports complex,” he said. The jail administration, already plagued with around 45 staffers not showing up for work and another 57 having tested positive, was left panicked following prisoners’ protests demanding better treatment and food. A group clash led to registration of a FIR against four prisoners at Dhantoli police station. SP, Nagpur central jail, Anupkumar Kumre said 50 prisoners who have tested positive, would be sent to the GMCH for medical examination and another 82 the following day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/prisoners-to-be-tested-randomly-for-now/articleshow/76901333.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris Covid-19 patient dies in private hospital||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Yet another person was tested positive for Covid-19 after death in the Nilgirs on Friday, when it recorded 10 new cases, taking the total number of cases to 181. The district also recorded a Covid-19 death. The deceased, a 62-year-old man, was a primary contact of the infected public relations officer (PRO) of a private needle manufacturing company. He breathed his last in a private hospital in Coimbatore, where he has been undergoing treatment. Test results of the 65-year-old woman from Mulligoor village who had died on Tuesday revealed that she was positive for the virus infection. She fell sick after returning home from Thangadu-Oranalli village, where she went to attend her grandson’s wedding. Throat swabs were collected for test after her death. The district has so far recorded four Covid-19 deaths, including the two who tested positive after death. The state is, however, yet to record any deaths in the district in its bulletin. Among the new cases are four secondary contacts of the PRO and other five secondary contacts of earlier positive cases with travel history. They are reported from Ooty, Yellanhalli, Mulligoor, Melkouhatty, Gudalur town, Thummanatty, Peria-Ubbathalai and Kilkotagiri areas, most of which are containment zones. The PRO, who is still under treatment, has infected more than 100 people, some of them secondary contacts, so far. Presently, there are 127 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-covid-patient-dies-in-pvt-hosp/articleshow/76901852.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Pandemic rule violators add Rs 92 lakh to police kitty||Ludhiana: Even as the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing in the district, many of the residents continue to ignore the rules that aim at checking the virus spread. The Ludhiana Police to date has collected Rs 92,97,800 in fine from those violating the Covid-19 rules. A large part of the fine came from those not wearing a mask, spitting at public places and ignoring social distancing. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Ludhiana Police has registered 285 FIRs and issued 23,358 challans.As per the police data, maximum challans (21,087) have been issued for not wearing a mask. The violation helped cops collect fines of Rs 89,43,600.As many as 2,195 challans have been issued and Rs 2,25700 collected in fines for the offence of spitting at public places.Seventy-three challans were issued to those ignoring social distancing norm. They were fined Rs 1,27,000.Three challans were issued for jumping home quarantine. The violators were fined Rs 1,500.Deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said, “With four months into the pandemic, people are lax in following the rules, though they are well aware of these. They have started taking things causally.”“The city police are using two-pronged strategy to combat this. They are issuing challans to those not wearing a mask as well as giving them a mask. We have distributed over 25,000 masks so far. Usually labourers and daily wagers don’t wear masks as they can’t purchase it for everday use. We have established set-ups at different localities where free masks are given to those who don’t have it,” he added. In the firing lineViolations: Challans: Fines *Without mask: 21,087: Rs 89,43,600Home quarantine: 3: Rs 1,500 Spitting: 2,195: Rs 2,25,700 Social distancing: 73: Rs 1,27,000 *To date--How much you payWithout mask: Rs 500 Home quarantine violation: Rs 2,000Spitting: Rs 500 Violating social distancing: Rs 2,000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pandemic-rule-violators-add-rs-92-lakh-to-police-kitty/articleshow/76900422.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 11, 2020||Ludhiana||18 days after his vehicle fell in Ladakh river, sepoy cremated with military honours||Ludhiana: Eighteen days after he went missing as his vehicle fell into a river near Drass in Ladakh, sepoy Palwinder Singh’s body was cremated with military honors at Rampur village, near Doraha. The authorities had found his body there on July 8.Palwinder, 29, posted with Road Construction Company (RCC), Leh, of General Reserve Engineer Force (GREF) of Border Roads Organisation, and his officer, Lieutenant Subhan Ali, had gone missing on June 22. On June 25, their vehicle was found in the river, but there was no trace of them.“On Wednesday, we got a call from his officers that they have found the body of my brother 22 kilometres downstream from where the accident had taken place. They then flew his body in an Army aircraft to Chandigarh. On Friday, we brought it here by road. It was cremated with military honors at the village,” said Jagpreet Singh, elder brother of Palwinder and a head constable in Ludhiana Police.“We are in a state of shock. My mother, who is terminally-ill, lost consciousness thrice today. My father, Naib Subedar Gurmail Singh, who has served in Army for 24 years, is speechless. The news has come at a time when we were preparing for his marriage, as he is engaged to a Jagraon girl,” he added.He said Palwinder was to join at Pathankot in a week as he had been in Ladakh for two years.Meanwhile, on behalf of the CM, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu paid respects to Palwinder. He was accompanied by MLA, Samrala, Amrik Singh Dhillon, MLA, Payal, Lakhbir Singh Lakha, villagers and district administration officials.His brother said Palwinder, who hailed from Dhindsa village, near Samrala, was recruited in Army in 2010. He urged the CM to come to the aid of the family and provide job to his younger brother, who is a graduate.Ashu assured the family that the Punjab government would support them in every way.The family said that the bhog ceremony will be held on July 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/18-days-after-his-vehicle-fell-in-ladakh-river-sepoy-cremated-with-military-honours/articleshow/76900409.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Carcasses raise a stink at Hyderabad's Shah Hatim Talab||HYDERABAD: In the absence of a designated place for disposal of animal carcasses, dead animals are now being dumped along the historic Shah Hatim Talab, which is not only posing inconvenience to commuters but also triggering fear of an epidemic in the city. A large number of carcasses can be seen strewn along the talab (lake), located next to the Naya Qila wall, an extended portion of Golconda Fort. Residents are upset with the civic officials’ lack of concern on the issue. Hamid Hussain, a resident of Tolichowki near Shah Hatim Talab, said that he saw a few dead buffaloes, sheep and dogs among other animals being dumped in the garbage piled up along the lake. “People bring dead animals and dump it on the road along the lake. Most of them are either cattle owners or meat retailers. The decomposed carcasses of animals generate a lot of stench,” said Hussain. Residents have also begun to complain of health issues due to the unhygienic conditions in and around the lake. They say that the hyacinth filled lake and the carcasses dumped along the road have become an ideal breeding ground for mosquitoes. “It is a narrow road and the number of carcasses dumped on it often blocks the entire route. There have been a few attempts to control the mosquito population but were of no use. We don’t need another epidemic like dengue and malaria while we are already suffering from Covid-19,” said Mohammad Habeeb, a social activist and a resident of Golconda. “We just have one carcass utilization centre at Auto Nagar and the facility is very far from this part of the city,” said Habeeb. Experts say that nearly eight to 10 tonnes of animal carcasses including cattle, sheep and goats is generated from various slaughterhouses under GHMC limits daily and most of it goes to Auto Nagar. “We are not aware of the dumping of animal carcasses along this lake. We will look into this matter and ensure that the garbage, including the carcasses, are not dumped on the road,” a GHMC official said under the condition of anonymity. The official also informed that the lake has been fenced after a few miscreants indulged in dumping rubble and other waste into the water body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/carcasses-raise-a-stink-at-shah-hatim-talab/articleshow/76901337.cms||Moulika.KV
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ICSE, ISC results out; no merit lists||AHMEDABAD: Students were colossally relieved on Friday when the CISCE (Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations) announced the results for Classes X and XII. Owing to the Covid pandemic, the CISCE did not publish merit lists for either the ICSE (Indian Certificate of Secondary Education) Class X test or the ISC (Indian School Certificate) Class XII exam. In all, 3,396 students took the ICSE exam from 36 schools across the state, of whom 3,374 passed. The ISC exam was taken by 1,822 students from 22 schools, of whom 1,748 passed. As for some of the city’s schools, in the ICSE exam, at Zydus, 50% of the students scored 90% and above. Diya Shah was the topper with 98%. In the ISC science stream exam, Manaswini Joshi stood first with 93.2%. In the commerce stream, the first position was taken by Shree Pandya with 95.2%, while in the humanities, Susan Jacob topped with 86.6%. At Anand Niketan (Satellite), 96 took the ICSE exam and Vishwam Patel was the topper with 99%. In the ISC exam, Acharaj Kaur Tuteja stood first with 99% in the humanities. Aaradhana Vaghela aced the science stream exam scoring 97.5%. Dwisha Patel scored 97.5% to become the commerce topper. At JG International, in the ICSE exam, Shiven Patel topped with 96.5%. In the ISC science exam, Krish Patel was the topper, scoring 95.8%. In the commerce stream, Prince Patel took the first spot with 89.8%. In the humanities, Yashi Parmar topped with 96%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/icse-isc-results-out-no-merit-lists/articleshow/76907464.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Man booked for rumours on Telangana CM’s health||HYDERABAD: Cybercrime police on Friday registered a suo motu case following circulation of rumours on social media by a party worker. Police noticed that a few persons were circulating screen grabs of a seven months old Youtube video of a Telugu news channel on the health of the CM, with an intention to spread rumours. The accused, identified as Ahmed, is a local party activist of Nizamabad district. Police teams have been dispatched to apprehend Ahmed. “We have booked the accused under Sections 269 and 505 (1) (b) of the IPC and section 54 of NDMA Act,” Cybercrime ACP KVM Prasad said. In another development, police booked an unidentified person for putting up photos of women on Instagram while posing as an employee of a film production and distribution company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-booked-for-rumours-on-cms-health/articleshow/76901329.cms||---
July 11, 2020||India||‘We are free now,’ say villagers once terrorised by Dubey||KANPUR: The people in Shivali village in Kanpur on Friday distributed sweets after gangster Vikas Dubey was killed in a police encounter. “We are very happy a big terror from our area has been eliminated. We are feeling free. Earlier we used to be scared that he could do anything. We would like to congratulate the personnel of Uttar Pradesh STF,” said Atul Kumar, a local. “Everyone is very happy and we are making arrangements for sangeet (entertainment). I salute the eight policemen killed during an encounter with Dubey,” said Lallan Bajpai, another local. Earlier today, the families of the policemen who were killed in the Kanpur encounter on July 3 expressed relief and happiness over the killing of gangster Dubey. Read AlsoVikas Dubey encounter: Gloom descends on Bikru, but next-door Shivli exultsKANPUR: Ground Zero Bikru village, witness to the midnight bloodbath in which eight policemen were killed, plunged into mourning when news trickled in about the gangster’s death in a police encounter. And the don’s widow, Richa, expressed the angst of the predominantly Brahmin hamlet when she vowedRead AlsoAll in a day: Appearance, arrest, end of bloody sagaLUCKNOW: When Vikas Dubey made a surprise appearance at Ujjain’s Mahakaal temple on Thursday after six days of unbridled run covering five states, it was just the beginning of another action-packed day of political barbs, wild rumours and an encounter. It all started around 7.45am on Thursday when“Vikas Dubey attempted to flee by snatching pistol of the injured policemen after the car overturned. Police tried to make him surrender, during which he fired at the policemen. He was injured in retaliatory firing by police. He was later rushed to the hospital,” SP Kanpur West Anil Kumar said. Watch Kanpur: Locals distribute sweets post Vikas Dubey’s encounter, say ‘finally we’re free’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/we-are-free-now-say-villagers-once-terrorised-by-dubey/articleshow/76902737.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Cases rise, but city residents ditch mask, social distancing||Ludhiana: The district has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state, but for the residents it is not grim news, as they are seen without masks and not maintaining social distancing. A Times of India team found that in many posh areas and busy markets, residents were either without masks or not wearing them properly.In Dugri, children could be seen riding bicycles without masks in the evening hours. Many youngsters on cycles and evening walkers were also seen without masks. “I started my walks as I had started gaining weight staying indoors. However, after walking for about 50m in the colony, I saw that not many were wearing masks and some were walking in groups. So I decided against going out. The police vans do make rounds of the area in the evening, but the siren alerts people. I see many people, especially educated ones, not taking the Covid-19 threat seriously. It can result in bigger jump in cases. I also saw children playing in the parking ground of the market near the colony. How could parents allow them to play in a group?” said an area resident on the condition of anonymity. The Times of India team also found that social distancing norms were not being followed in busy markets, like Chaura Bazaar, Field Gunj, Model Town and Ghumar Mandi. “Besides not maintaining social distancing, a good number of people are not even wearing masks. Many of those who wear masks, don’t wear them properly,” said Amit Kumar, who runs a shop in Ghumar Mandi. Health experts advice caution. “We have to understand that to defeat the disease, we need to wear masks properly, maintain social distancing and hand hygiene. If we don’t follow the norms, we are defeating the efforts of people who are following them,” said Dr Anshu Gupta, a city-based health expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cases-rise-but-city-residents-ditch-mask-social-distancing/articleshow/76900431.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Complaints of stench from Beeramguda units||Hyderabad: Unable to bear the foul smell from Beeramguda units in Patancheru industrial belt, residents have filed complaints to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to take action. Some even complained that their eyes and nose are burning. A resident of the area, Uma Shankar said he had filed complaints on Tuesday and Wednesday. “But, the CPCB is disposing it off saying the matter will be dealt with locally.” Shankar said the smell is so bad that he had to stop his morning jog as his eyes and nose are burning. “At a time when others enjoy a pollution-free environment due to lockdown, we were not fortunate as we did not get any respite from the stench, Shankar added. Another resident said there should be 24x7 monitoring by the PCB for a month. The officials’ stop-gap visits won’t be of much help, he said. Papmal Dhanuka, another resident, wants restrictions on the release of chemicals by industries. “The smell has worsened over the past few weeks. We are finding it difficult to bear the bad odour,” he said. Nearly 30 complaints have been sent to the CPCB in just two days. Residents of the area said they were forced to tag the central body as TSPCB has not taken any action yet||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/complaints-of-stench-from-beeramguda-units/articleshow/76901341.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||State will decide on work from home for teachers: Edu secy||Panaji: A day after TOI reported how the state education department in complete disregard to the Centre’s rule has made it mandatory for teaching and non-teaching staff to attend schools, education secretary Nila Mohanan said on Friday that the state government will take a decision on the HRD ministry’s directive to allow teachers to work from home “as far as possible”. “The secretary MHRD’s letter reached us just day before yesterday (on July 8) and it is dated July 6. Immediately upon receipt of the letter, the director of education has put up the matter on file and decision will be taken by the government,” she said. On Thursday, when TOI asked education director Vandana Rao whether her department was reconsidering the decision after the HRD circular, she sent a terse reply: “Yes, we are putting it up.” But there weren’t many takers for Mohanan’s line of defence with headmaster of Shishu Niketan School in Navelim, Vithoba Desai, questioning whether the circular was sent by post. “No communication takes place by post now. It happens electronically. If they received July 6 circular on July 8, it appears they do not know how to access the directives coming to them,” he said. Mohanan also said the home ministry’s June 29 guidelines had not prohibited teachers from being called to work. “MHA gave clear guidelines on June 29 for working of all workplaces. School is also a workplace,” she said. She reiterated that the education department has not flouted any guidelines of the home ministry as they did not “call students to school”. Shishu Niketan’s Desai said it appeared that the education department “did not know how to interpret the instructions. When teachers did not get an email for a meeting called by the director (Vandana Rao) at short notice, she issued show cause notices to them. In this case, who should issue show cause notice to whom?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-will-decide-on-work-from-home-for-teachers-edu-secy/articleshow/76901889.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Dist has max cases, second lowest % of cured ones||Ludhiana: The district has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state, and the second lowest percentage of cured patients. As per the media bulletin released by the state health department on July 9, Ludhiana district had 608 active cases of the total 1,248 reported. This suggests that the percentage of active cases is around 48.72%. Jalandhar with 350 active cases stands at number two position and Patiala with 270 cases is at number three in the state. As far as the lowest number of cured cases is concerned, the district stands at number two spot with cured percentage of 49% and Patiala at number one position with 42%. Ludhiana’s 49% is much less than the state’s cured percentage of 69%. With 29 deaths, Ludhiana is at second spot and Amritsar tops the list with 50 casualties. Seven deaths occurred in the past seven days. As per the document, in the last week alone, Ludhiana district witnessed highest number of cases (331) in Punjab.However, the only positive aspect was the low rate (2%) in the district, which is less than the case fatality rate (CFR) for the state (3%).Health department officials cite big size of the district for maximum number of cases and second lowest cured percentage rate. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga also attributed it to high population density. box:Name of district Active cases Cured% DeathsLudhiana 608 49% 29Jalandhar 350 65% 22Patiala 270 42% 10Amritsar 151 80% 50Sangrur 122 77% 17* Data as on 9 July||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dist-has-max-cases-second-lowest-of-cured-ones/articleshow/76900426.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Will take care of all prisoners who tested +ve: HM||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Friday the spike in prisoners (219) testing Covid positive in Nagpur Central Jail was due to tests being conducted on them following his visit. Sounding firm, Deshmukh stressed the prisoners testing positive would be quarantined and treated before being sent back to the barracks once they are healthy. The home minister had earlier said 281 prisoners and 90 jail staffers, in prisons across Maharashtra, had been cured after testing positive. Deshmukh, who visited the prison with Addl DG Sunil Ramanand last week, said he has already reviewed the situation following the spike in number of Covid positive cases this week. “I am constantly monitoring and reviewing the situation in Nagpur Central Jail, and will not allow situation to go out of control,” he said. Explaining the spike, Deshmukh said he decided to get prisoners tested, following which the substantial numbers came to fore. “I had insisted all prisoners must be tested and treated properly if found positive,” he said. When asked about the vacant post of deputy inspector general of police, prison, eastern region, which is creating a gap in the management and administration, Deshmukh said that Addl DG Prison, the seniormost officer in the prison department, is camping in city to tackle the situation. “All due precautions are being taken by ADG (Ramanand) currently in Nagpur to oversee the management of the affected prison,” said the home minister. Sources from the jail said that Swati Sathe, who was posted as DIG, prison, eastern region, is expected to join on Monday. She was posted around three weeks ago but could not join the posting. At present, Nagpur Central Jail’s administration is under SP, Central Jail, Anupkumar Kumre and also DIG Kamble, who is holding additional charge. In response to TOI’s query about substantial number of prison staffers not attending work, Deshmukh said those above 55-years of age have been told to stay away as per the decision of the state government, as they are considered vulnerable to Covid. Deshmukh also said adequate precaution is being taken for better management of prisoners, and also to ensure peace at the Central Jail when some unrest and violence among prisoners was mentioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/will-take-care-of-all-prisoners-who-tested-ve-hm/articleshow/76901351.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM seeks hospital-wise data of deaths||NEW DELHI: The health department was on Friday asked by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to give a hospital-wise analysis of Covid-19 deaths, apart from the recovery of patients. So far, 3,300 Covid-19 deaths have taken place in the capital out of the 1,09,140 total cases reported till date. A source said that no conclusion about the main reason behind the deaths could be drawn in the meeting chaired by the CM. A conclusion would be made only after analysing the causes of deaths at the micro level. A detailed analysis of the deaths is being done by the government to pinpoint the reasons behind them so that micro-level interventions could be initiated to bring down the numbers. The health department would be submitting additional details to the CM in another meeting for analysis. A source said back-to-back meetings would be held to make an effort to save precious lives. Details of deaths, the status of recovery and patients under critical care were shared in the meeting. Till now, 84,694 people have recovered from the disease. While the recovery rate is rising, mortality rate continues to be largely stable. A government report stated that the death rate in Delhi had seen a sharp decline since June. The highest number of deaths on a single day in June was 120 in the first week. This was now down to 50. An official said that comorbidity was one of prime reasons behind the deaths because it made infected people vulnerable and they became critical. “There are three reasons for Covid deaths apart from comorbidity. One, when the virus badly damages the heart leading to cardiac arrest, secondly, serious damage to the lungs and, thirdly, multiple organs getting damaged at the same time. In some cases, all the organ damages occur simultaneously,” the official added. The government would be able to plan measures to reduce deaths only after a final conclusion behind the reason is drawn after analysis. From June 27 to July 3, the average fresh cases per day was 2,494 compared with 3,446 cases the previous week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-seeks-hospital-wise-data-of-deaths/articleshow/76901871.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Registration of power of attorney made compulsory||Gandhinagar: The President of India has given assent to the Registration (Gujarat Amendment) Bill 2018, which aims to prevent misuse of power of attorney for frauds. Subsequently, the state government has notified the act and implemented it, and it will be mandatory to register powers of attorney in the state. Revenue minister Kaushik Patel, said in a statement, “It is noticed that when an unregistered power of attorney is used for registration of sale deed, the person who has executed the power of attorney, sometimes refuses to have executed the said power of attorney. Also, the power of attorney has been misused sometimes by the holder of the power of attorney. It is, therefore, considered necessary to amend the existing provision of section 17(1)(f) of the Registration Act, 1098 so as to restrict registration of documents using fraudulent and false power of attorney and also to create permanent record of such transactions. This new system will reduce frauds and protect rights of citizens.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/registration-of-power-of-attorney-made-compulsory/articleshow/76901882.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt wants ULBs to slap 100% penalty on illegal structures||Hyderabad: Exploring newer ways to shore up revenues of the urban local bodies (ULBs), the municipal administration department has decided to collect property tax from unauthorised structures standing on government, endowments and Waqf land and even land holdings without a title. Municipalities and municipal corporations — other than GHMC — have been told to collect 100% penalty, which means that the illegal owners will have to shell out double the stipulated property tax tariff. “This will be communicated to the owners through a special notice (pink colour). However, it will not give them any right of ownership on the land,” director of municipal administration N Satyanarayana said. Asked about the new circular on property tax assessments on encroached government land, Satyanarayana said: “We are reiterating what was there in the Act and sent a circular to the municipal commissioners concerned to implement the rules.” Sources said the government has set a target of Rs 505 crore tax collection from 20 lakh properties in all 141 municipalities and municipal corporations in the state. Officials pointed out to a provision in the Telangana Municipalities (levy of property tax with penalty on unauthorised constructions) Rules, 2016, which enables imposition of penalties from 25% to 100% on illegal structures. In the rules, it was clearly mentioned that if a structure deviates from the sanctioned plan (up to 10% violations), the government can collect 25% property tax towards penalty. If it is more than 10% of violations, the penalty can be 50% on the normal tax and 100% on complete unauthorised structures. As per the rules, the town planning wings of the respective ULBs have to furnish a report every month on unauthorised structures with date of month of completion, name of the owner or developer and nature of the construction. But, an official said this is not being followed by the municipalities and municipal corporations. Interestingly, GHMC has been collecting property tax on illegal structures in the last few years. However, it has been avoiding illegal structures raised on government land, endowments and Waqf land due to fears that the owners would claim ownership and rights over the property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-wants-ulbs-to-slap-100-penalty-on-illegal-structures/articleshow/76901347.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Blasts accused can’t speak to kin: Court||AHMEDABAD: The special court hearing the 2008 serial blasts case ruled that the accused in this particular case are not entitled to phone or video conferencing facilities to speak to their families from the jail premises in Ahmedabad and Bhopal, even during the Covid-19 pandemic. Designated judge A R Patel turned down two applications filed by the suspects lodged at Sabarmati central jail as well as Bhopal central jail in Madhya Pradesh, seeking directions to jail authorities to permit them to speak to their family members either via telephone or video conferencing. They contended that since the beginning of Covid-19 pandemic, jail visits by families have been put on hold. Instead, jail authorities have made provisions for the prisoners to talk to their families through video conferencing. The serial blasts accused demanded access to these facilities in the way other prisoners at Bhopal Central Jail and Sabarmati Central Jail can. The court sought replies from both jail authorities and they supplied circulars issued by the MP and Gujarat government in the past, placing embargoes on such facilities for prisoners of certain categories. The authorities told the court that the accused in the serial blasts case do not fall in the list of prisoners given the benefit of using telephone /video calling systems to speak to their family members from within the jail premises. After hearing both sides, the court said that the state governments have issued various directions in view of the current Covid-19 pandemic situation and the court, therefore, would not be able to pass any order granting the prayers. Since the Covid-19 outbreak, Gujarat’s prison authorities have introduced a video conferencing facility for inmates, called E-Mulakat, to speak to family members. Between April 1 sand June 25, as many as 9,329 prisoners have spoken to family members through this system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/blasts-accused-cant-speak-to-kin-court/articleshow/76901873.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Baby born to Covid+ve woman tests +ve in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Doctors at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital have confirmed that Covid-19 can spread from the mother to child in-utero or when the baby is still in the womb. A child born at RML to a mother who recovered from Covid-19 recently has been found positive for the infection. Both the mother and the child are stable, the doctors said. “The mother, who is the wife of a hospital employee, was diagnosed positive for Covid-19 last month. She was admitted to our hospital. On Tuesday, a day before the delivery, we tested her for infection through RT-PCR and she tested negative. The baby was born via normal delivery. However, when the child was tested for the infection, she was found positive, which confirms that the viral infection was transmitted in-utero,” Dr Rahul Choudhary, an assistant professor in the neonatology division of the hospital, told TOI. At present, the baby has been kept in the neonatal ICU and her vitals are being monitored regularly, the doctor said. Globally, there have been few other cases of children born to Covid-19 positive mothers testing positive for the infection. At least two such cases have been reported in the capital as well, one each from RML and Lok Nayak hospitals, respectively. However, unlike the latest case involving a recovered mother, in those cases the mother was positive for Covid-19 at the time of child birth. Also, samples were collected from the newborn after some time gap. “In the previous cases, it was suspected that transmission could have occurred via droplets or breastfeeding but here it is clearly established that in-utero transmission is possible because in this case the newborn was tested for Covid-19 immediately after birth,” Dr Chouhdary said. An editorial published in the American Journal of Perinatology recently, scientists stated that to date, the spread of SARS-CoV-2 from mother to fetus had not been well-established. However, they said it could happen in multiple ways, one of which was viral transmission from mother to fetus or intrauterine transmission). “It is possible that the mother may be viremic (virus in the blood) during acute infection, and the virus may be transmitted to the fetus through the placenta,” the scientists said. The transmission from mother to baby during or directly after delivery (intrapartum transmission) is also possible, they added. “It can occur if the mother or someone with close contact with the baby is actively infected with the virus in the two weeks before delivery or two days after birth,” reported Sciencedaily, an American website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/baby-born-to-covidve-woman-tests-ve/articleshow/76901892.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||No Vande Bharat flight to UAE from Hyderabad, many disappointed||HYDERABAD: The announcement by Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri that Vande Bharat flights would be operated from India to UAE from July 12-26 has brought little cheer to those stranded in the city as there is not a single flight scheduled from here. “Many of us are stuck in the city and we are disappointed that flights are scheduled from other cities but there is not a single flight from here,” said Varanasi Srinivasa Rao. At least 170 people, who had come to the city from UAE in March had been stuck here. Some of them had also booked a chartered flight from the city to ferry 52 of them but could not go as the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) did not permit outbound chartered flights to UAE a few days ago. Hence, the minister’s announcement was a relief to the passengers but the schedule shows that flights will take off from Delhi, Mumbai, Mangaluru and other places. There is one flight from Chennai. Some of those stranded in the city have booked their tickets for flights which will take off from Delhi. Others, who have not got tickets, got in touch with Air India to operate a flight from the city but were informed that a chartered flight could be arranged for Rs 40 lakh for 144 people. Puri announced that Indian carriers operating repatriation flights and UAE carriers operating chartered flights to bring Indian citizens from UAE to India can carry ICA approved UAE residents from India to UAE. “To assist UAE residents in India to return to UAE, the Civil Aviation Authorities of both countries have agreed to operationalise a special arrangement,” the minister said. This arrangement will benefit 10,000 to 12,000 Indians seeking to return to UAE but those in the city are urging the government to schedule flights from Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-vande-bharat-flight-to-uae-from-city-many-disappointed/articleshow/76901363.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: After 2-week home isolation, Covid patients seek retesting||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 patients who have been discharged from hospitals and spent another two weeks in home isolation have demanded retesting to confirm whether they are still suffering from the virus . The issue has been raised after health minister Eatala Rajender requested Covid-19 recovered patients to donate plasma and save the ones who are currently suffering. Mohammed Ahmed Vindhani, who tested positive for Covid-19 on June 11, says he is still awaiting the second test from the authorities. “When your government is not retesting to confirm if the patient is safe from the virus, how can one volunteer to donate plasma for the ones who are currently positive? I tested positive for Covid-19 on June 11. The official isolation ended on June 27. Without a retest, how should I know that I am negative?” questioned Vindhani. Meanwhile, Akhil Ennamsetty, one of the first Covid-19 survivors in the state said, “The reason for surge in cases in Telangana could be due to this unscientific handling of patients who tested positive. In my case, I started to test negative within 10 days but one of my friends who was admitted before me was discharged only after 30 days because she never tested negative before that. So, we cannot just decide that the person is free from the virus without retesting.” Ennamsetty also said that discharging the patient after the isolation period and then testing them only before they donate plasma can be very risky. “We cannot wait to perform the second test until the survivor decides to donate plasma. He might have come in contact with so many other people before he decided to donate plasma,” he added. Dr SA Rafi, consultant pulmonologist, CARE Hospitals said, “If the second or third test is not being conducted, it is mostly because of the load these hospitals are handling currently. But if survivors enroll for plasma donation, they will definitely be tested again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-2-week-home-isolation-covid-patients-seek-retesting/articleshow/76901365.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana minister KT Rama Rao to lay stone for two flyovers today||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao will lay the foundation stone on Saturday for the four-lane bi-directional elevated corridor from Indira Park to VST and three-lane bi-directional flyover from Ramnagar to Baghlingampally. Both the projects are being built at a cost of Rs 426 crore. The length of the elevated corridor is 2.62 km. Unlike the regular elevated corridor, the proposed orridor near Indira Park is being built with steel piers and girders. As per the detailed project report, the corridor will ease traffic from Indira Park going towards VST junction, while the flyover is set to reduce traffic congestion on the Ramnagar- Baghlingampally stretch. The length of the flyover will be 0.850 km. Mayor Bonthu Rammohan said the government had set a deadline of two years to complete the construction of both the elevated corridor and flyover. “Soil testing has been completed for both the projects. The permitted speed on the corridor will be 40 kmph and on the flyover, it will be 30 kmph,” the mayor added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-to-lay-stone-for-two-flyovers-today/articleshow/76901366.cms||Nikhil J Nair
July 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||In step with a changed world, Odissi dance festival goes online||Bhubaneswar: The spread of the novel coronavirus has pushed stage performances to the brink of disappearance altogether. Noted Odissi danseuse Aruna Mohanty, however, has found a way to get around the situation, by taking her much-sought after dance festival ‘Udayaraga’ online. From this month to December, around 46 to 50 dancers will video-record their performances for the festival. These will be uploaded on the Orissa Dance Academy’s Facebook, Twitter and YouTube pages every Friday at 7.30 pm (IST), starting today. Aruna started planning for the festival a month ago as she felt that dancers should get a chance to showcase their art and earn their bread with dignity even during these difficult times. “Skills unused will soon decay…talents wasted will fade away,” said Aruna, quoting British writer-director Paul King, while justifying the reason for going ahead with the festival online. The inaugural day will see dancer Leema Bhol (40) showcase the eternal love story of Radha and Krishna through a 15-minute composition, ‘Manini’. “This will be a new experience for me. Whenever we dance, we interact with the audience. We get to see their reaction instantly. Here, we will have to wait. But this is the best way to showcase our art during the pandemic,” said Bhol, who has been dancing for the past 25 years. Similarly, 19-year-old Subham Kumar Ojha, whose video will be uploaded on July 17, said he would miss the sound of applause in the auditorium. “But while the web is not the perfect alternative to the auditorium, it cannot be ignored totally. It has helped artists across the world showcase their love, passion and dedication to their art,” said Subham, who will be dancing to the compositions of Odia poet Banamali Das on ‘Krishna Leela’. Some of the videos for the online edition of ‘Udayaraga’ were shot in Aruna’s home itself. She has generated funds for the show from her friends and well-wishers, besides chipping in herself. The festival’s budget of around Rs 6 lakh will pay the artists and cover the studio costs. “The dancers will themselves act as the compère and guide the audience through the composition. They will also design the backdrop and edit the videos. We use Zoom and WhatsApp for our interactions,” said the noted danseuse. In the process, the dancers too are learning new technology and documenting their work for posterity, she said, comparing the participants of the festival to film actors who give their best shot despite not having a live audience. Aruna said the festival is a great way for professional dancers to stay relevant, at a time when many amateur dancers or those who practise it as a hobby have gained a following on social media through their videos. “The online festival is a way to sustain the dialogue between the audience and the performer. We’ll ensure the presentation is worthy of the audience’s time,” she signed off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/in-step-with-a-changed-world-odissi-dance-festival-goes-online/articleshow/76892659.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
July 11, 2020||Goa||DoE shut for a day after staffer tests positive||Panaji: The directorate of education (DoE) headquarters in Porvorim had to be shut on Friday for sanitisation after one employee tested positive for coronavirus. Samples of around 20 employees, who came in contact with the infected staffer, were collected for testing. These employees have also been advised to home quarantine themselves for now, secretary for education as well as health Nila Mohanan said on Friday. “Our people have gone there and taken samples of the staff working in the same section as this person. We have taken around 19 to 20 samples, as per what the director of education told me. In the meantime, the office was shut and all measures have been taken to sanitise the area in the office using disinfectants,” Mohanan said. Those employees working in the same section as the Covid-19 positive worker ‘have been told to not come back to office even on Monday’, Mohanan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/doe-shut-for-a-day-after-staffer-tests-positive/articleshow/76901920.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Salem||Salem district logs 127 new Covid-19 cases, 34 discharged||SALEM: Salem district added 127 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the total case tally to 1,630. Of the 127 new cases, 70 were either contacts of previous cases or family members of those who tested positive. Dr J Nirmalson, deputy director of health services, said another 20 were returnees from other districts including Chennai, while the rest were new cases. Two persons had returned from Maharashtra. In another development, two employees of the town panchayat office functioning at Salem collectorate tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Following this, sanitary workers from the Salem corporation disinfected the office. The duo was admitted to Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam medical college and hospital (SGMKMCH) for treatment. As far as the discharge number are concerned, an official said 34 patients, who were under treatment at SGMKMCH, got discharged on Friday evening. Dean Dr R Balajinathan, medical superintendent Dr P V Dhanapal and others gave them a warm send-off. They also were given medical kits and a fruit baskets at the time of discharge. In neighbouring Erode, 15 new cases were added on Friday, taking the total Covid-19 case tally to 327. Dharmapuri district registered 14 new cases. “Of them, four are women and the rest are men,” said, S Malarvizhi, district collector. She said eight cases are contacts and family members of previous Covid-19 cases while the rest are the new cases. Krishnagiri district, which earlier had 223 cases, added two new cases on Friday. Namakkal district added two new cases on Friday, taking the total case tally to 150.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-dist-logs-127-new-cases-34-discharged/articleshow/76901897.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi the only region where active cases are declining||NEW DELHI: Among the larger states and the National Capital Territory, Delhi is the only one that has seen a decline in active Covid-19 cases over the last week. As of July 3, there were 26,304 active cases in the national capital, which declined by 18% to 21,567 on July 10 morning. At the national level, active cases increased by 21.7% during this period. In absolute terms, there are roughly 50,000 more active cases in the country as compared with a week ago. The only other large states in which active cases are growing slower than the national average are Haryana and Tamil Nadu, while Maharashtra has mirrored the all-India rise. The data shows that there are six states where active cases increased by over 50% in the past week. Cases increased by 89% in Karnataka, the highest among all large states. In both Assam and Odisha too, the increase was more than 80%. Active cases increased by 69% in Bihar and a little over 50% in Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. Except Karnataka, which is more urbanised and has a relatively better healthcare system, the other five states have weaker healthcare infrastructure than many others, which means it would be difficult for them to cope with the situation if active cases keep increasing at this rate. For the healthcare system, active cases – total confirmed cases minus those who have recovered or died — are a more crucial metric than total confirmed cases, since those that have been infected and recovered are no longer a load on hospitals. The pattern of states that are now exhibiting a sharp rise in active cases is worrying as it indicates that the pandemic is shifting from larger urban centres (Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Ahmedabad) to smaller cities and to some extent villages that don’t have adequate healthcare infrastructure to cope with the disease. Among other states, active cases increased by 27.4% in Gujarat and 28.6% in MP. Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and West Bengal saw a more than 30% increase in active cases since July 3. In terms of absolute numbers, there were 2.7 lakh active cases in the country as of Friday morning. Maharashtra still topped the list with nearly 94,000 active cases. It was followed by Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, the only other states reporting more than 10,000 active cases. In the past as well, Delhi and other states have seen phases of decline and increase in active cases, but those fluctuations happened at very low levels of active cases, when cases were in hundreds or single digit thousands. No other state has seen a steady decline in active cases at this level of spread. The NCT's active cases peaked on June 28 when there were 28,329 active Covid-2019 patients. In the 12 days since then, nine have seen a reduction in active cases and as of Friday morning, there were 21,567 active cases in the city. Watch Delhi turns out to be only region with active cases on the decline||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-the-only-region-where-active-cases-are-declining/articleshow/76901912.cms||Atul Thakur
July 11, 2020||Chennai||Litmus test: Next 15 days will chart path of Chennai’s Covid curve||CHENNAI: The effects of the relaxation in lockdown norms since Monday – an increase in crowds in public places – may have its effect from Saturday. If in the next 15 days the number of cases and deaths do not increase, Chennai can say it has flattened the curve, say epidemiologists. All the virus needs is a host, says infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian. "We are giving it lots of hosts when we crowd shops and fail to wear masks," he said. Covid-19 symptoms – fever, cough, cold, breathlessness, loss or smell/taste and diarrhoea – usually start between the 5th and 10th day of exposure. "It takes another 2-3 days for them to get to the doctor and receive the test results. This would mean we are likely to see an uptick in the number of cases over the next two weeks," he said. The incubation period – the period between exposure to an infection and the appearance of the first symptoms – is 14 days. It’s still unclear if the virus is spread via tiny droplets, or aerosols, or through larger droplets expelled when an infected person sneezes or coughs. "We know the virus can stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air and infect people as they inhale. This risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation. So, if we have a symptomatic or pre-symptomatic person they can trigger outbreaks. The chance of it happening is bigger when rules of pandemic are not followed," says infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan. Fresh cases in Chennai have been steadily dropping – from 2,206 on July 1 to 1205 on Friday – although adjoining districts such as Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur have been seeing an up and down variation. On July 1, the three districts together had 4,67 cases, 629 on July 3, and 410 on June 7. But for the next two days, they together had 600 new cases and on Friday had 522. Many ministers and officials have been tweeting that the city has flattened the curve, but public health experts warn it may be too early to say. Senior virologist Dr T Jacob John of Christian Medical College said the state is climbing towards the peak – when the same number of cases is seen for at least a week. "This week, if there is no increase Chennai can rejoice. This may happen if the surveillance during lockdown is good. If fever clinics are doing their jobs and testing numbers are high we will still be able to isolate positive cases and stop the spread," he said. National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur said flattening the curve will depend on doubling time, daily cases and deaths and positivity rate. "Each one of these factors shows the infection is down. During this time, the number of tests being done should not decrease," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/litmus-test-next-15-days-will-chart-path-of-citys-covid-curve/articleshow/76901370.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Salem||Heavy rain lashes Salem district, many low-lying areas inundated||SALEM: Heavy rain lashed Salem district all through the night till Friday morning, damaging a lot of trees in the process. Following the intense showers, a rescue team consisting of revenue department officials, Tamil Nadu fire and rescue services personnel and police officials was formed to clear the debris and wooden logs. Many low-lying areas in Salem city recorded water level up to a height of two feet on the main road. Traffic was halted for a while between Yercaud and Salem after a few trees got uprooted in the Ghat section. Several residents complained that sewage water mixed with rainwater overflowed from drainage channels almost all across the city. Water stagnation on Cherry Road, Brindhavan Road and Gandhi Road caused inconvenience to commuters. Rainwater entered narrow streets and flooded many houses in Kitchipalayam, Ammapet and Shevapet areas in the city. Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts also experienced intense showers beginning Thursday night. Villages in Hosur, Burgur and Shoolagiri also recorded heavy rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/heavy-rain-lashes-salem-district-many-low-lying-areas-inundated/articleshow/76901905.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||HC notice to Telangana on use of teaching hospitals for Covid fight||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Friday issued notices to the state government and its health authorities, asking them to explain their stand on a PIL that wanted the teaching hospitals attached to the existing government and private medical colleges to be used in the fight against the pandemic. R Srivatsav filed the plea, urging the court to ensure that the government uses these resources too. His counsel Vasudha Nagaraj urged the court to direct the government to use buildings such MCR HRD Institute premises in Jubilee Hills as quarantine centres. “There are two ESI hospitals in Hyderabad and they should be used as Covid-19 treatment centres,” she said. A bench said these are policy decisions to be taken by the government and that they would at best request it to consider the plea. At this, Vasudha said: “The authorities are showing even deaths occurring on account of heart attacks, pneumonia, breathlessness, etc, as Covid-19 deaths and burying the corpses without handing them over to the kin.” The bench sought a counter from the government on these aspects and posted the case to July 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-notice-to-state-on-use-of-teaching-hosps-for-covid-fight/articleshow/76901371.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Mumbai||Don’t rush for remdesivir, patients’ kin cautioned||Mumbai: Maharashtra taskforce on Covid-19 on Friday underlined that remdesivir should only be used as an “emergency drug’’, after relatives rushed to seek it for patients. Experts said many drugs and side therapies (such as oxygen support) can help in treatment. The anti-Ebola drug, remdesivir, and is only meant for Covid patients with “moderate to severe’’ symptoms. “It can only be given under expert supervision for five days, and only to those hospitalized and in need of oxygen,’’ said taskforce member Dr Shashank Joshi. Antiviral agent, favipiravir, can be used for patients with mild to moderate symptoms, under medical advice too. IL6 blockers Tocilizumab and Itolizumab are under clinical trials, Dr Joshi said, and can only be given to critically-ill patients with cytokine storm. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dont-rush-for-remdesivir-patients-kin-cautioned/articleshow/76901406.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government hires new healthcare agency to manage patients under home isolation||NEW DELHI: A new healthcare service provider has been tasked with management of Covid-positive patients under home isolation. The services of the earlier company hired by Delhi government had been discontinued by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal because the appointment was not done through a tender, which was termed a violation of general finance rules (GFR). “An MoU has been signed for engaging the new agency for the management of home isolation patients,” said a Directorate General Health Services official. The new agency, which was the lowest bidder for the tender, was hired in compliance with the GFR. “For telecounselling each patient under home isolation for 10 days, the company will charge the government Rs 315,” said a source. The earlier company had been tracking the recovery of each patient under home isolation remotely from Bengaluru. The information was then relayed to the government. Those with deteriorating health conditions were shifted to hospitals for treatment. On June 16, 23,500 people were under home isolation. On Friday, 12,272 asymptomatic Covid-positive patients or those having mild symptoms were under home isolation in the 11 districts of the city. All people under home isolation have been given oximeters to measure their oxygen levels. A sudden drop in oxygen levels is one of the many key health challenges faced by Covid-positive people. “The recovery rate from home isolation is improving and over 95% people have beaten the viral infection,” said an official. Home isolation began in Delhi towards the end of April after guidelines were issued by Union home ministry. Within three days, 330 people were under home isolation and by the end of May the number rose to nearly 6,000. Things abruptly changed on June 19 when the LG made institutional quarantine of five days mandatory and ordered discontinuation of the home isolation management company. The government defended nominating the agency saying floating tenders was a time-consuming process. Later, Baijal restored the status quo and the agency was given extension till a new agency was selected through an open tender. People who test positive for Covid-19 are assessed by health officials whether they are medically eligible for home isolation. A team from the district surveillance office then visits the person’s house to determine whether it has separate rooms and toilets and a caregiver. The role of the private agency comes after the person is put under home isolation. The agency keeps details of oxygen levels, temperature chart, breathing issues and overall health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-hires-new-healthcare-agency-to-manage-patients-under-home-isolation/articleshow/76901921.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC: Is ethylene safe to ripen fruit?||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Friday sought to know from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) by next week whether it is safe to use ethephon, made from ethylene gas, to ripen fruits like mangoes. A bench of chief justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and justice B Vijaysen Reddy directed assistant solicitor general N Rajeswara Rao to ascertain the status by Thursday and also directed the state’s food safety commissioner to file his counter by that time. The bench was hearing two petitions filed by ethylene traders who complained to the court that police were harassing them at the behest of a rival trader who is also involved in selling similar sachets. . Senior counsel S Niranjan Reddy assisted court as amicus curiae and recommended a complete prohibition of use of carbide for ripening fruits and suggested ethylene as a safer option. However, on Friday, he told the court that ethephon, used in the ripeners, falls under the category of insecticide and hence cannot be used. Senior counsel D Prakash Reddy appeared for the petitioners and said that FSSAI in 2011 made regulations banning carbide and brought in ethephon in specified quantity as a safe option. “The state authorities too accorded permits and licence to sell them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-is-ethylene-safe-to-ripen-fruit/articleshow/76901377.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Meerut||All judges of the country must resign, says RLD after Kanpur encounter||MEERUT: All the judges of the country must resign, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) said on Friday as it slammed UP’s BJP government for setting "dangerous precedents" by “encouraging” the state force to bypass legal procedures in bringing the criminals to book. The RLD’s strong reaction came soon after gangster Vikas Dubey was shot dead in an encounter with UP Police’s STF which was bringing him from MP where he had surrendered. RLD’s national vice president Jayant Chaudhary took to twitter to “slam the encounter”. “All judges of the country should resign now,” he wrote. In a series of other tweets, he wrote, “BJP ke thok-do raj me adaalat ki zaroorat he nahi hai (In BJP’s encounter raj there is no need of courts).” “MP Police can apprehend & hand over a wanted criminal to UP Police, but UP Police can’t even secure the man for questioning & judicial process! At its best, a botch up by UP Police. At its worst, an attempt to save bosses in case criminal-police-politician nexus is exposed (sic),” Chaudhary wrote. Later, speaking to TOI, Chaudhary said, “My tweets were not meant to disrespect judiciary, but aimed at highlighting the systematic failure of Yogi (Adityanath) government which is encouraging the state force to bypass legal procedures in bringing the criminals to book. I repeat, if you cannot respect law and its course what is the point of having courts and its constituents? This is a dangerous precedent that this government is setting. It is encouraging state machinery to indulge in mob violence. Truly speaking we are going back to dark ages.” Dubey was arrested near Ujjain’s Mahakal Temple in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday morning. On Friday morning, UP STF shot him dead when he allegedly tried to escape after a police vehicle overturned near Kanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/all-judges-of-the-country-must-resign-says-rld-after-kanpur-encounter/articleshow/76900557.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 11, 2020||Meerut||Shri Prakash Shukla to Vikas Dubey: Attack on police avenged in blood||MEERUT: “If you kill a cop, you basically sign on your death warrant,” a senior police officer told TOI on Friday. For long, it has been an uncodified rule in the department that targeting a policeman will be dealt with an iron hand. Friday’s encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey, the main accused in the killing of eight policemen in Kanpur recently, brings home the point that the department doesn’t take the death of its personnel lightly. In July 2007, six Special Task Force (STF) personnel were killed by the Thokiya gang in Chitrakoot. A year later, Thokia, who then carried a cash reward of Rs 6 lakh, was killed in an encounter with STF in the jungles of Chitrakoot. The “retaliation” was aimed at “setting an example”. In 1997, one of the most dreaded gangsters of UP, Shri Prakash Shukla, and his gang members had shot dead sub-inspector (SI) RK Singh during an encounter in Lucknow. Senior police officers, who later became part of the STF when it was formed, had then “swore” to “avenge” the killing. Shukla was killed a year later in 1998 in Ghaziabad. In 2019, another SI was killed when unidentified assailants attacked an escort team and freed gangster Rohit Saandu in Muzaffarnagar. Within a month, Saandu and his aide were killed in an encounter in Meerut and Muzaffarnagar. A year before that, in January 2018, Sabir, a sharp-shooter of the notorious Mukim Kala gang, had shot at and killed constable Ankit Tomar during an encounter in Shamli’s Kairana area. Sabir was gunned down in the same encounter a few minutes later. Defending the encounters, a senior police officer, on the condition of anonymity, said, “If a criminal has the audacity to attack and kill a policeman, he basically puts out a statement that he fears none. This can not only create panic but also bring down the morale of the department.” However, one case stands out. Inspector Subodh Kumar Singh was brutally killed in Bulandshahr in 2018. The officer was killed by a mob in Syana village on December 3, 2018 following a cow slaughter incident. Most of the accused were arrested and sent to jail. But they were later released on bail. When they came out on bail in a few months, they were publicly feted by leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/killing-a-up-cop-means-signing-on-death-warrant-not-in-all-cases-though/articleshow/76900550.cms||Piyush Rai
July 11, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Containment zones double in two weeks||CHENNAI: The number of Covid-19 cases in Chennai may be coming down, but containment zones in the city has more than doubled in two weeks. On June 26, the number of containment zones in the city was 104. On July 10, it touched 276, shows data released by Greater Chennai Corporation. The maximum number of containment streets are in Kodambakkam (Zone 10) which accounts for 134 of the 276 streets. Anna Nagar (Zone 8) has 38 containment zones while Tondiarpet (Zone 4) has 50. Five of the 15 zones in the city don’t have a containment street as on Friday. These include Royapuram (Zone 5), a hotspot. Valasaravakkam (Zone 11) has 13 containment streets, Alandur (Zone 12) has five, Adyar (Zone 13) has nine and Shollinganallur (Zone 15) has two. A containment street is totally barricaded with police regulating movement of people and vehicles. Residents of these zones will not be able to go out for regular activities and will have to rely on volunteers even to procure essentials. E-passes will not be given to people living in containment streets for emergency purposes. Earlier, the corporation had classified a street as a containment zone if even one positive case was detected. Later, a street was declared a containment zone only if there were five index cases. An index case, in epidemiological terms, is the primary case in a population who may have spread the infection to others. Corporation sources said if three households in a street report positive cases, it is demarcated a containment zone now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/containment-zones-double-in-two-weeks/articleshow/76901378.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bhopal||MP: PM Narendra Modi launches Rewa mega solar park, says India in top five in green power||BHOPAL: Prime Minister Narendra Modi dedicated the 750 MW ‘ultra-mega’ solar-power park in Rewa to the nation via video-conferencing on Friday, and said India is emerging as one of the top producers and markets for green energy. “The project will benefit the people of Madhya Pradesh. Today, Rewa district has created history. Known for Mata Narmada and the white tiger, now the name of Asia’s largest solar power project has also been added,” Modi said in his address. “This is the biggest and most important work of the 21st Century, and we are now among the top five countries that have harnessed solar power. This energy is ‘sure, pure, and secure’ — sure because it is non-exhaustible, pure because it does not spread pollution, and secure because this energy is a symbol of self-dependence,” PM Modi remarked. The plant, one of the biggest in the world, sprawls over 1,590 hectare in Gurh tehsil of Rewa district, about 500km east of Bhopal. It will supply power not only to Madhya Pradesh, but also the Delhi Metro, Modi said. PM: Solar power will boost atmanirbhar missionSolar power will give a boost to India’s mission to be atmanirbhar, he said. PM Narendra Modi and Union ministers R K Singh, Thawarchand Gehlot, Prahlad Patel and Dharmendra Pradhan attended the e-inauguration from Delhi, and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and senior officials of the state attended from Bhopal. Governor Anandiben Patel joined in from Lucknow. Modi said 36 crore LED bulbs have been distributed in the past six years, helping save Rs 24,000 crore worth of energy. The PM stressed on indigenous development and manufacture of solar panels instead of depending on import. This is why solar panel manufacturing units are being encouraged, he said. CM Chouhan said that several other solar power projects — including 2,000 MW solar power parks in Agar-Malwa, Shajapur, Neemuch and Morena districts and a 600 MW floating solar park on Omkareshwar dam — are being developed in Madhya Pradesh. The Rewa solar park was built by Rewa Ultra Mega Solar Limited, a joint venture company of MP Urja Vikas Nigam Limited and the central PSU, Solar Energy Corporation of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pm-launches-rewa-mega-solar-park-says-india-in-top-5-in-green-power/articleshow/76901372.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Mumbai||Court rejects Wadhawans’ bail petitions||Mumbai: A session court rejected bail pleas of Rakesh and Sarang Wadhawan, accused in Rs 6,100-crore scam involving PMC Bank, as they may threaten witnesses. It said accusations against them were serious and there was sufficient evidence. It pointed out that maximum punishment prescribed can extend to life imprisonment. It said there was nothing indicating the accused co-operated with investigations, but instead they tried to shift the burden on bank officials. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/court-rejects-wadhawans-bail-petitions/articleshow/76901408.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu records 3,680 new Covid-19 cases, 64 deaths||CHENNAI: Chennai and three neighbouring districts maintained a decline in Covid-19 positive numbers, accounting for only around 48% of the 3,680 fresh cases Tamil Nadu reported on Friday. While this pushed the state’s Covid-19 tally beyond 1.3 lakh, the active cases were much lower at 46,105. The state also recorded 64 deaths, the youngest being a 19-month-old boy from Kancheepuram with neurological issues. On Thursday too, a 25-day-old child with severe morbidity had died. Paediatricians, however, said parents with babies need not panic as the impact of the infection was less in children compared to adults and they also recovered faster. TN’s official death toll stands at 1,829. On a positive note, the number of people discharged following treatment crossed the 4,000-mark for the first time on Friday. The state’s overall discharge count increased to 82,324. “Given the ‘No Drug of Choice’ situation, the government is trying all possible options including plasma therapy to treat patients. So far, 13 out of 20 patients recovered through this,” said C Vijayabaskar, state health minister. After testing a record number of samples on Thursday (42,369), there was a 11% drop in testing rate on Friday (37,309). Although the situation has improved, Chennai is still a hotspot, said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who held a teleconference with Tamil Nadu ministers on Friday. Chennai logged 1,205 cases on Friday, the fourth day the count has been in the 1,200s. Its three neighbouring districts -- Chengalpattu (242), Tiruvallur (219) and Kancheepuram (61) -- together reported 522 cases. All four districts were under an intense lockdown for three weeks till July 6.. The southern districts of Tuticorin (195), Madurai (192), Tirunelveli (145), Theni (108) and Kanyakumari (105) were among the worst-affected. Salem, whose curve showed a steady rise, recorded 127 new cases and Trichy (109 cases) crossed the three-digit figure for the first time on Friday. As far as infection among passengers from other states and countries were concerned, a total of 44 people tested positive at air, road, rail and sea surveillance camps. So far, 4,219 people who returned to TN tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/state-records-3680-new-cases-64-deaths/articleshow/76905163.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Teenager sells brownies, buys wheelchairs for old-age home||Nagpur: Defying common perception that teenagers misuse social media, some of them are putting it to good use to help needy people. Sanjali Ladha, a Std XII student and resident of Khare Town, baked brownies at home during the lockdown period and took to Instagram to sell 164 boxes to friends, relatives and others, which fetched her Rs82,000. She then bought four wheelchairs and one cardiac monitor for the shelter home for elderly run by Jeevan Suraksha Charitable Society on Wednesday. “Initially, I had thought of donating masks and sanitizers to civic workers. However after some research, I realized that the ones who are the most vulnerable to the pandemic are elderly persons at shelter homes and the orphans,” says the 17-year-old. Sanjali, studying at The International School Bangalore, started baking as a hobby while staying home after the first lockdown was announced. When the lockdown was extended and reports started pouring in about hardships being faced by poor people, she decided to give it back to society by raising funds for the needy. “I decided to buy medical equipment for the shelter home which is near to my residence. They not only look after elderly and terminally-ill but also help financially weak people and those who can’t take care of elders at their home,” she says. “I am satisfied and getting a feeling of sharing responsibility towards society through this little effort,” she says, adding that Jeevan Suraksha still needs one more cardiac monitor along with 10 wheelchairs and plastic chairs each. Her father Gaurav Ladha, who runs a packaging unit at Butibori, and homemaker mother Divya, say their daughter started baking in May and perfected the art of making brownies, cookies and chocolate cakes in a short time. “It was entirely her initiative which we supported. She started making brownies for this initiative on June 19 and completed 184 boxes in just nine days. We are happy that she decided to utilize her time for a noble initiative,” say her parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teenager-sells-brownies-buys-wheelchairs-for-old-age-home/articleshow/76901287.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Edu minister offers thanks to Polali deity for success of SSLC exams||Mangaluru: A suggestion from the colleague of his wife Savithri saw S Suresh Kumar, minister for primary and secondary education, visit Sri Rajarajeshwari Temple at Polali near here on Friday. The reason for this visit was to thank the deity, as one of the biggest events in the state, after the lockdown was lifted, the SSLC examination involving more than 9.5 lakh people, including 8.4 lakh students, was conducted successfully. Kumar said that Savithri’s colleague, a designer who hails from Polali, had suggested to her about the “power” of the presiding deity of the temple, that has a history of more than 1,000 years. “It was always in the back of my mind to offer my obeisance to the almighty after this mammoth exercise that spanned several meetings, visits to districts to oversee preparations and personal monitoring of the examination process in the state with my team,” the minister said. Asserting that it was purely a personal visit, borne out of his belief in the powers of the deity as well, Suresh Kumar said this was his maiden visit to the temple, and a suggestion from his better half, who accompanied him, played its part in choosing this temple out of several temples across Karnataka. Kumar, who later visited Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala and prayed to Lord Manjunatha, said he has visited the temple town several times, including by walking on a few occasions. ‘Online classes will not be imposed on any student’ On the issue of online teaching, Kumar said the department, keeping in mind the directive of the high court, will not impose it on any student. With network a major issue in many places, especially rural areas, a call on its introduction will be taken after considering the ground realities. “I am going to consult seven of my predecessors on Friday, and a decision will be taken in a manner that it not only appeals to students, but also does not burden their parents,” he said. The high court has also mandated that extra fees should not be collected in the name of online education, nor make it mandatory for anyone, he said, and said that the department will follow the same. The ministry of human resource development has directed that schools should start by the end of July, and a decision on restarting schools will be taken after detailed consultation with all stakeholders including parents, if the pandemic starts subsiding by then, the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/edu-minister-offers-thanks-to-polali-deity-for-success-of-sslc-exams/articleshow/76900874.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid victim’s body kept at home for 26 hours due to delayed report||Mangaluru: A 75-year-old woman from Surathkal allegedly died due to her not getting timely treatment as her Covid-19 report was delayed. What’s worse is that her body was kept exposed at home for more than 26 hours. Her report showed that she was positive at 6pm on Friday. The incident took place in Krishnapura, Surathkal. The victim who used to take treatment at a private ayurvedic nursing home in Bajal, had gone there after she was unwell on Wednesday. Due to protocol, the nursing home administration asked her to get herself tested for the novel coronavirus, and she went to Wenlock Hospital for the same. Her swab was collected on Wednesday, after which she returned home. The woman died at 4.30pm on Thursday. “As the reports were not out, the family couldn’t cremate her. The body was kept at home for more than 26 hours, and her report showed that she was Covid-19 positive on Friday. How can the district administration be so inhumane?” questioned DYFI state president Muneer Katipalla. Muneer further added that the victim was living with her daughter, son-in-law and grandchildren at a rented home in Krishnapura, Surathkal. “The district administration should have brought out the test report on priority, but failed to do so. As a result, the body was kept at home for more than 26 hours,” he said. Sources from the hospital where she used to get treated said that when she had come to the facility, she had cough and showed no other symptoms. Another source said that while the victim’s daughter and son-in-law were with the body at home, her grandson was waiting at the hospital to collect her report. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that the family did not inform the authorities about her death. “We learnt about her death only after 24 hours. There is no protocol to keep the body until results are out, and final rites can be performed by taking precautions,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-victims-body-kept-at-home-for-26-hours-due-to-delayed-report/articleshow/76899248.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||Shun politics while battling Covid: DyCM to civic bodies||Margao: Deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar on Friday urged elected representatives of all local/urban bodies of Salcete to eschew politicising the pandemic situation and advised them against differentiating among the people along political lines in the battle against Covid-19. Sarpanchs of 33 panchayats from Salcete and representatives of two municipal bodies – Margao and Cuncolim – attended the meeting chaired by Kavalekar in the presence of WRD minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues as a part of an exercise to ensure coordination of all stakeholders while dealing with the pandemic. South Goa collector Ajit Roy, district SP Pankaj Kumar Singh, health officers of all primary health centres in Salcete, and other senior officials of the district administration were present. “ If we want to overcome the pandemic we will have to work in coordination with all the authorities. As you are working at the grassroots please ensure that you work with and provide cooperation to all, irrespective of whether anybody is your supporter or not,” Kavalelar told the elected representatives. He asked the members to use social media platforms to stay in touch and coordinate among themselves and the authorities. He suggested that a WhatsApp group be formed of the panchayat/municipal council members along with local health officers, police officials, BDO, etc, so as to ensure proper sharing of relevant information with a view to ensuring quick action whenever needed. “The elected members were explained about their role whenever a person from their area is detected positive, or when a person is ordered to stay in home quarantine, or when an area is declared as containment zone, etc. All of them were receptive to the instructions,” Kavalekar said. He also urged them to proactively assist the government in creating awareness among the people about taking precautions against the virus. “Do not rely totally on the government machinery to fight the coronavirus,” Kavalekar told the elected representatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shun-politics-while-battling-covid-dycm-to-civic-bodies/articleshow/76901939.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu records 3,680 new Covid-19 cases, 64 deaths||CHENNAI: Chennai and three neighbouring districts maintained a decline in Covid-19 positive numbers, accounting for only around 48% of the 3,680 fresh cases Tamil Nadu reported on Friday. While this pushed the state’s Covid-19 tally beyond 1.3 lakh, the active cases were much lower at 46,105. The state also recorded 64 deaths, the youngest being a 19-month-old boy from Kancheepuram with neurological issues. On Thursday too, a 25-day-old child with severe morbidity had died. Paediatricians, however, said parents with babies need not panic as the impact of the infection was less in children compared to adults and they also recovered faster. TN’s official death toll stands at 1,829. On a positive note, the number of people discharged following treatment crossed the 4,000-mark for the first time on Friday. The state’s overall discharge count increased to 82,324. “Given the ‘No Drug of Choice’ situation, the government is trying all possible options including plasma therapy to treat patients. So far, 13 out of 20 patients recovered through this,” said C Vijayabaskar, state health minister. After testing a record number of samples on Thursday (42,369), there was a 11% drop in testing rate on Friday (37,309). Although the situation has improved, Chennai is still a hotspot, said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who held a teleconference with Tamil Nadu ministers on Friday. Chennai logged 1,205 cases on Friday, the fourth day the count has been in the 1,200s. Its three neighbouring districts -- Chengalpattu (242), Tiruvallur (219) and Kancheepuram (61) -- together reported 522 cases. All four districts were under an intense lockdown for three weeks till July 6.. The southern districts of Tuticorin (195), Madurai (192), Tirunelveli (145), Theni (108) and Kanyakumari (105) were among the worst-affected. Salem, whose curve showed a steady rise, recorded 127 new cases and Trichy (109 cases) crossed the three-digit figure for the first time on Friday. As far as infection among passengers from other states and countries were concerned, a total of 44 people tested positive at air, road, rail and sea surveillance camps. So far, 4,219 people who returned to TN tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/state-records-3680-new-cases-64-deaths/articleshow/76905165.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 11, 2020||Surat||Surat farmer’s heart now beats in Ahmedabad woman||SURAT: A 22-year-old brain dead farmer’s heart was transplanted into a 35-year-old woman who has been suffering from heart ailment from the past 10 years. The transplant was done at a Ahmedabad-based hospital on Friday. Maharsh Patel, 22, a farmer from Saroli village in Choriyasi taluka of Surat district, had met with an accident while returning home from his farm on July 3. Maharsh’s car collided with a truck parked on the roadside. Due to the collision, Maharsh sustained severe injuries and was rushed to the Sardar Smrak hospital in Bardoli. The doctors at the Bardoli hospital referred him to the INS Hospital in Surat. His CT scan reports showed heavy swelling in the brain and blood clotting. On July 9, the neurophysician of the INS hospital declared Maharsh brain dead and contacted the city-based Donate Life NGO for the organ donation. Nilesh Mandlewala, founder of Donate Life and member of SOTTO said, “This was the first heart transplant in western India after lockdown. We convinced Maharsh’s family members for donating his organs to give new lease of life to other people who are in dire need of transplant.” According to Mandlewala, a team of doctors from Ahmedabad-based SIMS hospital reached Surat to accept the donation of heart. The kidneys and liver was donated to the Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research Centre (IKDRC) in Ahmedabad. A green corridor was created from the INS hospital to Surat airport covering 13 kilometres with the help of the Surat city police and the heart was transported from Surat to Ahmedabad in a chartered flight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/farmers-heart-now-beats-in-ahmedabad-woman/articleshow/76900010.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: IIT graduates make ‘corona cleaner’ device for cops||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Thursday was presented with a device, named ‘corona cleaner’, that uses UV radiation to clean items like documents, office stationery and even weapons used by the cops on the frontlines. The device was developed by a group of IIT graduates in collaboration with Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The device will be installed at the entrance of the Delhi Police headquarters. Police said that the device might be installed at other police stations if it is found to be effective. Shubham Rathore, one of the developers, said that it is an alternative to ineffective Chinese products that are already available in the market. “We started developing the device while working with another project with DRDO. On analysing the Chinese products in the market, we found that they had no UV emitting devices fitted in them, rather they had LED lamps with a violet hue that did not serve any purpose,” said Rathore. The device, presented to police commissioner S N Shrivastava, consists of a container that is fitted with four UV emitting spectrometers. Items can be placed inside it for disinfection by UV rays. “We got the device tested by the DRDO, who gave us a certification that the UV rays generated by our device can kill 99.99% of the virus,” said Rathore. Each unit costs around Rs 7,000. At present, Delhi Police sprays sanitisers on personal belongings of visitors entering the police premises, which are alcohol or water based and can’t be sprayed on electronic items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/iit-grads-make-corona-cleaner-device-for-cops/articleshow/76901933.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Ex-dacoit held for crime committed 38 years ago||JAISALMER: A team of Gujarat SOG on Friday arrested a man for bank dacoity and murder of three persons, including a police personnel, committed 38 years ago at Banaskantha in Gujarat. The accused was caught from Gadra Road police station area in Barmer. The 65-year-old man is said to be a former bandit who was allegedly involved in many dacoities and murders at different places in Rajasthan. He had over 40 cases registered against him. He later surrendered and his sentence was forgiven, said police. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that Shaktidaan Singh had attempted a bank dacoity in Akbargarh police station area of Banaskantha district of Gujarat and had murdered three persons, including a policeman, in 1982. Singh was wanted by the Gujarat police since then. The Gujarat SOG reached Beejawal village and raided Singh’s house with the help of local police and arrested him on Friday. The SP said that Singh was counted among the most notorious criminals around four decades ago and was involved in criminal acts in many parts of the state. In 1989, he surrendered and became a government witness in many cases. After the surrender agreement, the government forgave him and withdrew all cases against him. But, he continued being wanted in the loot and murder case in Banaskantha district for past 38 years. A local source said that after surrendering, Singh started a new life and even got elected as sarpanch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ex-dacoit-held-for-crime-committed-38-years-ago/articleshow/76901386.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu records 3,680 new Covid-19 cases, 64 deaths||CHENNAI: Chennai and three neighbouring districts maintained a decline in Covid-19 positive numbers, accounting for only around 48% of the 3,680 fresh cases Tamil Nadu reported on Friday. While this pushed the state’s Covid-19 tally beyond 1.3 lakh, the active cases were much lower at 46,105. The state also recorded 64 deaths, the youngest being a 19-month-old boy from Kancheepuram with neurological issues. On Thursday too, a 25-day-old child with severe morbidity had died. Paediatricians, however, said parents with babies need not panic as the impact of the infection was less in children compared to adults and they also recovered faster. TN’s official death toll stands at 1,829. On a positive note, the number of people discharged following treatment crossed the 4,000-mark for the first time on Friday. The state’s overall discharge count increased to 82,324. “Given the ‘No Drug of Choice’ situation, the government is trying all possible options including plasma therapy to treat patients. So far, 13 out of 20 patients recovered through this,” said C Vijayabaskar, state health minister. After testing a record number of samples on Thursday (42,369), there was a 11% drop in testing rate on Friday (37,309). Although the situation has improved, Chennai is still a hotspot, said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who held a teleconference with Tamil Nadu ministers on Friday. Chennai logged 1,205 cases on Friday, the fourth day the count has been in the 1,200s. Its three neighbouring districts -- Chengalpattu (242), Tiruvallur (219) and Kancheepuram (61) -- together reported 522 cases. All four districts were under an intense lockdown for three weeks till July 6.. The southern districts of Tuticorin (195), Madurai (192), Tirunelveli (145), Theni (108) and Kanyakumari (105) were among the worst-affected. Salem, whose curve showed a steady rise, recorded 127 new cases and Trichy (109 cases) crossed the three-digit figure for the first time on Friday. As far as infection among passengers from other states and countries were concerned, a total of 44 people tested positive at air, road, rail and sea surveillance camps. So far, 4,219 people who returned to TN tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-records-3680-new-cases-64-deaths/articleshow/76901388.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 11, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu records 3,680 new Covid-19 cases, 64 deaths||CHENNAI: Chennai and three neighbouring districts maintained a decline in Covid-19 positive numbers, accounting for only around 48% of the 3,680 fresh cases Tamil Nadu reported on Friday. While this pushed the state’s Covid-19 tally beyond 1.3 lakh, the active cases were much lower at 46,105. The state also recorded 64 deaths, the youngest being a 19-month-old boy from Kancheepuram with neurological issues. On Thursday too, a 25-day-old child with severe morbidity had died. Paediatricians, however, said parents with babies need not panic as the impact of the infection was less in children compared to adults and they also recovered faster. TN’s official death toll stands at 1,829. On a positive note, the number of people discharged following treatment crossed the 4,000-mark for the first time on Friday. The state’s overall discharge count increased to 82,324. “Given the ‘No Drug of Choice’ situation, the government is trying all possible options including plasma therapy to treat patients. So far, 13 out of 20 patients recovered through this,” said C Vijayabaskar, state health minister. After testing a record number of samples on Thursday (42,369), there was a 11% drop in testing rate on Friday (37,309). Although the situation has improved, Chennai is still a hotspot, said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who held a teleconference with Tamil Nadu ministers on Friday. Chennai logged 1,205 cases on Friday, the fourth day the count has been in the 1,200s. Its three neighbouring districts -- Chengalpattu (242), Tiruvallur (219) and Kancheepuram (61) -- together reported 522 cases. All four districts were under an intense lockdown for three weeks till July 6.. The southern districts of Tuticorin (195), Madurai (192), Tirunelveli (145), Theni (108) and Kanyakumari (105) were among the worst-affected. Salem, whose curve showed a steady rise, recorded 127 new cases and Trichy (109 cases) crossed the three-digit figure for the first time on Friday. As far as infection among passengers from other states and countries were concerned, a total of 44 people tested positive at air, road, rail and sea surveillance camps. So far, 4,219 people who returned to TN tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/state-records-3680-new-cases-64-deaths/articleshow/76905169.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 11, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara schools record 100% results in Class X, XII exams||VADODARA: All 139 students from the city cleared their Class 10 and Class 12 examinations, as the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), New Delhi declared the results on Friday. Two city-based schools _ Nalanda International School and Billabong High International School _ scored 100% results in ICSE (Class 10) and ISC (Class 12) examinations. While 88 students from both the schools cleared their Class 10 exams, 51 students cleared their Class 12 exams. Shoba Menon, principal of Nalanda International School, informed TOI that there were 71 students in Class 10 and 40 in Class 12. “In Class 10, Jainam Shah bagged the highest percentage (99.2 % in best five) and scored cent per cent in history/civics, maths and computer applications,” she said. In Class 12, Adit Desai topped the school in science with 95.8% while Archie Shah topped commerce stream with 95.4% and Malika Dand topped in humanities with 93.3%. “For the tenth consecutive year, our 10th batch students of Class 10 have secured 100% results. The school topper is Teeshtha Parmar with 99%,” said Dr Priti Shrimal, principal of Billabong High International School. “The Class 12, which was our sixth batch, had 11 students and they have also made us proud with 100% results in all three streams,” she said. Shruthi Prabhu topped the school in humanities with 95.75% while Ashna Desai topped in science stream with 94.5%. In commerce stream, Binoy Soni and Meha Babaria topped the school with 77.75 %.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-schools-record-100-results-in-class-x-xii-exams/articleshow/76908120.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka outperforms nation; over 99% kids pass ICSE, ISC exams||BENGALURU: The long haul for class 10 and 12 students of Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) in Karnataka finally resulted in a happy ending. While 10th graders clocked a pass percentage of 99.91%, their seniors recorded 99.06%. According to a CISCE release, of the 19,770 students who took the ICSE exams (class 10), only 17 failed. Among the 1,804 students who appeared for ISC exams (class 12), again only 17 couldn’t clear them. Karantaka’s performance was better than the national average: 99.34% for class 10 and 96.84% for class 12. The council, which did not announce the toppers as many papers were cancelled in view of the pandemic, had come up with a formula to calculate marks using internal assessment and average of best of three papers. Many schools reported a slightly higher number of students scoring in the merit (above 90%) and distinction (above 75%) categories as compared to previous years. Though most principals denied that the formula had anything to do with the performance, a few believed it did. “The formula would have helped as it takes into account the average from the best three papers along with other factors. It might make a small difference of 2-3% in marks,” opined Sonya Chacko, director, St Michael’s High School. Some others begged to differ. “Students keep getting better each year. I think, the toppers at our school level may have scored more had they appeared for the real exam as we were stringent in the internal assessment,” said Vidya Guruprasad, principal, Ryan International School, Kundalahalli. “The numbers are slightly higher, but I believe the formula has been pragmatic,” said Aloysius D’Mello, principal of Greenwood High.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/state-outperforms-nation-over-99-kids-pass-icse-isc-exams/articleshow/76900968.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
July 11, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu records 3,680 new Covid-19 cases, 64 deaths||CHENNAI: Chennai and three neighbouring districts maintained a decline in Covid-19 positive numbers, accounting for only around 48% of the 3,680 fresh cases Tamil Nadu reported on Friday. While this pushed the state’s Covid-19 tally beyond 1.3 lakh, the active cases were much lower at 46,105. The state also recorded 64 deaths, the youngest being a 19-month-old boy from Kancheepuram with neurological issues. On Thursday too, a 25-day-old child with severe morbidity had died. Paediatricians, however, said parents with babies need not panic as the impact of the infection was less in children compared to adults and they also recovered faster. TN’s official death toll stands at 1,829. On a positive note, the number of people discharged following treatment crossed the 4,000-mark for the first time on Friday. The state’s overall discharge count increased to 82,324. “Given the ‘No Drug of Choice’ situation, the government is trying all possible options including plasma therapy to treat patients. So far, 13 out of 20 patients recovered through this,” said C Vijayabaskar, state health minister. After testing a record number of samples on Thursday (42,369), there was a 11% drop in testing rate on Friday (37,309). Although the situation has improved, Chennai is still a hotspot, said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who held a teleconference with Tamil Nadu ministers on Friday. Chennai logged 1,205 cases on Friday, the fourth day the count has been in the 1,200s. Its three neighbouring districts -- Chengalpattu (242), Tiruvallur (219) and Kancheepuram (61) -- together reported 522 cases. All four districts were under an intense lockdown for three weeks till July 6.. The southern districts of Tuticorin (195), Madurai (192), Tirunelveli (145), Theni (108) and Kanyakumari (105) were among the worst-affected. Salem, whose curve showed a steady rise, recorded 127 new cases and Trichy (109 cases) crossed the three-digit figure for the first time on Friday. As far as infection among passengers from other states and countries were concerned, a total of 44 people tested positive at air, road, rail and sea surveillance camps. So far, 4,219 people who returned to TN tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/state-records-3680-new-cases-64-deaths/articleshow/76905170.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Gantawar couple seeks more time to record statement||Nagpur: Dr Praveen Gantawar and his wife Dr Sheelu Chimurkar, medical officers with Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), on Friday reached the State Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) office to record their statement but investigation officer was in the court. The couple, booked for Disproportionate Assets (DA) case under Prevention of Corruption Act,1986, is learnt to have sought time from the ACB to furnish their statements. The court, also on Friday, adjourned the hearing of the plea for confirming the anticipatory bail of the Gantawar couple till July 15. Earlier, the court had allowed ad-interim bail for the couple for one month or till disposal of their anticipatory plea, whichever was earlier. Sources from ACB said the Gantawar couple was asked to come to ACB office for recording their statement after the offence was registered on July 1 for possessing 43% more wealth (Rs 2.52 crore) than their known sources of income. Dr Praveen, deputy chief medical officer, was present during the search of his locker at a bank last week but they took nine days to turn up for the statement, an ACB source said. Though two expensive cars and Rs 86,000 cash was found at their residence at Ramdaspeth and another Rs 3.85 lakh at their private hospital in Dhantoli, the locker was found empty much to the surprise of ACB sleuths. SP, State ACB, Rashmi Nandedkar said the offence was registered on the basis of the calculation of income of the Gantawar couple between February 2007 and December 2015. “We had sent our proposal to headquarters seeking approval to register an offence against Gantawar couple in April before the lockdown began and received the nod on June 30. We are now calculating the wealth accumulated by the Gantawar couple between 2015 onwards till date,” said Nandedkar. “We have received information regarding several properties owned or in possession of the couple at different places after the offence was registered against them. They are anonymously sent or shared with us in writing and we can follow it up with thorough probe,” she said. Nandedkar also stated the couple’s bail plea would be opposed though there was no compulsion of arrest in DA cases. “We will calculate the value of all properties found during the searches and investigations post-FIR. The FIR was based on Rs 2.52 crore excess wealth but now the amount would likely swell,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gantawar-couple-seeks-more-time-to-record-statement/articleshow/76901234.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||3 farmers, a pair of oxen washed away||Yavatmal: Three farmers, including a woman, drowned after they were washed away in flash floods while crossing a nullah in bullock carts near Dorli village in Wani tehsil on Thursday night. Two bullocks also met watery grave. Two women who were part of the group escaped miraculously. The deceased have been identified as Meena Kudmethe (35), Vinayak Upare (47) and Haridas Khade (48), all residents of Dorli. The women who survived are Manisha Sidam and Mina Sidam. After daylong work on farms, the five were on their way back home. As it was raining heavily, a nullah near the village was flooded. Ignoring the gushing waters, the farmers put their bullock carts into the nullah to cross it when the bullock carts were washed away along with the occupants. Two women managed to save themselves while three others and bollocks were swept away. The survivors informed the villagers who started search operation only to find body of Kudmethe late in the night. The search resumed on Friday when the villagers found bodies of Upare and Khade over a kilometre away from the spot. The bodies were sent for postmortem. Sitting Wani MLA Sanjeevreddy Bodkurwar, tehsildar Shyam Dhanmane and BDO Rajesh Gayanar visited the village. PSO of Shirpur police station Anil Raut is investigating the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-farmers-a-pair-of-oxen-washed-away/articleshow/76901241.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Resident docs to get leave for exam, juniors to replace them||Nagpur: More than 200 resident doctors from two GMCs in Nagpur who will appear for their final year examination from August 25 onwards will get preparation leave, most probably from July 14 onwards. This will not create any dearth of doctors in Covid hospitals as new batch of junior residents is set to join from July 14. “The university has declared time table of not only PG Medical but also of PG Superspeciality courses (Like DM and MCh). As per our commitment, time table came out 45 days in advance. We have given a day’s gap between two theory papers,” said Dr Ajit Pathak, controller of examination, Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS). As both examinees and examiners were busy in Covid duties, the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) had requested the MUHS to postpone final year examinations in a letter sent in March this year. MARD officials said that the preparation leave for final year examinees won’t create any problem in functioning of Covid wards. “After almost four months of experience, several concepts and treatment protocols about Covid-19 are clear now. So, new juniors who will be joining from July 14 can work in Covid hospitals,” a senior office-bearer of Central MARD told TOI. In fact, as PG seats have increased from the present session, number of juniors joining will be more than seniors who will be leaving for exam preparations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/resident-docs-to-get-leave-for-exam-juniors-to-replace-them/articleshow/76901187.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 11, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Ex-dacoit held for crime committed 38 years ago||JAISALMER: A team of Gujarat SOG on Friday arrested a man for bank dacoity and murder of three persons, including a police personnel, committed 38 years ago at Banaskantha in Gujarat. The accused was caught from Gadra Road police station area in Barmer. The 65-year-old man is said to be a former bandit who was allegedly involved in many dacoities and murders at different places in Rajasthan. He had over 40 cases registered against him. He later surrendered and his sentence was forgiven, said police. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that Shaktidaan Singh had attempted a bank dacoity in Akbargarh police station area of Banaskantha district of Gujarat and had murdered three persons, including a policeman, in 1982. Singh was wanted by the Gujarat police since then. The Gujarat SOG reached Beejawal village and raided Singh’s house with the help of local police and arrested him on Friday. The SP said that Singh was counted among the most notorious criminals around four decades ago and was involved in criminal acts in many parts of the state. In 1989, he surrendered and became a government witness in many cases. After the surrender agreement, the government forgave him and withdrew all cases against him. But, he continued being wanted in the loot and murder case in Banaskantha district for past 38 years. A local source said that after surrendering, Singh started a new life and even got elected as sarpanch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/ex-dacoit-held-for-crime-committed-38-years-ago/articleshow/76904424.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Asha staff strike, Ayush doctors threaten to quit||BENGALURU: While the state government is focusing on increasing the number of beds for Covid patients, there are complaints of acute shortage of manpower — doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff — to treat the sick. Health officials said the shortage is due to a large number of healthcare staff having to undergo quarantine. While many medical professionals have quit their jobs due to fear of infection or family pressure, others have demanded more money and insurance. Not just doctors, even nurses and other paramedical staff are stepping back citing reasons like parental pressure, fear and anxiety, say officials. Meanwhile, about 42,000 Asha (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers launched an indefinite strike on Friday, boycotting work. They want their total honorarium to be hiked from the current Rs 6,000 to Rs 12,000. About 2,000 contractual Ayush (ayurveda, yoga & naturopathy, unani, siddha and homeopathy) doctors have threatened to resign en masse on July 15 if their demand of service regularisation and pay hike isn’t met. “It’s a long-standing demand, which the government has not met. It should do at least now considering we are all risking our lives to fight Covd-19,” said Dr Anand S Kirishal, spokesperson of Ayush Federation of India, Karnataka Chapter. The contractual Ayush doctors, who have now been deployed at Covid Care Centres (CCCs) and hospitals across the state to treat symptomatic patients, are demanding that their monthly salaries be hiked to Rs 60,000 from the present scale ranging from Rs 20,300 to Rs 26,000. These doctors decided to escalate their fight after the government last week decided to hike the payscale of contractual MBBS doctors from Rs 45,000 to Rs 60,000, following which they called off their strike. While the state government’s target is to set up 30,000 beds at CCCs in Bengaluru by July-end, the authorities have a Herculean task of mobilising at least 900 doctors for the CCCs in the city alone to work across three shifts. TK Anil Kumar, principal secretary of medical education department, who is handling manpower issues related to Covid operations, said they are doing everything they can to rope in as many doctors as possible by the month-end. “We will also look at addressing the concerns of Ayush doctors and Asha workers. This is being worked out at the government level,” he added. Mass quitting will compound woes It’s a huge challenge indeed. While the qualified doctors are not willingly to come forward to work as Covid warriors, many are either quitting their jobs or undergoing quarantine after testing positive. Mass resignation by doctors and Asha workers will only compound our woes Dr S Sachchidanand | VC, RGUHS and head of Covid-19 clinical experts committee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/asha-staff-strike-ayush-docs-threaten-to-quit/articleshow/76901268.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||100 bags of plasma collected in state for ‘Project Platina’||Nagpur: The ambitious plasma therapy trial ‘Project Platina’ reached a milestone on July 10 after 100 plasma bags were collected from 21 centres spread across the state. However, this number is still quite less than the target which is 100 bags per centre for 21 hospitals where these trials are to be conducted. Nagpur’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) is coordinating these trials at the state level. Project Platina is the world’s largest plasma therapy trial. It aims to provide plasma therapy to over 500 severe Covid-19 patients. For this project to materialize, every bank needs to have at least 50 litres of plasma. Many centres are facing several challenges in plasma collection. “As per our criteria, those who have experienced at least some symptoms of Covid-19 for some days and then recovered are allowed to donate plasma. But, completely asymptomatic patients are more in numbers,” said a senior official who looks after trials at the state level. In Nashik, where cases are more than 7000, 50 donations have taken place. As far as Vidarbha is concerned, Nagpur and Akola share more than 60% of the burden of Covid-19 cases. Moderate and severe cases are more in Akola than in Nagpur. As a result, plasma donors are more in Akola. “Until July 10, eight have donated plasma in Akola. We are looking forward to more donations,” said Dean of Akola GMCH Dr K S Ghorpade. There are 1849 Covid-19 cases in Akola. The number of severe and moderate cases is also more here as compared to Nagpur. Health department officials counsel recovered patients about plasma donation. In Nagpur, Covid-19 cases are more than 2155, but more than 80% patients are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. Those who have experienced some symptoms are counselled for plasma donation. About 36 such patients have given their consent to donate plasma. Authorities have to wait for 28 days after the recovery of these patients. They keep contacting these patients and reminding them about the plasma donation. But it’s a fact that some of them don’t turn up for plasma donation. “All we can do is to appeal to more and more patients for plasma donation. It’s completely safe,” said Dr Mohd Faizal, state coordinator for Project Platina. On July 7, Dr Mohammad Aves Hasan, founder member of Asra foundation and Taj ka Langar, donated plasma at IGGMCH. He also appealed to eligible patients to come forward and donate plasma. WHO CAN DONATE PLASMA * Healthy individuals who have recovered from Covid-19 * Must have experienced at least some symptoms for some days during treatment * Asymptomatic patients who have recovered not eligible for plasma donation * Plasma can be donated twice in one month, it’s very safe * With advanced machines, donor feels no weakness at all||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/100-bags-of-plasma-collected-in-state-for-project-platina/articleshow/76901217.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Wilful fee default: Delhi HC lets school block online access||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court has allowed a private school in the city to withhold ID and password of online classes from those students who have not paid fee despite facing no financial constraints. Justice Jayant Nath also issued notice to the AAP government on the school’s plea challenging a circular that prohibits any school from denying access to online classes to students during the Covid-19 lockdown. Directorate of Education had issued a circular on April 18, which said only tuition fees should be charged from parents during this period. The high court, however, said schools will have liberty to verify the financial condition of parents affected due to the lockdown and if not convinced, the institution can deny access to ID and password for online schooling. In its order passed on July 8, the court asked the school to follow certain steps before denying ID and password for online education access, adding that it can be denied only to those students who have not paid fees despite having no financial issues. After hearing advocate Romy Chacko, who appeared for the private school, the court asked the school to first issue notices to the parents who have defaulted in fee payment for more than two months asking them to give reasons for the same. If the parents are able to prove their financial incapacity to immediately pay the pending fees, “the petitioner-school shall not take any further steps for the time being,” the court said. “Where the parents are unable to satisfy the petitioner regarding their financial difficulties, the petitioner is free to decline to provide them ID and password for the online education facility of the students,” the judge noted. In the plea Queen Mary School Northend had contended that “taking unfair advantage”of the circular’s provisions, about 40% of its students have not paid tuition fees resulting in financial crisis to the institution which is “struggling to pay salaries of the staff and the teachers.” Appearing for the Delhi government, its standing counsel Ramesh Singh told the court that the school is free to issue notice to defaulting parents and find out if their financial problem is genuine or not. Only after that can it take any other step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wilful-fee-default-hc-lets-school-block-online-access/articleshow/76901959.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||Minor alleges gangrape in Alwar dist, but no med exam conducted||Once again the role of police has been put into question as a 14-year-old girl has alleged that she was gang-raped by three persons ten days ago, but Alwar police has still not conducted her medical examination. The girl alleged that she was being pressurized by cops to not register a case of rape against the accused. The incident occurred in Kishangarhbas police station area of Alwar. According to the complainant, she was abducted on June 30 following which she was taken to a hotel by one of the accused where the other two persons joined him following which they raped her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-alleges-gangrape-in-alwar-dist-but-no-med-exam-conducted/articleshow/76901392.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu records 3,680 new Covid-19 cases, 64 deaths||CHENNAI: Chennai and three neighbouring districts maintained a decline in Covid-19 positive numbers, accounting for only around 48% of the 3,680 fresh cases Tamil Nadu reported on Friday. While this pushed the state’s Covid-19 tally beyond 1.3 lakh, the active cases were much lower at 46,105. The state also recorded 64 deaths, the youngest being a 19-month-old boy from Kancheepuram with neurological issues. On Thursday too, a 25-day-old child with severe morbidity had died. Paediatricians, however, said parents with babies need not panic as the impact of the infection was less in children compared to adults and they also recovered faster. TN’s official death toll stands at 1,829. On a positive note, the number of people discharged following treatment crossed the 4,000-mark for the first time on Friday. The state’s overall discharge count increased to 82,324. “Given the ‘No Drug of Choice’ situation, the government is trying all possible options including plasma therapy to treat patients. So far, 13 out of 20 patients recovered through this,” said C Vijayabaskar, state health minister. After testing a record number of samples on Thursday (42,369), there was a 11% drop in testing rate on Friday (37,309). Although the situation has improved, Chennai is still a hotspot, said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who held a teleconference with Tamil Nadu ministers on Friday. Chennai logged 1,205 cases on Friday, the fourth day the count has been in the 1,200s. Its three neighbouring districts -- Chengalpattu (242), Tiruvallur (219) and Kancheepuram (61) -- together reported 522 cases. All four districts were under an intense lockdown for three weeks till July 6.. The southern districts of Tuticorin (195), Madurai (192), Tirunelveli (145), Theni (108) and Kanyakumari (105) were among the worst-affected. Salem, whose curve showed a steady rise, recorded 127 new cases and Trichy (109 cases) crossed the three-digit figure for the first time on Friday. As far as infection among passengers from other states and countries were concerned, a total of 44 people tested positive at air, road, rail and sea surveillance camps. So far, 4,219 people who returned to TN tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/state-records-3680-new-cases-64-deaths/articleshow/76905166.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu records 3,680 new Covid-19 cases, 64 deaths||CHENNAI: Chennai and three neighbouring districts maintained a decline in Covid-19 positive numbers, accounting for only around 48% of the 3,680 fresh cases Tamil Nadu reported on Friday. While this pushed the state’s Covid-19 tally beyond 1.3 lakh, the active cases were much lower at 46,105. The state also recorded 64 deaths, the youngest being a 19-month-old boy from Kancheepuram with neurological issues. On Thursday too, a 25-day-old child with severe morbidity had died. Paediatricians, however, said parents with babies need not panic as the impact of the infection was less in children compared to adults and they also recovered faster. TN’s official death toll stands at 1,829. On a positive note, the number of people discharged following treatment crossed the 4,000-mark for the first time on Friday. The state’s overall discharge count increased to 82,324. “Given the ‘No Drug of Choice’ situation, the government is trying all possible options including plasma therapy to treat patients. So far, 13 out of 20 patients recovered through this,” said C Vijayabaskar, state health minister. After testing a record number of samples on Thursday (42,369), there was a 11% drop in testing rate on Friday (37,309). Although the situation has improved, Chennai is still a hotspot, said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who held a teleconference with Tamil Nadu ministers on Friday. Chennai logged 1,205 cases on Friday, the fourth day the count has been in the 1,200s. Its three neighbouring districts -- Chengalpattu (242), Tiruvallur (219) and Kancheepuram (61) -- together reported 522 cases. All four districts were under an intense lockdown for three weeks till July 6.. The southern districts of Tuticorin (195), Madurai (192), Tirunelveli (145), Theni (108) and Kanyakumari (105) were among the worst-affected. Salem, whose curve showed a steady rise, recorded 127 new cases and Trichy (109 cases) crossed the three-digit figure for the first time on Friday. As far as infection among passengers from other states and countries were concerned, a total of 44 people tested positive at air, road, rail and sea surveillance camps. So far, 4,219 people who returned to TN tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/state-records-3680-new-cases-64-deaths/articleshow/76905164.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||Youth and minor girl found hanging from tree in Sikar||JAIPUR: A couple committed suicide in Sikar’s Udhyog Nagar police station area on Friday morning. Their bodies were found hanging from a tree in a field. Police have identified the youth was in his 20s while the girl was a minor. The reason appears to be non-acceptance of their relationship by their families, police said. While the deceased was identified as Jhabar Verma, cops refused to divulge the name of the girl as she was minor. Pawan Kumar Choubey, SHO, Udhyog Nagar police station said, “The two were found hanging from a tree in the field. The youth’s family was the one who found the bodies though we could not find any suicide notes on the victim.” The incident is of Malkera village. The officials claimed that the family has also not given a clear reason which led to the two killing themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-and-minor-girl-found-hanging-from-tree-in-sikar/articleshow/76901398.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Dehradun||Carried by great-grandson, 88-yr-old widow of Gorkha soldier reaches India to withdraw pension||Pithoragarh: At 88 years, Anita Devi is quite frail and does not have the strength to walk long distances, but she made the trip from her remote village in Darchula district of Nepal to Dharchula on the Indian side as soon as the border between the two countries was opened on Wednesday. The border was opened for a short duration of three days to enable Nepalese pensioners of the Indian Army to come to banks on the Indian side and withdraw their pension. Devi’s late husband Beer Singh Khati had served in the Gorkha regiment of the Indian Army, and as the rules mandate that the pension amount can be given only to the pensioner or his widow, Devi had to make the trip, carried for most part by her great-grandson, Bhupendra Singh. Her great-granddaughters — 17-year-old Janki and 20-year-old Saraswati — also accompanied her. “We are natives of Darchula’s Huti village. Our village is 24 kilometres away from the town. We hired a jeep to reach Darchula but from there, we had to come to India on foot. So, I carried my great-grandmother on my back,” Bhupendra told TOI. He added that they were able to withdraw Rs 42,600 — the pension amount of three months — from the bank. “My great-grandfather was recruited in the Gorkha regiment in March,1948. He retired in August, 1969 and died in June, 1995. Since then, my great-grandmother had been coming to India to withdraw the pension amount. Lately, her health has deteriorated. As she is not fit enough to walk, I carried her across the border,” added Singh. It is worth mentioning that Nepalese nationals cannot get the pension amount transferred to some other bank without taking permission from the Indian embassy. Meanwhile, on Friday, the last day of opening of the border for pensioners, 250 ex-soldiers (or their windows) withdrew a cumulative amount of Rs 1.50 crore from the State Bank of India (SBI) branch in Jhulaghat, 84 pensioners withdrew Rs 15 lakh in Jauljibi, while 37 pensioners withdrew Rs 11 lakh in Dharchula. SBI officials told TOI that in the three days allotted for border movement — from Wednesday to Friday — 768 pensioners withdrew a total pension amount of Rs 3.10 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/carried-by-great-grandson-88-yr-old-widow-of-gorkha-soldier-reaches-india-to-withdraw-pension/articleshow/76899393.cms||Prem Punetha
July 11, 2020||Mumbai||Patient on oxygen support flees hosp, dies||Kalyan: A 50-year-old Covid-19 patient on oxygen support fled from Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation-run Shastri Nagar hospital on Thursday night. Local residents spotted the patient and informed the hospital, which took him back, but he was declared brought dead. The incident raised doubts over how the patient fled despite security guards being posted at the hospital. The patient was spotted around 100 metres away from the hospital. A passer-by, Vikas Khairnar, told TOI, “On seeing the patient I called up the hospital on its landline number but no one answered, so I went there personally.” Khairnar said it took around 30 minutes for staff to come to the spot and take the patient to the hospital. The hospital said the patient was admitted on July 7 and as he had a problem breathing. The hospital’s chief medical officer, Suhasini Badekar, said, “Our records show our staff last checked the patient at 7.30pm, after which they were busy identifying and wrapping up the body of a Covid-19 patient. The 50-year-old patient took advantage as no one was inside the ward and fled.” The hospital claimed they were providing proper treatment and he did not have any complaint against staff. But Dombivli activist Mahesh Nimbalkar said the patient may have tried to flee due to improper facilities and demanded action against the staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/patient-on-oxygen-support-flees-hosp-dies/articleshow/76901411.cms||Pradeep Gupta
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: School director held for raping ex-teacher||JAIPUR: Sikar police on Friday arrested the main accused who allegedly raped a former teacher from Ajeetgarh. The main accused, who is a director of a private school, uploaded the videos and photographs of the assault on social media. The former teacher was raped two years ago when she was still working at the school and registered the case only after the recordings were circulated on social media recently. The former teacher of the private school in Ajeetgarh area registered a rape case on Wednesday against the institution’s director alleging that he sexually assaulted her after spiking her tea with a sedative. According to the complainant, the incident took place two years ago. She alleged that the accused took multiple videos of the assault, which continued over couple of years. Sikar SP Gagandeep Singla told TOI, “We are arrested the main accused of the two identified by the survivor. We will soon arrest the others as well.. The complainant also claimed that there were others also involved in the alleged crime.” The complainant, who is in her 20s, got married during these two years following which she left the teaching job. The woman alleged that even after quitting, the accused kept forcing her to rejoin the school, but when she did not, he uploaded the videos and photographs on social media. In the complaint, the woman claimed that other staff members of the school were aware about the sexual assault, but did not speak up. She alleged that after the videos were uploaded online, she decided to register a case. According to sources, at least 18 videos were uploaded online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/school-director-held-for-raping-ex-teacher/articleshow/76901400.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chennai||Overnight showers leave Chennai with 18% surplus rain for SW monsoon||CHENNAI: The intense early morning rainfall accompanied by thunder and lightning on Friday ensured that Chennai got more than its share of rain for the southwest monsoon season which began on June 1. Overnight, the rain graph turned from deficit to surplus for the season. From a 51% deficit, the city now has an 18% excess rain for the southwest monsoon season after an average of 6.6cm of rainfall was recorded after 1.30am on Friday. The city and its suburbs were expected to get only 2.7mm rain on Friday as per normal conditions. For the southwest monsoon season, the city has received 11.06cm rain since June 1 as against the normal of 9.34cm. Chennai and its suburbs usually do not get much rain in June, July and August as the main rainy season is northeast monsoon which starts around mid-September or October. IMD deputy director general S Balachandran said the city received "a lot of rain" in the past 24 hours because of convergence of easterly and westerly winds. He said it might rain again. The sudden rain that began lashing most parts of the city after 1.30am on Friday left streets in some areas waterlogged. The suburbs got the maximum share of rain as Meenambakkam recorded 11.5cm rain till 8.30am on Friday. The rain was at its heaviest at Alandur which received 10cm, at Chembarambakkam (9.1cm) and at Sriperumbudur (11cm). In the far western areas, Arakkonam recorded 12.8cm rain overnight. The intensity of rainfall is expected to increase as IMD has forecast moderate rainfall with lightning or thunder for the next 48 hours in the city. Some parts of the city have been getting light rain in the past few nights, though the days remained moderately hot. The day was more or less cloudy on Friday though it did not rain which caused a minor dip in the day temperature. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 34.2°C, which is a decrease of 1.3 degree Celsius. Meenambakkam recorded 33.8°C, down 2°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/overnight-showers-leave-city-with-18-surplus-rain-for-sw-monsoon/articleshow/76901395.cms||---
July 11, 2020||India||Kanpur encounter: Vikas Dubey may’ve had 11 houses, 16 flats in UP; ED may launch probe||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate has sought details of immovable and movable assets owned by gangster Vikas Dubey — who was killed in a police encounter on Friday — his family as well as his close associates from Kanpur police. According to police sources, Dubey’s aides had purchased penthouses in the United Arab Emirates and Thailand while Dubey had visited 14 countries in the past three years. One house — a bungalow — he purchased recently in Lucknow is believed to have cost upwards of Rs 20 crore. Read AlsoKanpur encounter: Collateral damages happen when cops are attacked, UP’s new ADG saysPolicemen are legally empowered to defend themselves when attacked, UP’s new ADG (law &amp; order) Prashant Kumar said on Friday, calling "encounter deaths and injuries" collateral damages. As Meerut zone’s ADG, Kumar’s team carried out 2,273 encounters in its eight districts. "During my tenure inThe Kanpur gangster is believed to have as many as 11 houses and 16 flats brought under benami transaction (without name) in UP alone, according to sources. A UP police officer told TOI that Dubey is likely to have properties abroad as well since he visited 14 countries in the last three years. “At present, 11 houses and 16 flats that likely belong to Dubey are under scanner. This includes a recent bungalow worth Rs 23 crore which Dubey is supposed to have bought in Lucknow’s Aryanagar.” Read AlsoVikas Dubey: Caught alive, brought deadExactly a week after killing eight cops in a guerrilla-style ambush on a police team, UP gangster Vikas Dubey met his end on Friday in typical “encounter” fashion – following a car accident that, according to the police, gave him the opportunity to snatch a gun from an STF commando, open fire andIn a communique to Kanpur police, the ED on July 7 had given orders to direct an officer to collect details on immovable and moveable assets owned by Dubey, his family members and aides under provisions of Money Laundering Act, 2002. The ED has also asked for details on criminal cases against Dubey. Read AlsoAll in a day: Appearance, arrest, end of bloody sagaLUCKNOW: When Vikas Dubey made a surprise appearance at Ujjain’s Mahakaal temple on Thursday after six days of unbridled run covering five states, it was just the beginning of another action-packed day of political barbs, wild rumours and an encounter. It all started around 7.45am on Thursday whenAn intelligence official said it is suspected that Dubey was laundering money for some influential businessmen so his assets would be probed. Read AlsoWhy retribution almost always follows killers of policemenOn November 26, 2012, Delhi Police head constable Ram Kishan and his colleagues were posted on routine duty at Jonti border in outer DelhiWatch Kanpur encounter: ED seeks details of Vikas Dubey's assets||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cops-say-dubey-had-properties-abroad-ed-may-launch-probe/articleshow/76902743.cms||Rohan Dua
July 11, 2020||Lucknow||Ex-top cops want probe into Vikash Dubey encounter||NEW DELHI: Vikas Dubey’s death in an encounter with the police on Friday has left former top cops across the country disappointed and fuming. They called the incident “unfortunate”, “outrageous,” “untenable in a civilised society” and called for an inquiry given the “circumstances under which it happened” and that it indicated a “growing culture of custodial death and encounters.” Former UP DGP Prakash Singh described the encounter as unfortunate and disappointing. “Unfortunate, because Dubey’s interrogation would have helped expose the criminal-politician nexus and steps could have been initiated to tackle the menace,” said Singh. “It is disappointing because this is not how such a high-profile accused is handled in custody. Arrangements should have been in place to ensure that he was transported safely. Possibility of killing someone in encounter should not arise in such a situation,” he added. Singh, who is known for initiating police reforms across the country through a PIL in Supreme Court, said with Yogi Adityanath as chief minister he was sure that Dubey would have been punished in a court through fast track trial. “That would have set a good example,” he said. Former Kerala DGP NC Asthana called it an “outrageous story.” “The vehicle is seen lying conveniently on its side, all doors closed. Note the road condition. No reason to overturn so softly. Open fields all around. Even a fool with a paunch would not consider running away in open,” tweeted Asthana. “The man supposedly climbed out of an overturned van though injured, ran helter skelter for life, had an exchange of fire with police and eventually got killed. But the mask remained in place. Took the corona orders seriously. Police ko mask to utaar dena tha to make it realistic,” he added. “This encounter raises more questions than it solves. It seems a fit plot for a murder. If UP police was taking Dubey along with them, it amounts to murder in police custody,” said former Punjab DGP (prisons) Shashi Kant. “All such incidents must be automatically probed by an independent agency like the state CID, to establish the truth and to restore public faith in the system. That said, blatant use of lethal force, however justified on moral grounds, is untenable in a civilised society,” said former Karnataka DGP MN Reddi. Former UP DGP Vikram Singh called for a “fair inquiry into the assets accumulated by him to establish how many IAS, IPS officers and politicians benefited from him.” “Hamaam me sab nange hain (None is saint here). Today, many households in Kanpur won't cook a meal," he said. Former Delhi police commissioner Neeraj Kumar said questions are raised after every encounter. “However, no one raises a question when a policeman gets killed by a criminal. We also had questions raised after the Batla House encounter where the Delhi Police had lost some of its finest men,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ex-top-cops-want-probe-into-dubey-encounter/articleshow/76902331.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: NIA invokes UAPA, begins probe into gold smuggling||KOCHI: National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday said it has started probe in Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case as the offence had national and international linkages and initial enquiries had revealed that the proceeds from smuggled gold could be used for financing terrorism in India. “As the case pertains to smuggling of large quantities of gold into India from offshore locations threatening India’s economic stability and national security, it amounts to a terrorist act as stated in Section 15 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act,” NIA said in a statement. NIA listed the accused as Sarith PS, Swapna Prabha Suresh, Sandeep Nair, all from Thiruvananthapuram, Fazil Fareed from Ernakulum and others and registered the FIR in ‘Kerala Gold Smuggling Case’ under Sections 16, 17 and 18 of UAPA against the accused. NIA also informed the high court that the offences of committing terrorist act and raising fund for terrorist act has been invoked in the FIR. NIA’s counsel made the submission before justice Ashok Menon during the hearing of anticipatory bail plea filed by Swapna Suresh. NIA’s counsel told the court that Sections 16 (punishment for terrorist act), 17 (punishment for raising funds for terrorist act), and 18 (punishment for conspiracy) of UAPA have been invoked in the FIR registered on Friday morning. During the hearing, Swapna’s counsel TK Rajeshkumar submitted that no copy of FIR was provided and there is no clarity about the allegations being raised against the petitioner. The court then asked the Centre about the allegations. Centre’s counsel Ravi Prakash, who joined the videoconferencing proceedings from Delhi, submitted that an anticipatory bail plea is not maintainable before the high court once NIA takes over investigation as per settled law. The source who tipped off about the gold smuggling had mentioned Swapna’s name and an accused’s statement says she was involved in smuggling and used to arrange papers and get it cleared, the counsel submitted. Meanwhile, NIA said its case is in connection with the seizure of 30kg of 24 carat gold worth Rs.14.82 crore at Trivandrum International Airport on July 5 by Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Cochin. The consignment was brought in a diplomatic baggage from UAE. The said consignment was to be received by A-1 Sarith PS who had worked in the UAE Consulate as PRO. Initial investigation by Customs revealed that he had received multiple such consignments earlier as well, NIA stated. Even as an NIA probe would be ideal to investigate if the proceeds of the smuggling operation have had any direct impact on national security, NIA doesn’t have jurisdiction over gold smuggling which is an offence under the Customs Act, sources said. Customs will continue its probe on smuggling. Sources said Fareed was on the radar of enforcement agencies for a while. “He is the gang’s link in Sharjah. If he is abroad, efforts would be made to extradite him to India. We expect this to be easier as UAE is a friendly country,” said an official. Meanwhile, commissionerate of Customs (preventive) collected the statement from Customs clearance agent Hari Raj on Friday based on call data records retrieved from the mobile phone of Sarith. Though Customs sleuths said Sarith was in touch with Raj, he told the media that he has no knowledge about this smuggling incident. He said he had no links with the persons in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nia-invokes-uapa-begins-probe-into-gold-smuggling/articleshow/76900602.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Dehradun||Police exhume body of 17-year-old pregnant girl suspected of having been raped||Nainital: A 17-year-old girl's body was exhumed by Bageshwar police for post-mortem on Thursday after there were complaints that she was secretly buried by her family in the Mantoli panchayat of Kanda block. The girl was reportedly pregnant with her parents claiming that she had committed suicide. Her mother had also filed a complaint with the police, alleging that she was raped.  "The girl had approached the hospital on Wednesday. Doctors suspected that she was pregnant and then referred her to a hospital in Bageshwar. However, later, we were informed that she had passed away and buried in her village," said Suneeta, circle officer, Kapkot (who uses only her first name). Permission was then sought from the district magistrate (DM) to exhume the body and send it for post-mortem. "The body was exhumed in front of a revenue official. The actual time and cause of death will be known only once the report is out," the CO added. Sources, however, told TOI that when the body was exhumed, there were visible marks and bruises on the minor’s arms and back. "Therefore, there is a suspicion that she was beaten before her death and a case of honour killing cannot be ruled out," the source said. Kanda station officer (SO) Prahlad Singh, meanwhile, said that they have registered an FIR based on a written complaint of the girl’s mother, and further investigations are on. Police have registered the FIR against unidentified people under sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC as well as certain sections of the POCSO Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-exhume-body-of-17-year-old-pregnant-girl-suspected-of-having-been-raped/articleshow/76899427.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Why retribution almost always follows killers of policemen||NEW DELHI: On November 26, 2012, Delhi Police head constable Ram Kishan and his colleagues were posted on routine duty at Jonti border in outer Delhi. Around 2am, Kishan flagged down a speeding Honda City at the toll post and walked towards the car. He tapped at the window and asked the driver for his licence and car registration papers. The driver whipped out a pistol and shot the policeman twice. As the other cops ran to Kishan’s rescue, the driver — later identified as notorious gangster Surendra Malik alias Neetu Dabodia — zoomed off. Dabodia had survived for years despite being on the most wanted list , but perhaps killing a policeman was a line the gangster wasn’t supposed to cross. The cops went in pursuit of the cop killer and 11 months later, the Special Cell cornered him and killed him in south Delhi's Vasant Kunj. It isn’t often that criminals kill a policeman in the capital, but when they do, the cop killers have mostly fallen to police bullets later. On July 14, 2014, constable Shivraj Tomar was on patrol when he spotted fugitive criminal Feroze on a motorcycle in northeast Delhi’s Jafrabad. When challenged, Feroze ran to a dark alley with Tomar on his heels. There, Feroze shot the policeman dead and fled. Less than a month later, the criminal was killed in an encounter with the Special Cell. Cops that TOI spoke to highlighted how for over two decades now, those who kill police personnel have almost always faced the consequences of their action soon after. One policeman recalled an incident of 2004. On March 7 that year, sub-inspector Satish Dalal had gone on a raid to Mangolpuri to arrest criminals involved in an armed robbery case. That night, the cop and his informer were abducted, taken to Bahadurgarh and killed. Their decapitated bodies were recovered later, while the half-burnt heads were discovered at Nangloi. Exactly a month later on April 7, a Special Cell team cornered the main killer, Vinod, near Sarai Kale Khan and pumped two dozen bullets into him. This incident, in a way, changed the way the cops dealt with killers of their colleagues. So, what accounts for the almost immediate elimination of a cop killer? A retired copy who did not wish to be named said, “The killing of a fellow policeman injects elements of sentiment and emotion into the pursuit of the suspect, and this often ends in a deathly encounter between the two.” Sources in the police say that the murder of a cop is particularly unacceptable to the force, especially when that cop is not the first to open fire or is on a routine raid or patrol. “It all depends,” said a source discreetly. “The death of a cop during a face-off when bullets are flying from both ends may not be taken personally because it is considered a professional hazard. But cops usually take it personally when a trigger-happy rogue targets a colleague who generally isn’t intending to use arms against that criminal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-retribution-almost-always-follows-killers-of-policemen/articleshow/76901946.cms||Raj Shekhar
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: RWAs keen to convert clubhouses into Covid care units||HYDERABAD: Concerned with the unabated rise of Covid-19 cases in Greater Hyderabad, members of the housing societies are demanding the government to roll out guidelines for those who want to convert their club houses and community halls into mini hospitals or health care units. “Government should admit that there is shortage of beds due to the steep hike in the last few weeks. In this precarious situation, it should roll out guidelines so that we can set up a health care unit within the housing society,” said A Narshimhan, president, Golf View Apartments, Nanakramguda. Several resident welfare associations are planning to set up beds, rope in doctors, health care workers, stock oxygen cylinders, purchase equipment for spraying disinfectants and tie up with organisations which provide ambulance and dispose bio hazardous waste. However, their plans are yet to take shape as they fear setting up of health facilities may be against the rules. “We have chalked out a plan along with the doctors living in our housing society to ensure residents do not suffer, in case of an emergency. Two flats have been kept vacant to serve the purpose. But we have put our plans on hold as we are not sure whether it is legal to do so” said N Srinivas, secretary of Mahindra Ashvita, Hafeezpet Road. Members of SVSS Sankalp, Lower Tank Bund Road are also planning the same. “We want to turn our amenity block into a health care unit. We are chalking out plans to establish the same” said Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, state secretary, Indian Medical Association, who resides in SVSS Sankalp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwas-keen-to-convert-clubhouses-into-covid-care-units/articleshow/76901410.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 11, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala gold smuggling case: Protest marches turn violent, many injured||KOZHIKODE: The collectorate marches organised by Muslim Youth League (MYL) and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) on Friday, demanding the resignation of CM Pinarayi Vijayan over alleged links of his office with the gold smuggling through diplomatic baggage, turned violent in Kozhikode. Police burst stun grenades, tear gas and resorted to lathicharge to disperse the protesters; several people including media persons and policemen were injured in the incident. Police have registered case against the protesters for violating Covid guidelines. Twenty five MYL members (including state general secretary PK Firos, secretary Ashique Chelavoor) and 18 BJYM workers (including state president CR Praful Krishnan) were injured. Also, four media personnel were injured in the incident along with Nadakkavu SI SP Kailas Nath and Chevayoor SI Anil Kumar. MYL activists took out a march from Eranhipalam at 10.30am shouting slogans against CM. Police had mobilized its force before the collectorate anticipating intense protests. The protesters tried to breach the barricades and it intensified after MLA MK Muneer inaugurated the protests. Police used water cannons to disperse the crowd, following which protesters sat on the ground and refused to leave. Police then wielded lathis and used tear gas shells and stun grenades. The BJYM protest march which followed also turned violent with protesters climbing on top of the barricades following which police resorted to lathicharge and use of tear gas. District police chief AV George said police resorted to lathicharge as protesters refused to disperse despite the use of water cannons. while in Kannur, Youth Congress took out a march to the house of CM at Pinarayi which was inaugurated by MP K Sudhakaran. Police used water cannons to disperse protesters. In Alappuzha, Youth Congress led a road blockade in Alappuzha town. Due to the blockade, traffic through district court road was disrupted until police removed the agitators. MYL march was blocked by police near the collectorate. In Palakkad, MYL organized a march the collectorate demanding resignation of CM and his former secretary M Sivasankar. They were stopped by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/protest-marches-turn-violent-many-injured/articleshow/76900619.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents in Hyderabad's Gachibowli unhappy with hotel on campus turning quarantine centre||HYDERABAD: Residents of a gated community in Gachibowli have now approached authorities — including police, civic and tourism officials — over the issue of a hotel, located within the campus, being used to quarantine foreign returnees. “There are over 30 staff members who live in these quarters. They use the grocery store on campus and the walkway that’s frequented by the aged and children of our society. It is worrisome since the staff is often spotted without masks,” said Shweta Adholia, a resident of Hill Ridge Springs. The premises also houses the Ella Hotel. She added: “We were told to approach the tourism department since they are handling this subject. We hope the authorities either shift the quarantine facility out of the hotel or restrict the movement of the staff.” Prabhat Arora, another resident of the community raised a similar request. “It is best if the decision of having a quarantine facility so close to a residential complex is reviewed. If not, the staff should be lodged within the hotel and its entry-exit into the common space should be sealed, in the interest of the 2,000 people living here,” he said. When contacted the general manager of Ella Hotel, K V Girish, maintained that his staff was taking every precautionary measure and the hotel had sort all permissions to house asymptomatic foreign returnees. “We have about 52 guests. We are maintaining the highest hygiene standards too. I see no reason for worry,” he said. The managing director of Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation, B Manohar, too said that the matter was out of his purview as residents had an issue with the staff staying on campus and not the quarantine facility, so to speak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-unhappy-with-hotel-on-campus-turning-quarantine-centre/articleshow/76901414.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Kolkata||Commuter count dips, many buses too go off the road||KOLKATA: The number of buses in the city went down significantly on Friday, so did the number of commuters. The drop in the number of buses was due to the absence of many drivers and conductors who could not join work as their houses are located in the containment zones of North and South 24 Parganas. The reason behind the drop in number of passengers was a confusion among people over the restriction on mobility due to stringent lockdown at some containment zones of the city. “Many of my colleagues opted for work-from-home till Saturday because they thought that they would have to face problems in getting public transport. But I have not found any change in the routes. Many people seemed to have anticipated transport issues and remained indoors. That is why buses were less crowded as compared with any weekday during the Unlock period,” said Bratati Banerjee, a private insurance worker at 14 No. bus stand. “There has not been any change in bus routes. However, we are expecting more commuters on Monday when the confusion among people will be dispelled. We also hope that drivers and conductors of private buses will join duty in a greater number,” said a senior transport department officer. Meanwhile, the number of cabs on the road has dropped significantly with the drivers demanding immediate fare revision because of the hike in diesel price. The number of metered cabs on Friday dropped to less than 1,000, said metered cab operators associations. The number of app cabs also came down to a trickle. The operators said the number of app cabs that plied in the city on Friday was not more than 2,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/commuter-count-dips-many-buses-too-go-off-the-road/articleshow/76901413.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Meerut||UP government hospitals' MBBS interns divided over decision to call off strike||MEERUt: More than 600 MBBS interns who were on a strike remained divided over their decision to call it off on Friday. The interns in four medical colleges of UP-- Meerut, Agra, Jhansi and Saifai-- went on strike over their meagre pay of Rs 7,500 per month, which accounts for Rs 250 a day. “Some interns have said that it is an important time as a pandemic has struck the country, so they are joining work. However, if their pay isn’t increased even after Covid-19 ends, they will go on a strike without any prior notification,” said Dr Vinay Kumar, state president, Resident Doctors Association (UP). The strike which started at Meerut’s LLRM Medical College on Tuesday, spread to three more medical colleges of Agra, Jhansi and Saifai on Thursday and continued till Friday. “We work in 12-hour shifts and get only Rs 7,500 a month. This is unfair, taking into account the hours that we put in. We are also exposing ourselves to patients suffering from Covid-19. Despite all the efforts, we get only Rs 250 a day,” said an intern at LLRM Medical College. While plans were made to withdraw the strike on Friday morning, the interns remained divided over the decision until late Friday night as they said there was a lot of "pressure" from the authorities on them to withdraw the strike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-govt-hosps-mbbs-interns-divided-over-decision-to-call-off-strike/articleshow/76900615.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 11, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Woman loses Rs 57 lakh to ‘Scottish pilot’||MUMBAI: A 69-year-old Vasai woman lost over half a crore to a man who befriended her on social media last month. The woman used RTGS fund transfer system to deposit more than Rs 57 lakh into his bank accounts between June 9-23. A complaint was filed with Vasaigaon police on Wednesday. The accused, who identified himself as Leo Jacob, sent a friend request to the woman on Facebook, which she accepted. He introduced himself as a resident of Scotland and said he was a pilot with an international carrier. The woman said he discussed plans to buy land in Vasai to set up an industry. She told him she could help him zero down on a plot in her village. He then suggested she buy the plot in her name and they could set up the factory. Another accused, identified as Joshila, confirmed plans about the factory. The two told her the money to buy the land would be couriered. The woman’s husband, a retired government employee, was aware about the money transfer but was not cautious. Within few days, the accused asked the woman for money for government taxes. The woman transferred the money to their bank accounts. She approached police after attempts to contact the suspect on phone failed. A case under sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of IPC has been registered against the two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-loses-rs57l-to-scottish-pilot/articleshow/76901415.cms||Sandhya Nair
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Naik Talao-Bangladesh Vidarbha’s biggest hotspot with over 400 cases||Nagpur: Naik Talao-Bangladesh containment zone in East Nagpur has crossed 400 Covid-19 positive cases to become the biggest hotspot of Vidarbha, even surpassing Mominpura which had the highest number of cases until Thursday. As per the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) data, 20 persons from Naik Talao-Bangladesh tested positive late night on Thursday, taking the containment zone’s caseload to 404. Mominpura containment zone has recorded 397 positive cases, the highest till Thursday evening, while Naik Talao-Bangladesh containment zone’s count then was 384. The first case from Naik Talao-Bangladesh was reported on May 27 and took 45 days to register the 404th case. The zone’s first Covid-19 infection came to fore after one person from Naik Talao and other one from Bangladesh were admitted at IGGMCH as SARI patients and tested positive. The NMC team then quarantined and tested their family members. All family members of the person from Bangladesh tested positive. It being a slum, the team of NMC Satranjipura zone led by assistant commissioner Vijay Humne and zonal medical officer Dr Minakshi Mane started mass quarantine and testing. It led to identification of large number of positive cases and helped contain spread of Covid-19 to other localities. It also ensured no deaths from this zone. Satranjipura, also from East Nagpur, was the city’s first hotspot where no cases have been reported after reaching the 138-mark. Nagpur Central Jail has registered 313 cases in 10 days till Thursday. Many inmates from Central Jail are yet to be tested. Apart from these four hotspots, no other area from the district has crossed 50 cases. A chain of Covid-19 cases has started in Katol due to alleged illicit sale of liquor. An official from Zilla Parishad told TOI, “An owner of an electronic shop was tested positive four days ago. Two of his family members also tested positive. After it came to fore, the person had sold liquor illegally, our team started contact tracing and quarantined 108 persons. Most of them had purchased liquor from him on several occasions. Out the 108, eight have tested positive and reports of few are awaited,” he said. The district has registered seven Covid-related deaths in the last three days. The district’s death toll is 34 — 18 from city, 3 from Nagpur Rural and 13 from other districts and states. Of the total deceased, 27 were male and 7 female. No deaths were reported in March. In April two deaths were registered, followed by nine in May and 14 in June. Nine deaths have been recorded in the last 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/naik-talao-bangladesh-vidarbhas-biggest-hotspot-with-over-400-cases/articleshow/76901419.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala gold smuggling case: Swapna Suresh still at large||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The second accused in the gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, continues to evade the customs sleuths and is still at large even on the fifth day after the gold seizure from the Trivandrum International Airport. Swapna, who moved her bail petition in HC on Thursday, is believed to be in the capital itself, though there are also speculations that she might have slipped to Tamil Nadu. The state police are yet to involve in the hunt, citing that no formal request has been sought by the customs yet. Even though there were rumours that the customs had sought the video footages of the accused at their workplaces, the police denied that no such request has been placed. Meanwhile, there were unconfirmed reports that Swapna had travelled to Peringammala area. There are also reports that customs have obtained a clear lead about her hideout after interrogating a friend of her daughter, whom she had spoken to over the phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/swapna-suresh-still-at-large/articleshow/76900653.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||First direct flight from Saudi brings home 52 Goans||Panaji: The first direct flight to Goa from Saudi Arabia brought back several Goans who lost their jobs during the pandemic. The SpiceJet flight organised by the Goan community, which arrived on Friday night with 163 Indians including 52 Goans and the rest from Maharashtra and Karnataka. “It wasn’t possible to organise a flight to Goa with just 50 Goans so we contacted those from the border areas of Goa. The Goan community also sponsored the transportation cost of some who had to travel by road to Maharashtra. Many of those who returned have lost jobs while some were working on off shore rigs but stuck for four months,” team leader of the operation, Jude Coutinho told TOI. “A mother and son, both OCI card holders from Goa, faced hurdles boarding the flight after objection was raised to their OCI status, but this was sorted out after NRI commission director Anthony D’Souza spoke to the airport check in manager,” he added. Coutinho and his daughter Renita took the lead to bring stranded Goans home after they faced difficulties getting their own family members home during the pandemic. “If it was so difficult for my family members, I realised how the others must be struggling to return with no direct flight to Goa. It was then that we contacted other Goans personally who were spread out across huge distances in Saudi Arabia and made this possible with the help of the government,” Coutinho said. This initially proved an uphill task considering the size of the country and the fact that it doesn’t have any formal Goan association unlike other Gulf countries. The father daughter duo also ensured they got decent rates from the airlines so that those who already lost their jobs wouldn’t be overburdened. The team sponsored transportation, airfare and even covid tests of those who were struggling. “Once we put in the effort from our side to unite everyone and do the ground work, we found that the embassy and Goa government were very cooperative despite being overworked,” Coutinho said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/first-direct-flight-from-saudi-brings-home-52-goans/articleshow/76901962.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Large-scale testing starts among service providers, house workers in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Friday started aggressive testing among special surveillance groups (SSG), which include cycle and autorickshaw drivers, goods carriage drivers, domestic workers, delivery persons and service providers like electricians, plumbers, etc. The district administrations have also started rapid testing at special camps for vendors and transporters at Azadpur and Ghazipur mandis, apart from auto stands in central Delhi and the labour market at Kotla Mubarakpur. The sphere of rapid tests was expanded to all 11 districts as part of fresh orders from Directorate General of Health Services on Thursday. In South West district, mobile testing centres were deployed as lack of space had made creation of fixed centres difficult. The fresh guidelines also mandate that those living in containment zones and identified as contacts of Covid-positive patients, apart from those with flu-like symptoms and high-risk individuals, would have to be tested thrice through rapid antigen kits within 15 days of sealing of an area. An official of South West district said that apart from the 44 antigen testing centres, tests have also started at dispensaries. On Friday, SSG testing camps were started at the furniture market in Najafgarh and the sabzi mandi at Naseerpur. Another such centre was opened at Bhagat Singh Park in Valmiki Mohalla at Chhawla. In East district, antigen testing facilities were provided at 22 dispensaries with each being allotted a “catchment area”. A dispensary next to Ghazipur mandi was attached to it so that traders would be able to get tested there. District authorities would also have to identify and test high-risk individuals living in areas that had witnessed isolated Covid-19 cases for more than 28 days. Contacts of Covid-positive cases would be screened and tested between the first and third day of sealing of an area, again between the fifth and seventh day and, finally, between the thirteenth and fifteenth day. The health records of these individuals would be saved in a database to help curb local transmission, an official said. On Friday, the number of sealed zones went up to 633, compared with 458 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/large-scale-testing-starts-among-service-providers-house-workers/articleshow/76901954.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Mental hospital screens patients, staff; no +ve case found||Nagpur: After a number of inmates in of Nagpur Central Jail were found Covid positive, authorities at the Regional Mental Hospital in the city too carried out scanning of their patients. So far no positive case has been found. At present, over 450 patients are undergoing treatment here. Corona tests were carried out on over 70 patients and 30 staffers who attend to them. They were identified on the basis of symptoms. Apart from them, cases coming from containment zones and patients brought to the hospital on being found wandering on the streets were also tested. All of them were found negative. One of them included a female patient brought from a quarantine centre in the city, said the hospital superintendent Dr Madhuri Thorat. “The highest risk was among the patients found wandering on the streets. They are more susceptible to infection as they are likely to have come in contact with a number of persons,” she said. The distancing norms and other protocols are being strictly followed both inside the hospital and the outpatient department (OPD), she said. Soon after the outbreak, the hospital had stopped discharging the patients as part of the lockdown. Those cured had to extend their stay in the hospital. However, such patients get restless and need to be sent home earliest, said Thorat. Two weeks ago, the hospital started a facility to drop the recovered patients to their respective places. Over 30 patients have been dropped home in ambulances. Most of them belonged to places within the district. One was from Bihar. In this case, the relatives had sent a vehicle to Nagpur, said the superintendent. “Apart from places in the Vidarbha, mental hospital at Nagpur also gets patients not from nearby states like Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. We had a patient from as far as Nepal. A woman, she was sent back over two months ago. She had boarded a train at Kolkata and landed at Nagpur,” said Thorat. Even the patient sent from quarantine centre had no kin in Nagpur and her parents were traced in Balaghat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mental-hospital-screens-patients-staff-no-ve-case-found/articleshow/76901427.cms||Shishir Arya
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||Doc involved in Bhilwara’s ruthless containment model selected for national award||Jaipur: Only one doctor from Rajasthan has been selected in the list of 87 for 2020 Doctors Day IMA National Awards by the Indian Medical Association (IMA).Dr Rommel Singh will get the prestigious award, which is given to those doctors who made a difference with the exceptional work in the field of medical and healthcare. He was part of the much highlighted ruthless containment model of the textile town implemented to contain the spread of the virus, which gained popularity globally.Dr Singh, presently working as district reproductive and child health officer at Jaipur, was directed by the state government to rush to Bhilwara district for Covid-19 containment on March 20 when the first case was reported on March 19. He joined the local health authorities as nodal officer (Covid-19) Bhilwara.He played a key role in sanitising the entire hospital, vacating it completely, sealing it and helping local health authorities in taking details of more than 700 patients who had undergone treatment in the hospital in the past one month. A doctor of a private hospital in Bhilwara was the first Covid-19 case on March 18. “The challenge was to find out how many people came in contact with the infected doctors. Hundreds of patients had undergone treatment, while a lot were still admitted. A lot of healthcare staff was working. Anticipating that it could turn into a full-fledged outbreak, we started activities on war footing to conduct screening of thousands of people, sampling, testing and contact tracing,” Dr Singh said.Singh helped the local health authorities in contact tracing along with all the patients who had taken treatment in the hospital. While effectively implementing the ruthless containment model, the textile town reported only 28 cases in the first 40 days of the outbreak. The model was praised by the Centre at that time, following which Bhilwara hogged the limelight and some other states took lessons from the efforts taken in the textile town.“I worked with the district administration and local medical and health officials for Covid-19 containment. Initially, it was thought that Bhilwara will be the next Italy of India, but constant hard work and strict follow up of guidelines by the Centre and state government made the difference,” Singh added.Jaipur Medical Association, a branch of IMA, stated that due to Covid-19, the award has been given online to Dr Singh. “He helped in implementation in the national and state government’s guidelines to contain the spread of the virus in Bhilwara,” IMA, Jaipur branch stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/doc-involved-in-bhilwaras-ruthless-containment-model-selected-for-national-award/articleshow/76901961.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Rapid antigen tests throw up more Covid cases in Vidarbha; 4 deaths reported||Nagpur: Most of the districts in Vidarbha, especially those from Amravati division, have started using rapid antigen tests which is resulting in detection of more number of Covid-19 positive cases. After highest single-day spike of 363 cases on Thursday, the region registered 237 new cases on Friday. With over 500 cases reported in just two days, the caseload surged to 6,557. Amravati and Nagpur also reported two deaths each on Friday, taking Vidarbha’s death toll to 194. A 49-year-old man from Manish Nagar and 62-year-old SARI patient from Hansapuri died in Nagpur. In Amravati, a 53-year-old man and a 60-year-old man died during treatment. All 11 districts of the region reported cases on July 10, which is rare. District-wise cases are: Nagpur (88), Bhandara (6), Wardha (5), Gondia (7), Chandrapur (12), Gadchiroli (16), Akola (21), Amravati (14), Yavatmal (18), Buldhana (36), Washim (14). For the first time in July, 204 patients recovered in a day. Highest 81 patients recovered from Akola, followed by Nagpur (39), Amravati (34), Chandrapur (13), Gondia (12), Yavatmal (11), Buldhana (9), Washim (3), Gadchiroli (1), and Bhandara (1). Recovery rate of Vidarbha is 68.66%, which is better than state’s 56% and national 63%. AMRAVATI: Two Covid-19 deaths took the district’s toll to 30. The caseload reached 795 after 14 new positive cases were reported on Friday. The district went under a 60-hour curfew from 7pm on Friday in a bid to break the Covid chain. Both the deaths were reported from Best Hospital on Waslgaon road, a government approved private Covid Hospital, which is under scanner for alleged exploitation of patients, disregard for Covid protocols, and lack of trained medical staff and technicians. The hospital has registered 3 Covid deaths so far. The district committee led by collector is yet to check facilities and services at this hospital. A 53-year-old man from Habibnagar, who tested positive on July 3, died on Thursday. Another deceased was a 60-year-old man from Gausnagar. A SARI patient, he had tested positive on July 7, and passed away on Friday. According to information provided by the civil surgeon’s office, eight of the 14 new cases were reported from SGBAU lab while six tested positive in rapid antigen test. Hotspot Badnera recorded three new cases to take its count to 94 while Arun Colony reported its first case. Azad Chowk in Teosa reported two cases, taking the rural count to 103. In city, Chaprasipura, Tarkheda, Shegaon Naka, Bhimnagar, Yashodanagar and Sanjay Gandhinagar added a case each. As many as 34 patients were discharged to take the count of recovered patients to 565. The district now has 200 patients under treatment, including 13 in Nagpur. CHANDRAPUR: The district recorded 12 new patients, taking the total to 162 on Friday. Five of them contracted the infection at a marriage ceremony, said health department officials. Officials said four patients belong to Bhanapeth, Indira Nagar and Dadmahal wards. A 29-year old man from Bhanapeth, a 21-year-old woman from Indira Nagar, both Hyderabad returnees, a 21-year-old woman from Dadmahal ward, who had Jalgaon respectively, tested positive. Two others included a 21-year-old Secunderabad returnee and a 45-year-old Patna returnee. They all were in institutional quarantine. Four cases were detected from a family at Somthana village in Warora tehsil. They had been to a marriage ceremony in Jalna. One person from Bhadrawati town, who was at the marriage, too tested positive. A 27-year-old person from Warora who had returned from Madhya Pradesh too tested positive. A 7-year old boy from Ballarpur town was found positive. Four other members of his family, who had returned from Mumbai with him in car, tested negative. After 93 recoveries, there are 69 patients under treatment in the district. AKOLA: Out of the 230 reports received in Akola on Friday, 21 tested positive. Record 81 patients were discharged, taking the recovery rate up to 77%. Akola has total 1,849 cases, out of which 1,450 have been discharged. The district has registered highest 91 deaths in Vidarbha. Health department has selected Akola as one of the first recipients of stock of Remdesivir injection, an antiviral medication currently being studied for treatment of Covid-19. Akola GMCH will now use these injections to curtail mortalities. BULDHANA: Buldhana received results of 446 swab samples on Friday. Of them, 319 were of rapid antigen test while 91 were done through RT-PCR method in different labs. Out of the 36 positive cases, 26 were through rapid antigen testing and remaining 10 from labs. Cases are from rural areas of Nandura, Malkapur, Shegaon, Khamgaon, Sindkhed Raja and Deulgaon Raja tehsils. Total cases in district surged to 413, including 224 recoveries and 15 deaths. Currently, 174 patients are under treatment. YAVATMAL: With 18 new cases and 11 recoveries and discharged on Friday, Yavatmal’s tally reached 398. Two of the 18 cases were detected in rapid antigen tests while by RT-PCR in GMCH lab. Three patients are from Yavatmal city and eight from Digras. The remaining five are from Darwha. In rapid antigen test, one person tested positive in Wani while one person from Bhopal who came to Pandharkawda too tested positive. Total 100 patients are under treatment. GONDIA: Seven persons tested positive in district on Friday. Out of them, six are from Tirora tehsil and one from Gondia tehsil. Among them, three are Qatar returnees. All were in institutional quarantine. The day saw 12 patients getting discharge. WARDHA: Four relatives, including wife and mother of newlywed man who was found positive in Pipri (Meghe) area on Wednesday, also tested positive on Friday. Reports of 15 close contacts are awaited. Administration has imposed curfew in city and adjacent 9 gram panchayats for three days. A 65-year-old woman from Wani in Yavatmal district tested positive on Friday. She was admitted to Kasturba Hospital on July 8 for treatment. As a result, 5 positive were registered on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rapid-antigen-tests-throw-up-more-covid-cases-in-vidarbha-4-deaths-reported/articleshow/76901433.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Jewellers to ink pact with labour dept to train 300 workers||JAIPUR: After lakhs of migrant labourers boarded buses and booked berths in Shramik trains, the industry was watching in awe. The only relief was they did not need them immediately. In the meantime, the focus fell on the Rajasthanis who were coming back to state in larger numbers than the outbound exodus. Since then the government made the right noises of training them and deploying them in the state’s industries. “The government has created RajKaushal portal giving some basic details of those unemployed and looking for a job. But skilling or reskilling them according to the demands of the industry still remains a puzzle,” said an industrialist. In what may emerge as a template, the labour department is engaged with the gem and jewellery industry to create a pool of skilled people the manufacturing units need. While labour secretary Neeraj K Pawan on Friday said that they have received a requirement of 300 workers from the gem and jewellery manufacturers, there are many loose ends yet to be tied up. A manufacturing unit owner in Sitapura said that they don’t need RSLDC’s training partners for skilling the workers, who would be sourced from the Raj Kaushal portal. But RSLDC need to give training certificates, he said “We want to train them in our factory and after that we will deploy them. But that’s why our association wants to sign an MoU with the labour department. We have already submitted a requirement of 300 workers. The department has asked for unit-wise requirements which also we will provide,” said the unit head. At a webinar by FICCI-Rajasthan, Pawan said Raj Kaushal portal has now data of around 52 lakh labourers and 11 lakh industries and shared that 2,000 job opportunities have been uploaded by the industries. The portal is not user-friendly now. People enrolled on the portal do not have mentions of skill sets, past experience or interest in sectors for working. Pawan said, “Data cleansing and updation is going on. Around 4,000 labourers are also being considered for jobs and the portal has seen around 1.5 lakh visits till date.” But many said unless the portal easy to source workers, it will be of no use even as the government wants large industries, industry associations and universities to directly enter into an understanding with RSLDC and impart skills training.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jewellers-to-ink-pact-with-labour-dept-to-train-300-workers-data-hinders-use/articleshow/76901956.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||4 contacts of newly wed man test +ve, 3-day curfew in Wardha||Wardha: Four relatives including wife and mother of the 33-year-old newly wed man from Shivramwadi of Pipri (Meghe), who was found Covid-19 positive in Pipri (Meghe) on Wednesday, also tested positive on Friday. Test reports of 15 of his close contacts are awaited. To prevent a spike in infections, the Wardha district administration has imposed a three-day curfew in Wardha city and adjacent nine gram panchayats (GPs) from 8pm on July 10 to July 13 midnight. Swab samples of 30 relatives and close contacts who were home quarantined were collected on Wednesday and Thursday. The man’s wife, 23, and mother, 51, were reported positive on Friday morning. An 18-year-old youth and 13-year-old girl, both Itwara residents who are close relatives and attended the marriage, tested positive in the afternoon. “Reports of 15 samples were received. Of them 11 tested negative and the four new patients have been admitted to Kasturba Hospital in Sewagram,” said district health officer Dr Ajay Dawale. Reports of 15 samples were awaited till filing of this report. The marriage took place on June 30. Only 50 guests were allowed at the marriage as per the lockdown guidelines but hundreds of people reportedly attended the ceremony. Avinash Dev, secretory of district BJP unit and ex-ZP member for Pipri has requested the district collector that all the “300 people who had participated in the pre and post marriage programs should be quarantined and tested” while expressing concern that the area could become Covid-19 hotspot of district. As per the lockdown order issued by sub-divisional officer Suresh Bagale for the city and nine GPs, only essential shops will be allowed to remain open during the three days. The GPs include Sawangi (Meghe), Pipri (Meghe), Umri (Meghe), Sindi (Meghe), Borgaon, Masala, Satoda, Nalwadi, Natala. As news of complete lockdown spread, people rushed to markets to buy essential goods, leading to overcrowding. A 65-year-old woman from Wani in Yavatmal district, who was admitted to Kasturba Hospital on July 8 , tested positive on Friday. Her close contacts have been quarantined and their swabs samples have also been sent for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-contacts-of-newly-wed-man-test-ve-3-day-curfew-in-wardha/articleshow/76901434.cms||Balwant Dhage
July 11, 2020||Mysuru||South Western Railway’s isolation coaches go abegging||BENGALURU: While Bengaluru is facing a severe shortage of hospital beds due to the spike in Covid-19 cases, the government is yet to utilise passenger coaches — converted into isolation wards by South Western Railway — for treating the patients. SWR had turned 320 coaches into isolation wards and stationed them at 14 railway stations, including KSR Bengaluru City, Hubballi, Mysuru, Yeshwantpur, Harihar, Shivamogga Town, Hosapete, Hassan, Arsikere, Bagalkot, Talaguppa, Vijayapura, Belagavi and Vasco Da Gama (Goa). The middle berths of sleeper coaches were removed and equipment, including oxygen cylinders, was provided. States like Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Madhya Pradesh have either requested for or used such coaches for Covid purposes. However, SWR officials said Karnataka is yet to approach the railways. SWR chief public relations officer E Vijaya said: “We have not received any request from the government so far. Only those with mild symptoms will be lodged in these coaches.” Government sources say they will use these coaches in case of an emergency. “This will be the last option. It’s more viable to convert stadia, marriage halls, educational institutions and convention centres into isolation facilities. The high temperature inside coaches as well as poor ventilation is not suitable for both patients as well as health staff wearing PPEs all the time. The coaches are parked in deserted areas, which are difficult for staff to access in case of an emergency. Poor toilet facilities is also an issue,” said an official. In May, the railway board had said 50-60% of its 5,213 isolation coaches meant for Covid patients across the country would run as Shramik Special trains. It had asked all railway zones to remove oxygen tanks and ventilators as well as mosquito nets and plastic curtains from more than half the coaches. “Now all of them have been reconverted into isolation coaches as very few Shramik Specials are being run. In Bengaluru division, there are about 80 isolation coaches,” said Ashok Kumar Verma, Bengaluru divisional railway manager. “These coaches will be deployed as and when the government wants. As per the standard operating procedure issued by the Union health ministry, the coaches will be used once the capacity in government or private hospitals is exhausted,” said Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/south-western-railways-isolation-coaches-go-abegging/articleshow/76908495.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: In letter to UGC, teachers pen shock over exam norms||NEW DELHI: The Federation of Central Universities Teachers Association (FEDCUTA) has written to UGC chairperson D P Singh, stating that the new revised academic guidelines do not take into consideration the present condition in the country. In its letter, the teachers’ body expressed “shock and disappointment” at the revised guidelines on examinations and academic calendar for universities issued by University Grants Commission in view of Covid-19 pandemic. It demanded immediate withdrawal of the revised norms. “The guidelines reflect a complete betrayal of its responsibilities towards the interests of students, faculty, and society at large,” FEDCUTA wrote, asking for fresh guidelines to enable closure of the courses for final-year/semester students through the safest methods. The letter added that the UGC guidelines had presented universities with a conundrum. “Even if that option is available on paper, conducting regular examinations in offline (pen & paper) mode by the end of September would be impossible for most universities. As per current government guidelines, it is not safe to reopen universities and colleges… UGC’s insistence... is aimed at promoting online examinations.” The letter reiterated that for final-year students pursuing any bachelor’s or master’s degree, completion of the year had a greater urgency than their intermediate year counterparts as they needed to get their degrees and move on to further studies or employment. “They are also the students who have already been through several rounds of formal evaluation and assessments. Only a small part of the total evaluation, was pending when colleges and Universities were shut down... Yet, UGC’s revised guidelines have mandated that examinations must be held for the final-year students,” the letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-letter-to-ugc-teachers-pen-shock-over-exam-norms/articleshow/76901967.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hubballi||South Western Railway’s isolation coaches go abegging||BENGALURU: While Bengaluru is facing a severe shortage of hospital beds due to the spike in Covid-19 cases, the government is yet to utilise passenger coaches — converted into isolation wards by South Western Railway — for treating the patients. SWR had turned 320 coaches into isolation wards and stationed them at 14 railway stations, including KSR Bengaluru City, Hubballi, Mysuru, Yeshwantpur, Harihar, Shivamogga Town, Hosapete, Hassan, Arsikere, Bagalkot, Talaguppa, Vijayapura, Belagavi and Vasco Da Gama (Goa). The middle berths of sleeper coaches were removed and equipment, including oxygen cylinders, was provided. States like Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Madhya Pradesh have either requested for or used such coaches for Covid purposes. However, SWR officials said Karnataka is yet to approach the railways. SWR chief public relations officer E Vijaya said: “We have not received any request from the government so far. Only those with mild symptoms will be lodged in these coaches.” Government sources say they will use these coaches in case of an emergency. “This will be the last option. It’s more viable to convert stadia, marriage halls, educational institutions and convention centres into isolation facilities. The high temperature inside coaches as well as poor ventilation is not suitable for both patients as well as health staff wearing PPEs all the time. The coaches are parked in deserted areas, which are difficult for staff to access in case of an emergency. Poor toilet facilities is also an issue,” said an official. In May, the railway board had said 50-60% of its 5,213 isolation coaches meant for Covid patients across the country would run as Shramik Special trains. It had asked all railway zones to remove oxygen tanks and ventilators as well as mosquito nets and plastic curtains from more than half the coaches. “Now all of them have been reconverted into isolation coaches as very few Shramik Specials are being run. In Bengaluru division, there are about 80 isolation coaches,” said Ashok Kumar Verma, Bengaluru divisional railway manager. “These coaches will be deployed as and when the government wants. As per the standard operating procedure issued by the Union health ministry, the coaches will be used once the capacity in government or private hospitals is exhausted,” said Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/south-western-railways-isolation-coaches-go-abegging/articleshow/76908496.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
July 11, 2020||Kanpur||Gangster Vikas Dubey meets bloody end, shot in encounter near home turf||KANPUR: Seven days after the Bikru village bloodbath in which eight policemen were ambushed and killed by Vikas Dubey and his henchmen, the 48-year-old gangster whose guile and brutality captured the imagination of the nation, was shot dead in an encounter with UP police on a highway in Kanpur, barely 22 km from his home turf, where he held kangaroo courts to deliver instant justice. Dubey was handed over to UP’s Special Task Force after his dramatic arrest from Mahakaal temple in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, on Thursday and was being escorted back to Kanpur by an 18-member UP Police team. After a four-hour journey through the night in a police convoy comprising three escort vehicles, the unarmed gangster was gunned down when he allegedly snatched a gun from an STF commando and opened fire after their Mahindra TUV overturned while swerving past a buffalo herd amid pounding rain, police said. Dubey, who tried to flee after the mishap, took three bullets in his chest and one in the arm and collapsed in a pool of blood near Sachendi area, 10km from the district headquarters, while four cops suffered injuries, said ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar. During the gangster’s funeral at Bhairavghat on banks of Ganga in Kanpur, his wife Richa told reporters, “I will pick the gun to give justice to my beloved husband.” While the police encounter has come under cloud and triggered a flood of unanswered questions, what stirred a bigger controversy was the police action to bar the media entourage following the police convoy, barely 600m from the shootout site on Panki Road. Just 15 minutes later, gunshots were heard and the don lay dead. Speaking to reporters, ADG Kumar said, “In the disarray after the police SUV overturned, Vikas wriggled out and pounced upon a STF personnel and snatched a gun and opened fire, leaving four police personnel injured. In retaliatory action, Vikas was shot at and critically injured. He was rushed to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital, Kanpur, where doctors declared him brought dead.” SSP, Kanpur, Dinesh Kumar Prabhu, said, the SUV carrying Vikas was speeding to stay ahead of other vehicles behind the convoy, when it suddenly overturned. Sources said, media persons were following the police convoy since it left Ujjain at 3.15am on Friday. Two STF commandos were among the four injured policemen and they have been admitted to LLR hospital, Kanpur. Senior police officials, including ADG Kanpur zone JN Singh, IG Kanpur range Mohit Agarwal and SSP Dinesh Kumar Prabhu visited the hospital to take stock of the situation. Dr RB Kamal, who treated the injured policemen said, “The condition of three cops is stable. Bullets had grazed past their chest.” The gangster, who was catapulted into India’s most-wanted league, had been on the run since July 2 night when a police party, which went to arrest him from his house in Bikru village in the Chaubeypur area of Kanpur, was ambushed. Since then, three people have been arrested, six accused, including Vikas Dubey were killed, seven people have been sent to jail and 12 wanted criminals are still on the run.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gangster-vikas-dubey-meets-bloody-end-shot-in-encounter-near-home-turf/articleshow/76903488.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala gold smuggling case: Congress calls for parallel CBI probe||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Congress in the state has demanded a CBI probe into the gold smuggling case along with the NIA probe. The political affairs committee meeting of the party that was held in the state capital on Friday demanded the state government to urge the Centre for a CBI probe. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said that the present state police chief had worked with the NIA earlier and hence can influence the probe. Therefore a parallel CBI probe is needed. M Sivasankar’s connection with the controversial lady has become evident. Hence the involvement of CM’s office also has to be probed, he said. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that the audio tape of Swapna Suresh has been prepared under the influence of police and the CPM. “Our demand is that Sivasankar should be questioned to know about the deals he has made with the gang and also his involvement in the controversial appointments in IT department,” said Ramesh. CM welcomes NIA probe: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan welcomed the NIA probe. The state government had written to the Centre seeking an impartial probe. “We cannot demand the probe by a particular agency. That has to be decided by the Centre. The NIA is an agency that has clean track record of probing such cases,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/congress-calls-forparallel-cbi-probe/articleshow/76900685.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bengaluru||South Western Railway’s isolation coaches go abegging||BENGALURU: While Bengaluru is facing a severe shortage of hospital beds due to the spike in Covid-19 cases, the government is yet to utilise passenger coaches — converted into isolation wards by South Western Railway — for treating the patients. SWR had turned 320 coaches into isolation wards and stationed them at 14 railway stations, including KSR Bengaluru City, Hubballi, Mysuru, Yeshwantpur, Harihar, Shivamogga Town, Hosapete, Hassan, Arsikere, Bagalkot, Talaguppa, Vijayapura, Belagavi and Vasco Da Gama (Goa). The middle berths of sleeper coaches were removed and equipment, including oxygen cylinders, was provided. States like Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Madhya Pradesh have either requested for or used such coaches for Covid purposes. However, SWR officials said Karnataka is yet to approach the railways. SWR chief public relations officer E Vijaya said: “We have not received any request from the government so far. Only those with mild symptoms will be lodged in these coaches.” Government sources say they will use these coaches in case of an emergency. “This will be the last option. It’s more viable to convert stadia, marriage halls, educational institutions and convention centres into isolation facilities. The high temperature inside coaches as well as poor ventilation is not suitable for both patients as well as health staff wearing PPEs all the time. The coaches are parked in deserted areas, which are difficult for staff to access in case of an emergency. Poor toilet facilities is also an issue,” said an official. In May, the railway board had said 50-60% of its 5,213 isolation coaches meant for Covid patients across the country would run as Shramik Special trains. It had asked all railway zones to remove oxygen tanks and ventilators as well as mosquito nets and plastic curtains from more than half the coaches. “Now all of them have been reconverted into isolation coaches as very few Shramik Specials are being run. In Bengaluru division, there are about 80 isolation coaches,” said Ashok Kumar Verma, Bengaluru divisional railway manager. “These coaches will be deployed as and when the government wants. As per the standard operating procedure issued by the Union health ministry, the coaches will be used once the capacity in government or private hospitals is exhausted,” said Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/south-western-railways-isolation-coaches-go-abegging/articleshow/76900687.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
July 11, 2020||Lucknow||Gangster Vikas Dubey meets bloody end, shot in encounter near home turf||KANPUR: Seven days after the Bikru village bloodbath in which eight policemen were ambushed and killed by Vikas Dubey and his henchmen, the 48-year-old gangster whose guile and brutality captured the imagination of the nation, was shot dead in an encounter with UP police on a highway in Kanpur, barely 22 km from his home turf, where he held kangaroo courts to deliver instant justice. Dubey was handed over to UP’s Special Task Force after his dramatic arrest from Mahakaal temple in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, on Thursday and was being escorted back to Kanpur by an 18-member UP Police team. After a four-hour journey through the night in a police convoy comprising three escort vehicles, the unarmed gangster was gunned down when he allegedly snatched a gun from an STF commando and opened fire after their Mahindra TUV overturned while swerving past a buffalo herd amid pounding rain, police said. Dubey, who tried to flee after the mishap, took three bullets in his chest and one in the arm and collapsed in a pool of blood near Sachendi area, 10km from the district headquarters, while four cops suffered injuries, said ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar. During the gangster’s funeral at Bhairavghat on banks of Ganga in Kanpur, his wife Richa told reporters, “I will pick the gun to give justice to my beloved husband.” While the police encounter has come under cloud and triggered a flood of unanswered questions, what stirred a bigger controversy was the police action to bar the media entourage following the police convoy, barely 600m from the shootout site on Panki Road. Just 15 minutes later, gunshots were heard and the don lay dead. Speaking to reporters, ADG Kumar said, “In the disarray after the police SUV overturned, Vikas wriggled out and pounced upon a STF personnel and snatched a gun and opened fire, leaving four police personnel injured. In retaliatory action, Vikas was shot at and critically injured. He was rushed to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital, Kanpur, where doctors declared him brought dead.” SSP, Kanpur, Dinesh Kumar Prabhu, said, the SUV carrying Vikas was speeding to stay ahead of other vehicles behind the convoy, when it suddenly overturned. Sources said, media persons were following the police convoy since it left Ujjain at 3.15am on Friday. Two STF commandos were among the four injured policemen and they have been admitted to LLR hospital, Kanpur. Senior police officials, including ADG Kanpur zone JN Singh, IG Kanpur range Mohit Agarwal and SSP Dinesh Kumar Prabhu visited the hospital to take stock of the situation. Dr RB Kamal, who treated the injured policemen said, “The condition of three cops is stable. Bullets had grazed past their chest.” The gangster, who was catapulted into India’s most-wanted league, had been on the run since July 2 night when a police party, which went to arrest him from his house in Bikru village in the Chaubeypur area of Kanpur, was ambushed. Since then, three people have been arrested, six accused, including Vikas Dubey were killed, seven people have been sent to jail and 12 wanted criminals are still on the run.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gangster-vikas-dubey-meets-bloody-end-shot-in-encounter-near-home-turf/articleshow/76902343.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Venkaiah Naidu urges Delhi University to continue with ECA quota for admission||NEW DELHI: Vice-president of India Venkaiah Naidu advised Delhi University authorities to continue the ECA admission quota procedure by earmarking seats for talented artistes. This comes after several artistes from across the country, including pandit Birju Maharaj and Rajya Sabha MP Sonal Mansingh, wrote to the vice-president to look into the matter. The vice-president, who is also the chancellor of DU, on Friday advised the pro vice-chancellor and dean of colleges of Delhi University to review the decision relating to quota for extra-curricular activities and continue the present quota procedure by earmarking seats for the talented artists. Naidu was briefed about various issues including the issue of Extra Curricular Activities quota for admission to first year college. He was earlier also briefed on this issue by secretary of ministry of HRD. The DU authorities also briefed the vice-president on the Open Book Examination system and filling in of the pending appointments of registrar, comptroller of examination, librarians, principals of colleges and other officials. Naidu suggested that the university take prompt action on finalising the examination calendar as well as on filling up vacant positions. The DU dean of colleges, Balram Pani, said that the meeting with the vice-president was very “positive”. “We will forward his suggestions over ECA admissions to the admission branch,” Pani said. The varsity had for this year decided to do away with the ECA admissions, citing difficulties in conducting trials due to the Covid-19 social distancing norms. Since then DU has received several requests from parents and students to reconsider the decision. Several letters were also sent to the university and the vice-president of India by artistes and by Rajya Sabha member KTS Tulsi, stating that the decision of no ECA trials would be disheartening for students who are involved in learning the arts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/venkaiah-urges-du-to-continue-with-eca-quota-for-admission/articleshow/76901982.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: As cases rise by 100, plasma bank opens||PANAJI: Goa’s count of active cases of Covid-19 rose by 100 on Friday while 74 persons afflicted with the virus have recovered bringing the total to 895. The state is gearing up for plasma therapy for critically-ill covid patients from next week. “The plasma bank has started operations with the first donor giving his plasma,” said health secretary Nila Mohanan. Mohanan said within a week they should be able to start antibody testing whereas efforts are also under way to introduce antigen tests. As of Friday, 112 patients were admitted in ESI-Covid hospital and currently, only one patient has been intubated with a ventilator. In view of cases reported from a pharma unit in Verna industrial estate, director of food and drugs administration Jyoti Sardessai had a meeting directing pharma companies to take precautions in their respective units. “She reiterated that all necessary precautions as laid down by the ministry of health and family welfare, and the ministry of homes affairs are to be followed,” Mohanan said. After three persons tested positive in Carambolim, more people were tested in the village. Betki in South Goa reported 15 new cases while isolated cases were reported from Colva and Kasarwada. She said the 50-year-old man from Vasco who died on Thursday had a fever for almost six days and yet he did not seek medical help. “We are shocked the person from the area which has been under the scanner did not approach health authorities,” she said, appealing to those with symptoms to approach the nearest health centre for help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-cases-rise-by-100-plasma-bank-opens/articleshow/76901971.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CPM terms protests a challenge to human lives||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CPM state secretariat on Friday dubbed the protests by opposition parties, in connection with the gold smuggling case, as an open challenge against human lives in the state, which is on the verge of Covid-19 community spread. A statement of the CPM secretariat here said that chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the LDF government were of the opinion that all involved in the gold smuggling case should be brought to book. “That is why the chief minister had written to PM, seeking an appropriate inquiry into the smuggling case. LDF government doesn’t want to protect any criminals. The ‘violent’ protests are aimed at weakening the LDF government, under which the state has emerged as largely successful in fighting Covid-19. The protests organized by opposition parties point to their hunger for power,” the statement said. However, BJP state president K Surendran scoffed at the arguments of the CPM. “Pinarayi Vijayan cannot claim innocence while his office and former principal secretary are under the cloud of suspicion. CM’s office has intervened in the smuggling case. BJP would continue the agitation till Pinarayi quits as CM,” he said. It was the state government that used Covid as an opportunity for corruption, he said. “It is not the protesters, but those who use police against them who are breaking Covid regulations. All Covid-related interventions by the government were aimed at fattening the purse of the CPM. People have the right to know how a person accused in a criminal case had managed to get a job in CM’s department, that too using a fake education certificate. The government will have to change its stand that no probe other than the NIA investigation would be ordered into the allegations involving CM’s office,” Surendran added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-terms-protests-a-challenge-to-human-lives/articleshow/76900713.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Lucknow||140 new cases in Lucknow, Covid-19 breaches 2,000-mark||LUCKNOW: As the surge in Covid-19 cases continued, the city’s tally of novel coronavirus infections breached 2,000 mark on Friday with 140 new cases on Friday. To put things in perspective, first 1,000 cases were reported in 111 days in over three-and-a-half-months from March 11 to June 30, but they doubled in just 10 days thereafter with an average of 100 cases daily in the month of July so far. It was also the second time in the past one week that Lucknow detected the highest number of patients in the state. Friday surge was also the second highest single-day spike so far. Earlier, 196 cases were reported on Wednesday. The good news, however, was that of the total 2028 cases reported till date, the number of patients discharged after recovery is 1,012, which is more than 972 active cases. New patients included 10 police constables and their four contacts. Three of the constables and a clerk were from the office of IG, Lucknow zone, at Vinit Khand, which will be sealed for a couple of days for sanitisation. On Thursday, a part of Lucknow police commissioner’s office was sealed as a clerk posted there was found to be positive for the infection. Earlier, offices of the joint commissioner of police, law and order, and deputy commissioner of police, traffic, were sealed for sanitisation. Seven other constables living in the Police Lines also tested positive on Friday, besides four members of a constable's family, including his wife and one-month-old son. These patients – both from IG office and the Police Lines – have come in contact with cops posted at DCP traffic’s office, who were found to be infected earlier. All the infected cops and their contacts have been admitted to Era’s Lucknow Medical College, said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Narendra Agarwal. Other cases included an employee each of the UP112 police emergency helpline and health directorate. So far, 25 UP112 employees and 10 health directorate employees have contacted the novel coronavirus infection. Meanwhile, the CMO recommended 35 more localities to be declared as containment zones, taking the number of such zones in the city to 286. “The two-day lockdown on Saturday and Sunday would help in slowing the growth rate of infection and provide time for contact tracing”, said the CMO. New pattern emerging in corona spread A new pattern is emerging in the spread of the novel coronavirus infection in the city. For a few days patients in bulk are reported from those families where a case has surfaced earlier. Such cases on Friday included 11 family members of a real estate businessman in Rakabganj, eight family members of a deceased Covid-19 patient inAzadnagar and seven of a patient from Sardari-Kheda area. CM to open RT-PCR testing facility today The Covid-19 testing capacity in the city will increase further on Saturday with the start of the RT-PCR testing at Balrampur Hospital after formal inauguration by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “The staff has been trained to operate the machine that can test 100 samples daily,” said Dr Himanshu Chaturvedi, medical superintendent of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/140-new-cases-in-city-covid-breaches-2000-mark/articleshow/76902344.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Low check-ins hurting biz, many hotels may shut doors||Nagpur: Three days after the government allowed hotels and guesthouses to operate at 33% of capacity, the check-ins have been negligible, say hoteliers. If the poor response continues many may even shut down and wait till the movement is completely normalized. Persons under quarantine are being lodged at around five hotels in the city. Hoping to get some steady revenue another eight have applied to operate as paid quarantine centres. Working as quarantine centre may ensure some inflow, say sources in the hospitality business here. However, inquiries from customers have begun. Tejindersingh Renu, president of Nagpur Resident Hotels Association (NRHA), said at least 30% of the hotels have not started yet. “There is hardly any business at the hotels that have started. It may take at least a week for people to plan travels. If the response remains slack even after that we may even shut down. Others have same plans too,’ said Renu who runs Hotel Pritam on Central Avenue. Renu said he hasn’t received any guest at his hotel in the last three days. “A number of properties on Central Avenue where a series of hotels are located have not started,” he said. “There is no point in continuing without being able to even break even. The expenses remain almost the same. A major expense is on power and the kitchen. The staff has to be paid salaries too,” he said. As business is low even the manpower has been kept at minimal level. Renu said most of the hoteliers have preferred to not call back staff who had gone back home in other cities after the lockdown. Even as budget hotels have begun, majority of the premium properties have not started operations yet, said sources in this sector. Mickey Arora of Centre Point, Ramdaspeth, said that there was negligible fresh business but the hotel is running as it is providing services to doctors engaged in Covid treatment. Mohabbat Singh Tuli of the Tuli Group too said that business had not picked up. Afzal Mitha of the Orient Group said, “Out of the 11 properties belonging to the group located in the city, only three have been started. So far, a handful of persons in transit have stopped for a night. They were passing through Nagpur while heading towards other states. We may take a call after some days,” said Mitha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/low-check-ins-hurting-biz-many-hotels-may-shut-doors/articleshow/76901448.cms||Shishir Arya
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC dismisses bail plea of JNU’s Sharjeel Imam||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Friday declined to grant bail to Jawaharlal Nehru University student Sharjeel Imam, noting that there were good and justifiable grounds to give probe agency more time to wrap up its investigation in a case related to alleged inflammatory speeches during the protests against Citizenship Amendment Act and National Register of Citizens. The court said that after examining the details of the investigation and the points still pending to be probed, the decision to give more time to police cannot be faulted with. Justice V Kameswar Rao dismissed the plea by Imam, who was arrested on January 28, challenging the trial court’s June 25 order granting three more months to Delhi Police, beyond the statutory 90 days, to complete the investigation in the case under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act or UAPA. The court noted that the prosecutor’s report filed in the trial court stated “since March 24, 2020, due to global Covid-19 pandemic a lockdown has been imposed due to which the pace of investigation was seriously disrupted” and pointed out this “clearly depicts the reasons for not completing the investigation in 90 days.” Imam was arrested on January 28 from Bihar’s Jehanabad district in the case related to violent protests against CAA near Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) in December last year. The statutory period of 90 days from the arrest had concluded on April 27. He had also sought default bail in the matter on the ground that the probe was not concluded within the statutory period of 90 days and when police had filed an application for more time to complete the investigation, he was not given a notice as required under the law. The trial court had dismissed the bail plea. The high court, in its verdict, said Imam has not challenged the addition of Section 13 (punishment for unlawful activities) under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) to the list of offences, he is accused of. It said Imam’s plea that the filing of the application by the prosecution on the 88th day of the arrest is only to deny him bail, isn’t convincing. “This I say so because the addition of Section 13 of UAPA to the offences has not been contested. The UAPA provides for extension of the period of investigation for a further period of 90 days, that is, totalling 180 days,” the judge said. The high court noted the submission of additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, representing police, that the intent of the investigating authority is to complete the investigation in the original time period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-jnus-sharjeel/articleshow/76902023.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu dashboard shows beds, private hospitals say not available||CHENNAI: By the time his test results came out positive on Thursday, S M Krishnan, 66, of Theni was coughing and choking, in need of immediate medical attention. His family desperately tried three private hospitals in Theni district that were listed on the government dashboard. All three refused to admit him. As per the dashboard, the three Theni hospitals – Krishnamaal Memorial hospital, NRT hospital and TNKHNV hospital – together had 60 beds for Covid-19 patients. The facilities included 18 oxygen-supported beds, 23 ICU beds and seven ventilators. The hospitals told Krishnan’s family, “please do not come anywhere near our facilities”. This is not a stray case. Across Tamil Nadu, Covid-19 positive patients complain that private hospitals turn them away. The hospitals say they don’t have the facilities and point fingers at the government. The dashboard lists 230 hospitals across the state that have 12,436 beds set aside for Covid care. The Theni hospitals told TOI the government listed them on the dashboard without their consent.  “We raised objections, but they are not willing to remove our name. They said they had pressure to show availability of beds,” said Kamala Kannan secretary of TNKHNV hospital. Gunasekaran of NRT hospital and Karthik of Krishnamaal memorial hospital said they don’t have a separate wing or entrance for Covid patients, so there was no way they could treat them.Anbu Hospital in Kumbakonam and Annai Medical Centre in Kallakurichi are two other hospitals listed on the dashboard that refused to take in patients. A representative at Anbu hospital said, “We cannot pay the doctors or nurses. And what will we do with our heart and kidney patients if we admit Covid patients?” Sudha Hospital in Erode said it would take in Covid patients from Monday, but only if they pay in cash. Krishnan, who finally got admitted to the government medical college hospital in Theni, said the government’s dashboard was humbug. In Madurai district, 11 private hospitals are authorised to treat Covid-19 patients. However, only around five of them take in patients to full capacity. According to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) doctors, Covid-19 cases from private hospitals get referred to them if patients’ condition is critical. Ajay Yadav, project director, Tamil Nadu health systems project, said every hospital on the dashboard was listed after the hospital submitted a letter of willingness to admit Covid patients. “They cannot deny admission to any patient. They should at least undertake basic treatment before referring them to other hospitals,” he said. Health secretary, J Radhakrishnan said he would immediately call for an inquiry and take action. “We are not trying to add beds just for the sake of numbers. We will immediately take action. If they cannot provide treatment, they will be removed from the list,” he said. However, Indian Medical Association, state president Dr C N Raja said there was a lot of pressure in tier II and tier III cities to just add beds on paper. “None of these small and medium hospitals can treat Covid patients as they would have to stop taking other patients. They have single entrances mostly. Some of these hospitals double up as homes for the doctors. And they may have just one or two doctors on duty as they would be run by a couple or a trust. They cannot afford to go in quarantine. We have raised all these issues and have asked the government to stop adding beds on paper. They should set up consultative committees at district level to address these issues,” he said. He added that across Tamil Nadu 1.20 lakh beds were made available for Covid patients by private hospitals. (With inputs from Sukshma Ramakrishnan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-dashboard-shows-beds-pvt-hosps-say-not-available/articleshow/76901443.cms||Komal Gautham
July 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Kidwai lab will research antibodies||BENGALURU: The Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology here will set up the state’s first laboratory to study antibodies for SARS-CoV2. It will test antibodies for different virus strains. The pilot begins with testing Bengaluru police personnel. “There’s been a recurrence of infection in a few cases. We need to figure out if the person was infected by different strains during different infections. We’ll analyse the antibodies developed,” said institute director Dr C Ramachandra. Bengaluru police commissioner Bhaskar Rao said so far 435 police personnel in the city have been infected, six died and 198 discharged from medicare. “We want personnel who have recovered to be tested for antibodies,” he said, assuring all equipment to his team. Antibody testing can monitor infection level in a population, indicate if a person can be a plasma donor, assist convalescent plasma research and analyse herd immunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kidwai-lab-will-research-antibodies/articleshow/76900752.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 11, 2020||Surat||IMA demands apology from Jayanti Ravi for her drug remarks||SURAT: The Indian Medical Association’s (IMA), Surat chapter, on Friday demanded an apology from the principal secretary, health and family welfare, Dr Jayanti Ravi for her alleged statement that private practitioners were misusing Tocilizumab injection (Actemra) during Covid-19 treatment. Talking with the media persons on Thursday, Ravi had stated that her department had got information that the private practitioners in Surat were misusing Tocilizumab injection. Dr Chandresh Jardosh, IMA state president said, “Our doctors from private and government hospitals have been infected with Covid-19 and still the community is serving the patients. The health secretary (Ravi) has levelled serious charges against the doctor fraternity which is condemnable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ima-demands-apology-from-ravi-for-her-drug-remarks/articleshow/76900032.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||Goa procures anti-viral drug for patients with moderate infection||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday said the state has already procured 30 vials of Remdesivir, an antiviral drug that is allowed for emergency use and can be considered for treatment of Covid-19 patients with moderate infection. “We have now put in a requisition for 1,000 vials of Remdesivir costing Rs 35 lakh,” Rane said. “More medicines are on the way. Their validity is three months. We will see how much we can procure and how we will manage the stock.” The minister also dismissed claims that the health department did not have adequate medication to treat Covid-19 patients. He said that although a requisition for medicines was placed over 15 days ago, the waiting period was long because they were not readily available. One vial of Remdesivir, Rane said, is administered to six patients, indicating that the 30 vials currently available with the state can be used for as many as 180 patients. The state government is also exploring the possibility of appointing a single agency to manage all Covid care centres to ensure that patients are given better facilities, such as provision of nutritious food and housekeeping and laundry services. “The health secretary is working on a model that could be implemented,” Rane said. He further said that the state is considering stocking 2,000 plasma packs in the plasma bank, in line with its plan to commence plasma therapy for critically ill Covid-19 patients from next week. The government is in the process of recruiting technical manpower for the purpose. The health minister added that the South Goa MLA who had tested positive for the virus more than a week ago is stable and is still under treatment at the Covid hospital in Margao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-procures-anti-viral-drug-for-patients-with-moderate-infection/articleshow/76902002.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 11, 2020||Meerut||UP police arrests ashram owner from where 10 children were rescued after harassment||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Police arrested the owner of Godiya Math ashram, Swami Bhakti Bhushan Maharaj late Thursday night after a complaint was filed by child helpline against him. 10 young boys, who were allegedly sexually harassed, thrashed and forced to work as labourers, were rescued from the ashram in Muzaffarnagar’s Shukrataal area three days go. An FIR was also lodged on Thursday against the ashram owner under IPC section 377 (unnatural offences) and under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The children rescued from Godiya Math Ashram were aged between seven and 16 and hail from the states of Tripura, Mizoram and Assam. The children were rescued by a team of state child care helpline and police on Tuesday after a tip-off. According to child helpline members, the children were brought to the ashram to provide them education but they were being made to cook food and look after animals in the premises. The ashram owner maintained the allegations were fake and part of a conspiracy by locals who were angry that a large piece of land had been donated to the ashram. He said, “We have CCTV cameras on the premises that can be scanned. The children had been living here for a long time but now locals have told them to say all this as some people are creating trouble after the ashram was donated a piece of land.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-police-arrests-ashram-owner-from-where-10-children-were-rescued-after-harassment/articleshow/76900760.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 11, 2020||Hubballi||With cases rising, Kalaburagi dist mulls staggered lockdown||Kalaburagi: With over 70 positive cases in random testing within a week in Kalaburagi district, the administration is mulling over a stagggered lockdown. From July 3 to July 9, 73 persons tested positive; the total number is 1901 with 477 active cases. The administration chose random testing after asymptomatic individuals with travel history to Maharashtra returned without being subjected to tests. The travellers were under institutional quarantine only for seven days under new norms. The administration felt that government quarantine centres would be a source of infection and asymptomatic patients could spread it. Returnees from other states, especially Maharashtra, have moved into hamlets (tandas), villages and city wards from where SARI and ILI cases are being reported. The administration started random testing in such localities and areas near containment zones, police quarters and hamlets. It’s under way in Wadi, Sedam, Chincholi, Shahabad and city areas of Kalaburagi. Deputy commissioner Sharath said random tests could identify clusters and help predict caseloads. He said, “Earlier, buffer zones were beyond containment zone thereby enabling surveillance. The present structure of containment zones is not helping. Hence, we’re testing people near containment and buffer zones.” He added that residents of Kalaburagi city are demanding a lockdown. If the current rate of positivity continues, then caseload could be high. He said, “When caseload is low, medical resources are not under stress. We may have beds, but there aren’t enough doctors or nurses. A staggered lockdown means closing down day-to-day activities for a week or fortnight and opening it for some days. This may actually work.” Dr Srinivas Kakkilaya, general physician, said a lockdown won’t help. The administration from gram panchayat level should start isolating the elderly to curtail deaths. The focus should be on protecting the vulnerable, not slowing down the spread. The elderly can be kept in isolation under care. Moreover, many patients don’t require treatment as they have either mild or no symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/with-cases-rising-kalaburagi-dist-mulls-staggered-lockdown/articleshow/76900811.cms||Shreyas HS
July 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad city schools shine in ICSE exam||Schools in Aurangabad city have excelled in the ICSE (Class X) exam, the results of which were declared by the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), on Friday. Podar International School reported cent per cent result with all 108 students appeared for the examination cleared it successfully with many of them getting passed with flying colours. Sampanna Somwanshi ( 99.8%), Sachi Deshmukh (98.6%) and Shreya Ladda (98.4%) are among students who have registered top performance in the school. The school has an average scoring percentage of 84.29% with as many as 53 students scoring between 91% to 100%, a school release said. Principal Raghuveer Y V congratulated all the successful students as well as the school staff for the grand success. Cambridge School, too, achieved 100% result in the ICSE grade X exam. A total of 73 students scored distinction, a school release said. Meera Harshad Barve topped the school with 97.04 % followed by Avani Dakshesh Mehta, Kinshuk Kalia and Priyanshu Mehta who bagged 97 %. The school management and the teachers congratulated the meritorious students and wished them success in all their future endeavours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-city-schools-shine-in-icse-exam/articleshow/76901458.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Naman Bhardwaj, Viha Singla share Tricity top spot in ICSE Class X exam||PANCHKULA/MOHALI: Naman Bhardwaj of Little Flower Convent School and Viha Singla of Saupins School, Panchkula shared top positions in the Council for Indian School Certificate Examination results declared for Class X on Friday. Naman Bhardwaj and Viha Singla scored 99.20%. Little Flower School, Panchkula also held second and third positions in the Tricity. Karan Garg and Samir Nagpal scored 98.80% and 98.60%, respectively. They were followed by Nitish Gugnani and Suhani of Saupins School, Panchkula who scored 97.60% and 97.40% respectively. Naman Bhardwaj scored 100% marks in Mathematics, Hindi, History/Civics/Geography (HCG), 99% in Science and 96% in English. He said he aims at becoming an engineer. State-level basketball and chess champion Viha Singla scored 100% in English literature, Science, History, Civics, Geography and Hindi. She said she aspires to get into IIT to be an engineer and break the stereotype of girls pursuing medical sciences. She attributed her success to focus, determination and self-confidence. Aafreen Kaur of Yadavindra Public School, Mohali secured the top position in the district with 97% marks in the ICSE examination, 2020 conducted by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE). Out of 116 students who appeared for the examination, 116 scored first division. Of them, eight scored above 95% and 43 scored above 90%. Other toppers from the school are Divyam Goel with 96.6 %, Jivitesh Singh Batth with 96.2 % and Shivika Kaushal with 96.2 % marks. Students of St Xavier’s High School, Mohali did well and secured 100% with all first divisions. Shruti Nautiyal bagged the top position with 96.2%. Principal Georgina Roy congratulated the staff and students for their hard work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/naman-viha-share-tricity-top-spot-in-icse-class-x-exam/articleshow/76901459.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Schools body to move CMO on edu officer’s FIR threat||Nagpur: Mumbai-based Unaided Schools Forum (USF) has decided to file a complaint with Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) against a Nagpur education official after he threatened their local member schools with FIR if they did not follow the June 15 circular on reopening. Main controversy is about online teaching for Std I-II, which is not allowed as per the circular. USF claims the June 15 circular is only advisory in nature and not legally enforceable. A school principal who was part of the virtual meeting with Vanjari on Friday said the education department took an aggressive stand. “They said if online classes till Std II did not stop, they will file FIR. Even the on-campus option that we were giving to parents about textbook purchase has been denied according to them,” said the principal. Vanjari defended his team claiming that the June 15 circular was mandatory. “The guidelines by government need to be followed, it is mandatory. If it’s written that no online classes must be held till Std II, then we have to implement it,” said Vanjari. USF’s honorary secretary Subhash Chandra Kedia alleged Vanjari’s entire statements rest on misinterpretation of the June 15 circular. “We will continue online classes till Std II, as education can’t be denied to kids. Our legal team had checked the circular in June itself. It is not a Government Resolution (GR) but an advisory which is not mandatory. Vanjari has no jurisdiction to dole out such threats to principals making legally untenable claims. We will now take this up directly with CMO and seek action against him,” said Kedia. Meanwhile, city schools are confused as to who really “is the boss”? A principal said, “Last month NMC commissioner Tukaram Mundhe said he is the competent authority for schools within city limits. Now Vanjari’s office, which is part of Zilla Parishad, is giving us orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-body-to-move-cmo-on-edu-officers-fir-threat/articleshow/76901454.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||CISCE results: Tricity toppers at 99% and counting||CHANDIGARH: Muskaan Saxena of Strawberry Fields High School, Sector 26 secured the top position in the Tricity in the Indian School Certificate Class XII exams, the results of which were declared by the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Friday. Muskaan, who is in the non-medical stream, scored 99.25%. Last year, a humanities student of the same school, Chaitanya Gupta, secured the top spot in the Tricity with 99.6%. He also stood third in the country. However, this year CISCE did not declare a merit list as not all exams could be conducted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. An alternate marking scheme had to be followed. Unlike the norm, Muskaan chose to study non-medical subjects despite coming from a family of doctors. Breaking the stereotype again, she does not want to be an engineer. She wants to pursue her cherished subjects of economics, mathematics and computer science. Talking about her aim in life, she said, “I am going to enrol in a good institute. I have offers from some and am waiting to hear from others as well since the result is now declared. What I will do thereafter is something I would like to figure out after graduation when I have explored more. We should keep all options open since these days there are many avenues.” Elated about her result, Muskaan was not upset about CISCE not releasing a merit list this year. She said she wanted to break the myth that you can either study or participate in extracurricular activities. “I have been participating in extracurricular activities. Along with my friends, I have also been spreading awareness about menstrual hygiene among underprivileged girls. So yes, one can multi-task.” Muskaan says regularity in studies helped her achieve the top spot. Her parents Dr Babita Ghai and Dr Akshay Kumar Saxena are professors in PGIMER and her brother has cleared Class X. Gulnar Joson, 18, has scored 96.75% in humanities stream. A student of Strawberry fields high school, she plans to pursue business administration studies. She says her success mantra is that she planned all her studies beforehand and worked according to it. Regular study was the key. Her father, Ashwanjit Singh Joson is a businessman and mother Dimple Joson is a homemaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tricity-class-xii-topper-breeches-99-mark/articleshow/76901457.cms||Kamini Mehta
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Change in Delhi home isolation norms likely||NEW DELHI: Keen to bring down the Covid-19 mortality rate, the Union home ministry is set to propose a revision in home isolation guidelines for the capital. It may now be mandatory for infected people recovering at home to be shifted to medical facilities if they report oxygen saturation levels below normal or their body temperature rises beyond a point. Doctors generally put 'normal' oxygen saturation levels as 95% to 100%. Delhi's present home isolation guidelines for asymptomatic Covid-positive persons below 55 years and with no co-morbidities require them to be reported to the home isolation call centre if they run a fever of 100°F or more. Proposed norms aim to avoid delay in hospitalisation if oxygen level dipsAccording to the proposed guidelines, if a patient at home reports abnormal oxygen saturation levels or high temperature — the exact parameters shall be clearly defined — to the call centre tasked with monitoring home-isolated cases on a daily basis, she will be mandatorily shifted to a Covid care centre or hospital where she can be under constant monitoring by doctors and nurses. The proposed change, sources said, is aimed at ensuring immediate medical attention to a patient under home isolation and preventing any delay in hospitalisation in cases where the dip in oxygen levels is not accompanied by visible signs of discomfort. “This is to ensure timely care as there have been many instances when delay in hospitalisation of patients has been directly linked to complications and death. In any case, there has been major expansion in facilities in Delhi with nearly 30,000 beds available now. This includes 10,000 beds at the ITBP-run Covid Care Centre at Radha Soami Beas in Chhatarpur and the 1,000-bed hospital manned by armed forces medical services personnel. These should be effectively utilised for better care of patients,” a home ministry functionary said. Home minister Amit Shah, who has been monitoring the Covid-19 situation in Delhi since June 14 with encouraging results, has already held discussions with public health experts and senior doctors. A review meeting with the Delhi government brass will be held on Monday to finalise the revised home isolation guidelines for the state. The new guidelines may come into effect from Tuesday. The existing home isolation guidelines for Delhi do not specify the minimum oxygen saturation levels at which the patient must mandatorily be shifted to an institutional quarantine or hospital, though they do require difficulty in breathing to be reported to the monitoring team. The norms further state that if fever readings are beyond 100 degree Fahrenheit, the call centre must be informed. Delhi’s Covid-19 case fatality rate has fallen from 4.1% on June 16 to around 3% now, though this is still above the national rate of 2.72%. Recovery rate in Delhi has improved from 37.4% on June 13 to nearly 75% now, with doubling rate up from 13.5 days on June 14 to 29.7 days now. Daily deaths in hospital due to Covid-19 that were 101 on June 10 had come down to 50 as on July 7. Watch Delhi: Change in home isolation norms likely||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/change-in-delhi-home-isolation-norms-likely/articleshow/76902778.cms||Bharti Jain
July 11, 2020||Nashik||Help desk at Nashik dist collectorate||Nashik: Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare has decided to cut down the numbers of visitors at the collectorate building by offering to set up a help desk service at the entrance of the premises. The district collectorate, even during the Covid-19 phase, has witnessed footfall of about 800 to 1,100 people per day. Therefore, the administration has now decided to cut down the number of visitors. “The help desk will be placed in the cell at the entrance of the collector office. It will receive people coming in and allow only those to proceed to the offices whose physical presence is needed,” resident deputy collector Bhagwat Doifode said. “Those being permitted to enter will be screened and an undertaking will also be filed, following which they will be allowed to proceed,” Doifode added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/help-desk-at-nashik-dist-collectorate/articleshow/76901461.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Class X kids disappointed, blame English marks, ‘lockdown’ formula||KOLKATA: Thousands of ICSE students in the city were disappointed when they received their Class-X board exam results on Friday. Schools claimed that many scored much lower than what they had expected in those papers, leading to a slump in their overall percentage. The main reason, they claimed, was that scores in English language and a few other subjects, exams for some of which were cancelled due to the Covid outbreak, were calculated on the basis of a formula. While some toppers with a consistent record ended up with average scores in some papers, which pulled down their ranks, some schools and students called the marking in English language inconsistent. While students have been given the option of sitting for the cancelled papers at a later date, it doesn’t hold true for English language as the exam was conducted. With online classes already being underway for plus-II, taking a re-test is no longer an option for most. “Several of our students, who had fared very well in pre-test, received disappointing marks. There are others who would have fared much better had they been able to take all the tests. As a result, our merit list has changed unexpectedly with several toppers being eliminated,” said the principal of a school. In another institute, a student, who had topped classes for 10 years, stood second on the school boards merit list. The authorities held the English language marks and the scoring formula for the slide in his position. According to the principal of a school off EM Bypass, there has been a 20% difference in overall score due to the English language marks and the cancelled papers. “The marking in English has been inconsistent. Some have scored above 80 and some in 60s. This has affected the aggregate score of a large number of students. While some may have benefited, the vast majority has suffered,” she said. The principal of a central Kolkata school argued that the marking formula for the cancelled papers had not worked out well for most ICSE examinees. “For the average student, it has not been beneficial. More importantly, a large number of candidates could have actually scored better if they could take the cancelled tests. Many could have scored 100, which they haven’t due to the formula. It has affected their aggregate score,” he said. According to a senior teacher, the formula didn’t work to the advantage of most as it had factored in the internal assessment scores that included the pre-test numbers. “Now, students score much higher in ICSE than in pre-test. It seems the projection was flawed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/class-x-kids-disappointed-blame-english-marks-lockdown-formula/articleshow/76901467.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||Privilege motion against Rajashtan CM over ‘horse-trading’||JAIPUR: The state BJP moved a privilege motion against chief minsiter Ashok Gehlot alleging that he had demeaned the MLAs by making statements on horse-trading during the recent Rajya Sabha polls on Friday. The BJP move on Friday has come weeks after independent MLA Sanyam Lodha filed a privilege motion against BJP state president Satish Poonia. Leader of opposition Gulabchand Kataria, Poonia along with other MLAs held a meeting to discuss the move at BJP headquarters. The BJP motion has been accepted by assembly officials three days before the privilege motion committee is to hold its meeting on July 13. Speaking on the breach of parliamentary privilege against the BJP party president, Kataria said the motion moved by Lodha does not have any legal merit. “Our party president didn’t say who were those 23 MLAs being lured by the Congress during the Rajya Sabha polls in his statement, which forms the basis of the motion moved by the independent lawmaker. It was accepted by the speaker. If that falls in the definition of privilege motion then certainly what Gehlot said about BJP buying MLAs for Rs 35 crore has caused great disrespect for 200 MLAs and certainly calls for a privilege motion,” said Kataria. Poonia said that the move was started by Congress and BJP would conclude it. “It was politically motivated propaganda against me. The statement was made outside the assembly and doesn’t call for a motion. The honourable speaker (C P Joshi) has accepted their motion which doesn’t have any merit. In a similar manner, we have also moved a motion which has merit,” he said. BJP lawmakers Ramlal Sharma, Madan Dilwar, Nirmal Kumawat and Ashok Lahoti moved the motion in the assembly. Speaking on the issue, transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said that the BJP move was based on distorted facts. “BJP is trying to take political mileage and deviating from the real issue of the failures of the central government in handling Covid-19. The motion doesn’t hold any water and will fall flat,” said Khachriyawas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/privilege-motion-againstcm-over-horse-trading/articleshow/76902047.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bhopal||Law took its own course, says Narottam on Dubey encounter||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said law took its course, while referring to the encounter of dreaded Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey near Kanpur on Friday. Clarifying that Dubey was not hiding in Ujjain for two days as alleged by the Congress, Mishra countered the opposition allegations. The home minister did not reveal when Dubey entered MP and what he told police during his custody of MP police. “Dubey was not hiding in Ujjain for past two days. MP police did its job. MP police arrested Dubey and escorted the UP police party till MP border on Thursday night. Dubey talked about his crime in custody of MP police. Congress is in habit of questioning actions of law enforcing agencies and armed forces, Mishra said after the encounter of Dubey. After Dubey’s arrest Congress leaders questioned how a criminal like Dubey could be caught alive. Now, after the encounter, Congress is asking why was he killed and his secrets were buried with his death. It shows Congress’s mindset, aid Mishra. On several secrets buried with Dubey’s encounter, Mishra said if he wanted to reveal any secret he could have done so while he was in MP police custody for about 12 hours. Mishra also rejected Congress demand of CBI probe in the incident and said nothing is left in it now. Mishra also replied to Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav’s “conspiracy theory” in the encounter to save Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government and said Dubey was associated with SP. “Dubey was associated with Samajwadi Party. We have posters confirming it. On Thursday, Dubey’s mother said he was in the SP,” Mishra said. After Dubey’s arrest, Congress suspected that Mishra, who was in-charge of Kanpur during UP assembly elections in 2017, might have links with Dubey. Replying to it, Mishra said “Congress leaders have no work these days except tweeting. Nobody is calling Digvijaya Singh to address any public meeting these days. What do you expect him to do except tweeting in such situation?” Mishra questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/law-took-its-own-course-says-narottam-on-dubey-encounter/articleshow/76900815.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Collector, civic chief patrol city streets||Aurangabad: The day one of the nine-day lockdown imposed across Aurangabad city witnessed as many as 1,947 antigen tests till Friday evening of which 54 people tested positive for Covid-19. The lockdown will end on July 18 and is aimed at identifying maximum number of infected patients and for breaking the chain of the fast spreading contagion. Out of those tested on Friday, 1,073 antigen tests were carried out by a set of nine mobile teams formed for carrying out door-to-door visits and testing suspected patients. The remaining of 874 tests were carried out at the check posts installed at city’s entry points. In addition to this, a total of 486 RtPCR tests were carried out on Friday and their results will come out on Saturday. Aurangabad municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey said that 400 AMC employees, 20 lockdown supervisors, 10 ward officers and HODs, apart from 10 deputy collectors were deployed to ensure effective lockdown. In an unprecedented move, all senior IAS officers including district collector Uday Choudhary, civic administrator and revenue divisional commissioner Sunil Kendkrekar patrolled the city streets. Already the high court has filed a criminal suo motu PIL against the Covid-19 situation turning from bad to worse in the city and is closely monitoring the situation. Aurangabad city police chief Chiranjeev Prasad, who too remained on the city streets for several hours, ensured action against those found violating the norms. Police authorities informed that two dozen offences were registered under section 188, while 152 vehicles were detained and 374 were slapped a total fine of Rs 1.15 lakh under relevant sections of Motor vehicles Act. The civic body teams got four FIRs registered, seized a dozen vehicles and 13 driving licenses. During the day, some videos of police using force against those being caught on the streets also went viral. Police authorities informed that there are standing orders to not to use any force against the citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/collector-civic-chief-patrol-city-streets/articleshow/76901469.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 11, 2020||Hubballi||Body lying in front of a shop creates panic||Dharwad: Fear of Covid-19 has gripped people of Dharwad so much that nobody including the relatives were ready to touch the body of a 50-year-old man lying in front of a shop near the KCC Bank. The body with blood stains around the nose was found by passersby on Friday morning. They alerted police who rushed to the spot. The deceased was identified as Rafeeq Benni, a resident of Basti Oni in Hosayallappur. It is said that he might have consumed alcohol and fallen in front of the shop after the shop closed at 9.30pm on Thursday. Police informed family members who arrived at the spot. However, since the man was from the containment zone, there was apprehension among people including the relatives of the deceased, about touching the body and lifting it. An ambulance was summoned but the ambulance staff reportedly said they had no safety kits with them and hence the body could not be lifted. Then the HDMC was alerted. However, the zonal officer also reportedly declined to get civic workers lift and shift the body as they were not equipped and trained to handle the suspected Covid patients. Finally, after being convince, the relatives of the deceased arranged to take the body and conduct the final rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/body-lying-in-front-of-a-shop-creates-panic/articleshow/76899761.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Woman set on fire by live-in partner accuses cops of forcing her to compromise||Chandigarh: A man allegedly poured sanitiser on his 22-year-old live-in partner and set her on fire when she refused to give him money to buy intoxicants. The incident took place in Sector 45 on July 6. The woman suffered burn injuries on her face and hands and was admitted in GMCH-32. However, an FIR was registered after four days. Police claimed the delay was caused by the complainant signing compromise papers after taking money for her treatment. The woman, who belongs to Shillong, Meghalaya told the police that she met Naresh of Burail village in December 2019 and fell in love. They started living together in Burail. Later, she said she came to know that Naresh was a drug addict. She said he would demand money from her and also forced her into the flesh trade. On the night of July 6, she said Naresh demanded Rs 2,000 from her. When she refused, he allegedly poured hand sanitiser on her and set her on fire. She raised an alarm and neighbours rescued her. They admitted her in the Sector 45 civil hospital, from where she was referred to GMCH-32 for treatment. She told TOI that she submitted a complaint against Naresh at Burail police post but police did not register an FIR. Instead, she said police forced her into a compromise. On the night of July 9, Naresh came to her rented room with a knife and threatened to kill her. She called the number 112 and informed the police, who reached the spot, she said. According to the police, both parties reached a compromise with Naresh’s family, which is why no FIR was registered at the time. However, the complainant’s friend said police assured her that the accused would be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-set-on-fire-by-live-in-partner-accuses-cops-of-forcing-her-to-compromise/articleshow/76901466.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Surat||Surat textile traders’ body appeals for self-lockdown||SURAT: At a time when the Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the textile markets, the Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) has appealed to the traders for ‘self lockdown’ in the markets to contain the spread of the coronavirus infection. FOSTTA office-bearers stated they have informed all the textile market associations in Ring Road, Salabatpura and Sahara Darwaja to inform their member traders for voluntary ‘self-lockdown’ of their shops to stay safe and help in containing the spread of the infection. In the last three days, over 1,500 shops in more than 10 textile markets have been closed down by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) after one or more textile traders were tested positive for Covid-19. “We have sent an appeal to all market associations for the self-lockdown. The administration was forced to order closure of diamond markets and units aftercases among workers spiked phenomenally. The same thing could happen in textile markets as well,” said Champalal Bothra, secretary of FOSTTA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/textile-traders-body-appeals-for-self-lockdown/articleshow/76900354.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||Goa has readied itself to handle tourism revival, says Ajgaonkar||Margao: Deputy chief minister Manohar Ajgaonkar on Friday said the state has taken its level of preparedness up a notch with regards to opening the tourism sector by granting approvals to all 260 hotels which showed willingness to resume operations and putting in place SOPs for tourist arrivals. Acknowledging that the response so far was not as desired, Ajgaonkar, nevertheless said that the state has readied its mechanism and infrastructure with a view to handling the revival of the tourism industry. “Depending on the (quantum of) arrivals, further arrangements will be made subsequently,” he said. Amid criticism from several quarters over the government’s move to open tourism in the midst of rising Covid-19 cases in the state, Ajgaonkar, who is also the tourism minister, defended the government’s decision stating that “there is criticism either way”. “We all know how people raised a hue and cry demanding that Goans stranded outside the state and abroad be brought back. Then came the guidelines from the MHA and the SOPs. Pressure was brought to bear on the government to open the borders, and those people were brought back. Then corona started infecting Goans, and some unfortunately died. Now they want lockdown,” Ajgaonkar said. Hitting out at the opposition for the criticism over opening up tourism, he said that the opposition parties was bereft of any programme and thus cannot find any other issue to target the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-has-readied-itself-to-handle-tourism-revival-says-ajgaonkar/articleshow/76902076.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hubballi||Work on Hubballi’s first flyover may begin by year end||HUBBALLI: The flyover project at the Kittur Rani Chennamma Circle in Hubballi is all set to become a reality. According to government officials, if everything goes as per the plan, the construction work will kick off by the end of 2020. The authorities have completed the formalities of floating Rs 298 crore tender and the bids are expected to be opened in the month of September. R K Mathad, PWD, national highway division officer, said there has been demand for the flyover or underpass at Kittur Rani Channamma Circle for many years. “Several discussions were held, proposals were sent and several panel members visited the site to verify the requirement and feasibility of the flyover in a period of over 10 years. But, the hope for the flyover raised suddenly when Union road transport & highways minister Nitin Gadkari announced funds for junction management nearly four years ago. Now, tender is called for the construction of the first phase of the flyover at Chennamma Circle, after several revisions of the detailed project report (DPR) and technical issues,” he said. After Gadkari’s announcement, a Mumbai-based consultancy prepared a DPR of Rs 1,242 crore to construct flyovers at Chennamma Circle in Hubballi and at Jubilee Circle in Dharwad. As per the minister’s advise, the cost and the length of the flyover was reduced. As per revised DPR, now work on flyover at KC circle at a cost of Rs 300 crore will be taken up in the first phase while Rs 360 crore was already sanctioned, he said. According to sources, the work is expected to be completed in three years and now the state government, which shares 50% of the cost, is also seeking for 3,370 square metre land to be acquired. Prahlad Joshi, Union parliamentary affairs minister, who is also the MP of this area, said that national highway division of PWD has prepared the DPR as per grants limitations and urgent need to de-congest the traffic at the KC circle. Some procedures were delayed due to the lockdown, and construction related works will definitely begin by this year end, Joshi added. Flyover planAs per the existing plan, the existing structure of the Chennamma Circle will not be disturbed, but will be enhanced. A 17-metre wide oval shape flyover will cover the circle, above minimum six metre of height. From there, a four-lane road would connect Lamington Road up to Shivakrupa Hospital before Dr B R Ambedkar Circle. From the circle, 7-metre wide two-lane roads would move up to till after Hosur Circle, and a similar road will connect Vijayapur Road, near Desai Cross. A ramp from Bhagat Singh Circle near Hosur Circle will join the flyover near K H Patil statue, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/work-on-hubballis-first-flyover-may-begin-by-year-end/articleshow/76900651.cms||J Abbas Mulla
July 11, 2020||Hubballi||Missing drains make water-logging a perennial problem in Dharwad||Dharwad: Come monsoon, it is a nightmare for motorists and pedestrians in Dharwad. Conversion of tar roads into concrete roads and widening of roads, notwithstanding, people continue to suffer during rainy season. A defective drainage system causes instant water logging during heavy rains. Traffic snarls are the order of the day during heavy rains and police find it very difficult to divert traffic at such situations. Before the construction of dedicated BRTS lanes between Dharwad and Hubballi, water logging on the road near Kalaghatagi Toll Naka was a regular feature. When the road works began, people thought the water logging problem would be sorted. It was not to be. In fact, the problem aggravated as the cement bunds and barricades were laid along the BRTS lane without making a provision for the water to flow out. The road from Toll Naka to Tejaswi Nagar Bridge does not have drains on both sides and rain water flows down to Toll Naka. When Kalghatagi Road was widened, again no provision was made for drains and the problem persists. The authorities do not seem to have learnt a lesson by the experience. Now the road widening work from Narendra Bypass to Jubilee Circle is nearing completion and at many stretches there is no provision for drains. The increase in the road’s height and absence of drains is bound to cause problems for the buildings on either side of the road. The owners of these buildings will be forced to block rain water from gushing into their compounds/ buildings during heavy rains and that would again lead to water logging on the road. “The elected representatives should periodically inspect the work physically and ensure corrective steps immediately. Waking up after the construction is over does not make sense,” said retired civil engineer S B Patil. Caption: Heavy rains often result in water logging on the road near Kalghatagi Toll Naka in Dharwad making the vehicular movement difficult (TOI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/missing-drains-make-water-logging-a-perennial-problem-in-dharwad/articleshow/76900608.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
July 11, 2020||India||Ahead of military talks, India, China agree on total disengagement||NEW DELHI: Keeping a close eye on the military disengagement in eastern Ladakh, senior officials from India and China met virtually on Friday to talk through the details of the exercise, days before the next round of military-commander-level talks are due, and the Indian statement said both sides agreed to ensure complete disengagement and de-escalation. The officials “agreed that it was necessary for both sides to sincerely implement the understanding reached between senior commanders. As agreed by the two special representatives (NSA Ajit Doval and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi), senior commanders will meet soon to discuss further steps.” The statement recorded that India and China “agreed that for the overall development of bilateral relations, it was essential to maintain enduring peace and tranquillity in the border areas”. The officials said they would schedule another meeting of the WMCC (Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination soon).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ahead-of-military-talks-india-china-agree-on-total-disengagement/articleshow/76902782.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||57% of all Covid-19 deaths in state occurred in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Out of the 453 Covid-19 deaths that happened in the state till July 5, as many as 257 died in Jaipur, accounting for 57% of the total deaths. According to the health department report, 216 Covid patients died at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital. Out of these, 147 belonged to Jaipur, while 69 were from other districts and states. Among those who died due to Covid till July 5 at SMS Hospital, 17 belonged to other states. The SMS Hospital was highly burdened with Covid patients until it was declared a non-Covid hospital. Patients were brought to the hospital for Covid treatment not only from different parts of the state but also from other states, especially UP and Haryana. Private hospitals in the city to had patients coming from other districts for Covid treatment. Patients infected with the virus were rushed from neighbouring districts of Ajmer, Alwar, Bharatpur, Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Jaipur, Jhunjhunu, Karauli, Kota, Nagaur, Sawai Madhopur and Sikar. Initially, the neighbouring districts did not have all facilities for treatment, the reason why the state government had to bring patients to SMS Hospital. “Since SMS Hospital was declared a dedicated Covid hospital, patients were sifted here for better treatment. However, a lot of them died too while undergoing treatment,” said a SMS Hospital official. While Bharatpur’s 20 Covid patients died in Jaipur, six from Sikar, five from Nagaur, four from Sikar and three each from Ajmer, Alwar, Dausa, Karauli and Sawai Madhopur too died at SMS Hospital. In the city's private hospitals, 41 people, who tested positive, died till July 5. They too received patients from Karauli, Jhunjhunu, Churu, Bharatpur, Alwar, Sawai Madhopur and Kota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/57-of-all-covid-19-deaths-in-state-occured-in-jaipur/articleshow/76902070.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
July 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Help sought for unorganised sector workforce||Aurangabad: Social activists have come forward and demanded financial help along with distribution of dry ration kits to the workers belonging to the unorganised sector during the ongoing lockdown. Social activist Subhash Lomte on Friday said no heed is being paid to those belonging to the unorganised sector while announcing restrictions. “The unorganised sector contributes to 65% of the GDP, but are badly ignored during the pandemic. The curbs associated with containing the spread of Covid-19 have been taking heavy toll on the workforce concerned,” he said. Social activists have reiterated the demand of offering a monthly aid of Rs 10,000 to the unorganised sector. Left leader Ram Baheti said unorganised sector workers account for 93% of total workforce. “Besides monetary help, the families from unorganised sector labours must get assured jobs under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA). The option of running relief camps was also explored during the lockdown initially and the same can be of help during the lockdown that will be imposed in the future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/help-sought-for-unorganised-sector-workforce/articleshow/76901472.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Patients suffer as helpline borrowed from Bescom is mostly busy||Bengaluru: Critically ill Covid-19 patients seeking change of hospital to avail ventilators and oxygen beds are left to fend for themselves most of the time. Reason: The helpline set up by the state government for the purpose is of little help. Most people dialling 1912 (the helpline), borrowed from Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom), are unable to get across, especially in late evenings when the utility is flooded with calls from consumers complaining about rain-related power cuts. Evening and night hours are when the condition of many Covid-19 patients deteriorates and hospitals where they are lodged ask that they be moved out as ICUs are full, doctors from multiple hospitals told TOI. On Wednesday night, a 50-year-old Covid-19 patient’s condition worsened in a Koramangala hospital, which said he had to be moved out as its ICU was full. Scores of calls to 1912 went unanswered. The tension lasted hours and the patient was provided a ventilator facility in the same hospital after media flagged off the incident to the health and family welfare department. According to Bescom MD, Rajesh Gowda, 1912 is basically a grievance redressal helpline for addressing power-related issues. “We are additionally handling Covid-19 work and bed allotment coordination. If the calls go unanswered at night, it could be because the Bescom helpline is flooded with at least 20,000-25,000 calls whenever it rains in Bengaluru. If there is power snag in one area, we get calls from multiple residents of the same locality,” he said. BBMP and Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust officers in charge of bed allocation said relatives of critically ill patients unable to reach 1912 end up dialling their personal numbers at night. “Allotment has to happen via 1912. If they don’t answer calls, there is nothing we can do,” said an officer. Multiple hospitals TOI spoke to said they are asked not to admit a Covid-19 patient without BBMP referral. “We have a bed vacant with a ventilator but we can take the patient if only routed through BBMP,” said officials of a multi-specialty hospital. The hospitals at present are admitting suspected Covid-19 cases with symptoms of SARI and ILI. “Such cases are admitted and tested for Covid. Treatment is continued in our hospital itself when they turn positive. But we don’t admit Covid-19 patients on our own without BBMP referral. The Palike has to approve it through the 1912 helpline,” said another hospital. However, civic officials say there is no such rule stating a patient willing to pay for his treatment should get a BBMP referral. “Private hospitals have to give 50% of their beds to government-referred patients and the rest can be used for admitting other patients willing to pay on their own. BBMP will help patients in getting admitted to private hospitals as well,” Randeep D, special commissioner, who is overseeing Covid-19 matters, said. He said that in cases of BBMP referrals, the civic body is issuing clearances on WhatsApp. As per health and family welfare department data, Bengaluru has 1,287 ventilators, including those in private and government hospitals. Similarly, there are 1,684 ICU beds. However, a shortage of ventilators shouldn’t occur if they are all functional, considering the city has only 290 patients in ICU. “A hospital may have declared that 60 beds would be given for Covid but when we check it won’t be more than 20,” a senior BBMP officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/patients-suffer-as-helpline-borrowed-from-bescom-is-mostly-busy/articleshow/76900673.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 11, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Worst-hit Ibrahimganj faces seven-day lockdown from July 12||BHOPAL: District collector Avinash Lavania on Friday issued a video message, categorically stating that a seven-day lockdown would be limited to the new coronavirus hotspot — Ibrahimganj — under Hanumanganj police station and not the entire Bhopal city. Throughout Friday, Whatsapp groups forwarded messages, referring to a lockdown order by the district collector under Section 144 of CrPC, as the ‘return of lockdown’ in Bhopal. He further said that the lockdown would be in force in Ibrahimganj from July 12 to July 19 and the area of the lockdown (boundaries of Ibrahimganj) would be decided by the sub-divisional magistrate of the area and the CSP in-charge of Mangalwara police station. The area so decided would be barricaded and locals would not be allowed to come out of their houses except in cases of medical emergency and performing last rites in the event of death in the area. Essential commodities will be provided in the households by the BMC staff, he said. In areas beyond Ibrahimganj, markets, offices and other establishments will open as usual except for Sunday, which shall be observed as ‘Janata Curfew’. Guidelines for the day would be issued later, he said in the video shared by the public relations section of the district collectorate on its Whatsapp group in the afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/worst-hit-ibrahimganj-faces-7-day-lockdown-from-july-12/articleshow/76900846.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Covid patients in hospitals down 50%||GURUGRAM: The number of patients admitted in dedicated Covid hospitals and Covid health centres in the city has reduced by nearly 50% in the past nine days. While the number has gone down from 53 on July 1 to 27 on July 9 in hospitals, during the same period, it has dropped from 325 to 164 in the health centres set up by the district administration. A major factor that has contributed to the drop in bed occupancy is the reduced number of critically ill patients. “The average number of cases is now about 130 every day, which was higher before mid-June, at more than 150. We witnessed more critical patients between May 15 and June 15 and are now getting fewer of those cases,” said Dr Naveen Kumar, a physician at Civil Hospital. Compared to the previous two months, symptomatic Covid patients are now spending less time in Covid hospitals and health centres and the average duration of their stay has come down. This is partly owing to the fact that patients are now being discharged when they are clinically stable, said Dr Sushila Kataria, director and head, department of medicine, Medanta hospital. Earlier, they were released only after a double negative RT-PCR report. The rule was later waived. “We are now discharging people when we find them clinically stable. If the patients become clinically stable after the treatment, we discharge them and ask them to be in home isolation for seven days,” Dr Kataria said. A patient is generally considered ‘clinically stable’ when his or her vital signs — heart rate, systolic blood pressure, respiratory rate, oxygen saturation and temperature — are normal. Gurugram’s recovery rate has also picked up, improving from 77% last week to 83% as of Thursday, which is the best in the country. Out of a total of 6,578 cases, 5,507 patients have recovered. Its active cases have dropped below 1,000, to 968. On Thursday, the number of recoveries, 130, was higher than that of new cases, which was 111. Doctors said that there is no one particular medicine they are using to treat severe cases of Covid-19. While some patients are given Remdesivir, others are treated with Tocilizumab. In some cases, plasma therapy has also been used. Four months of the pandemic has given them new insights into the line of treatment that each patient may require, doctors said. “Earlier, we used to give Tocilizumab to a patient after he or she became critical, but this is not the case anymore. We are wiser now. We now administer it at an early stage if needed. Our understanding of the disease and the treatment has significantly improved,” said Dr Kataria. People now have an increased awareness about Covid and are taking precautions, doctors said, adding that it may have helped in keeping the numbers lower. “We have seen in other countries that the cases started decreasing after three months. People have seen the severity of the disease and are more careful. This might have brought down the cases and as a result, we are seeing less hospitalisation now,” said Dr Kataria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/covid-patients-in-hospitals-down-50/articleshow/76902074.cms||Vishakha Chaman
July 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara registers 51 fresh cases||Kolhapur: Satara district registered 51 new Covid-19 cases late on Thursday night, taking the total number of patients to 1,543. Of the total number of patients, 934 have been discharged from various hospitals after recovery. AT present, the district has 547 active patients. District collector Shekhar Singh has appealed to the citizens to follow all lockdown-related norms such as maintaining social distance and wearing face masks while moving around in public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-registers-51-fresh-cases/articleshow/76901480.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur records highest no. of Covid patients in single day||Kolhapur: The district has reported 59 fresh Covid-19 patients on Friday, which is the highest number of cases recorded in a single day, taking the total number of cases to 1,128. Kolhapur district has also recorded two deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 23 in the district. One of the deceased is a woman from Kolhapur city whose test reports arrived after she was cremated. As many as 80 people who attended the cremation have been put in quarantine centres.  Meanwhile, the corporators of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation on Friday suggested observing Janata curfew or complete lockdown in the city on weekdays. Sharangdhar Deshmukh, a senior corporator of Congress said, “We suggested alternate closure of the vegetable markets and allow markets to open for few hours in the morning to avoid congestion.”  Committee members home quarantined After one of the local representatives of Ichalkaranji tested Covid positive, the administration has directed all the members of the town-level Covid monitoring committee to stay in home quarantine. The committee had met to discuss lockdown implementation a few days ago. Sangli reports 28 cases Sangli district has reported 28 fresh Covid-19 cases and one casualty on Friday. With this, the total number of cases has reached to 616, of which 303 cases are active. The district has recorded 16 deaths due to Covid-19.  Death audit to be carried out  Sangli collector Abhijeet Chaudhary has directed to carry out death audit of the Covid-19 patients who died in a private hospital located at Miraj. According to health administration, the death rate in private hospitals is high. District civil surgeon Sanjay Salunkhe said that the patients undergoing treatment at that hospital have been shifted to Sangli Civil Hospital. The arrangement is temporary and will allow the private hospital to carry out treatment after the findings of the death audit, he said. According to Salunkhe, seven patients have died in the hospital so far. The well-known hospital in Miraj faced flak recently from local activists for charging huge sum of money for Covid treatment.  A 100-year-old defeats Covid  A 100-year-old Covid patient from Mandur village has been successfully treated and was discharged on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-records-highest-no-of-covid-patients-in-single-day/articleshow/76901477.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: ACB unearths Rs 5 crore assets of Shabad inspector||HYDERABAD: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths conducted searches at the residence of Shabad Inspector B Shankaraiah, his relatives and benamis house on Friday. During the searches, ACB team unearthed Rs 4.6 crore disproportionate assets. Its documentary value would be over Rs 15 crore.  The unearthed disproportionate assets are, two houses in Vanasthalipuram and Bowrampet worth Rs 1.05 crore, 10 plots in city outskirts and one plot in Basara worth Rs 2.28 crore, 41 acres and 3 guntas of agricultural land at Renjal of Nizamabad, Mudimyala of Chevella mandal and Miryalaguda worth Rs 77 lakh, a Maruti Swift car worth Rs 7 lakh, gold ornaments worth Rs 21.14 lakh, Rs 17.88 lakh cash, household articles worth Rs 6.13 lakh and Rs 81,000 worth silver articles. Shankaraih and his sub ordinate, ASI K Rajender, were caught red-handed by the ACB team at Shabad police station on Thursday when they accepted Rs 1.2 lakh bribe from V Vijay Mohan Reddy, a farmer from Solipet village in Shabad mandal, to help him in amicably settling three cases registered in Shabad police station and also to implement a court order about the property dispute the complainant’s family has been involved in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acb-unearths-rs-5cr-assets-of-shabad-inspector/articleshow/76901481.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Trichy||Suicide of pregnant girl: NCPCR seeks report||TRICHY: While seeking action taken report (ATR) from the DGP in connection with the suicide of a 17-year-old pregnant girl, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) also enquired whether the victim was given psychological counselling, which could have prevented her from committing suicide. “We have asked the Trichy collector to submit a report to the commission on the interventions given to the child. The commission will take the case forward based on the report and the ATR,” NCPCR member Dr RG Anand told TOI on Friday. The 17-year-old girl of Kavarapatti village near Manapparai in Trichy, who was six months pregnant, ended her life by consuming poison on July 8. She was declared dead at the government headquarters hospital in Manapparai. The girl took the extreme after Ramki, 22, from Bagavathipatti near Viralimalai, who impregnated her, was not arrested by the all women police station (AWPS) police in Manapparai despite filing of the case on May 29. He even got anticipatory bail from a Trichy court. While the inability of the police to arrest him was blamed for her suicide, NCPCR decided to check if the child welfare stake holders - district child protection unit (DCPU), child welfare committee (CWC) and Child Line provided support. “They contacted us over phone and asked whether we are interested to send our daughter to the rehabilitation home. We said to them we will take care of her, but no counselling was given,” her father Palanivel said. Dismissing his complaint, Trichy DCPO M Geetha denied it. “After the FIR was filed, we interacted with the family members and the child. We gave counselling, guidance and supportive measures also,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/suicide-of-pregnant-girl-ncpcr-seeks-report/articleshow/76902077.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 11, 2020||Bhopal||Corona death rate in MP declines, says Chouhan||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday said that there has been a significant decline in deaths due to Covid-19 in the state in the last one week. During this period, there were 22 deaths among 2,053 positive cases, which is about 1.1%. Efforts are being made to ensure the best treatment of Coronavirus in the state so that every patient recovers. So far, 12,481 Corona patients have recovered and discharged from the Covid hospitals in the state. Survey work of 66% population has been completed under the "Kill Corona" campaign, launched to prevent spread of the Coronavirus pandemic in the state. During this period, 55,799 samples have been taken, out of which 655 have been found positive, the state’s positivity rate is 1.17. Chouhan was reviewing the situation of Coronairus in the state through video conferencing from Mantralaya on Friday. During the review of Jhabua district, it was found that there is a possibility of spread of infection due to movement of people from Dahod district of Gujarat state and vice-versa. Chief minister directed that no one should enter the borders without screening. Chief secretary, Iqbal Singh Bains, directed that more attention should be paid to contact tracing in the district. There are currently 23 active cases in the district, 15 have recovered and gone home. New cases have come up in Shajapur district in the last 3-4 days. There are 36 active patients in the district and 55 have recovered. Chouhan directed that attention should be paid on how to prevent new cases. Contact tracing should be done within 24 hours following detection of a patient. Principal secretary, health, informed that Corona testing is on the rise in the state. Now it has increased to 11,261 tests daily. Large number of samples are being taken under the "Kill Corona" campaign. The ‘Sarthak Light App’ is very useful in controlling Coronavirus pandemic. Through this, 65,000 people have got themselves registered in the state so far, 5 of them have been admitted and are being given treatment. Anyone can avail facility of Coronavirus test and free treatment through the app. Chief minister said that more and more people should download the app and avail its||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/corona-death-rate-in-mp-declines-says-chouhan/articleshow/76900858.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bhopal||Sunday lockdown in MP: Most hail move, others sceptical||BHOPAL: While a majority of the residents have welcomed the move to impose a complete lockdown on Sundays, a few are sceptical as ‘it’s the only free day of the week’. “It will be greatly beneficial to impose lockdown as a lot of people go out to parks and public places with families on Sundays. And the virus, which is on railings and other such structures in these public places, is more likely to get hosts when these places are open on Sundays. But if these places are closed on Sundays, then the virus is likely to die as they cannot survive in external environment without a host body for more than 7-8 hours. Thus, it will break the chain,” retired Dr R K Badve told TOI. Dr Badve retired as surgery specialist, health department, in January this year and is engaged in social work. “Secondly, as it is Sunday, normal office work will not be affected due to the lockdown. Also, as less vehicles will be on the roads, there would be less pollution,” he added. Similar views were expressed by Vinod Shrivastav, who runs a medical store in the state capital, “On one hand, it will be very useful in curbing the spread of Covid-19 and, on the other hand, we will be able to give time to the family as due to Sunday, offices and other such places will remain closed.” Wishing anonymity, a secretariat official, said, “It’s not only Sunday, but I strongly feel that this lockdown should be imposed on every alternate day. It is spreading like wildfire, relatives of several officials have also tested positive”. Vineet Chowdhary, a resident of Kolar, however, said, “I do understand that it is important to put a check on the spread of Covid-19, but it is also a fact that it is only on Sunday that we have spare time for completing our household chores. But again, there is no other option to check the spread of Covid-19”. Varinder Singh, a contractor by profession, said, “Not only lockdown on Sunday, but this concept of going out by families on holidays should be checked at least till Covid-19 comes under control or is eradicated”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sunday-lockdown-most-hail-move-others-sceptical/articleshow/76900905.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Delhi||After months-long fight, death rate in Delhi down to 3%, daily count dips too||NEW DELHI: The capital’s overall Covid-19 death rate has come down to 3.02% from 3.64% in June. The daily average deaths have also climbed down to 2.5% at less than 50 deaths a day against around 2,000 new cases daily in the past fortnight. Delhi government’s analysis of Covid deaths established delay in hospitalisation as the cause in the death of just 28 patients. Not a single person in home isolation has died in July against seven, who in the last fortnight of June, had to be shifted to hospital, where they died. “As per the central government’s Paul Committee, 45% of deaths in India occur during the first 48 hours of infection. In Delhi, this has come down to only 15%,” Delhi government said in a statement on Saturday. “From a high of 101 daily deaths in mid-June, they have come down to around 46 deaths a day in the last fortnight.” The analysis was done after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal directed the health department to study all deaths in last fortnight (June 24 to July 8) so that the government can micro analyse the deaths and take steps to further reduce deaths. The health department presented the analysis to the chief minister in a meeting on Friday. “Out of a total of 691 deaths in the last fortnight, only seven deaths happened in home isolation. Not a single death has occurred in July of any patient in home isolation,” said a government official, adding that the state government’s decision to distribute oximeters to all patients isolated at their homes had proved effective. Oximeters alert the patients to a drop in oxygen saturation level, an early sign of deteriorating health. Around 12,000 persons are currently in home isolation in the 11 districts of the capital. Of those who died, 505 had been in serious condition when admitted to hospitals. “Of them, 291 were already in hospital when they tested positive. The study found delay in hospital admission in the case of only 28 patients,” the government report said. An official credited the falling death rate to the focus on increased testing, emphasis on home isolation of asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms, ambulance response time reducing from 55 minutes to 30.5 minutes, quick hospital admission process, availability of hospital beds and additional ICU capacity and opening of a plasma bank. An official added that comorbidities were also reasons for the deaths. At a meeting on Saturday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal sought more details of the microanalysis of Covid deaths in Delhi. He asked the health department to provide the ratio of deaths to total number of patients discharged from each hospital, saying hospitals with a low ratio would mean better management of the Covid patients. Good practices from such hospitals could be studied to improve the conditions in other hospitals with higher death ratios. The chief minister said he would continue monitoring serious cases daily in order to reduce the fatality rate further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-months-long-fight-death-rate-in-delhi-down-to-3-daily-count-dips-too/articleshow/76916406.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Lockdown as strategy has a limited use, say experts||PUNE: The efficacy of imposing a 10-day lockdown in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad is back in focus. Citizens and experts have said that many countries witnessing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases are avoiding restrictions as it has a limited impact on the spread of the virus. Japan recently reported as many cases as it had during its Covid-19 peak in April. Authorities said they would not impose a fresh emergency or lockdown and expected people to follow the norms of wearing a mask and maintaining social distance. The US, which remains the worst Covid-19 hit country, reported 64,771 cases and 991 deaths in just one day on July 9. However, individual states have begun relaxing the restrictions among growing unrest over mandatory use of masks. Health experts said the lockdown would at best curb the case multiplication but is not a solution to the problem. “Lockdown would at best be able to reduce the spread of the disease. During the lockdown period, it is anticipated that apart from the high-risk close contacts of the patient, the virus would not spread to others and remain restricted. It gives a breather to the health, administration machinery. Thereafter, the cases would be new and have to be controlled through other measures,” a senior doctor, who is advising the state government, said. Senior microbiologist and virologist Renu Bharadwaj said a lockdown doesn't help in controlling the spread of the virus. “Lockdown only gives us breathing space to better prepare for ramping up the facilities. It does not help stop the spread of the virus. Public education and enhancing awareness about precautionary measures are better tools to fight the virus,” she added. Several epidemiologists across the country have criticized the imposition of lockdown to check the spread of the virus. “We never resort to lockdowns to control communicable diseases so where is the logic in lockdowns for Covid-19 which has the lowest fatality rate. Lockdowns did not check the spread of Covid-19 in any country, including India,” said senior clinical epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee. He also heads the department of community medicine at D Y Patil Medical College and hospital in Pimpri. The repeated imposition of lockdown can severely affect many, causing a deficit of trust among workers. “These episodic lockdowns at short notices will lead to a crisis of confidence and trust among workers who left the city and are now planning to come back to resume work,” Banerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-as-strategy-has-a-limited-use-say-experts/articleshow/76901487.cms||Swatee Kher
July 11, 2020||Kolhapur||6 highways remain shutamid heavy rain in dist||Kolhapur: Heavy rain (300mm) was recorded in Kolhapur district in the last 24 hours till Friday evening, resulting in the continued closure of two state highways and four district highways for vehicular traffic. Shridhar Ghatge, assistant superintendent engineer of public works department, said the major roads that were shut include Kalamba-Salokhenagar-Balinge-Shingnapur state highway, Chandgad bridge state highway and Bastawde district highway. “Vehicles were diverted to alternative routes. If the rain subsides, these roads may be opened to vehicular traffic by Friday night,” he said. The water level in the Panchganga river was 25.3 feet, although it receded by 2ft in 24 hours. However, around eight barrages were under water. The water level need to decrease by around two to three feet more for commuting along these barrages. Meanwhile, the water discharge from Radhanagri dam was around 1,100 cusec, said officials. Water was discharged at around 2,100 cusec for a few hours on Friday from the Koyna dam, which has 40 tmc ft water now. The discharge led to an increase in the water level of the Krishna river to 10 feet at Irwin bridge in Sangli. The Maharashtra and Karnataka governments have appointed three-tier committees to monitor the rain, dam water levels and discharges. The coordination between superintendent engineers is under way for the last couple of days, said sources. The move resulted in 16,000 cusec discharge of water from the Almatti dam in Karnataka, which helped in maintaining the Krishna river water level throughout the day despite heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of the river and its tributaries. The other two monitoring levels are of secretaries and ministers from both the states. At present, the Almatti dam has 64% (83 tmc ft) as against 42 tmc ft during the corresponding period last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/6-highways-remain-shutamid-heavy-rain-in-dist/articleshow/76901490.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Sealed areas rise to 106 in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: The number of containment zones in Gurugram has again increased from 104 to 106. A total of 12 areas has been added to the list of sealed zones while 10 have been removed. Of the 12 areas that were added on Friday, four are in Sohna itself. The move follows a surge in Covid cases after the health department started focusing on rapid antigen tests. “After rapid antigen testing was introduced, we saw more Covid cases being reported from Patel Nagar and Sohna. We might increase the number of rapid antigen testing camps in these areas to test the maximum number of people,” said a member of the containment zone review committee. The areas that were added to the list of containment zones include lane number 6, 7, 8, house number 366 to 376 (in Chakkarpur village); lane number 1, 2, 3, 4 (in Tikri village); lane number 2, 5, 13, 15, 19A (in Surat Nagar Phase 1); tower C (in Kendriya Vihar, Sector 56); lane number 2, 3, 4, 7, 10 (in Laxman Vihar Phase 1); block B (in Sushant Lok IIl, Sector 57); Suraj Memorial School lane, Hanuman Mandir lane (in Vishnu Garden); Ambedkar Bhawan to house number 218 in Harijan Mohalla (Nathupur); Thakurwara, Gujjar Ghati; Shiv Kund area, Baniawara, Lohiyawara; Mangal Colony, Rajoriya Colony, Band Colony, Koliwara and Kayasthwara, Tilpat Colony, New Anad Mandi, Bada Mohalla and Pathanwara. Watch Covid-19: Sealed areas rise to 106 in Gurugram||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/sealed-areas-rise-to-106-in-city/articleshow/76902082.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Fire services cert delivery likely to go online by July-end||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha fire services directorate is likely to launch online delivery of fire safety certificates by the end of this month. Though the state government had in November last year planned to launch the project on April 1 this year, its implementation has been delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, said an official. The Odisha computer application centre (OCAC) of the electronics and information technology department is implementing the project. “This is part of the state government’s 5T (transparency, teamwork, technology, timeframe and transformation) roadmap,” DGP (fire services and home guards) Satyajit Mohanty said. Mohanty said following the directive by chief minister Naveen Patnaik, the field-level fire service officials would be empowered to issue online certificates for multi-storey private and commercial buildings. A special three-day orientation programme was organised in Cuttack on Tuesday where the divisional fire officers were trained on their roles and responsibilities. In November last year, the state government came across massive irregularities in the grant of manual fire safety certificates. Complaints came pouring in that people, mostly owners of commercial and business establishments, had been struggling to get fire safety certificates despite running from pillar to post for several days. Once the online system is launched, applicants are likely to get fire safety certificates and fire safety recommendations within 18 days from the date of application. “The move is aimed at bringing major improvement in the system of grant of fire safety certificates and and ensure hassle-free public services under the 5T charter,” another fire officer said. An official source said the proposed online service will be monitored under the state government’s ambitious Mo Sarkar (my government) initiative. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik and senior officers will receive feedback from people on quality of services rendered by the fire services officials. In November last year, the state home department notified new procedures for issue and renewal of fire safety certificates and fire safety recommendation in accordance with Odisha fire prevention and fire safety (amended) rules, 2019. According to the new rules, an officer-in-charge (OIC) of fire station not below the rank of station officer is competent to issue a fire safety certificate for a temporary structure. A circle deputy fire officer has been empowered to grant certificates to buildings below 15 metres high, range fire officer to buildings between 15 and 35 metres, and chief fire officer can issue fire safety licence to buildings with height of 35 metres and above.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/fire-services-cert-delivery-likely-to-go-online-by-july-end/articleshow/76900897.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
July 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Decision on lockdown in Solapur soon||Kolhapur: The decision of imposing fresh lockdown in Solapur district is expected on Saturday as the city continues to record increasing number of Covid-19 patients. District guardian minister Datta Bharne has asked top officials of the district administration to take a formal decision in this regard after reviewing the current situation. The Solapur municipal corporation collected 2,167 swab samples between July 1 and July 8, of which, 659 tested positive for Covid-19. The city has also recorded 37 deaths in the same period. The increasing number of coronavirus cases gas resulted in the authorities taking a tough stand in terms of lockdown. Meanwhile, Solapur rural registered 37 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total number of patients to 709. The district has reported 32 deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/decision-on-lockdown-in-solapur-soon/articleshow/76901483.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Trichy||Karur’s feat: Tight vigil keeps Covid-19 cases in single digit||TRICHY: While many districts continue to report Covid-19 cases in double or even triple digits every day, Karur is among the few that have managed to keep the cases below ten. No wonder then that the total cases reported in the district since the pandemic broke out add up to only 190 as on Friday. Of these, 50 active cases have been undergoing treatment at Karur government medical college hospital. The district has recorded only three Covid-19 deaths so far. District health officials say that an average 250 people are tested every day out of which five test positive on an average though there have been an occasional 10 cases as on last Sunday. Tightening of movement through district borders and mandatory facility quarantine for those entering the district in the last two weeks have been helping in early identification and isolation of infected people. Pallapatti and Kaur municipalities had an influx of people from Covid hotspots in Maharashtra like Pune, Mumbai and Dharavi. Facility quarantine was established at many places in the Muslim-dominated Pallapatti village to accommodate the returnees for up to two weeks with the help of religious heads, said district collector T Anbalagan. “We understood that we cannot prevent people from entering the district. Therefore, we also focused on boosting the immunity of people in the infected zones to contain the spread,” said the collector. Zinc, vitamin tablets and Kabasura Kudineer were delivered at the door step in localities with more Covid-19 cases, he added. Stringent restrictions on commercial activity were imposed in Karur municipality which helped restrict movement of people. Further, hefty fines on those venturing out without face mask and keeping shops open only till 1 pm largely helped in checking the spread, said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/karurs-feat-tight-vigil-keeps-covid-19-cases-in-single-digit/articleshow/76902080.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odissi dancer to hold digital song-dance contest to pay tribute to Galwan martyrs||BHUBANESWAR: New Delhi-based noted Odissi dancer Chandana Raul (46) is going to organise a digital dance and song competition, 50% of whose registration fee will go to the families of the Galwan martyrs and government funds for the fight against Covid-19. The results will be declared on August 15. “In such a time, I felt that I should provide a platform to children, who are at home now, to express themselves creatively and pay tribute to the martyrs and laud the Covid warriors at the same time,” said Chandana. Both the dance and song competition have general and divyang (disabled) categories for entry besides having three groups based on age. Participants from India, Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh can participate in it. The competitors can only dance on Bande Utkal Janani, Odisha’s state song, and a Sanskrit song that Chandana is sending to them and send back the two-minute videos to the organizer. The dances can be classical, western or contemporary. The singers will have to record their two-minute songs of their choice that have to be either devotional or patriotic. Chandana said the songs are patriotic or devotional because this competition is being organised as a tribute to the martyrs. There will be five judges for each competition. The last date for entry is July 20 and submission of videos is July 31. Children from New Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha have already started registering themselves. “Though it’s a competition, the digital format will help children improve their performances before submitting the video to us. Also, there will be no pressure of competition on them as it is not live,” Chandana, who has been dancing since she was nine years old, said. The videos of the winners will be uploaded on Chandana’s Facebook page, her YouTube channel, her Instagram account and Twitter handles on the evening of August 15. She will also perform live on Facebook on the day. “Subsequently, I will upload videos of the other participants, who will also receive certificates,” said Chandana, who belongs to Jeypore in Koraput district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odissi-dancer-to-hold-digital-song-dance-contest-to-pay-tribute-to-galwan-martyrs/articleshow/76900891.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
July 11, 2020||Trichy||Intense lockdown in 3 wards of Trichy corporation||TRICHY: After witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases, Trichy corporation has enforced intense lockdown for 14 days in wards 16, 17 and 18 that have reported maximum number of positive cases. The wards comprise areas in and around the congested Big Bazaar Street in Srirangam zone. Corporation officials said that Big Bazaar Street and its criss-crossing lanes have reported 123 Covid-19 cases so far. Around 20% of the cases reported theTrichy city have come either directly or indirectly from these wards. Around 11,000 houses and shops are covered in the containment zone, comprising at least 40,000 people. “Bulk number of cases were reported in the Big Bazaar Street locality, thus inviting such a massive containment zone. Other parts of the city are relatively on a safer side,” Trichy Corporation commissioner, S Sivasubramanian, told TOI. Officials said that inbound and outbound public movement in cordoned off area is banned. Except for shops selling essential commodities and pharmacies, all the commercial establishments in the containment zone will be shut down. More than 30 entry and exit points of the three wards were closed by the engineering departments officials on Friday night. Trichy city police personnel were deployed at the access points along WB road, EB road and Vellamandi road to prevent people from entering the containment zone. “Big Bazaar street zone has the maximum active Covid-19 cases. Since people from other parts of the city and district are frequenting the vicinity, the intense lockdown was imposed to curtail the public mobility so as to contain further spread,” an official with Trichy Corporation said. The civic body will distribute Kabasura Kudineer and vitamin tablets to all the households in the containment zone in the next two weeks. Similarly, fever surveillance will be conducted to identify residents with Covid-19 symptoms. Through the public address system, people were informed about the intense lockdown in the three wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/intense-lockdown-in-3-wards-of-trichy-corpn/articleshow/76902083.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana students record near 100% pass rate in ICSE exams||HYDERABAD: Except for one student out of 4,487 students who appeared for the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) examination-- class 10, from Telangana, all others have passed in the exams, results of which are declared on Friday. When compared with last year’s performance, in which 4,332 out of 4,364 passed in the examinations, this year students managed to put up a good show. Several schools in the city recorded 100% pass percentage with many students securing over 95% in the board examinations conducted by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE). “We achieved outstanding results at the ICSE 2020 Board examination. The results were exemplary with 97% of the students obtaining distinctions. The remaining two students secured first class. 35 students received 100 marks in various subjects with 17 students topping in History with 100 marks. 57% of the students obtained an aggregate of 90% and above,” said Madhavi Chandra, principal, Gitanjali Devshala. The principal of Niraj Public School, Jivitesh Reddy said that 79 out of 82 students from the school passed with distinction. “Thirty-four students from our school secured over 90% marks and 28 students secured between 80% to 89%,” added Reddy. Isha Gandham, a student of The Hyderabad Public School, Begumpet who scored 96%, said, “I will be doing my major in Biology from NYU, Abu Dhabi. I might have to do my first semester online due to Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-students-record-near-100-pass-rate-in-icse-exams/articleshow/76904290.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
July 11, 2020||Gurgaon||111 news cases reported in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: The city reported 111 new cases on Friday, taking the tally to 6,578. The health department confirmed that 130 patients recorvered from Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 5,507. No Covid related death was reported on Friday, an official said. So far, 103 people have died of Covid-19 in the city, of whom 66 had comorbidities. However, there were three deaths reported on Friday from Rohtak, Ambala and Fatehabad. So far, 64,159 people have been put under surveillance in the city. The health department has sent 58,309 samples for testing, of which 48,146 were found negative and the results of 686 are awaited. Gurugram has a total of 968 active cases, of which 721 are under home quarantine. Health officials confirmed that 30 people are under government quarantine. With three Covid deaths reported on Friday, the toll in the state rose to 290. The state’s infection tally now stands at 19,934 with 4740 active cases, according to a health department bulletin. The recovery rate of the state is 74.77% while the positivity rate is at 5.75%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/111-news-cases-reported-in-city/articleshow/76902085.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Pune||Industries may be allowed to work with some curbs in Pune||PUNE: State government officials have ruled out a complete lockdown for the industry in Pune, calming the nerves of the businessmen. The lockdown guidelines, expected in a day or two, will outline the finer details, but the officials said industries would be allowed to operate with certain restrictions. For now, 100% staff is allowed in industrial units and 50% in private firms. “There will be restrictions like allowing employees to travel only by bus, among others, for a limited period,” Sadashiv Survase, joint director of industries, Maharashtra, said. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner said nobody wanted a lockdown, but strict measures for a short period were necessary to arrest the rapid rise in positive cases. He said a call on which industries can operate will be taken in a day or two. “We hope that no new steps are taken that disrupts the unlocking of industries and supply chains. Livelihoods are just about rebuilding. It would be very costly intervention for our economy in general and for lives depending upon these livelihoods in specific,” Prashant Girbane, director general, Mahratta Chambers of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), said. The small-scale industries are particularly on the edge. Pimpri Chinchwad Small Scale Industries president Sandeep Belsare said, “Do they have statistics to prove that positive count is increasing from industry? Just because some people are not adhering to rules, does not mean that industries should be shut. We are already only working at 35-40% of labour force and a lockdown now will impact labourers who are willing to return.” Dalit Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industries (DICCI) founder Milind Kamble said the move would severely impact the supply chain. “What about goods that are in transit...all things have just started to move,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/industries-may-be-allowed-to-work-with-some-curbs/articleshow/76901496.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Dutee offers to sell her SUV to meet training expenses||BHUBANESWAR: India’s top sprinter Dutee Chand on Friday offered to sell her SUV to meet the expenses for her training for Tokyo Olympics that has been postponed to 2021 due to the Covid crisis. She posted a message on her Facebook page asking interested buyers to contact her. “I want to sell my car. If anyone interested to buy, please let me know. Text me on my messenger,” Dutee wrote on her Facebook page. Within a few minutes, her comment box was flooded with followers and friends asking her about the reason behind selling the SUV. Dutee responded, saying she need the money for training. “As I don’t have sponsorship at the moment because of the pandemic, it’s difficult for me to bear the cost of training and diet every month. So, I have decided to sell the vehicle to meet the training and dietary expenses,” the 24-year-old athlete said. Dutee said she has to spend around Rs 3 to Rs 3.5 lakh every month on coach, physio, diet and nutrition, which she said is difficult to bear for any athlete without sponsorship. Dutee purchased the high-end car in November 2018. It’s a second-hand car which she had bought for around Rs 30 lakh by utilising part of the prize money she got from the state government after winning two silver medals at the 18th Asian Games in Jakarta in 2018. “Training and qualifying for Olympics is important for me than anything else at the moment. I have been practising very hard to qualify for Tokyo,” said Dutee, who resumed outdoor training in May last week at the Kalinga Stadium here, after a gap of nearly two months. Asked whether she has approached the state government to bear her training costs, Dutee said the government had already helped her with Rs 50 lakh to prepare for the Olympics. “The state government, the sports department and my employer – Odisha Mining Corporation (OMC) – have all been very cooperative whenever I have asked them for help. This time I haven’t told the state government about my problem because I understand the trouble it is going through because of the pandemic,” said Dutee. The athlete said she has two other four-wheelers which she would use for movement within the state. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/dutee-offers-to-sell-her-suv-to-meet-training-expenses/articleshow/76900907.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Trichy||Chicken biryani on menu for patients in Trichy||TRICHY: The district administration has started serving food ordered from a city restaurant, including non-vegetarian fare, to Covid-19 patients in Trichy. They include those admitted to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH), the Covid care centre (CCC) on Bharathidasan University’s Khajamalai campus and contacts of patients at Yatri Niwas. “Starting from Monday, the food is being bought from a restaurant in Trichy. Packed food is provided to patients three times a day. It will ensure more hygienic supply of food,” Collector S Sivarasu told TOI. The restaurant has been asked to serve seven types of menus including chicken biryani and egg masala for lunch on Thursdays and Sundays. Earlier, the food was either sponsored by private companies and individuals or cooked at the hospital itself. The packed food is being served to around 500 patients at all the three centres in a day. The collector said the expense for providing food three times a day for a patient would cost about Rs 250 and the fund is being drawn from the state disaster relief and other government funds. The food committee comprising dean Dr K Vanitha, medical superintendent Dr R Yeganathan and nodal officer Dr K R Vijaya Bharathi suggested the menu for a week in line with the recommendations of the health department. A 31-year-old patient from Somarasampettai who returned home from the covid care centre appreciated the hygiene and taste but felt the quantity was insufficient for youngsters. Doctors said the menu incorporates protein, carbohydrates, fat, vitamins and minerals to suit patients with comorbidities too. MGMGH continues to provide its own preparation of food to non-Covid patients in the hospital. Besides the food supplied from the restaurant, the hospital provides sundal twice, egg and banana twice and lemon juice once to the patients every day. Department of Indian medicine and homeopathy provides Kabasura Kudineer twice and an immunity booster once.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/chicken-biryani-on-menu-for-patients-in-trichy/articleshow/76902089.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 11, 2020||Pune||Brokers stare at bankruptcy as closing deals becomes difficult during shutdown in Pune||PUNE: Sharad Mundhe, a real estate broker operating in Camp and Kondhwa, has not closed a single deal in the last three months. “In the area where I operate, the number of empty apartments has increased by almost 20% over the last few months as many people had to leave after they lost their livelihood. Now, I cannot find any new tenants. Many flat owners have reduced rents to lure prospective tenants but no one has called me in the past three months,” Mundhe said. Irshad Shaikh, another broker said a lot has to do with many societies deciding against renting flats. “Although there are very few people looking for new places, moving to a new location is essential for some people. If the attitude of the housing societies changes, things will become easier. Landlords are ready to reduce rents by Rs6,000 to Rs7,000 but finding interested parties has become extremely difficult. I have a flat that has been empty for three months,” Shaikh said. “I am in contact with at least eight landlords willing to cut rent by almost 45%. In last two months, I have closed just two deals, in sharp contrast to almost 15 to 16 deals before March. I have clients who wanted to buy flats and their home loans had been approved but banks started calling them about salary cuts or job losses and cancelling or readjusting the loans,” another broker said. Rohit Sonawane, who lives with his family in Kondhwa said, “My landlord had told me to move since he is planning to move in. I requested him for a two-month extension and he agreed. After that, I plan to stay with my elder brother. My salary has been drastically cut and I can’t afford a new place now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/brokers-stare-at-bankruptcy-as-closing-deals-becomes-difficult-during-shutdown/articleshow/76901504.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Lockdown announced locally, industries face brunt||Kolhapur: The industries are facing the brunt of the complete lockdown announced locally as the units are asked to shut down operations and restrictions on the movement of the local workers have been imposed.  So far, complete lockdown has been imposed for at least two weeks in Ichalkaranji, Shirol, Gadhinglaj and Jaisingpur, which are some of the major industrial zones in the district. The industries resumed operations a month ago after the unlocking began. Already, the industries were facing a shortage of workforce but somehow they managed to get the local workers. Sanjay Shete, the president of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries (KCCI) said, “The lockdowns are imposed locally except at Ichalkaranji, where the district administration put some resrtictions due to an increase in the number of the cases. Locally, the strict enforcement of the lockdown norms is done which has put a stop on the operations of several industries. We want such strict curbs to be removed as the ailing industries cannot afford more lockdowns.” According to the associations, the production of agriculture-related equipment, textile goods had gained momentum after the unlocking began. Some of the industrialists especially related to textile manufacturing said that the overseas markets are booming leading to the rise in demand.  “In such a situation no industrialist want their shops to remain shut. The industrialists are taking all required precautions to avoid the spread of contagion,” added Shete. A senior district official requesting anonymity said that the local bodies or Covid monitoring committees formed locally do not have any authority to impose strict lockdown. “Imposing lockdown is going against the unlocking guidelines of the state government and therefore illegal,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/lockdown-announced-locally-industries-face-brunt/articleshow/76901505.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC to penalise errant citizens||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has initiated a drive to penalise citizens for not wearing masks or spitting in public places. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti has ordered deployment of over 200 staff from the Kolhapur Municipal Transport as they do not have any work due to partial operations of KMT buses. The staff has been deployed in uniform at public places like bus stops and market areas. They have been authorised to fine people Rs 200 for spitting in public, Rs 100 for not wearing masks. The fine for shop owners and vendors for not wearing mask and gloves is Rs 500 and Rs 200, respectively. “By not following the norms people are putting everyone’s life at risk. We have found that the seriousness among citizens is lacking as we are unlocking. We want people to remain safe. There is no restriction on the movement of citizens. However, they should ensure they remain safe by wearing masks,” Kalshetti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-to-penalise-errant-citizens/articleshow/76901498.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Trichy||Self-financing schools seek interest-free loan to pay salaries||TRICHY: An association of self-financing schools in the state has demanded interest-free loans for paying salaries to teachers. They said that fees, the primary source of income for most schools, could not be collected in the last three months. Hence, interest-free loan from banks would help schools to tide over the pandemic till the middle of next year. Tamil Nadu nursery, primary, matriculation, high/higher secondary and CBSE schools’ association carried out peaceful protests at over 200 places in the district. Nirmala K Chandrasekaran from Trichy unit said many self-financing schools are yet to get fee dues from parents for the academic year that ended. Since the state government has instructed not to seek fee from parents, most of the schools are struggling to pay salaries to teachers. The basic approval for self-financing schools is due for renewal and the process is pending. This prevented many schools from approaching banks for loan. The government should also establish a welfare board for self-financing school teachers and announce relief package for teachers akin to those in the unorganised sector, she said. Nirmala said that many school managements are pressured to pay insurance and tax for school van and buses by regional transport offices. These vehicles were remaining stationary over the last three months as institutions are closed, but RTO officials threaten to impose penalty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/self-financing-schools-seek-interest-free-loan-to-pay-salaries/articleshow/76902092.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Cuttack||Eight prisoners of Choudwar Jail test +ve||CUTTACK: Eight more Covid-19 cases were detected in Choudwar Jail on Friday. Among the new cases, five are convicts and three are under trial prisoners, according to jail sources. “Contact tracing of the personnel is going on and their family members have been asked to stay in quarantine,” said superintendent of Choudwar Jail Subhakanta Mishra. A sanitation drive is being carried out in the jail. On July 6, a warder of the Choudwar Jail tested positive for Covid-19. Following it, several persons who came in contact with the warder had been asked to stay in isolation. This apart, a constable serving at the Mangalabag outpost in Cuttack also tested positive. “Contact tracing of the police personnel is going on. Around 57 swab samples of police personnel have been collected,” said an officer of Cuttack Municipal Corporation. Three more corona positive cases were identified from the SCB Medical College and Hospital, including 16 from the CMC area on Friday. With this, there are 195 active cases in Cuttack city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/8-prisoners-of-choudwar-jail-test-ve/articleshow/76900918.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Weekend shutdown fails to break chain of transmission||BHUBANESWAR: The weekend shutdown in several districts, including the capital city, doesn’t seem to be yielding the desired result. The reason: the unprecedented rush in markets on Fridays and Mondays, defeating all efforts by the state government to contain the novel coronavirus. The government had initiated the 48-hour weekend shutdown in a bid to limit the presence of people (the carriers of the virus) outside so that the chain of transmission can be broken. Corresponding to the weekend shutdown from June first week, positive cases have gone up by leaps and bounds. Since June 1, 10,008 cases (5117 in June and 4891 in July so far) have been reported while till May 31, there were only 1948 cases in the state. “The logic behind weekend shutdown was to break the chain of transmission as virus is expected to die within 48 hours if it doesn’t come in contact with people. Yes, there is rush on Friday evenings and Monday mornings, but people need to be more conscious. Had there been no weekend shutdown, there would have been more cases than those at present,” said Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra, additional chief secretary (health). He said that by the end of May, the government had estimated that Odisha would have 43,000 cases, but that didn’t happen because of stringent measures like curfew, lockdown and shifting of markets. Ashok Mohapatra, vice-chancellor of SOA University, said there should be strict enforcement in market places by the police on Fridays and Mondays. “People coming to the markets should be regulated by putting up barricades. On a given time (for example 7am to 9am), some hundred people should be allowed to the market considering its size and space and so on. At no time should the number of people be allowed to swell in the markets,” Ashok observed. He said it is unfortunate that people are not wearing masks despite being fined. “It is a crucial time and people should adhere to pandemic norms. They should supplement the government efforts by obeying the rules for their own safety,” Ashok added. In June, 11 districts were asked to go for weekend shutdown. But in July, the government brought in some changes and introduced new districts. Now, with the district administrations empowered to decide shutdowns if they feel so, weekend curfew is being implemented in 19 of the 30 districts. Saurendra Kumar Mohanty, secretary of Maitree Vihar Resident Welfare Association, said if people don’t keep shopping till the last moment, there would be no rush in the markets. “Now the curfew starts at 9 pm instead of 7 pm. People are getting more time to buy essentials. Instead of rushing in the evening, they should prefer morning and afternoon hours for the purpose. I think the officer-goers, who return home at 5pm or 6 pm, should go for shopping in the evening,” he opined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/weekend-shutdown-fails-to-break-chain-of-transmission/articleshow/76900952.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt rider renders home isolation difficult||BENGALURU: Sanjiv (name changed) tested positive earlier this week. The 35-year-old took the test after a colleague contracted the infection. A total 40 people in his office were infected. Being asymptomatic, Sanjiv preferred home isolation, but was stumped by Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) health officials who insisted he produce a certificate to prove he will be under a physician’s supervision at home. Although asymptomatic patients can be treated at home, they are finding it next to impossible to get a certificate from a doctor and claim they are at the mercy of BBMP doctors. “I spoke to multiple doctors who refused to give a letter,” Sanjiv said. “While many of my colleagues were allowed home isolation without authorities asking for any such letter, I landed in trouble.” The matter was resolved only after intervention from a minister’s office. A BBMP doctor said, “A self-declaration from patients, duly endorsed by a doctor who will monitor them, is a must for anyone to stay in home isolation. We have to go by the rulebook.” The doctor went on to say, “Patients are asking us to monitor them at home, but it’s impossible for us to monitor all asymptomatic cases since we have surveillance duties too.” Asymptomatic patients who have signed up with hospitals providing home healthcare services have not faced a problem, but this comes at a price. General physicians are reluctant to sign up as they do not want to risk monitoring a Covid-19 patient. A July 6 circular issued by the state health and family department clearly states that the patient has to give an undertaking about his comorbidities, countersigned by a the treating doctor, while a family member must sign as a witness. It also states private and government Covid-19 facilities should start ‘triage centres’ to screen ‘asymptomatic’ patients and certify if they are eligible for home isolation. The circular says the government will pay the triage centre Rs 500 as fee per patient. If the patient is found ineligible for home isolation or does not prefer it, s/he will be shifted to an appropriate facility. However, multiple private hospitals TOI spoke to said they have a problem with the circular itself. “When an individual has tested positive, why make him or her visit a hospital even if s/he is asymptomatic?” wondered a senior doctor in a private hospital. “All these examinations should be done when the patient visits the fever clinic or when a swab is collected. If asymptomatic patients are allowed to move around, they could end up infecting others. It’s better if the government ties up with home healthcare service providers to monitor asymptomatic patients.” Experts say said the need of the hour is to open a war room in every ward to track asymptomatic patients through telemonitoring. “Every ward should enlist volunteering doctors to monitor asymptomatic patients in home isolation,” Dr Ambanna Gowda, a Bengaluru-based physician, said. Dr Ramana Rao, physician and cardiologist, said the BBMP must ideally make best use of the technology to supervise all asymptomatic patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-rider-dents-home-isolation-policy-for-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/76900972.cms||Sunitha Rao R
July 11, 2020||Bhopal||3-day lockdown in Chhatarpur after doc couple found positive||Bhopal: After a doctor couple was found coronavirus positive in Chhatarpur, the district administration announced a three-day total lockdown in the city, beginning Friday. Sunday was earlier announced as a day of total lockdown. Till July 10, there have been 66 Covid-19 cases in Chhatarpur.On Thursday, a doctor working at the district hospital was found to be corona-positive. A few hours later, at night, his wife was also diagnosed as coronavirus-positive. Both are in their mid-30s. This news prompted district collector Sheelendra Singh to announce a lockdown for two days on Friday and Saturday in Chhatarpur city. “During the three-day lockdown period, the administration will try to trace the people who had come in contact with the doctor couple in the hospital as well as outside,” a district administration spokesperson said. Ten persons who had come in their contact, including the district hospital’s civil surgeon, have already been quarantined following the positive report of the doctor couple, who had also worked in different units of the hospital before their corona-positive reports. The administration is also trying to understand the source of infection — “whether they contracted the infection in the hospital or outside”, the spokesperson said.Only essential services like medicine, milk supply and fuel services are available during the lockdown which is being strictly implemented. Earlier, a government doctor in Nowgaon tehesil of Chhatarpur was also found corona-positive. The doctor is being treated in Bhopal, sources said. A large number of migrant labourers had returned home in this district of Bundelkhand where swab samples are being taken in smaller places of the district, sources said. Meanwhile, a 55-year-old man who was found positive in Harpalpur of Chhatarpur was quarantined. At least a dozen people who had come in contact with him were quarantined and a pathology lab and a private clinic of the town, where he first went for treatment, were sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/3-day-lockdown-in-chhatarpur-after-doc-couple-found-positive/articleshow/76900926.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Come monsoon, city hosts ‘pool parties’ on every road corner||Ludhiana: Every year, July and August are replete with the same news: the city is submerged in the rain water. Despite that, the authorities fail to take measures to improve the situation. There are some areas which are known for waterlogging but even for that the civic officials have no solution. They blame lack of finances, without which the officials said it is not possible to lay storm sewerage network. The areas like Damoria bridge, Dholewal Chowk, Panj Peeran road, Hambran road, Chandigarh road, Ferozepur road, National Highway (Amritsar-Delhi), Gill Chowk etc are known for waterlogging. Residents said if these were tackled one at a time, the problem could have beemn solved by now. A city-based architect and one of the directors of smart city mission, Sanjay Goel, said, “Since my college days, I have been seeing this happen every year. During rainy seasons, roads get flooded, but still the officials have not planned anything to solve these issues.” He claimed that Damoria bridge is a place under railway line where waterlogging is top be expected, but every year the civic body is caught napping, they make no arrangements to drain water out here. He said if civic body has no technical person available for such things they should hire some experts. “In fact, if you ask me, smart city mission should take up projects aimed at solving this never-ending issue of drainage of rain water instead of making smart areas smarter,” he added. Meanwhile, Congress councillor Mamta Ashu admitted that waterlogging issue should be studied more carefully as even a drizzle leads to stagnation of water everywhere. She said in the west constituency, they have put rainwater harvesting systems in place since last year and this year they have started getting results — the area saw less waterlogging. “By next year, there will not be any problem,” she said and added that the problem needs innovative and out-o0f-the-box solutions. Retired superintending engineer of operation and maintenance cell of the civic body, Manjit Singh, said, “Some areas in the city are low lying and some are at higher altitude. So the civic body will have to plan storm sewerage system in phases only. Also, only 75% of the city can be connected to a storm sewerage.” According to him, money is a huge issue. He recalls the time when the civic body was trying to instal a storm water drain at Dholewal Chowk and Gill road. “But it fell through as money was a major issue,” Singh added. Present superintending engineer of operation and maintenance cell, Ravinder Garg, said, “Ours is not a planned city and due to haphazard development, everything is not systematic so problem arises time and again. For drainage of rainwater, we require separate storm sewerage, which is a major project.” Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “The catchment area will be waterlogged, nobody can stop it. But we have installed generators for motors this time so that even if there are power cuts, we could drain out water. This is the reason water is getting drained out quickly, this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/come-monsoon-city-hosts-pool-parties-on-every-road-corner/articleshow/76900970.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Pune||Pune ZP to recruit more health staffers||Pune: The Pune Zilla Parishad has decided to ramp up village-level healthcare system across 13 tehsils to intensify testing for Covid-19, contact tracing and effective care of positive cases. It has decided to hire 1,489 hospital staffers, including 204 doctors, on a contractual basis for three months. The hiring process will be completed by the end of July. Pune district has recorded 1,602 cases since the outbreak of the pandemic. Of these, 32 have succumbed to the virus, 674 have been discharged after recovery and 896 are active cases. Pune ZP CEO Ayush Prasad, “If required, we will extend the service period of these health staffers by another three months, depending on the situation. For now, we have to activate our village-level health sub centres for collecting samples, contact tracing and related work.” District health officer Bhagwan Pawar told TOI, “Our endeavour is to rope in adequate medical practitioners and necessary staff at the 48 CCCs across the district.” “Once we get additional manpower, our staffers and doctors will work in villages in their limit,” Pawar added. In some places, the tehsil administration has acquired beds of private hospitals to enhance its healthcare services. “We are acquiring about 1,700 beds of 12 private hospitals to isolate patients and provide them treatment,” said Dr Sachin Kharat, medical officer, Haveli tehsil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-zp-to-recruit-more-health-staffers/articleshow/76901522.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Power rates slashed by Rs 1.8 up to 150 units||Chandigarh: In a major relief to power consumers, especially those with low and middle-level consumption, the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) has slashed the tariff by Rs 1.80 per unit up to 150 units. As per the revised rate, the new tariff for all the consumers up to 150 units will be Rs 2.70 per unit against the current Rs 4.50. The new rate will come into effect retrospectively from June 1, officials said. There are a total of around 66 lakh electricity consumers covered by Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN), the power distribution company for north Haryana, and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), responsible for distribution in southern Haryana. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/power-rates-slashed-by-rs-1-8-up-to-150-units/articleshow/76901526.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ludhiana||People unable to use Ferozepur underpass due to waterlogging||Ludhiana: The underpass at Ferozepur Road southern bypass is giving tough time to the commuters, as rain water is not getting drained out from there. Two days continuous rain has turned this underpass into a pool. If any vehicle tried to wade through waterlogged underpass, the vehicle invariably developed some technical snag or the other. However, the officials of PWD department blamed theft of electricity wires of two motors due to which they were unable to drain out rain water from the underpass. A commuter Pawan Saini said, “There was rainfall till Thursday morning but on Friday when I tried to cross through underpass at southern bypass I had to return like other people were doing because of waterlogging, it was not possible to cross it. What is the use of constructing underpasses if authorities cannot solve the problem of waterlogging?” Another commuter Sanjiv Bakshi said, “I think underpasses are never successful, the worst example is Damoria bridge we have seen waterlogging for so many years there. Even after such failures, the authorities construct underpasses.” He said either underpasses should not be built or they should be planned in such a way that drainage of water should also be kept in mind. Meanwhile, an advocate Gurkaran Tinna, who went live on Facebook, advised MP Ravneet Bittu not to indulge in futile exercises like demanding action against Punjabi singers but pay attention towards the issues of city for which he has been elected MP. He said people are facing problem due to waterlogging every year and city turns into swimming pool in every locality, but authorities are sleeping over it. Executive engineer of public works department, Davinder Pal, said, “We had checked the motors a day before rain and it was all fine but when it rained on Wednesday and I sent staff to check if the water had drained out, they realised the motors were not working as somebody had stolen wires.” He said as they could not run the motors, they made some temporary arrangement to drain out water and that took a long time. According to him, it will take two days at least to settle things because if they have to lay electricity wires, they need to drain out water as motors are in water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/people-unable-to-use-ferozepur-underpass-due-to-waterlogging/articleshow/76900986.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rattled, Gujarat chief secretary orders stricter measures||GANDHINAGAR: The lack of proper precautions such as the use of masks and social distancing among the public, and the surging numbers of Covid-19 cases have people in the power corridors of the state worried. Chief secretary Anil Mukim called an urgent meeting of district administration officials to ensure they work in synergy with police and other departments and improve Covid-19 containment measures. Mukim reviewed the actions in 19 districts, where the spread of Covid-19 has been rapid and sought explanations from district officials. In unison, most district administration officials, DDOs and collectors, said higher fines for not wearing masks or violations of social distancing were needed. Officials also said that a major reasons for the sudden spurt in cases is because people from the worst-hit districts like Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara are allowed into their districts. Some officials also suggested measures such as a partial lockdowns. Mukim directed officials to increase surveillance of suspected Covid-19 patients by promoting the use of the Aarogya Setu-ITIHAS database. Medical facilities for Covid-19 patients in such districts were also examined. The chief secretary assured district administration officials that medical facilities would be augmented if required. Apart from Mukim, ACS (revenue) Pankaj Kumar and health commissioner Jayprakash Shivhare attended the meeting with district collectors and other officials. Mukim instructed district administration officers to initiate whatever steps are required to control the spread in their respective districts. He also emphasized the need to enforce all safety precautions at government offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rattled-cs-orders-stricter-measures/articleshow/76901142.cms||Kapil Dave
July 11, 2020||Madurai||Market shifting: HC tells Trichy collector to take cops’ help||MADURAI: The Madras high court has told the Trichy district administration to deal with the law and order problems it was apprehending in shifting the wholesale traders from Gandhi Market to Kallikudi, with the help of police and not seek the court’s help for this purpose. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam also observed that the role of the court is primarily adjudicatory and the effective functioning of the administration falls within the domain of the government. The judges also suo motu impleaded the chief secretary and principal secretary of the revenue department as respondents in the case and directed them to file affidavits on remedial measures in respect of the problems faced by the Trichy collector alleging law and order problem. The judges said the contents of the counter-affidavit submitted by the Trichy collector reads that despite the construction of the wholesale market complex at Kallikudi, they were unable to persuade the traders to shift to the new market apprehending law and order problem. Asking the district administration to deal with the situation, the judges observed that the court has also come across many instances, wherein if the administration apprehends law and order problem, they want a positive direction from the court. “If the concerned authorities come out with the affidavits as to their inability to deal with law and order problem, the court may consider the said issue,” said the judges. The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by K Krishnamoorthy, secretary of the Tiruchirapalli District Manida Valar Sangam, a public welfare association, who sought to shift the wholesale traders from Gandhi market to the newly-constructed Kallikudi market complex in Trichy district. The case was adjourned to August 6 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mkt-shifting-hc-tells-trichy-collector-to-take-cops-help/articleshow/76901524.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 11, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks counter on plea against construction of stage||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Friday sought a counter on a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought not to consturct a permanent drama stage at the entrance of the primary health centre (PHC) at Athankaraipatti village in Madurai district. In his petition, S Rajangam a resident of the village, stated that the block development officer issued proceedings dated February 10, for the construction of a permanent drama stage at the village. He stated that he came to know about the construction only when the pits were dug up for erecting pillars at the entrance of the PHC. If the stage is constructed, it would cause hindrance to those visiting the PHC for treatment. Since, there was no response to his representation not to construct the stage and to shift it to any another place in the village, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench. The counsel appearing for the authorities submitted that the stage is being constructed under the MLA’s Local Area Development Fund. Hearing the plea, a division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam directed the block development officer and panchayat president of the village to file individual counter affidavits with regard to the availability of basic facilities at the village and also justification on the necessity for construction of drama stage. The case was adjourned to a further date for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-counter-on-plea-against-construction-of-stage/articleshow/76901527.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Traders fume as Chickpet shut||BENGALURU: The city’s commercial hub, Chickpet, which houses over 15,000 trading establishments, remains sealed since June 25 with civic authorities citing the Covid-19 spread. While traders demand they be allowed to open shops with restrictions, BBMP believes the congested area could be a ticking viral time bomb. The Chickpet wholesale market and adjoining areas comprise the city’s oldest trading hub for numerous items, including garments, machine parts, electrical and electronics goods and even jewellery. Daily transactions in the area cross Rs 100 crore and it contributes Rs 1 crore a day in GST. “The lockdown dealt us a killer blow and we were slowly getting on our feet when the BBMP order came on June 24 night, saying all trading establishments in Chickpet and adjoining areas had to close from the next day due to increase in Covid cases. We obeyed in the larger interest of traders and customers,” says Sajjan Raj Mehta, a trade activist. A few trader associations imposed a self lockdown on June 20. But from June 25, over 15,000 traders on the stretch from Town Hall to Mysore Bank Circle, including SP Road, Nagarathpet, Chickpet Main Road, Avenue Road, BVK Iyengar Road, Mamulpet, Old Tharagupet, Sultanpet, Balepet, Cottonpet, RT Street, Hospital Road and Arcot Srinivasachar Street, had to down shutters. With Covid cases seeing a surge, rumours were rife that Chickpet market would remain sealed till the end of July. Adding to the crisis were some TV reports describing the hub as an area leading to rapid spread. “The allegation is absurd. We are under lock and key for the past 16 days. How can we spread the disease? Such false news has pained us,” fumed Anil Talreja, a wholesaler and former president of Karnataka Hardware and Allied Merchants Association. Talreja, Mehta and many other traders echo that the area should be allowed to open with strict restrictions, including social distancing. “Nearly 95% of Bengaluru is open as part of gradual lifting of the lockdown but we are still being forced to down shutters despite our pleas to adhere to restrictions, including alternative days of trade or fewer operations,” added Talreja. With traders expecting their lockdown to be lifted from Friday or latest by Monday, rumours of an extension till July 31 have spread panic. “Representatives from seven traders associations met the BBMP commissioner on June 28, requesting they be given a specific timing for operations to prevent crowds. We even submitted a proposal with a detailed plan but are yet to hear anything from him,” lamented Prakash Bhojani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/traders-fume-as-chickpet-shut-for-16-days-demand-biz-resumption/articleshow/76901005.cms||Petlee Peter
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||Academicians, politicians divided over syllabus cut||JAIPUR: The Central Board Secondary Education’s (CBSE) decision to slash syllabus has taken a political hue. The ruling Congress in the state has already called this move by the central government a mistake but the state BJP has claimed it is in favour of the students. Due to pandemic, CBSE decided to remove various chapters on federalism, democracy, secularism, nationalism, citizenship, etc., from the syllabus. Education minister Govind Singh Dotasra had on Thursday said that Centre’s decision to remove chapters which were the basis of recent election campaigns in the country, shows that BJP has accepted that its own ideology was at fault. Hitting back at the Congress, former education minister Vasudev Devnani, in a press conference on Friday, said that the Centre has taken a commendable step to cut the curriculum in the interest of the students. “It is not right to see this matter through political eyes and the state government should give relief to the students of state board by doing the same. The Congress and its allies never believed in federalism. The Congress removed lessons related to revolutionaries like Veer Savarkar. The state government is still hopeful of reducing Pratap’s valour in the syllabus. So, the state government should not lecture anyone,” said Devnani. Meanwhile, various academicians and legal experts in the state have criticized the decision taken by CBSE and said that some alternate solution should have been thought of. Rajasthan High Court lawyer Prateek Kasniwal said that it is a policy decision which CBSE has been entitled to take but they should have followed some rationality. “We live in a democratic set-up and secularism is an important part of our society. I agree that due to special circumstances it is a necessary to reduce the syllabus but completely dropping such important topics is a mistake. They could have shortened the chapters instead,” said Kasniwal. Commenting on the issue, Sudhir Raniwal, professor of physics at Rajasthan University, said that in these circumstances something had to be done. “Students need to learn about all subjects for their betterment. Instead of reducing the syllabus session, they should have been extended nationwide in every field,” said Raniwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/academicians-politicians-divided-over-syllabus-cut/articleshow/76901539.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Covid scare hits funerals in Ganjam, cops to the rescue||BERHAMPUR: Saying goodbyes were never easy, but the coronavirus pandemic has made things worse. The stigma around the disease has been heartbreaking. Funerals that otherwise see a number of people gather together are no longer the same. People have not only restricted themselves from visiting loved ones suffering from the Covid-19, but also those suffering from other ailments. In several cases, the district administration with the help of police have cremated bodies. One such recent incident was reported from district’s Sorada on Thursday. Local police, tehsildar and NAC staff had to lend a helping hand to carry the body of a 63-year-old man, who did not die of Covid-19. The deceased has been identified as Rajendra Suar. Though his younger son made repeated pleas in front of the neighbours to help him out with his father’s cremation, none came forward thinking he died of coronavirus after his elder son tested positive for the virus. The body was carried to the cremation ground in a vehicle arranged by the police and tehsildar. The younger son had to carry out the last rites wearing a personal protective equipment suit. “Nobody was willing to come near the body. We only coordinated and cremated the man,” Ramesh Chandra Pradhan, inspector in-charge of Sorada police station said. “The villagers did not come forward as his elder son tested positive for the virus and were afraid of contracting the virus. But no testing was done in case of the 63-year-old deceased,” he added. Similarly, an 85-year-old man, E Suba Rao, was cremated by his two sons, along with a handful of volunteers, at Nuapada in Chikiti block on Wednesday. Earlier, local police and tehasildars had to interfere in the safe disposal of the bodies at Balipada and Kabisurya Nagar in the district after the neighbours refused to cooperate. The siblings of the deceased at Kabisurya Nagar was forced to bury the body. “On the request of loved ones, we take bodies for the safe disposal following Covid regulations,” tahasildar Ipsita Mishra said. “It’s another crisis amid the pandemic. The administration need to sensitize the people so that there is no more apprehension and stigma,” Rabindra Nath Patra, secretary of a Berhmapur-based NGO, said. Meanwhile, Ganjam recorded 320 new cases of the coronavirus disease, in the highest jump so far, and four deaths in the last 24 hours pushing its infection tally to 3,416. Among the infected persons, three are journalists. This is the first time that media persons have been infected since the outbreak. The total number of fatalities surged to 35. The fresh cases were reported from all 22 blocks and the Berhampur Municipal Corporation (BeMC). Four women died while undergoing treatment in a Covid Hospital, official sources said on Friday. Three of the deceased had diabetes and hypertension, sources said. Meanwhile, the urban areas and five blocks of the headquarters towns in the district witnessed the second day of the five-day shutdown. The authorities have called a shutdown to facilitate teams in conducting mass health screening. Of the cases, 89 from BeMC, 32 from Aska, 29 from Bhanjanagar, 19 from Belaguntha, 14 from each Chikiti, Kukudakhandi and Sanakhemundi, 12 from each Hinjili and Dharakote, and 11 each from Patrapur and Polasara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/covid-scare-hits-funerals-in-ganjam-cops-to-the-rescue/articleshow/76901002.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
July 11, 2020||Madurai||CECRI develops cost-effective green tech to make disinfectant||MADURAI: The Central Electrochemical Research Institute (CECRI) in Karaikudi has developed a cost-effective and eco-friendly alternative technology under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to produce sodium hypochlorite solution (a disinfecting agent), which is in high demand in the current Covid-19 crisis. Speaking to TOI, director of CECRI, M Kalaiselvi, said that sodium hypochlorite, commonly known as house bleach, is a widely-used disinfectant. The conventional method of manufacturing is by passing chlorine gas through water. But, as the gas is highly corrosive and makes the iron and tin covering of materials of the production equipment at the manufacturing units rusty. People working in hypochlorite manufacturing units also suffer from irritation in the nose and throat due to the effects of the gas. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has said that the appropriate concentration of the solution for disinfecting liquid biological waste is 5,000ppm (parts per million) and for biological waste containing high organic load (eg blood, proteins or lipids) it is 10,000 ppm. CECRI has developed a zero-emission, cost-effective and scalable electrochemical technology through which sodium hypochlorite (5,000-10,000ppm) could be produced depending on the density and duration of electrolysis, using direct oxidation of 3% aqueous sodium chloride (common sea salt). They have developed an electrochemical unit with the capacity of 100 litres per day and provide disinfectant in desired quality. This on-site electrochemical production of sodium hypochlorite helps to avoid both hazardous handling and transportation of chlorine gas. A smaller unit for 10 liters capacity, which can be used in hospitals, has also been designed and developed by them. Their invention would provide a lucrative job opportunity for the MSME sector for an investment of Rs 3-5 lakh and minimal manpower can generate 100 l/day in a 100 sq.ft space. The production cost is also just Rs 3/litre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cecri-develops-cost-effective-green-tech-to-make-disinfectant/articleshow/76901534.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Smart City board says Mundhe not CEO but clears his decisions||Nagpur: NSSCDCL chairman Praveen Pardeshi in the meeting of board of directors (BoD) said he had not asked municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe to assume charge of CEO, but only told him to take care of all Smart City works in the capacity of municipal commissioner. He also said all decisions, excluding sacking of employees by Mundhe, in the capacity of CEO were approved unanimously by the BoD as they were taken in good faith, and he had no vested interests. Pardeshi, IAS officer with additional chief secretary rank, told TOI, “Municipal commissioner has to supervise work of CEO and deputy CEO. As per NSSCDCL policy, additional charge of CEO has been given to deputy CEO Mahesh Moroney, and Mundhe will supervise him.” When issue of CEO came up, Mundhe read out the state government order saying IAS officer should be given first preference before recruitment. Among remaining 13 directors, only Shiv Sena group leader Mangala Gawre supported Mundhe as CEO. CP Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay, collector Ravindra Thakre, NIT chairman Sheetal Teli-Ugale and leader of opposition from Congress Tanaji Wanve favoured following the norms of Smart City project’s special purpose vehicle — Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL). Six directors — mayor Sandip Joshi, ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav, standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke, BSP group leader Vaishali Narnawre and two independent directors said Moroney should be made CEO. Considering majority in Moroney’s favour, he was given additional charge of CEO. Pardeshi said NSSCDCL will start recruitment process for appointment of CEO. “BoD also decided to start recruitment process for chief finance officer.” Mona Thakur is currently holding additional charge of CFO. Pardeshi added, “There was controversy on some subjects but BoD took all decisions unanimously. I also appealed to all directors to avoid litigations and discuss and take decisions.” On employees terminated by Mundhe, Pardeshi said, “Matter is before court so discussion in BoD was not possible.” Mundhe told TOI, “I assumed charge as per instructions of chairman. I don’t know why he denied it today. I had taken all decisions after consulting him and very clearly mentioned it in the notes since February 19. All knew I was working as CEO and none raised objection in last five months. Chairman or company secretary have powers to hold BoD meeting, so they should have held it and decided in February itself. But BoD approved all my decisions as CEO as they were in the interest of company and city.” Mundhe was denied a chance to raise the issue of validity of nominee directors of Joshi and Jadhav. Pardeshi said, “I did not allow as those issues were of no use now. We have to move, and take the project forward,” he said. In a press conference, Joshi said, “We claimed Mundhe had forcefully taken charge as CEO, and BoD meeting proved it. I thank BoD for endorsing my claims and giving additional charge of CEO to Moroney. Auditor of NSSCDCL has also given adverse remarks on Mundhe. Such lies were not expected from Mundhe who is known for working within rule books.” Joshi also said, “Four of us have registered objection on decision taken to approve payments disbursed by Mundhe as CEO. BoD decided to take legal opinion to conduct inquiry on Mundhe and his decisions.” However, Pardeshi rejected any decision to take legal opinion or inquiry. “No disputes remain among directors,” he said. Asked about fate of garbage bio mining tender, Pardeshi said the matter was not on BoD’s agenda. TOI had on June 26 reported Mundhe was not a valid CEO, and mayor and Jadhav were not valid directors. Later, Joshi had filed a petition in Nagpur bench of Bombay high court and received stay on disqualification of his director identification number (DIN) by Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA). Jadhav too had got a DIN issued. IAN * Tukaram Mundhe assumed charge as municipal commissioner in January, assumed charge as CEO * Mundhe cancelled tender for five garbage stations and issued tender for bio mining of garbage * He disbursed payments to contractors, cleared salaries, stalled payments to two agencies, sacked some employees * Mayor Sandip Joshi and ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav complained to police alleging Mundhe was not valid CEO * Police forwarded complaint to NSSCDCL, Joshi and Jadhav filed petition in district court * Sacked employees filed petition in HC * Union minister Nitin Gadkari lodged a complaint with central government * BoD meeting clarified Mundhe was not asked to assume charge of CEO but told to take care of works as civic chief * BoD approved all decisions, excluding sacking of staff, taken by Mundhe citing good faith and no vested interest * Deputy CEO Mahesh Moroney given additional charge as CEO and asked to work under supervision of Mundhe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/smart-city-board-says-mundhe-not-ceo-but-clears-his-decisions/articleshow/76901001.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Bizmen pitch for storm water drain in industrial area||Ludhiana: Just two days of rain and the city submerged already, exposing how unprepared the civic body is despite its tall claims. Already at tether’s end with corona losses, city’s businessmen are not amused over waterlogging, as it has again putting them under a lot of hardships. Businessmen are of the view that authorities should now instal storm water sewerage at least in the industrial and mix land-use areas. Lashing out against the government, Gurmeet Kularl, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation and Atam Nagar Incharge of Shiromani Akali Dal, said, “Waterlogging in the entire city during rainfall in last two days has exposed the lax arrangements of the municipal corporation. Also, the ineffective drainage network of the city stood exposed yet again, as heavy rain lashed the city. In many places, sewage from overflowing open drains mixed with the rainwater and stagnated in streets and in front of houses. What is even worse is that, a lot of damage was caused in the industrial areas what with water entering the factories. The situation is such that water is still accumulated till today in certain areas, especially at the underbridges near the industrial areas.” Kular also added, “Its high time the authorities wake up to our woes and address this problem. Municipal corporation and the mayor should take notice of this problem and take corrective measures.” According to Narinder Bhamra, president of the Fasteners Manufacturers Association of India, Ludhiana, “Authorities are paying no heed to this problem, which has become not only an eye sore but also cause us a lot of oinconveniences. Come rain, we cannot invite any of our buyers to our factories, as the condition of these areas during the rains is such that it is impossible for us to commute. Goods movement is also impossible and huge losses are caused to us. Therefore, it is our request to the authorities to instal storm sewerage at the earliest in all the industrial and mix-land use areas where the factories are located in large number so that such problem does not occur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bizmen-pitch-for-storm-water-drain-in-industrial-area/articleshow/76900992.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Pune||PMR tally inches closer to 36k, deaths cross 1k||Pune: The Covid-19 case count in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) increased to 35,997 with the addition of 1,598 cases on Friday. Besides, the death toll in the region crossed 1,000-mark with 28 more patients succumbing to the infection in the 24 hours. A PMC report stated that about 609 patients were discharged in the municipal limit in the last 24 hours. The critical patient count has climbed to 443 in PMC limits, of whom 74 patients are on ventilator support. “As many as 9,089 active patients are being treated at various hospitals and Covid centres in PMC till Friday,” a civic official said. As many as 3,549 swabs samples were collected and 786 rapid antigen tests were conducted on Friday. The casualty count now stands at 1,007 in the PMR. Among the patients who died on Friday, four were admitted in Sassoon hospital while the rest in private hospitals. Death rate in PCMC limits below national average The Covid-19 death toll in PCMC limits remains far below the national average of 3.4%, despite rapid increase in positive cases that can be partly attributed to the rise in testing from 300 per day in mid-June to over a 1,000 now. Till 6.45pm on Friday, 131 people had died of Covid-19 within the PCMC limits, including 36 non-PCMC residents. With 6,549 positive cases in the township limits so far, this settles the fatality rate in PCMC limits at 1.4% that is far lower than the national average of 3.4%. “A lot of people are not wearing masks or not wearing them properly. A section of people is also not following social distancing norms, which has resulted in the rise in cases. We started unlocking from mid-May and we opened up in phases. We anticipated that numbers will go up and it has happened now,” municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said . He said lockdown for a limited period was necessary to “break the chain”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-tally-inches-closer-to-36k-deaths-cross-1k/articleshow/76901533.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 11, 2020||Ludhiana||‘More staff for Ludh jail to curb illegal mobile phone use inside premises’||Ludhiana: Concerned over the series of recoveries of mobile phones from Ludhiana Central Jail and involvement of jail inmates in the crimes outside via mobiles, the prison department is planning to recruit more security personnel for implementing rotational duties in the premises. Jail minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the staff crunch and lack of funds were the primary reasons for lag in surveillance. The prison department will soon start recruitment security personnel, he added. Randhawa told TOI, “I know it is a major issue. Mobiles are being recovered from inmates and in some cases the security personnel are also found involved. These two issues can be resolved with more security personnel and funds. At present, we need 2,000 more security personnel to make three-tier security in all jails. I have got approval for recruitment of 300 security personnel and would soon start it. Secondly, I want security of jails to be in hands of reserved forces and police. The security personnel we outsource are mainly found involved doing violations.” “Further, there is a need to make infrastructure changes. We need body scanners but each body scanner costs Rs 4 crore. Then we need to get meshes installed between inside and outside boundary walls of jails. To generate revenue, we have formed a prison board. The fund generated will be used to revamp the security in jails and welfare of prisoners,” added Randhawa. The Ludhiana Central Jail has been hogging limelight for all wrong reasons in the recent past — be it the jail violence in June 2019, or the recoveries of mobiles and the involvement of jail inmates in the crimes being executed outside. Even the drug nexus is said to be running from inside the jail. In addition, recently the Division Number 7 police have booked a former assistant superintendent of Ludhiana Central Jail for providing mobile to an undertrial. Talking about the inmates testing positive for Covid-19, the minister said, “About 30 undertrials lodged in central jail have tested positive. The major concern is that, these undertrials are those who have already been into 14-day quarantine twice. At first, the newly arrested accused are kept in brostal jail for 14 days. Thereafter, they are sent to a special cell in the jail for another 14 days. After that they are again tested for Covid-19 to check if they can be accommodated with other inmates or not. So these undertrials have tested positive after having been quarantined twice. We are making plans to manage this situation.” Randhawa also said the staffers of jails have also been tested for Covid-19 and the results came to be negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/more-staff-for-ludh-jail-to-curb-illegal-mobile-phone-use-inside-premises/articleshow/76900998.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||85% commercial activities back on track: CM||Chandigarh: Breaking his silence over the issue of financial health of the state, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said 85% of commercial and industrial activities have resumed in Haryana, earning the state exchequer a revenue of Rs 11,098 crore in the first quarter of this financial year. This revenue was collected during April, May and June, after the government of India lifted the lockdown restrictions across the country, he said. Interacting with the media at Rohtak, where he was visiting to chair a meeting of party officials, Khattar reiterated that Haryana’s BJP-JJP government is acting as the custodian of state exchequer and nobody can dare misuse the same. He informed that in 2019-20, the state government had added Rs 16,009 crore during the April-June period. “Despite the lockdown and brakes on industries and commercial activities for some time, we have seen almost the same pace of revenue generation,’’ said Khattar. So far as the expenditure is concerned, the government has so far spent Rs 3,000 crore on various issues related to Covid-19. The expenses include relief worth Rs 700 crore to 16 lakh residents of the state, Khattar added. He said despite all odds and challenges, the government has now started working for a social auditing system in the state to ensure food for all. Taking a dig at the opposition parties, especially Congress and its leaders, Khattar said they have selfish interests on priority rather than welfare of the masses. “There had been lots of scams in the 10-year rule of the Congress party. CBI cases are pending in courts. We have taken all steps to plug corruption as well as corrupt practices in the state,” said Khattar. When the Congress leaders do not trust their own party colleagues, how can people trust them, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/85-commercial-activities-back-on-track-cm/articleshow/76901532.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC extends time to man to pay Rs 1 lakh to MMC||MADURAI: Madras high court granted extension of time to a man to pay Rs 1 lakh to the dean of Madurai Medical College, since he was earlier granted anticipatory bail in a case on condition to pay the non-refundable amount to be used for the benefit of health workers involved in Covid-19 prevention works. The case of the prosecution is that the complainant Ravichandran was working as the marketing manager in a company named Anil Semiya. The petitioner, Tamilnesan had created a fake video and sent it to the complainant stating that their product was not fit for consumption and demanded money. Based on Ravichandran’s complaint, a case was registered against the petitioner by the Dindigul district crime branch police. The court in the order dated June 17, granted anticipatory bail to the petitioner and directed him to pay Rs 1 lakh to the dean before June 30. Since the petitioner was unable to mobilize the amount, he recently moved court seeking extension of two weeks time to pay the amount to the dean. When this petition was heard recently, justice V Bharathidasan granted extension of time to the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-extends-time-to-man-to-pay-rs-1l-to-mmc/articleshow/76901531.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Buggana meets FM, urges release of central funds||Vijayawada: Finance minister Buggana Rajendranath met Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the national capital on Friday and sought release of funds due to the state at the earliest. He also requested her to release funds due under the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014. “Neither the promised special category status was granted to AP nor the special package was given. Funds promised in the Reorganisation Act for seven backward districts of the state have been pending since long,” Buggana told Sitharaman. The minister highlighted the fact that AP needed a helping hand from the Centre as it’s a new state and was bifurcated against the wishes of majority of people. “The Centre has to reimburse over Rs 3,500 crore to the state for the Polavaram project,” he said. He told the FM that the state’s revenue has come down by 40 per cent due to the lockdown, and requested her to release the GST share to the state at the earliest. Buggana also met Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat and presented him a report on the progress of Polavaram project.  Requesting Shekawat to create a revolving fund with the Polavaram Project Authority to avoid delay in reimbursement, he said the state is suffering due to delay in release of funds from the Centre. “Funds from Nabard go to finance ministry, and from there to Jal Shakti ministry, following which it is released to the state, which is causing delay,” Buggana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/buggana-meets-fm-urges-release-of-central-funds/articleshow/76899849.cms||Gopi Dara
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||‘20% dip in crimes against women’||Chandigarh: Stepped-up vigil by cops has led to a sharp drop of 20.46% in the incidents of crime against women during the first six months of 2020, compared to the corresponding period of 2019, the Haryana Police claimed on Friday. The first half of the year has also seen a high rate of solving of cases of crime against women. Around 99% cases of rape, 85.33% of kidnapping and 96.63% cases of molestation were successfully worked out. Haryana director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said the state has seen sharpest decline in crime against women, with a total of 4,893 cases of rape, molestation, kidnapping, eve-teasing etc registered between January and June 2020, compared to 6,152 cases during the same period in 2019. The DGP said compared to the previous year, cases of rape decreased by 18.18% in the first six months. Total 657 rapes were reported between January and June 2020 as compared to 803 last year. Cases registered under the Pocso Act also fell from 850 to 756 — a dip of 11.05%. During the period, the cases of kidnapping/ abduction of women also witnessed the sharpest fall of 27.41%. The number of such cases dropped to 1,152 in 2020 from 1,587 reported a year ago. Similarly, the cases of molestation of women dropped by 7.99%, as 1,128 cases were reported in the first half of 2020 in comparison to 1,226 in the corresponding period last year. Cases of cruelty to women under Section 498A of the IPC also went down by 25.79% or 552 cases, from 2,140 to 1,588, during the same period. Yadava said overall crime rate has also reduced due to increased patrolling and close monitoring by the police personnel, who are working relentlessly for the safety and security of every citizen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/20-dip-in-crimes-against-women/articleshow/76901528.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||2 Ajmer girls shine in CISCE results||JAIPUR: The results of Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) were declared on Friday. According to the information received till this story was filed, Triloka Shah from Mayo Girls College, Ajmer scored 489 marks out of 500 and scored 98% in Class X, ICSE examinations. Vasvi Gupta from Mayo Girls College, Ajmer scored 396 marks out of 400 and got 99% in Class XII Humanities in ISC examination. While talking to TOI, Vasvi said that her consistent and balanced studies have made it possible for her to achieve the result. “I thoroughly prepared for my pre-board examinations and after that revised on time. Students think that studying continuously for hours is important to get good results but they should take a break in between to freshen up their minds,” said Vasvi. Triloka Shah, who wants to take up Humanities, expressed her happiness for the results. “I prepared my timetable according to the syllabus. I planned out the time required to complete the syllabus and to have enough time to revise for examinations. This is my first board, so I was nervous, but remained focused. I used to write down important questions in chapters and discuss it with teachers and at the end hard work paid,” further said Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-ajmer-girls-shine-in-cisce-results/articleshow/76901549.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Vijayawada||PRC projects population of Andhra Pradesh to touch 5.4 crore by 2031||VISAKHAPATNAM: Ahead of World Population Day (July 11), the Population Research Centre (PRC) at Andhra University has projected that the population of AP would reach 5.4 crore by 2031. The projected population growth rate will see a drastic decline between 2026 and 2030 to 1.7%, compared to 5.4% between 2016 and 2020, the projections say. The other demographic indicators such as crude birth rate may witness a negative trend during this period. As per the projections, the total fertility rate (TFR) will decrease over the years. The life expectancy of females in 2026-30 will be 74.6 years, outnumbering their male counterparts’ 70.60 years during the same period.  The projected decrease in the child mortality can be termed as a sustained improvement due to the efforts in the last several decades. Prof B Muniswamy, honorary director of PRC, said the population projections will help develop alternative solutions to sustain healthy societies. “The decline of TFR is due to the recent changes in the society, including lifestyle changes, environmental conditions, technology impact on the pregnant women, urbanisation, and changing socio-economic conditions,” Prof Muniswamy said. “The recent technological inventions and advanced medical facilities have been playing a role in the promotion of public wellbeing. The decline or increase in the demographic indicators depends on the socio-economic conditions, literacy rate and public policy systems. Hence, the need of the hour is effective policy regimes. The reproductive and maternal health care and public policies will have a greater role in the decline of mortality rate,” added Muniswamy. The Population Research Centre further suggested of traditional food practices and lifestyle for the promotion of individual wellbeing. The Centre highlighted the need for sustainable technologies for the improvement of healthy lifestyles. “The indigenous methods of communities can be imparted in agricultural systems, which help us increase the life expectancy and minimise the lifestyle diseases,” said Prof Muniswamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/prc-projects-population-of-state-to-touch-5-4cr-by-2031/articleshow/76899835.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Madurai||Heavy rain lashes southern districts||MADURAI: After a hot spell, some of the southern districts experienced evening showers for two consecutive days. A few districts including Madurai received not less than 10 mm of average rainfall on both days. Madurai has been experiencing very hot afternoons for the past few weeks, with the temperature ranging between 38 to 40 degree Celsius. The sudden thundershowers on Wednesday and Thursday evenings brought the much needed respite. Average rainfall of 12.19 mm was recorded on Thursday morning, with Idayapatti in Madurai recording the highest rainfall of 47 mm. The widespread rainfall resulted in many of the city roads turning muddy and slushy. Many big trees including a tamarind tree which was over 50 years old fell down in the strong winds on Wednesday night. The second day’s rainfall was heavier, with Madurai recording 34.66 mm of average rainfall, 83 mm in Kallkudi, 81.40 mm in Pullipatti and Mettupatti recording 73 mm. Tallakulam in the city recorded 32.90 mm and Madurai airport 12.50 mm. Trees uprooting was reported on Thursday night too. A portion of a wall of the Alanganallur PHC crumbled due to the rains on Friday morning, and the day remained cloudy throughout. Many of the main roads like the Thathaneri road became inundated due to the rains on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/heavy-rain-lashes-southern-districts/articleshow/76901557.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Dharmadhikari committee report implemented in AP||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh power utilities have finally put an end to the dispute with their Telangana counterparts by issuing posting orders to employees who were allotted to them by Justice D M Dharmadhikari committee. The CMDs of APGenco, APTransco and other discoms issued orders complying with the Dharmadhikari report, which had allotted 536 employees to Andhra Pradesh. While APGenco admitted 245 employees, APTransco gave posting orders to 148 and the other discoms admitted 143 employees who were relieved by Telangana power utilities. The AP power utilities are paying salaries to these employees for the past few months as they are working on order to serve basis. The Telangana power utilities had relieved 1,157 employees in 2015. The issue ended up in litigation since then that went up to the Supreme Court which appointed Justice Dharmadhikari committee to decide the allocation of employees between the two states. Initially the one-man committee allotted 655 employees to Andhra Pradesh out of 1157 relieved by Telangana utilities. However, the Andhra Pradesh power utilities raised objections to this allocation as the threshold limit exceeded. After detailed hearings by both sides, the committee gave a supplementary report allotting another 655 employees from Andhra Pradesh to Telangana so as to balance the allocation and maintain financial neutrality. Minister for energy Balineni Srinivas Reddy congratulated energy secretary Nagulapalli Srikanth and APTransco JMD K V N Chakradhar Babu for their efforts to put an end to the long pending issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dharmadhikari-committee-report-implemented-in-ap/articleshow/76899875.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||Most schools in Goa see 100% pass at ICSE, ISC examinations||PANAJI: Most schools in Goa affiliated to the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations recorded 100% pass percentage at the Class X (ICSE) and Class XII (ISC) examinations 2020, the results of which were declared on Friday. From Miramar-based Sharada Mandir School, 178 students appeared for the ICSE with 100% results. While 89 students got 90% and above, 80 scored between 75-89%, and 9 secured first class, said the school. Aman Singh scored the highest pass percentage of 98.5%, while Sanskruti Saxena was close behind, scoring 98.3%. Anmol Bhat attained 98.2%. For ISC, too, Sharada Mandir School saw 100% pass percentage, with 94 students having appeared for the exam. While 34 students appeared under the science stream, 32 appeared in the humanities stream and 28 in commerce. Sushil Nayak topped the school in the science stream, scoring 96.4%. While Parth Teli attained a percentage of 94.6%, Anika Dhiman scored 93.4%. In humanities, Sahil Betigeri scored 96.8%, followed by Poorvi Patil with 96%, Shrisha Sakhardande (96%) and Alyka Machado (95.8%). Sharada Mandir School saw Gayatri Tarcar top the institute in the commerce stream with 95.8%. Other top scores were 95% by Akanksha Mahabal, and 94.6% by Ananta Joshi and Deepali Desai. Meanwhile, the principal of Margao’s Manovikas School, Julliet Ayyaswamy, said that for the ICSE, 105 students appeared from the school, and the institute saw all students clearing the exam. The school had 83 students attain distinction, with 29 students scoring above 90%. While 19 students got a first class, three got a second class. Vini Vikrant Desai topped the school at the Class X exam scoring 97.4%. Purnanand alias Mohak Mondaar Audi with 97.2% and Tamanna Vishnudas Naik Parsekar with 95% were the other top scorers. “Congratulations to all the students and their parents,” said Ayyaswamy. St Andrew’s School ICSE is the only ICSE-affiliated school in Vasco, headed by Fr. Gabriel Coutinho, the parish priest of St Andrew’s Church. “This year, the school has achieved a hattrick, having persistently achieved 100% pass results ever since the school sent its first batch of students to answer the Class X exam in 2018. This year, the school saw 14 students answering the exam. The highest scorer was Britney Helina Ferrao, with 88.60%,” said Coutinho.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/most-schools-in-state-see-100-pass-at-icse-isc-examinations/articleshow/76901558.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Deaths down by 46% in last 10 days in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Analysis of the number of Covid-19 positive patients and deaths of the positive patients in Ahmedabad district in first 10 days of July compared to previous 10 days reveal drop of 22% in cases and 45.7% in deaths. In 24 hours ending 5 pm on Friday, Ahmedabad district added 165 cases and five deaths, taking the total to 22,745 and 1,511 respectively. The district also recorded discharge of 161 patients. From June 21 to 30, the district had recorded 2,349 cases and 129 deaths at the death rate of 5.5%. From July 1 to 10, the figures dropped to 1,832 and 70 respectively, resulting in death rate of 3.8%. Except on July 9 – when Surat recorded six against five in Ahmedabad – the district has remained on top in mortality in July. Analysis of the cases reveal that out of 1,832 cases in July only 105 were recorded outside Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) limits as 94.2% of the cases were from the city areas. Gujarat on Friday recorded discharge of 441 patients in 24 hours. Apart from 161 in Ahmedabad, 118 patients from Surat and 52 from Vadodara also got discharged. With the update, Gujarat now has 24.8% active patients. Share of discharged patients is now at 70.1% whereas deceased patients form 5.1% of total positive patients. Gujarat carried out 7,657 tests to find new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total to 4.49 lakh. A total of 3.04 lakh persons are under quarantine in Gujarat, out of which 3.01 lakh are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/deaths-down-by-46-in-last-10-days-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/76901035.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala schools record 99.9% pass in ICSE, 98.5% in ISC||KOCHI: Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has published the results for Class X (ICSE) and Class XII (ISC) examinations. In Kerala, Class X (ICSE) has 99.93% pass and Class XII (ISC) has 98.54% pass. Most of the schools in Kerala have reported 100% pass percentage with many students scoring above 90% marks. The All India pass percentage for Class X (ICSE) is 99.34% and Class XII (ISC) is 96.84%. Of the 8,014 students who appeared for ICSE examinations in the state, 8,011 students were successful and three unsuccessful. Of the 2,705 students who appeared for ISC examinations, 2,691 students were successful and 14 couldn’t make it. Unlike previous years, CISCE has not published the merit list due to the cancellation of more than 40% of the exams and the resultant special assessment scheme for evaluation due to Covid-19. “Given the exceptional circumstances, this year CISCE will not be publishing a merit list,” said Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary, CISCE. In St. Patrick’s Academy, Angamaly, 83 out of the 131 students scored above 90% in ICSE. In Chavara International Academy, Vazhakulam, 17 out of the 18 students in ICSE secured distinction. In Christ Nagar HSS, Kowdiar, all the 169 students who appeared for ICSE secured distinctions and 76 out of the 84 students who appeared for ISC secured distinctions. In Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Nalanchira, 171 out of the 177 students secured distinction in ICSE and in ISC, out of the 84 students, 65 secured distinction. In Lecole Chempaka Silver Rocks, Sreekaryam, 57 out of the 67 students secured distinction in ISC and 105 out of the 121 students secured distinction in ICSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-schools-record-99-9-pass-in-icse-98-5-in-isc/articleshow/76901049.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Vijayawada||First-ever special parcel express travels to B’desh||Guntur: The Guntur railway division operated direct freight service to Bangladesh. The special cargo express with parcel vans carrying chillies left Reddipalem cargo point on Thursday. Guntur division earned Rs 17.6 lakhs through the special parcel express. The Railways clinched the deal with Bangladesh owing to the proactive role played by the senior officials in railway board and Indian embassy in Dhaka. Although, Guntur division has operated several cargo trains till the border points to transport agriculture commodities to Bangladesh in the past, it is the first time in the history for the railways to operate direct train to the neighbouring nation. “This is the first time-tabled cargo express to be operated from Guntur to Benapole in Bangladesh,” divisional railway manager (DRM) Mohan Raja told TOI. He said SCR GM Gajanan Mallya, Anita Barik (advisor, railways) in Indian high commission in Bangladesh have played key role in getting the clearances. Mohan Raja said they realised that Guntur as an epicenter of production, aggregation and processing of chillies and other spices, could be a great opportunity to do good business. He said the cultivation of these products is sustained with an excellent ecosystem of mirchi-yard, processing centres and a chain of cold storage facilities with deep export networks. Considering the high demand for export of chillies and other spices like turmeric, ginger, onions, cumin seeds to Bangladesh, a proposal was moved for running a parcel cargo express from Guntur to Bangladesh, said Mohan Raja. - Samdani.MN@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/first-ever-special-parcel-express-travels-to-bdesh/articleshow/76899887.cms||Samdani MN
July 11, 2020||Madurai||Three 16th Century sati stones found near Peraiyur in Madurai||MADURAI: Three sati stones, dating back to the 16th century AD, were discovered near Peraiyur in Madurai. Pandiya Nadu Culture Foundation, coordinator Dr D Muneeswaran,said that the three stones were found near a tank bund in Peraiyur. Sati was a practice where a woman was forced to self immolate on her husband’s funeral pyre after his death. When these sacrifices were performed, stones were erected in memory of the women. It is also to specify that she died with or before her husband, as a married woman and not a widow. The hands of the female were engraved on these stones and are seen held high with bangles on them, to prove that she was not a widow. A woman could not wear jewellery after the death of her husband in those days. Details of the sacrifice like the woman jumping directly into the fire were not depicted in the carvings on these stones. In southern districts, the women who committed sati are idolised and worshipped in the names such as Theepanjamman, Maalaikari or Seelaikari. He said that widows were sidelined and shunned during the Nayak rule in Madurai, but women who performed Sati were idolised. “Not all women performed Sati willingly, many of them did it out of compulsion,” he said. Of the three stones, two found near the V Chathirapatti tank were 3.5ft by 2.5ft. The third one was 2.5ft by 1.5ft. On one stone, a man is found in a seated position holding a sword and a thread across his chest. His wife is depicted standing by his side, with a hairdo and heavy jewellery on ears and neck, with her head bowed. Her hands are held high with a lemon in her right hand and a mirror in the left. The right leg is folded and the left leg dangles down. The figure of the man shows that this stone carving belongs to the Nayak era, he said. It also shows the figure of a man holding the leg of the woman on his head. There are also intricately designed figures of a bird bell. The other stones are more or less similar. They have the figure of a man flanked by two women on his side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/three-16th-century-sati-stones-found-near-peraiyur-in-madurai/articleshow/76901572.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Khattar meets Modi, Nadda over new Haryana BJP chief||Chandigarh: Suspense over the name of the next BJP president in the state continues even as Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has had meetings with the party’s top leadership, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP president J P Nadda, in New Delhi on Thursday and Friday. On Thursday, Khattar met Nadda and held discussions on state-related issues and new state BJP chief with Modi on Friday. Afterwards, Khattar also chaired a meeting of senior leaders in Rohtak and had a meeting with BJP’s organizing secretary Suresh Bhatt at Haryana Bhawan in New Delhi. Sources said the state as well as central high command has agreed on three names — an office-bearer of state BJP, an MLA and an MP having RSS roots. The MLA is learned to have been recommended by RSS. While MP is choice of the party high command and the office-bearer’s name has been pushed by state BJP. If all goes as per plans, the state shall have the new State very soon, a senior leader said, Notably, appointment of BJP president has been linked to Baroda byelection as well. The tenure of current president Subash Barala has almost ended and he has not been given any kind of extension. For the past two months, various sections as well as leaders had been lobbying for the top party post in the state. Initially, Khattar had been batting for an extension to Barala, but later started favouring Panipat rural MLA Mahipal Dhanda and Kurukshetra MP Nayav Siingh Saini for the post. There were rumours on names of former ministers and senior BJP leaders Captain Abhimanyu and Om Parkash Dhankar for the post. The name of Union minister Krishan Pal Gujjar had also been making rounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/khattar-meets-modi-nadda-over-new-haryana-bjp-chief/articleshow/76901570.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh gives industries power to hire workers on contract||SHIMLA: With a view to provide flexibility to the employer in order to meet the challenges of globalisation and ease of doing businesses, besides benefitting the workers, the Himachal cabinet on Friday approved the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Himachal Pradesh (Amendment) Rules, 2019. This would extend the provision of ‘Fixed Term Employment Workman’ in respect of industrial establishments under their domain as per provisions of Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 and Rules made thereafter. This would give the ‘Fixed Term Employment Workman’ the same statutory benefits as were being given to regular workers in a proportionate manner and thus decrease exploitation of contract workers as the employer would directly hire the workers without any mediator in the form of contract for a fixed term. The cabinet meeting chaired by chief ministe r Jai Ram Thakur decided to provide a monthly ‘Loktantra Prahari Samman Rashi’ of Rs 8,000 per month to those persons who have undergone 1-15 days incarceration and Rs 12,000 per month to those who have undergone 15 days or above incarceration during the emergency between June 25, 1975 to March 21, 1977 under Maintenance of Internal Security Act (MISA) and Defence of India Rules (DIR) as a token of respect to them for standing up for democracy and fundamental rights of people. It decided to enhance the honorarium of part-time water carriers engaged in elementary and higher education departments by Rs 300 per month from Rs 2,400 to Rs 2,700 per month. It also gave its nod to the draft policy for engaging part-time multi-task workers in government schools. It will initially provide an opportunity for 7,852 eligible unemployed candidates to earn honorarium at the local level. These workers will be paid an honorarium of Rs 31.25 per hour for six hours per day for 10 months in an academic year. It decided to open new horticulture division in public works department at Shimla. All the existing sub-divisions of the horticulture would be brought under the administrative control of this division. This new division would help build green roads by ensuring road side plantation and slope stability activities through bio-engineering technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-gives-industries-power-to-hire-workers-on-contract/articleshow/76901561.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||Teachers to get mental health, app training||PANAJI: The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) will begin yet another training course for school teachers on capacity building in online teaching and mental health awareness. The training will begin from Monday, where teachers will be trained in making videos as a teaching aid, besides the use of the ChalkLit app. Since the lockdown, around 11,000 teachers have already been trained by SCERT in online teaching methods. The training session, starting next week, will be held for teachers of all upper primary, secondary and higher secondary schools. There will also be a module on mental health awareness, for which, besides teachers, school counselors will also be trained. Teachers in both government and aided schools will be provided the training by SCERT in collaboration with Million Sparks Foundation, Delhi. While the course on making videos as a teaching aid will be held from July 13 to 24, the one on mental health awareness will be held from August 10 to 21. SCERT will also be training teachers in the use of ChalkLit app. “Teachers’ progress in the training will be monitored through the in-built system of the ChalkLit app,” the SCERT said. “Teachers require to complete 100% progress of the training before the end date to be eligible for the certificate. The certificate will be available online through the ChalkLit app. Teachers can use this certificate for their professional development while writing their resumes for the confidential report.” After the lockdown, the directorate of education had engaged Adhyayan Foundation, Tata Trusts and Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) to train teachers in online teaching. In the first phase, 5,000 teachers were trained in 168 groups. In the next phase, the remaining 5,500 teachers from the primary to higher secondary school level were trained. At these sessions, teachers were taught how to use Google Meet to hold live teaching sessions, among other things.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-to-get-mental-health-app-training/articleshow/76901567.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Singer takes down video on Sathankulam custodial torture||MADURAI: Playback singer Suchitra has taken down the video she posted on the Sathankulam custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks narrating the brutality inflicted on them, on the directions of the Crime Branch – CID that probed the case before handing it over to CBI . The CB-CID said in a release that she had “falsely exaggerated and sensationalised” the chain of events and her allegations seem to be a figment of imagination not backed up by proof. The nearly three-minute-long video posted on June 25 claimed that the duo’s knees were smashed and crushed with lathis, blows rained on their backs till they bled, they were stripped naked, steel-tipped batons shoved up their butt holes and damage was inflicted on their genitalia. It said they were taken back into custody where they died two days later. She requested people to share it until it got the same justice George Floyd’s murderers got in the US. The video circulated with the hashtag “Justice for Jayaraj And Fenix” was trending on twitter attracting millions of views. It attracted reactions from businessmen like Anand Mahindra, cricketers Shikhar Dhawan and Ravichandran Ashwin and celebrities. The CB-CID said investigations found no substance in the allegation and the video has been promoting hatred against the police. “Ms Suchitra has now taken down these falsified contents on it being flagged to her,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/singer-takes-down-video-on-sathankulam-custodial-torture/articleshow/76901563.cms||M K Ananth
July 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||As education remains in lockdown, Odisha’s community radios do a ‘class act’||Online classes have proved to be a big enough challenge in cities. In the state’s towns and villages, where most families do not have strong internet connection or multiple devices, children’s education has been badly disrupted by the pandemic. Things would have been worse had it not been for Odisha’s community radio stations, which, in spite of scant resources, have been broadcasting informative and entertaining educational content throughout the lockdown. Radio Surabhi (90.4 MHz) in Daspalla, Nayagarh, is leading the way with ‘Sikshya Surabhi’, a programme designed to provide inclusive education to students, especially the visually impaired. Launched on July 1, it comprises 100 episodes providing basic education to students of classes 1 to V. Of the 100 episodes, 48 have been funded by the Australian High Commission. Sikshya Surabhi’s episodes, which cover maths and English among other subjects, have been prepared by around 20 subject experts. They have been deemed effective enough for the government’s Odisha School Education Programme Authority (Osepa) to direct their circulation in the form of audio files across the state. “The Osepa has asked its block resource teachers and district coordinators to ensure that students access all the episodes. The state-level Osepa office has sought monthly reports from the officials on the reach of Sikshya Surabhi in their areas. So our endeavour to help primary students get basic education has been integrated in the government system,” Radio Surabhi chairman Shishir Das said. Designed over the past two months, the episodes will soon be broadcast four days a week. “We will share them with all the community radios of the state, besides posting them on WhatsApp, Facebook and YouTube for wider dissemination,” Das added. ‘Sikshya Surabhi’ is not the only education-based programme the station has broadcast during the lockdown. On May 1, Radio Surabhi launched ‘Let’s Know History’, a programme for college students and competitive examinees that comprises 10,000 Q&As on the UGC’s choice-based credit system syllabus for history. The matter has been condensed in 500 half-hour episodes. “I put in 20 questions per episode to make sure they remain short and crisp. I had to capture the attention of the students,” said Kamakhi Prasad Das, the head of the history department at Government College, Koraput, who designed the programme. He added that students would often call him or the radio station officials to give feedback or clear doubts. In Koraput, too, it is community radio that’s bridging the digital gap. Radio Dhimsa (90.4 MHz) in Chhapar village has reached out to around 1,000 pre-primary and primary children through its curriculum-based programmes. The station, which covers 60 villages in Koraput and Lamtaput blocks, launched ‘New Arunima’, a presentation of poems from the state curriculum for preschool children. For primary kids, it aired stories, jingles, songs and social messages. “Access of internet is a challenge for tribal children in the remotest villages of the blocks. For them, radio has replaced even the mobile,” said Sanjit Pattnaik of Sova, the non-profit that runs Radio Dhimsa. He added that in areas not covered by direct broadcast, the radio station’s field reporters carry the programmes on their phones and make groups of 6-8 children listen to them. For the state government, community radios are providing last-mile connectivity to students. “Sikshya Surabhi is converting primary education material into attractive MP3 audio files. Folk songs and jingles are interspersed with study material. Rural families don’t need to have a smartphone to access this,” said Ashok Mohapatra, state coordinator for inclusive education, Osepa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/as-education-remains-in-lockdown-states-community-radios-do-a-class-act/articleshow/76901029.cms||Amava Bhattacharya
July 11, 2020||Madurai||Diabetes, hypertension most common co-morbidity among deaths in Madurai||MADURAI: Around 89% of the Covid-19 deaths in Madurai district have been due to the patient having various co-morbid conditions like diabetes and hypertension. Doctors say the onus is on patients to ensure proper control of their co-morbid condition in reducing risk of contracting Covid-19 and risk of death. Between June 17 and July 10, there have been 95 Covid-19 deaths in Madurai. During the same period, the district reported 5,021 Covid-19 cases. While the death rate is still low, an overwhelming majority of deaths are due to co-morbid conditions. At Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), 60 deaths have been officially recorded so far. “Out of the deaths recorded here so far, 71% of the deaths were patients with co-morbid conditions. Further, 42% of cases among them, the patient had more than one co-morbid condition,” said GRH dean Dr J Sangumani. When it comes to co-morbid conditions, the most common are diabetes and hypertension. Out of the 101 Covid-19 death cases so far, 48% had diabetes while 35% had hypertension as one or more of their co-morbid conditions. “When patients have co-morbidities, they have six times higher risk of hospitalisation and 12 times higher risk of complications and mortality. The recovery time for such patients is prolonged. In case of diabetes, poorer the glycemic control, the higher the risk of mortality,” said Dr R Ramesh, a general physician and diabetologist. He emphasized those with diabetes and hypertension should not skip medications, have healthy diet and regular exercise to reduce risk of Covid-19. Apart from these conditions, around 8% of the deaths includes those with coronary artery disease while 4% include those with chronic kidney disease. Another 7% are those with rare diseases like cancer and the death of a 14-year-old girl with Plummer Vinson Syndrome. There have also been at least 11 cases of Covid-19 deaths so far, of younger Covid-19 patients aged between 29-40 years. Consultant interventional pulmonologist Dr Prem Ananth P said that cytokine storm plays a role in Covid-19 deaths. “To tackle any infectious virus including SARS nCoV-2 in our body, inflammatory mediators are secreted, of which one type is cytokines. It is a defence mechanism to protect us from the virus but it can damage our lungs as well. This is called cytokine storm. Predicting which patient may suffer cytokine storm is difficult,” he explained. However, he added that blood tests are available now, particularly, to check interleukin 6 levels to assess possibility of cytokine storm occurring in a patient. At the same times, a number of even elderly Covid-19 patients with co-morbid conditions are making full recovery. “Those with co-morbid conditions are of course at more risk of death due to Covid-19. However, early diagnosis in such patients can help prevent the disease from developing into a life-threatening situation,” said Dr Prem Ananth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/diabetes-hypertension-most-common-co-morbidity-among-deaths-in-madurai/articleshow/76901584.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||FIR against music director after model alleges rape||FIR against music director after model alleges rape: Police here have booked a music director and his family after a music video model from Punjab accused him of raping her in Fatehabad and Kaithal and his family of threatening her. Fatehabad women’s police station has registered a case on a complaint by the model, who is from Jalandhar, against the director and his family members, residents of Cheeka village in Kaithal. In the complaint, the survivor alleged that she is model and had recently gone to Fatehabad to shoot a song’s music video. She alleged that the director promised to marry her and got intimate with her. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fir-against-music-director-after-model-alleges-rape/articleshow/76901577.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||Many private schools in Jaipur to reduce or waive fee||JAIPUR: Many private schools in Jaipur have decided to reduce the fees by 20 to 30% this year and some have completely waived off fees for lockdown period. The decision was taken following continuous pressure from parents seeking relief during the economic slowdown induced by Covid-19. The Palace School, Jaipur, has declared to reduce the fees of 2020-21 session by 20% and parents of the school have been given the liberty of depositing fees on a monthly basis if they are not comfortable on quarterly basis. Whereas, Gandhi Bal Niketan School at Dher Ke Balaji, Jaipur, has completely waived off the fees from April to June months. A statement issued by the school said, “Looking at the crisis faced by the parents during the pandemic, we have decided to give our support to them. We stand together in this.” Shri Gyan Jyoti Public School, Kid’z Campus Public School, Mahesh Public Senior Secondary School, NK Public School, Achiever’s Academy and many others in Jaipur have followed suit and waived off fees for lockdown period. Sushil Sharma, president of Rajasthan Abhibhavak Sangh, said this is a commendable step towards understanding the problems of parents. “Pandemic has hit us hard this year. We wanted schools to look into this issue and many have accepted it. However, except Palace School and SMS School recently, none of the so-called elite schools of the city have come forward to give any kind of relief to parents. Mostly, it’s the low-cost schools that have taken this decision,” Sharma said. Parents are protesting every other day in front of private schools in the city to reduce the fees, but most schools haven’t taken any decision. The state government in April decided to defer the school fees by three months and in July they again deferred it until the schools re-opened. The state is yet to decide on fee waiver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/many-pvt-schools-to-reduce-or-waive-fee/articleshow/76901585.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Madurai||Deaths of 3 obese patients reveal their vulnerability to coronavirus||MADURAI: Among the total 101 Covid-19 deaths in Madurai so far, at least three deaths have been due to the patient having obesity as a co-morbid condition. Doctors stressed that despite obesity being an important co-morbid condition for Covid-19, there is a lack of awareness about it among the public. Obesity is a medical condition in which excess body fat has accumulated to the extent that it may have an adverse effect on health. On July 3, a 60-year-old woman from Madurai with morbid obesity died of Covid-19 just three days after admission to Government Rajaji Hospital. An individual is considered morbidly obese if the person has a body mass index (BMI) of more than 35-40. “Obesity is a pro-inflammatory state, that is, their immune response to infections is altered. Further, they also have altered respiratory mechanics, which means they may not be able to tolerate even mild lung infections due to Covid-19,” said Dr Ramesh R, a general physician. Doctors also noted that co-morbid conditions also have an additive effect, as in, if a Covid-19 patient has more than one co-morbid condition, the higher the risk of death. Often, obesity, by itself, can lead to cause of diseases like diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments. In Madurai, there have been two cases so far in July wherein Covid-19 patients, a 50-year-old woman and a 63-year-old man had diabetes and hypertension respectively in addition to obesity. Both patients later succumbed to Covid-19. “In patients with co-morbid conditions, including those with obesity, SpO2 (oxygen saturation) measurement via pulse oximeter is critical. This is because Covid-19 pneumonia unlike any other lung infections may not produce significant breathing discomfort unless dangerously low levels of oxygen saturation are reached, a condition referred to as ‘Happy Hypoxia’, leading to underestimating the severity of infection,” said Dr Ramesh. In Madurai district, according to national family health survey – 4, as much as 36% of women and 33% of men are overweight or obese. Doctors stressed that treating obesity seriously as an illness comes first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/deaths-of-3-obese-patients-reveal-their-vulnerability-to-coronavirus/articleshow/76901590.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||15 persons found +ve in GJ-05 vehicles||AHMEDABAD: The AMC health team checking passengers of vehicles with Surat registration (GJ-05) at the exit point of Vadodara-Ahmedabad Expressway detected 15 Covid-positive people in 26 vehicles scanned on Friday. When asked, AMC’s medical officer of health, Bhavin Solanki said, “There is no check on the national highway.” He said the AMC is checking only vehicles coming from Vadodara-Ahmedabad Expressway, and those choosing to enter the city by the national highway are not being checked. Of the 15 passengers from Surat found Corona-positive on Friday, 14 were asked to return and not enter the city, while one was hospitalized. Solanki said the decision to check passengers of vehicles coming to the city was taken to contain the spread of the pandemic. “Initially, we have begun checking all vehicles with number plates with the serial GJ-05.” Even vehicles coming from Valsad by the Vadodara-Ahmedabad Expressway were also checked, said Solanki. A team of five officials are conducting antigen tests and those found positive are not being allowed to enter Ahmedabd. On Friday, a luxury bus was stopped and, on checking, four persons were found to be Covid-positive. Immediately, the entire bus was sanitized including the luggage of all passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/15-persons-found-ve-in-gj-05-vehicles/articleshow/76901045.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Fresh move to push railway line through Melghat reserve||Nagpur: In a fresh move, the BJP government at the Centre wants the Maharashtra government to reconsider the forest land diversion proposal for upgradation of railway line passing through Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR). The Melghat railway line issue was one among other pending infrastructure projects discussed on July 7 during the Group of Infrastructure meeting between highways minister Nitin Gadkari, railway minister Piyush Goyal and environment minister Prakash Javadekar, and officials of department concerned. In the meeting, railway officials submitted that the standing committee of National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) on February 25, 2019, returned the proposal to Maharashtra government for submissions and comments, which are awaited. To this, the ministers expressed displeasure against state for non-submission of comments. “We have apprised the state government about the Group of Infrastructure meeting, and displeasure expressed by the ministers,” said APCCF & nodal officer Sanjeev Gaur. Of the 176km railway line — Akola-Akot (44km), Akot-Amlakhurd (78km), and Amlakhurd-Khandwa (54km) — 35km falls inside tiger reserve, of which 18km passes through the core area. The South Central Railway (SCR) requires forest diversion of 161 hectare area. The railway ministry has sanctioned Rs1,421.25 crore for the project. On February 25, NBWL had rejected the proposal and returned it to the state government. The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and Wildlife Institute of India (WII) in their comments had recommended that only feasible mitigation is ‘avoidance’ of gauge conversion and alternate routes or alignments bypassing the tiger reserve should be taken up. State wildlife board member Kishor Rithe said, “I don’t think chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who was so sensitive about Aarey in Mumbai and did not allow trees to be cut, will ever allow such massive destruction through core area of Melghat, where rich biodiversity will be destroyed and thousands of trees will be felled.” Environment lawyer Manish Jeswani, who had moved Supreme Court’s Central Empowered Committee (CEC) on the issue, said, “No mitigation steps will match the ecological damage. NTCA and WII have clearly said ‘alternate route’ is best mitigation. Hence, there is no question of reconsideration. The proposal was sent back to the state in February last when BJP-Sena government was in power and it too had opposed gauge conversion through Melghat.” In March, Shiv Sena MP from Buldhana Prataprao Jadhav opposed railway line through Melghat and said the gauge conversion will, in the long run, increase train traffic resulting in huge disturbance to presence of tigers and other wildlife in the area. Alternate route will be a win-win situation for all. “The Wan sanctuary of tiger reserve has been made inviolate by rehabilitating 13 villages from core area by spending over Rs402 crore. The gauge conversion will reverse the benefits accrued from rehabilitation and habitat development,” said Jadhav. THE LINE TO NOWHERE * In June 2018, Railway Board gives go ahead to line through MTR * Decision challenged before CEC in August 2018 * CEC issues notices and hears all parties on January 16, 2019 * State opposes project through tiger reserve * NTCA and WII too say ‘avoidance’ of line through MTR is best mitigation * On January 31, CEC asks for alternative alignment and puts ball in NBWL court * NBWL rejects railway proposal on Feb 25 and returns proposal to state * Proposal pending for state’s comments||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fresh-move-to-push-railway-line-through-melghat-reserve/articleshow/76901047.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 11, 2020||Nashik||Civic body plans containment zones at 12 more locations across city||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to increase containment zones at 12 more locations in the city in an attempt to contain the spread of coronavirus. These 12 locations include Hirawadi in Panchavati, Naikwadipura, Kumbharwada and Joshiwada in the Nashik West division, Pakhal Road, Pandav Nagari and Indira Nagar in Nashik East, Gosaviwadi, Shikharewadi and Jay Bhavani Road in Nashik Road, Lekhanagar in Cidco and Ashok Nagar in Satpur division. Of the total 252 active zones in the city, 224 are apartments/societies while the remaining 28 are micro ones.Civic officials said that there are over two-three building zones in one area with more number of people testing positive for the contagion. It, therefore, becomes necessary for the civic body to seal such areas and mark them as containment zones, thereby increasing the pressure on the civic and police administration. “There is an urgent need to restructure some of the existing containment zones in the city to reduce the number of active zones. We will widen the scope of the existing containment zones where people are testing positive. For example, people testing positive from areas surrounding containment zones will also be tagged under them,” said NMC officials. “Earlier, most Covid-19 patients were traced from the Nashik East and Panchavati divisions. However, cases have now started emerging from other divisions such as Nashik Road, Satpur, Cidco and Nashik West,” the officials added.The officials also said that the civic body has now increased the rapid tests through antigen kits in some major hotspots like the Wadalgaon and Phule Nagar areas of the city for early detection of patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-plans-containment-zones-at-12-more-locations-across-city/articleshow/76898889.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 11, 2020||Goa||Armed forces ready to help Goa tackle Covid-19: Shripad Naik||PANAJI: As Covid-19 cases continued to increase by triple digits for the third day in a row, the state government reached out to the Armed Forces on Friday and sought assistance in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief minister Pramod Sawant and minister of state for defence Shripad Naik met senior officials of the Indian Army, Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard to discuss the modalities of such assistance. “The chief minister made a request this morning saying that Covid-19 cases are increasing, and asked if the state could get any support from the defence forces,” said Naik. Flag officer commanding Goa area (FOGA), Rear Admiral Philipose G Pynumootil, commandant, 2 STC, Brigadier Sanjay Rawal, and deputy inspector general (DIG), Indian Coast Guard, Himanshu Nautiyal were present at the meeting. “There was a discussion with them on how they can help us in the current situation. The forces told us that they can help us with certain things and they also said what kind of preparations are on,” said Naik after the meeting. Naik said that the armed forces would be roped in only if the state’s infrastructure is saturated and when the need arises. “They could help us with doctors. They have hospitals and if the need arises, some could be shared. They can organise blood donation or organise personnel to create awareness among people about Covid-19. They are ready to give whatever they have to help the state,” said Naik. Naik, who is also the Union Ayush minister, said that bottles of a homeopathic medicine, Arsenicum Album 30, will be distributed to every household in Goa as a preventive and prophylactic drug. “We are getting good reports from those who took the medicines, and coronavirus has not touched them,” said Naik. The Union minister also said that around 6 lakh bottles of the medicine are being procured, which would be given to every MLA, who would then hand it over to local village panchayats for distribution by ward members. “The Covid patients have increased but if one looks at the patients, the infection is getting mild, and that is why there is nothing to fear. There are preventive medicines, and till a vaccine is found, we will have to take precautions,” said Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/armed-forces-ready-to-help-state-tackle-covid-shripad/articleshow/76901579.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||MC to soon restrict public entry in its offices||Ludhiana: With reports of the joint commissioner of municipal corporation (MC) Kulpreet Singh testing corona positive, and several other employees being asked to stay at home, the civic body is now planning to restrict the movement of public in its offices. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said, “Now, we are planning to reduce public movement in the zonal offices and they will be allowed to Suvidha centres but nobody will be allowed inside the offices of officials or employee rooms.” He said apart from this, the MC is also planning to conduct tests of employees in zonal offices, as a precautionary measure. “If employees went in isolation then who will handle the condition in city,” he said. The employees of Zone D offices were worried as being zonal commissioner, Kulpreet had interacted with many of them. Meanwhile, the offices were disinfected. Kulpreet’s office was locked and those who interacted with him regularly for an extended period of time were also home quarantined. The joint commissioner was among those officials who had attended the meeting of ADC (G) Amandeep Bains, who tested positive earlier. Since then joint commissioners Kulpreet Singh and Swati Tiwana have been in isolation. There were clerks, peons, driver and guard attached with him who have now been told to stay at home for two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-to-soon-restrict-public-entry-in-its-offices/articleshow/76901042.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Pune||KCB to enhance bed capacity of its hospital||Pune: The Khadki Cantonment Board has submitted a proposal to the Pune district collector to convert its general hospital, which was used as an isolation facility, to a Covid-19 Care Centre. KCB chief executive officer Pramod Kumar Singh said they have received an in-principle approval from the collectorate. “We will increase the total bed capacity by 100. Our endeavour is to operationalise at least 50 beds at the new Covid-19 Care Centre in the coming days,” Singh said. “We have also decided to hire doctors and hospital staffers on a contract basis,” Singh said, adding that the cantonment board could get assistance in this regard from the zilla parishad. Last week, Pune ZP chief executive officer Ayush Prasad and district health officer Bhagwan Pawar held a meeting with Singh to review the situation. “We will provide assistance to cantonment boards in all possible ways. Contractual doctors might be attached to cantonment hospitals, if needed,” Prasad said. “The existing facility is not enough to meet our requirements and so, we had to seek help from the district administration to get patients from KCB limits admitted to civic-run hospitals a few days ago,” said Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kcb-to-enhance-bed-capacity-of-its-hospital/articleshow/76901593.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Madurai||We are being victimised for complaining: Nurses||MADURAI: Around 40 staff nurses working in the Covid-19 isolation ward staged a protest on Friday morning at Ramanathapuram Government Hospital against deputation of two of their colleagues to other taluk hospitals in the district. The nurses alleged that the hospital administration is trying to silence them as they complained about the poor quality of food and facilities in the Covid-19 isolation ward. A few days ago, at least four nurses suffered food poisoning. “A deputation right now is highly suspicious and condemnable. Further, the deputed nurses also have to face the difficulty of travelling long distance during this time of lockdown. We are seeking withdrawal of the deputation order,” said a member of a nurses’ association who took part in the protest. The nurses staged a sit-in protest in front of the hospital, wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Meanwhile, speaking to TOI, Ramanathapuram Government Hospital dean Dr M Alli said that the protest was later called off and all nurses returned to duty. “The nurses simply questioned the deputation orders and protested. The four nurses who suffered food poisoning have all recovered and returned to work as well,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/we-are-being-victimised-for-complaining-nurses/articleshow/76901599.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||Youth threatens to blow up Rajasthan CM's house, held||JAIPUR: A youth from Jamwaramgarh was arrested on Friday for calling the police control room and threatening to blow up CM Ashok Gehlot’s residence. Jaipur rural police detained the accused and handed him over to the city police who are interrogating him. The accused was identified as 23-year-old Lokesh Meena who hails from Papad village in Jamwaramgarh. Vidhayakpuri police station SHO Om Prakash said, “the accused called police control room on 100 and threatened to bomb the CM’s residence. We found that the call originated from Jamwaramgarh and he was detained by the police”. Jaipur rural police handed over the youth to Kanota police and he was finally arrested by Vidhayakpuri police under CrPC Section 151. “The accused appeared to be mentally stable but till now has not given any reason for the threat. We are interrogating him to find the motive behind the threat call but he does not seem to have any reason,” said the SHO. Following the threat call, police sprang into action and started a search for the accused. According to sources, security around CM’s residence has been stepped up and cops are keeping a vigil in the VIP areas. Elaborating further, the official added, “it is quite possible that the accused thought that it was a joke to call control room with such a threat but we cannot let it go so easily as one can never be sure about the seriousness of the threat. Once the call was received, we moved swiftly to take action against the accused. We are also checking his criminal history to find a possible reason for the call.” Last year also, one person was arrested for posting obscene messages against Gehlot on social media after cyber sleuths tracked him down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-threatens-to-blow-up-cm-house-held/articleshow/76901595.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: EC urged to postpone municipal polls in August||JAIPUR: Keeping in view the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the local self government (LSG) department on Friday urged the state election commission (SEC) to postpone the elections to 129 municipal bodies, which are scheduled to be held in August.  An official said, in this situation it will be difficult for the candidates to campaign for the elections and also get adequate number of staff and police personnel for poll duty.  The state election commission (SEC) on Friday held a meeting with the officials of home, health, panchayati raj and local self-government department to the discuss the possibility of holding elections to 129 municipal bodies (whose term is going to end in August), six municipal corporations (elections scheduled in August as per the high court order) and remaining 3,859 gram panchayats in view of the present Covid situation.  The Supreme Court had on Wednesday directed SEC to complete the remaining panchayat elections by October 15. Commissioner P S Mehra said, “Keeping the Covid situation in mind, the possible status of the infection spreading in the state next month was discussed with the health department. Prevention and necessary precautions to be taken during elections were also discussed.”  “Similarly, availability of police force was discussed with the home department as many are deployed in various parts of the state for Covid duty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/ec-urged-to-postpone-municipal-polls-in-aug/articleshow/76907645.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Vehicle hits sanitation employee, raising concern about safety of workers on road||Ludhiana: A sanitation employee of civic body got injured while cleaning the central verge near Sherpur Chowk on Friday when a vehicle hit him. The employee is now admitted in the Apollo Hospital for treatment. Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu visited him in the hospital. Meanwhile, the other worried employees raised concern about their safety. One of the employees claimed that there is no security for employees who work on road day and night. He said they are prone to accidents. According to him, there should be some sort of safety net for employees, especially the field staff. Chief sanitary inspector Ashwani Sahota said, “The employee is identified as 38 years old Ashok Kumar, who sweep was deputed the sweeping work between Dholewal Chowk to Sherpur Chowk. He was cleaning the central verge at the time of accident. A car hit him and both his legs got fractured." He said the other sanitation employees who were working at the spot took him to Apollo Hospital for treatment. Sahota said the driver of vehicle was nabbed by other employees working there and an FIR was lodged against him. The vehicle was also impounded, he said. Shaota also claimed that the employees have reported that while he along with others was doing the cleaning work, the driver was busy speaking on his mobile phone and did not see him. He said the civic body would bear the expenses of his treatment, as he is a contractual employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vehicle-hits-sanitation-employee-raising-concern-about-safety-of-workers-on-road/articleshow/76901050.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: EC urged to postpone municipal polls in August||JAIPUR: Keeping in view the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the local self government (LSG) department on Friday urged the state election commission (SEC) to postpone the elections to 129 municipal bodies, which are scheduled to be held in August.  An official said, in this situation it will be difficult for the candidates to campaign for the elections and also get adequate number of staff and police personnel for poll duty.  The state election commission (SEC) on Friday held a meeting with the officials of home, health, panchayati raj and local self-government department to the discuss the possibility of holding elections to 129 municipal bodies (whose term is going to end in August), six municipal corporations (elections scheduled in August as per the high court order) and remaining 3,859 gram panchayats in view of the present Covid situation.  The Supreme Court had on Wednesday directed SEC to complete the remaining panchayat elections by October 15. Commissioner P S Mehra said, “Keeping the Covid situation in mind, the possible status of the infection spreading in the state next month was discussed with the health department. Prevention and necessary precautions to be taken during elections were also discussed.”  “Similarly, availability of police force was discussed with the home department as many are deployed in various parts of the state for Covid duty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ec-urged-to-postpone-municipal-polls-in-aug/articleshow/76907648.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur Mental Hospital reunites Pune man with family after 15 years||Nagpur: At a time when the pandemic has left many people stranded, Pune’s Indrajit Jagtap was reunited with his long lost father for whom the family had lost all hopes. Vithal Jagtap, who suffers from a psychotic disorder, had strayed away when the family had come to Shegaon in Buldhana district 15 years ago. After wandering for all these years, he finally landed up at the regional mental hospital in Nagpur this month and soon his whereabouts were traced. The hospital officials engaged for counselling the patients gradually extracted information from him and could finally locate his family. This happened in less than a month of his stay at the hospital. Indrajit, who was five years old then, hardly remembered his father. All he had was single passport size photo and picture of his parents’ wedding. After getting a phone call from the hospital, the family quickly secured an e-pass and reached Nagpur. “Initially, Jagtap was taken to the government medical college and hospital (GMCH) by Ajni police after he incurred some injuries. From the GMC, he was referred to the mental hospital through a court order,” said Dr Madhuri Thorat, the hospital superintendent and added, “Our priority is to trace the whereabouts of patients found wandering.” “He used to speak only in bit and pieces. All he said was Saswad and Navi Sangvi. With police’s help we could know that Jagtap’s family once stayed at Saswad in Pune district but shifted to Navi Sangvi locality of Pune many years ago,” said Kewal Shende, consultant at the hospital. Shende said that contact number of one of his relatives could be traced and he quickly identified Vithal. Vithal’s wife suffers from polio and the family lives on rental income. Indrajit, now 21 years old, is pursuing a bachelor’s degree in computer sciences and hopes to get a job in an IT company. “I just could not stay in Pune when I got the information. I was too young to remember anything when he went away. None of us hoped that he would be found again,” said Indrajit. As he led his father out of the hospital, Indrajit tried to ask him where had he been for all these years but he kept silent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-mental-hospital-reunites-pune-man-with-family-after-15-years/articleshow/76901055.cms||Shishir Arya
July 11, 2020||Goa||CM Pramod Sawant rules out lockdown, says Goans must take precautions||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday ruled out another lockdown in the state, and said that since Unlock 2.0 has started in the country, Goans must take all precautions to protect themselves. He said that sealing the borders of the state won’t improve the situation since 80% of those who’ve entered are Goans, including seafarers and those working elsewhere. Speaking to reporters, Sawant said that Covid-19 is here to stay for at least another six months, and that Goa needs to welcome tourists who follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) established to enter the state. He said that the novel coronavirus is a new virus, and that research is on in India and worldwide. “Indian scientists are making efforts to find a vaccine by August 15,” he said. “Looking at the prevailing conditions, we will have to use face masks, hand sanitisers and maintain social distancing for at least the next six months.” Meanwhile, Sawant said that Goa’s Covid-19 recovery rate is over 50%. He also said that the capacity of Covid care centres has been enhanced to 1,500 beds, and that the government has kept another 1,000 beds as backup if the number of cases spike. “If required, we will set up another Covid hospital in North Goa,” he said. “We have kept plan-B ready, but we have not declared it yet.” He added that the ESI-Covid hospital has sufficient beds, and that the government has sufficient funds to treat Covid patients. Also, doctors at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital recently held a video conference with doctors at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to discuss advanced treatment for Covid-19 patients. Sawant also said that the government would commence plasma therapy on patients from next week. “Around 50 persons who have recovered from Covid-19 are willing to give their plasma,” he said. “I am certain many others would also be ready to provide plasma.” As of Friday, 1,347 persons have recovered from Covid-19 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-rules-out-lockdown-says-goans-must-take-precautions/articleshow/76901600.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Paediatrician succumbs to Covid-19||Ahmedabad: Dr Upendra Vithlani, a senior paediatrician practising at Isanpur, succumbed to Covid-19 early on Friday. Dr Vithlani, 59, had worked relentlessly looking after his tiny patients during the epidemic, said his friends and colleagues from the medical fraternity. “He got infected in June and after a long battle, succumbed to complications,” members of the shocked medical fraternity said while grieving yet another loss of a Covid warrior to the pandemic. Earlier, at least three city-based doctors had succumbed to the epidemic. His cousin and senior general physician Dr Manoj Vithlani said that all available therapies for Covid-19 were used but the viral attack was relentless. “We are still losing lives to Covid complications,” said Dr Vithlani. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/paediatrician-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/76901056.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Dehradun||68 new Covid-19 cases found in U’khand||Dehradun: With 68 new cases of Covid-19 being reported in Uttarakhand on Friday, the state’s coronavirus tally reached 3,373. Udham Singh Nagar alone reported 41 fresh cases on the day. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that with 34 people getting recovered on Friday, the state’s recovery tally reached 2,706 cases. “Apart from 41 cases reported in Udham Singh Nagar, 11 new cases were found in Dehradun, seven in Haridwar, four in Nainital, two in Champawat, and one case each in Pauri, Tehri, and Uttarkashi districts,” added Tripathi. Tehri and Pauri Garhwal — which had achieved the feat of zero active cases — now have 13 and seven Covid-19 patients respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/68-new-covid-19-cases-found-in-ukhand/articleshow/76899943.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 11, 2020||Nashik||NMC’s town planning dept nets Rs 20 crore in 1st quarter||Nashik: With the easing of many restrictions and construction activities picking up momentum in the city, the town planning department has been able to fill up the civic administration’s coffers through various taxes. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has earned Rs 20 crore in the first quarter of the current fiscal, of which Rs 11 crore has been netted in June alone. The revenue earned by the town planning department in the first quarter of this fiscal stands in stark contrast to the Rs 60 crore that was netted during the corresponding period last year. Officials from the civic administration said, “There has been a slight improvement in realty sectors as builders have started submitting building plans. Initially, the revenue earned by the town planning department was dismal during the lockdown. The revenue earned in the first quarter is quite satisfactory given the lockdown and the Covid-19 outbreak is still prevailing in the city.” The town planning department earns revenue through building permission fees, layout fees, development charges and fees through unauthorized constructions like closure of balcony, plinth settlement etc.“The real estate scenario in the city is improving gradually. We are closing many deals for ready-to-occupy flats. However, there is no booking for the projects under construction,” said Umesh Wankhede, chairman of real estate committee of Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry & Agriculture (MCCIA) and senior member of Credai, Nashik. Wankhede said though builders were submitting building plans to the municipal corporation for approval, most of them were planning to launch new projects during the festive season that would beging with the onset of Ganesh Chaturthi in August. “We hope the Covid-19 outbreak comes under control by that time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmcs-town-planning-dept-nets-rs-20-crore-in-1st-quarter/articleshow/76898907.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||Congress launches online campaign against university exams||JAIPUR: The Congress party on Friday launched an online campaign ‘#Speak Up For Students’, under which the party demanded a national policy on students’ promotion to the next level be formulated considering the Covid threat looming large. Conducting exams at this stage is ill advised and students and colleges have to adopt a uniform policy, the party added. Deputy chief minister and party state president Sachin Pilot said currently students are confused. “While some states and universities are conducting annual examinations, some others have decided to cancel them and pass the students based on their previous performance. This has created confusion and uncertainty among the students. The Congress party has been demanding assessing the students’ performance based on their past performances, he said in a video posted on Twitter. “It is extremely unfair to conduct exams during the Covid-19 pandemic. UGC must hear the voice of the students. Exams should be cancelled and students promoted on the basis of past performance.” A tweet of Rahul Gandhi was retweeted by chief minister Ashok Gehlot pledging support to the campaign. Many leaders and students came out in support of the campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-online-campaign-against-varsity-exams/articleshow/76901603.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Madurai||South Tamil Nadu Covid toll at 18, cases 1,032; it’s 237 in central districts||MADURAI: For the third time in four days, more than 1,000 Covid-19 cases were reported in the ten southern districts of Tamil Nadu on Friday. With 1,032 new cases and a record-high single day toll of 18 deaths, the overall tally so far in the region jumped to 17,044, including 10,295 active cases and 199 deaths. The central region registered 237 cases taking the total to 4,319 in the eight districts and the total death toll to 30 with the addition of Nagappattinam’s first casualty. With 4,131 cases, Madurai tops the list of active cases in the region. On Friday, the district also became the first in south Tamil Nadu to record more than 100 Covid-19 deaths, 101. It recorded 192 cases on Friday including 120 Influenza-like illness (ILI) cases, 21 contacts, 16 frontline workers, eight pregnant women, 18 others who were to undergo various medical procedures, and one imported case. The district reported six Covid-19 deaths on Friday, of which two were at private hospitals while four were at Government Rajaji Hospital. Three patients with co-morbid conditions and a 60-year-old man without them died at GRH. A 56-year-old man without co-morbidities and an 80-year-old woman with co-morbid conditions died at private hospitals. Ramanathapuram with 32 cases saw four Covid-19 deaths on Friday. They were a 70-year-old woman, a 58-year-old man and two others. The district recorded 85 fresh cases on Friday, taking the district total to 1691, including 985 active cases. Deaths were also recorded in Theni (3), Tuticorin (2), Sivaganga (2) and Virudhunagar (1). In Theni, three patients, all with co-morbid conditions, died at Theni Medical College Hospital. Two Covid-19 patients, a 62-year-old woman and a 50-year-old woman, with multiple co-morbid conditions died at Tuticorin Medical College Hospital. A 74-year-old man and 62-year-old woman from Sivaganga with co-morbidities died at Sivaganga Medical College Hospital. A 72-year-old man from Virudhunagar died at GRH, taking the death toll to 11 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-covid-toll-at-18-cases-1032-its-237-in-central-districts/articleshow/76901606.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Goa||Goa Panchayati Raj Act set to see three amendments||PANAJI: The state government has decided to bring three major amendments to Goa Panchayati Raj Act in the upcoming assembly session to address the issues of waste management in villages, to allow MLAs and zilla panchayat members to participate at gram sabhas and to rationalise house and commercial taxes in villages. Panchayati raj minister Mauvin Godinho met chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday to discuss and finalise the amendments. We have decided to introduce three amendments to the Panchayati Raj Act in the one-day monsoon session of the assembly on July 27, Godinho told TOI. During the last assembly, MLAs had raised the issue that at some gram sabhas they were asked to leave the meeting, so we will amend the act to allow MLAs and ZP members to participate in discussions at gram sabhas, he said. The panchayati raj minister said that the second amendment is to ensure that garbage collection and disposal is done by panchayats in a scientific manner. Once amended, the panchayats cannot escape from garbage collection responsibility, an officer said. A panchayat will work with a block development officer to get rid of the garbage. “The entire system is being reworked,” Godinho said. Senior officer said that the panchayats department had noticed that some panchayats don’t collect garbage in the state. There are 191 village panchayats in the state. Once amended, there will be a provision to penalise a panchayat that fails to collect and dispose of the garbage in its area. Godinho said that the third amendment will revise house as well as commercial taxes. “Now time has come that panchayats should be self-sufficient. Since 1994 there has been no amendment to the act. Everything has been streamlined now, even the procedures,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panchayati-raj-act-set-to-see-three-amendments/articleshow/76901608.cms||Murari Shetye
July 11, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: EC urged to postpone municipal polls in August||JAIPUR: Keeping in view the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the local self government (LSG) department on Friday urged the state election commission (SEC) to postpone the elections to 129 municipal bodies, which are scheduled to be held in August.  An official said, in this situation it will be difficult for the candidates to campaign for the elections and also get adequate number of staff and police personnel for poll duty.  The state election commission (SEC) on Friday held a meeting with the officials of home, health, panchayati raj and local self-government department to the discuss the possibility of holding elections to 129 municipal bodies (whose term is going to end in August), six municipal corporations (elections scheduled in August as per the high court order) and remaining 3,859 gram panchayats in view of the present Covid situation.  The Supreme Court had on Wednesday directed SEC to complete the remaining panchayat elections by October 15. Commissioner P S Mehra said, “Keeping the Covid situation in mind, the possible status of the infection spreading in the state next month was discussed with the health department. Prevention and necessary precautions to be taken during elections were also discussed.”  “Similarly, availability of police force was discussed with the home department as many are deployed in various parts of the state for Covid duty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/ec-urged-to-postpone-municipal-polls-in-aug/articleshow/76907647.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: EC urged to postpone municipal polls in August||JAIPUR: Keeping in view the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the local self government (LSG) department on Friday urged the state election commission (SEC) to postpone the elections to 129 municipal bodies, which are scheduled to be held in August.  An official said, in this situation it will be difficult for the candidates to campaign for the elections and also get adequate number of staff and police personnel for poll duty.  The state election commission (SEC) on Friday held a meeting with the officials of home, health, panchayati raj and local self-government department to the discuss the possibility of holding elections to 129 municipal bodies (whose term is going to end in August), six municipal corporations (elections scheduled in August as per the high court order) and remaining 3,859 gram panchayats in view of the present Covid situation.  The Supreme Court had on Wednesday directed SEC to complete the remaining panchayat elections by October 15. Commissioner P S Mehra said, “Keeping the Covid situation in mind, the possible status of the infection spreading in the state next month was discussed with the health department. Prevention and necessary precautions to be taken during elections were also discussed.”  “Similarly, availability of police force was discussed with the home department as many are deployed in various parts of the state for Covid duty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ec-urged-to-postpone-municipal-polls-in-aug/articleshow/76901610.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Doctor jumps to death from 10th floor of AIIMS hostel||NEW DELHI: A 25-year-old resident doctor with AIIMS allegedly died by suicide by jumping off the 10th floor of the institute hostel on Friday evening. No suicide note has been recovered yet. DCP (south) Atul Thakur said that police received a call about the suicide around 5pm, when the doctor’s colleagues saw him jump and raised an alarm. Anurag fell into the courtyard and was immediately rushed to the ICU in an ambulance where he died during treatment. Police found his mobile phone next to the window from which he allegedly jumped out. Police are scanning through his mobile phone to establish the reason behind the suicide. However, a preliminary inquiry has revealed that the doctor was battling mental health issues and was undergoing counselling. His colleagues, too, had been supportive of him. The cops also found some blogs and notes about the struggles with mental health on his social media profiles. Police say that his social media profile indicates that he was a good student throughout his career and had attained a good rank in his board exam. His physician and his family members will be asked about the troubles he was facing. His family members, who stay in NCR, have been informed about the incident by his colleagues. An inquest proceeding under the Code of Criminal Procedure has been initiated and a report regarding the cause of the suicide will be presented before a magistrate. Anurag’s body has been sent for an autopsy and will be handed over to his family members on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-doctor-jumps-to-death-from-10th-floor-of-aiims-hostel/articleshow/76902798.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Jamshedpur||Maid fired from 6 houses in Steel City||JAMSHEDPUR: A domestic help, who worked at the home of a deceased Covid-19 patient, has been fired from her job at six households here on apprehensions that the woman may be a carrier of the virus. Although she tested negative for Covid-19, all her six employers refused to let her work at their places. “I have shown my Covid-19 negative reports to all my employers but no one is ready to let me in,” the woman said, adding, “With no money and job, I may starve to death unless someone helps me out.” Family members of the 71-year-old man, who became the first patient in the Steel City to succumb to the virus on July 4, said their neighbours did not talk to them ever since the news of his death spread. They added that they have stopped getting supply of essential commodities, like milk, at their home, located in Khutadih area of Sonari. The milkman said other households where he delivers milk have threatened to discontinue his services if he delivers milk to the house of the deceased. BJP spokesperson Kunal Sarangi said such behaviour is not acceptable. He said on several occasions, patients and their families have approached him for help as local grocery shops have refused to supply essential commodities to them. Sarangi added that the district administration should look into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/maid-fired-from-6-houses-in-steel-city/articleshow/76901309.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
July 11, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC asks government to take coronavirus protocol violators to task||RANCHI: Taking note of the rampant violation of lockdown norms, the Jharkhand high court on Friday ordered the state government to take action against the violators. The court in its observation also said no one should be spared, irrespective of the stature of the person. A division bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocates Indrajit Sinha and Rohan Majumdar, took suo motu cognisance of the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state. The court was also apprised of the government’s shortcomings in implementing the lockdown guidelines strictly. While arguing, Sinha informed the court that the high and mighty of society are not adhering to the lockdown norms. Without naming anyone, Sinha also said a cabinet minister had recently held a house-warming party and no rules were followed. The minister tested positive for the virus and several guests, including chief minister Hemant Soren, who attended the party, are now under home isolation, he added. Sinha argued, "If leaders and ministers do not follow the principles laid down during a lockdown, commoners are bound to flout rules. People on the streets are roaming around without masks and are not following the protocol." After hearing the pleadings, the bench directed advocate general Rajiv Ranjan to take strict action and said no one should be spared when it comes to violation of rules. "It is for the safety of all and no one can be allowed to put the lives of others at risk," the court observed. The court also expressed its concern over the low rate of tests being done by the government. The court ordered Rajiv to compile a detailed report on the number of tests carried out across the state. "This is a very serious condition and the courts are also very concerned about the well-being of the masses," the bench observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-hc-asks-govt-to-take-virus-protocol-violators-to-task/articleshow/76901335.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ranchi||Corona beaters back to business after recovery||RANCHI: Many health workers, including junior doctors, interns, anaesthetists and lab assistants, in Ranchi have resumed their professional duties after recovering from Covid-19. Even though they may not be completely immune from fresh infections, they have nonetheless joined work. TOI spoke to a few of these front-line workers. Dr Azhar, an anaesthetist and intensivist at Alam Hospital, reported to his work in the first week of July days after recovering from Covid-19 infection. “I had tested positive on June 18 after I came in contact with an infected person, and was in isolation for the next ten days. Later, I recovered and tested negative for Covid-19, and was finally discharged on June 27. I have decided to serve the patients, as corona isn’t an unbeatable disease. Now I am visiting the hospital regularly,” Azhar said. Testing positive for Covid-19 was like a nightmare for Dr Anu Singh, an intern at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims). She had tested positive along with one of her batch-mates on June 2. “But today I feel getting infected by Covid-19 was a blessing in disguise. As now, when I screen suspected patients at the Covid-19 block of Rims, I feel confident as I have recovered from the disease and have less chances of getting infected,” Anu said. Mantu Nag, a lab technician at Rims was one of the first front-line workers to get infected in Ranchi. He tested positive for the infection on May 1. However, he rejoined work in June and at present is working at the Covid-19 ward. “I was scared for my family after I came to know about my test results. But now, all my apprehensions about the infection have vanished as I collect samples from suspected patients and transport them to the lab,” Mantu said. A total of seven nurses from Ranchi sadar hospital and Rims were infected and have returned to their duties. Manju Kumari, a senior nurse at Rims, said: “The time I spent inside the hospital during recovery was quite comfortable, but I had to face social stigma after being discharged. People in my neighbourhood asked me to stay put at the hospital for another fortnight. So, I had to stay at my daughter’s hostel for 14 days before returning home. I am trying to make people aware of the disease and asking them not to boycott infected persons.” When contacted, the head of the department of microbiology at Rims, Dr Manoj Kumar, said: “Those who have recovered from Covid-19 are not completely safe. They can get infected again if they come in contact with a person who has been infected by a different strain of the virus. Having said that, they are much more protected than others from coronavirus as recovered patients develop antibodies against the infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/corona-beaters-back-to-business-after-recovery/articleshow/76901726.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 11, 2020||Ranchi||Hemant Soren government ignoring Opposition’s suggestions to check pandemic in state, says Deepak Prakash||RANCHI: BJP’s Jharkhand president Deepak Prakash on Friday said the Hemant Soren government must take the opinion of political parties from both ruling and opposition parties, civil society groups and NGOs before taking a call on the fate of the ongoing lockdown and unlock phases. Speaking to journalists in a virtual press meet in the afternoon, Prakash claimed that the government has ignored all suggestions given by BJP for ensuring better management of the pandemic in Jharkhand, since the lockdown came into effect on March 22. “The government invited us for talks in the early days of lockdown. Since then, it has not taken any suggestions from opposition parties, NGOs or civil society groups. As president of Jharkhand’s biggest opposition party, I had written several letters to the CM. Our legislative party leader (Babulal Marandi) had also written to Hemant Ji on many occasions to draw the government’s attention to the flaws in Covid-19 management. But none was answered,” Prakash claimed. Expressing concerns over the growing cases of Covid-19 in the state, Prakash called for a complete re-evaluation of the state’s scenario before a call is taken about the lockdown. “The law enforcement machinery, such as police and district administrations, must be directed to penalize people who are flouting social-distancing norms and venturing out without face masks,” the Rajya Sabha member said. Prakash claimed that the Soren government has “failed” to provide basic essential items to the economically vulnerable sections of society during the lockdown. “The Centre’s relief packages to the MSME sector, farmers and foodgrain distribution have not reached the last-mile beneficiaries in Jharkhand. In the past six months since assuming office, the current dispensation has been unable to improve the state’s economic indicators as well,” he said. The BJP president also listed the measures being taken by the Narendra Modi government at the Centre under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-govt-ignoring-oppns-suggestions-to-check-pandemic-in-state-says-prakash/articleshow/76901269.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ranchi||Escaped Covid-19 patient re-arrested in Hazaribag||HAZARIBAG: A 26-year-old Covid-19 positive undertrial, who escaped from police custody while getting treatment at Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital on Thursday, was arrested from a busy commercial area in the heart of the city on Friday afternoon, posing a great risk to people in the area. The undertrial, who hails from Matwari under Korrah locality, gave the cops a slip by escaping from the hospital bathroom window. The district police had constituted a special task force to track him. SP Karthik S said, “We formed several teams and sent them to various parts of the town as he was sure to be hiding in the town or its suburbs. He was finally sighted outside a closed store just behind the Hazaribag sadar police station and arrested.” Police said the undertrial is a cough syrup addict and escaped to look for it. Hospital superintendent Sanjay Kumar Sinha and police said the patient will now be chained during his treatment period. Meanwhile, Barkagaon was declared a containment zone and 100 policemen were placed under home quarantine after an assistant sub-inspector posted at Barkagaon police station tested positive. Earlier four police stations in Hazaribag were declared containment zones. Sardar Chowk and Burrabazar Gowatoli, two busy localities of the town, were declared containment zones after seven positive cases were detected from these areas, SDO (sadar) Megha Bharadwaj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/escaped-covid-patient-re-arrested-in-hbag/articleshow/76901765.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ranchi||159 fresh cases in Jharkhand, Covid-19 tally climbs to 3,158||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Friday reported 159 new cases of Covid-19, taking the cumulative cases in the state to 3,518. The data released by the state unit of National Health Mission (NHM) said Jharkhand’s seven days growth rate of positive cases surpassed the national average by 0.38%. The national average till Friday was reported at 3.46% while Jharkhand's figure stood at 3.84%. Among the fresh cases reported on Friday, Ranchi accounted for 25 infections while East Singhbhum reported for 21 cases. The total number of cases in the state capital in the last 10 days also crossed the 100-mark with 132 cases detected so far in July. The figure was reduced to a single digit in June. East Singhbhum continued to surpass the overall figures among all districts and crossed the 600-mark. The district has now 646 cases of which 361 are active. Of the total cases so far, 2,224 people have recovered and 23 have succumbed to the viral infection. Meanwhile, Pakur saw a steep increase in the number of new cases at 17 on Friday. Lohardaga, Chatra and West Singhbhum also reported a relatively high number at 14 cases each while Hazaraibag detected 13 cases. Dhanbad and Garhwa had eight patients each while Sahebganj and Koderma reported five cases each. In Giridih and Palamu, an equal number of three people each tested positive while Ramgarh and Latehar had two cases each. Godda and Dumka detected one case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/159-fresh-cases-in-jkhand-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-3158/articleshow/76901294.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 11, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Junior doctors on strike for non-payment February salary||SINDRI: Nearly 42 junior residents at Pataliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), Dhanbad, went on a strike on Friday demanding salaries for February. PMCH superintendent A K Choudhary said, "Payments for February could not be made as there was no allocation at that time and later, the state government banned the payment of arrears." He added, "Despite being aware of the situation, it is unfortunate that the doctors decided to go on a strike amid the pandemic." He further said, "Though the payment could not be made due to a policy decision of the government, we are in talks with the health department on the matter." Choudhary added that salaries for March, April and May have been made and payment for June is in the pipeline. Friday’s strike disrupted service across various departments of the hospital although the emergency and the OPD services operated as usual..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/junior-docs-on-strike-for-non-payment-february-salary/articleshow/76901810.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Ranchi||Special trains between Jharkhand and Bihar suspended indefinitely||RANCHI: After the Jharkhand government reportedly raised concerns about Covid-19 spread from inbound train passengers from Bihar, railways on Friday said it will stop services of special trains between the two states from July 13 onwards. In a statement, the South Eastern Railways (SER) zone said, “As per a request received from the Jharkhand government, it has been decided to fully cancel 08183/08184 Tatanagar-Danapur-Tatanagar special with effect from July 13 until further notice.” On Thursday evening, the SER issued a similar statement announcing that services of the Patna-Ranchi-Patna Janshatabdi Express will be partially curtailed from July 13. Under the new directives, the train will ply between Patna and Gaya in Bihar only. While the SER and the East Central Railway said the move came on Jharkhand government’s request, there was no official word from the state transport department and the chief minister’s office. However, a senior official in the government said, “A letter was sent to the railway minister’s office from the CMO seeking curtailment. In the letter, concerns were raised about inter-state movement as Bihar is witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases.” While passenger trains are suspended till August 12, 100 pairs of special trains are being run nationwide. Jharkhand had two trains originating and terminating among them, while several trains travelling between New Delhi, Howrah, Bhubaneswar and Mumbai have their stoppages at Tatanagar railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/special-trains-between-jkhand-and-bihar-suspended-indefinitely/articleshow/76901797.cms||Dhritiman Ray
July 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lockdown imposed in Srikakulam town||VISAKHAPATNAM: Lockdown restrictions in Srikakulam town was revised on Friday. It will remain open for business only between 6 am and 1 pm till further notice, said district collector J Nivas. “People have been asked to remain indoors beyond these timings. On day one we got a good response from the public. This decision was taken to prevent the further spread of Covid-19,” Nivas said, while adding that traders have voluntarily come forward to maintain the timings. According to the Covid-19 controlling official wing, the district collected throat and nasal swabs of a total 1,04,029 people, including non-locals, across the district till Friday. A total 1,662 people tested positive, including 115 on Friday. A medical official however pointed out that locals are not cooperating. He explained that not only are many people giving the mask a miss but also many in areas like Purushottampuram, PNM Colony and Dammala Veedhi in the town, who have basic symptoms like cold and cough are reluctant to undergo tests. “Some people even use abusive language when we suggest that they get themselves tested for Covid-19,” the medical officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-imposed-in-skulam-town/articleshow/76901087.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Promotion move to benefit 80k ATKT students||Nagpur: A day after Maharashtra government decided to promote even failure (ATKT) students due to Covid-19 pandemic, it came to fore that Nagpur University (NU) has about 80,000 students who would benefit from the decision. This number is more than the regular final year students, who are about 75,000. The state has over 3 lakh students having a backlog in subjects. “We are yet to receive any formal notification, but we are ready with the figures of such students. Many of them have backlog of third, fourth and fifth semesters. In each of them, we’ve approximately 25,000 or more students. So, the total number is around 80,000,” pro-vice chancellor (officiating) SR Chaudhary told TOI. NU officials, including VC (acting) Murlidhar Chandekar, pro-VC and others convened an informal meeting on Friday to discuss the government decision. Other issues like stalemate over final year exams also came up for discussions. After UGC issued guidelines for universities, making it compulsory to conduct exams in September, state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant rushed a letter to the apex body and Union HRD Ministry. He expressed inability to conduct the exams in view of the surge in coronavirus cases every day in Maharashtra. “We don’t have clarity on final year exams, but we’re fully prepared either way. If asked to conduct, we will be doubling the exam centres and our question papers are ready. If average marks are to be awarded, we’ve our software ready. Internal and previous semester marks of students are already saved in the server,” Chaudhary said. On the problem of syllabus not being completed in majority of colleges due to nationwide lockdown from March 25, the pro-VC said, “In normal course, about 80% of the curriculum is completed by colleges by March-end, as exams commence from April.” “We believe that most colleges should have completed 80% syllabus. Only difficulty is of professional courses like engineering, whose syllabus isn’t finished. In such cases, we would allow them to solve 40% questions and not the 70% in normal times. But all these decisions would be finalized by the Academic Council only,” he clarified. Box Acad Council meet after July 20 to declare results The pro-VC said NU would convene an emergent meeting of Academic Council, likely after July 20, to discuss the formalities of releasing all results, except final year. “Since guidelines are clear for first and second years, we’ve devised a formula of awarding marks. It needs clearance from the Academic Council. After its nod, we only need to upload the internal marks, which were sent by colleges and results would be out in a week,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/promotion-move-to-benefit-80k-atkt-students/articleshow/76901111.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||ICSE Std X results out, two share top spot from city||Nagpur: The Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE), known popularly by the name of its Std X certificate ICSE, declared the board exam results today. In Nagpur, schools affiliated to the Council only offer Std X. The top spot in city was shared by Shreyans Katariya of Chanda Devi Saraf (CDS) School and Mohd. Mustafa Sunelwala of MSB Educational Institute who scored 99.2%. The second spot went to Parul Tabhane from CDS with a score of 99%. The third city topper position was secured by Aditya Jajoo of CDS with 98.8%. In Maharashtra, 23,336 students appeared for the ICSE exam of whom 17 failed. In Nagpur, only four schools are affiliated to the Council. Apart from the two schools mentioned above, Seventh Day Adventist (Sadar) and Marie Poussepein (Kamptee Road) offer ICSE course. Joint topper Sunelwala said he was expecting less marks, so this came as a surprise. “Happy to be a topper as I thought that I would have scored around 95%. I’m planning to opt for the commerce stream as my aim is to be a chartered accountant. I was interested in this field since the beginning because maths and economics are my favourite subjects,” said Sunelwala. Katariya said he wants to be an engineer and had started preparing for JEE already. “I love science stream because maths has been my favourite subject. I had excellent teachers for PCM in school who helped me develop an interest in these subjects,” said Katariya. Tabhane, who secured the second spot, said her marks went down due to two subjects. “I lost marks in English grammar and Environmental Studies. To me, the exams were fine and easy because I studied with all my effort for last two years,” said Tabhane, who is now preparing for the medical entrance exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/icse-std-x-results-out-two-share-top-spot-from-city/articleshow/76901152.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Bars can sell liquor like wine shops||Nagpur: The excise department has come up with some good news for tipplers. Bars can now sell liquor at maximum retail price (MRP) like wine shops. As a result of this order, the number of sellers has increased and you need not wait for hours before the wine shop owner’s staffer delivers your stuff at home. Till now, bars had only permission to exhaust their stock, which they had at the time of lockdown. This permission was given in the last week of May. However, soon bar owners sold out their stock and were out of business. They approached the excise minister and commissioner and pointed out their precarious condition. The government realized that the owners and staffers needed a legitimate business to survive as bars would be the last to open in the unlock process. Therefore, they were permitted to sell liquor. Not every bar owner is happy with the order. Piyush Rathi said that bar owners would suffer a loss if they sold at MRP. “Our overheads are more than wine shops. Plus, we have to pay 5% extra value added tax (VAT). How will we pay this surcharge,” he asked. Akash Patil, a bar owner, however, expressed happiness over the order. “I had exhausted my stock and had nothing to do. This order is a lifesaver for me. I wont make much money but something is better than nothing,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bars-can-sell-liquor-like-wine-shops/articleshow/76901162.cms||Ashish Roy
July 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Migrant fishermen from north Andhra Pradesh stare at uncertain future||VISAKHAPATNAM: Perhaps for the first time in 38 years, no fishermen from northern Andhra Pradesh will go to Gujarat this year. The Srikakulam district administration is not keen on sending fishermen to Gujarat this year as it is now a high-risk state with over 35,000 Covid-19 cases. Speaking to TOI, a senior official close to the development said, “Gujarat is one of the high-risk states in the country. On May 1, when we rescued nearly 4,000 fishermen from Gujarat, seven of them tested positive. So we do not want to take the risk and send these fishermen to Gujarat at this time.” On Friday, a meeting was scheduled at the district collector’s office where fishermen’s associations had put forward requests from sethjis (boat owners from Gujarat) to allow fishermen to migrate to Gujarat. However, no decision came out of the meeting and the meeting has been scheduled to be reconvened on July 13. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Andhra Pradesh government has registered the names of all fishermen from the state who migrate to different states throughout the year and has made government permission mandatory for migration. Arjili Dasu, an activist working with fishermen said, “There is a fishing ban in the western coast of the country every year for around two months which ends in July. Under normal circumstances, fishermen from north Andhra start migrating to Gujarat at this time. If the government does not allow them to migrate, how will these fishermen sustain their families?” It was in 1982 that the first set of fishermen had migrated to Gujarat from Srikakulam. Veteran fishermen recollected that a fisherman named G Suryanarayanan from Garamandal Mogdalparu village went to Gujarat fort the first time after a relative of his introduced him to a boat owner at Veraval Port. He was soon followed by others. “Now, it is a family tradition for fishermen from north Andhra, especially Srikakulam, to migrate to Gujarat every year. When a boy in my village turns 15, his father takes him to Gujarat to work as a ‘khalashi’ or a cook. The boy later becomes a side boatman and progresses to go on to become the main boatman or ‘tandel’,” said Ch Danayya, a veteran fisherman. People in the fishing industry in Gujarat told TOI that if these migrant fishermen from Andhra Pradesh are not allowed to go to Gujarat, it will have an immense impact on fish exports from Gujarat and supply of fishes to western states. “One needs to understand that the 10,000 fishermen from Andhra Pradesh constitute more than 85 per cent of the total fishermen in Gujarat. Without them, less than 5 per cent of boats will be able to venture into sea,” said Tulshi Gohel, a boat owner in Veraval Port.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/migrant-fishermen-from-north-ap-stare-at-uncertain-future/articleshow/76901173.cms||Arpit Basu
July 11, 2020||Nagpur||Cops nab 20-yr-old Amt girl who beat brother to death||Amravati: Kholapuri Gate police on Friday arrested 20-year-old Nikita Gajanan Tupatkar, who had absconded after killing her 10-year-old brother, Swaraj, with a pestle on Thursday. Hurt by the alleged neglect by parents who, she felt, loved her brother more, Nikita took the extreme step against Swaraj who tried to stop her fleeing from home again when the parents had gone out. Police, who were searching for Nikita, found a girl moving suspiciously near police station premises, hiding her face with a dupatta. They stopped her and made enquiries. When it was established that she is Nikita, cops brought her to police station and arrested her under Section 302 of IPC. Nikita, who had fled home previously also, told cops that when her parents left for some bank work last noon, she started packing her clothes to flee again. As Swaraj asked her not to do so and tried to prevent her from packing, she started beating him. When Swaraj cried, she picked up the pestle and kept beating him on the head until he collapsed bleeding. She then changed her blood-stained clothes, closed the main door from inside and walked out of home from backdoor to go to her married friend’s house where she spent the night without informing them of her misdeed. The couple was frightened when they learnt of her crime through newspapers on Friday morning following which her friend’s husband dropped her near Kholapuri Gate police station area where police quizzed her after suspecting her movements. Police said Nikita had fled home a month ago and was seen sitting alone by a catering service staffer on a ground in Chavarenagar. He took her to his home where she stayed for 10 days. When the youth learnt about her missing report with Kholapuri Gate police station, he had informed the cops who had restored her to her parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-nab-20-yr-old-amt-girl-who-beat-brother-to-death/articleshow/76901169.cms||---
July 11, 2020||India||SC okays summons via WhatsApp, email||NEW DELHI: In a first, the Supreme Court on Friday agreed in principle that serving notices and summons, integral to judicial processes, on persons through instant messaging services like Whatsapp and Telegram in addition to emails would be legally valid. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, and Justices R S Reddy and A S Bopanna agreed with the suggestions of attorney general K K Venugopal and solicitor general Tushar Mehta that service of summons/notices through email would constitute a valid delivery of these legal instruments asking a respondent/person to either appear before the court or respond to a court query. It said this innovation was needed as physical delivery of notices/summons during lockdown periods has been difficult. However, Venugopal expressed reservation about service through Whatsapp. "Since the messenger service claims that it is end-to-end encrypted, it would be difficult to prove legitimate service of summons/notices sent through Whatsapp," he said. But, the CJI said, "If the sent notice/summons in message form reflects two blue ticks, then it would constitute as valid service." However, Mehta pointed out that "it is easy to tweak the Whatsapp settings, as I have done, to not show the sender the blue ticks. This would give an erroneous impression that the person has not received the summons despite him receiving and going through it." Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra agreed with Mehta. Then the CJI said the whatsapp messages could be in addition to summons and notices sent through emails. However, in the draft order, the bench mentioned instant messaging services instead of Whatsapp or Telegram saying it would not commit the mistake of a photocopy machine being called a 'Xerox' machine. Formal orders from the court are likely to be uploaded on Monday. However, the SC refused to extend the three month validity period for cheques. The bench said the three month validity period for cheques is not stipulated by any statute but is based on a RBI direction under Banking Regulation Act. AS the RBI through senior advocate V Giri pleaded that any tinkering with the cheque validity period could affect the banking system, the bench said, "We would not interfere with the cheque validity period." The SC on Friday also agreed to examine the Centre's suggestion that banks could be permitted to get Letter of Acknowledgement of Debt (LAD) from borrowers within 45 days of lifting of lockdown to avoid initiation of recovery proceedings to ease anxiety of the banks and thousands of borrowers because of expiry of three year limitation period during prolonged lockdown and which could lead to initiation of recovery proceedings. HDFC Bank through senior advocate Shyam Divan said that where the three year limitation period for repayment of debt prescribed under the Indian Limitation Act of 1963 has lapsed during the lockdown period or is about to lapse immediately after the lifting of the lockdown period, the banks would be expected to move the concerned courts/tribunals for filing recovery proceedings or make a virtually impossible dash for obtaining LADs. The bank had sought extension of the limitation period to avoid massive litigation. The bank said, "Where LADs cannot be obtained, suits will have to be filed where limitation has expired during the lockdown or where it is due to expire immediately after lockdown. This again creates an insurmountable logistical problem." The Centre has suggested that "on the lifting of lockdown, a period of 45 days should be made available to the bank/person/entity/institution to approach the court/tribunal through appropriate proceedings or to take any other step including obtaining LADs. For this purpose, a period of 45 days from the date of lifting of the lockdown will be given to the bank/person/entity/institution for the purpose of preferring plaints or making applications or taking any other step involving a period of limitation, or obtaining LADs."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-okays-summons-via-whatsapp-email/articleshow/76902823.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi now has 633 sealed zones||NEW DELHI: The number of containment zones in Delhi increased to 633 on Friday with the officials of various districts breaking the bigger areas into smaller pockets.  The cumulative count of Covid-19 cases also jumped to 1,09,140 with 20,189 new cases emerging in the capital. The death toll too increased to 3,300 with 42 new casualties on Friday. According to the state health bulletin, the city currently has 21,146 active patients, including 12,272 in home isolation, 4,613 in hospitals, 2,012 in Covid care centre and 162 in Covid health centres. As many as 84,694 have recovered so far. The total number of tests conducted in Delhi reached 7,47,109 with 10,129 RTPCR and 12,832 rapid antigen detection tests conducted on Friday. From Wednesday's 458, the number of sealed zones increased by 175, the official added. Breaking larger containment zones into smaller segments was part of the government's new delineation strategy for better surveillance, management and identification of those with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms and high-risk contacts for screening and isolation.  The government had started delineating the containment zones in the last week of June when the number of such areas had surged from 280 to 421 between June 26 and 28. According to officials, the government has now issued fresh guidelines to test the direct contacts of Covid-19 patients in the containment zones. Those with ILI symptoms and high-risk individuals would be tested thrice through rapid antigen kits within 15 days of sealing an area.  The order, issued by the directorate general of health services has said the same set of people falling in these three categories would have to be screened and tested between the first and third day of containing an area, then between the fifth and seventh day and again between the 13th to 15th day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-now-has-633-sealed-zones/articleshow/76902824.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Bubble flights to Indian students’ rescue in US?||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following the USA government’s announcement that foreign students taking online-only classes in the country during the fall semester may be deported, travel authorities in India, especially in Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada are keenly observing the developments. If the huge contingent of Indian students studying in USA had to return, flights under the Vande Bharat Mission won’t be enough. In which case, much would depend on international bubble flights to be operated by US-based airlines after July 21. According to government data, there are over four lakh Indian students currently in USA. The number of Telugu students in USA is estimated to be around one lakh. K Vijay Mohan, president of Tours and Travels Association of Andhra Pradesh, said, “Air India is operating 36 flights between India and USA from July 11 to July 19. Most of these flights are fully booked. We are keeping a close watch on introduction of bubble flights which are expected to fly after July 11.” Meanwhile, Sumanta Roy Choudhury, a retired Air India pilot said, “Following the Covid-19 SOP issued by the civil aviation ministry and the restrictions on board, there is no way that the national carrier can cater to the huge contingent of students studying in USA. Much would depend on chartered services by other airlines.” On June 23, the civil aviation ministry had stated, “As we move from controlled and managed aviation evacuation of our citizens in different parts of the world and foreign nationals from India, we are now looking at the possibility of bilateral arrangements.” It was believed that India is considering opening up such ‘bilateral bubbles’ after the USA government had threatened to restrict chartered flights of the national carrier under the Vande Bharat Mission. “Earlier, when the west Asian countries were operating such chartered flights, most of these flights landed in Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada. This is because of a strong influx of Telugu population from these countries. Now, if Telugu students of these two states had to return from USA we would request the American airlines to operate more flights in this region,” said M Sampath Kumar, a Hyderabad-based travel agent said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bubble-flights-to-indian-students-rescue-in-us/articleshow/76882371.cms||Arpit Basu
July 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||79 sick in Vizag Agency after eating stale meat||VISAKHAPATNAM: Seventy nine people in Visakhapatnam Agency have fallen ill after eating the meat of dead cattle, the Visakhapatnam district medical and health office informed on Thursday. The incident took place at Magatapalem village of G Madugula mandal in Visakhapatnam district. Of those sick, forty are women, and one among them has recently given birth.  Further, 18 men and 21 children have also taken ill, said S Leela Prasad, additional district medical and health officer at the Paderu Area Hospital. Speaking to TOI, Leela Prasad said that the department received the information at 08:03pm on Wednesday night and immediately alerted staff so as to provide treatment. While six people are admitted at the Paderu Area Hospital, others are at the G Madugula hospital, Leela Prasad said. “The people are infected with Salmonella— a bacterial disease. Body ache and vomiting are common symptoms. All of them are safe and are receiving treatment,” Leela Prasad added. Paderu MLA Bhagya Lakshmi and ITDA project officer Venkateswar S visited the Paderu Area Hospital on Thursday to check upon the patients and ensure that proper treatment is being provided. The ITDA project officer said that the patients will be discharged on Monday and that a three-day medical camp will be conducted at the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/79-sick-in-vizag-agency-after-eating-stale-meat/articleshow/76882469.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||World Bank’s funds may help check beach erosion in Vizag by next year||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the hope of World Bank lending funds, measures to check beach erosion are likely to be put in place by next year. A detailed project report (DPR) on beach erosion would be submitted by the end of August by Deltares, a Dutch consultancy firm in collaboration with National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT). The Rs 100 crore project has been put on the back burner for the last three years. Beach erosion was first reported seven years ago at RK Beach. A part of the beach road was damaged due to erosion. Every year beaches in Vizag get damaged due to erosion. The studies show that more than 270 km of the 974 km AP coastline has been eroded. Deltares and NIOT have conducted studies for four seasons to know the cause of erosion. Since December 2017, Deltares has studied erosion and sea activity. “The beach redevelopment project has an estimated cost of Rs 109 crore. Addressing beach erosion may take place next year after green signal from World Bank. DPR is almost ready,” said GVMC commissioner G Srijana. GVMC is now focused on service road, road redevelopment, greenery, public facilities and road redevelopment work. The state government is focused on beach redevelopment and tackling beach erosion, which is posing threat to beaches and visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/world-banks-funds-may-help-check-beach-erosion-in-vizag-by-next-year/articleshow/76882488.cms||Siva G
July 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: SEB official, cop held on liquor smuggling charge||ELURU: The Chintalapudi police on Thursday arrested a woman excise circle inspector working with the special enforcement bureau (SEB) in Krishna district and a police sub-inspector under VR in West Godavari district for their alleged involvement in illegal transportation of liquor. The excise circle inspector Puli Hansuri and the sub-inspector M Vijay Kumar were produced before the magistrate on Thursday and were sent on remand. The Chintalapudi police have registered a case. Speaking to the media, West Godavari district SP KN Narayan said that Chintalapudi sub-inspector Ch Swamy received a tip-off that liquor was being illegally moved from Telangana into Andhra Pradesh in a car being piloted by another car. The SI and his staff intercepted the two vehicles at Lingagudem border check post and found 557 liquor bottles, the SP said. The SP added that SEB circle inspector (excise) Puli Hanusri and police sub-inspector M Vijay Kumar as well as another person named N Kamal Santosh were found moving the liquor. The SEB circle inspector was piloting the exercise, the SP alleged. He further said that liquor worth Rs 3 lakh in Telangana which is valued at Rs 5 lakh in AP was seized. A case was booked under the Section 34 A of the amended excise act. Meanwhile, the driver of one of the vehicles, identified as Naga Raju managed to flee the scene. SP Narayan said that stern action will be taken against people trying to transport non-duty paid liquor into the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/seb-official-cop-held-on-liquor-smuggling-charge/articleshow/76882509.cms||Samson Raj
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Teenager dies, friend hurt after bike hits divider in east Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 19-year-old girl died while her friend is battling for his life at a hospital after their speeding Enfield Bullet motorbike hit a divider on the Noida Link Road near Crowne Plaza hotel on Thursday. Police are probing whether the riders were wearing helmets at the time of the incident. According to the cops, the accident took place around 4pm when girl, Kajal, and her friend Siddharth were riding towards Noida at a high speed. Siddharth possibly tried to over-take another vehicle when he lost control of the two-wheeler and hit the divider. The impact of the collision was such that Kajal fell on the other side of the road and suffered severe head injuries leading to her death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teenager-dies-friend-hurt-after-bike-hits-divider-in-east-delhi/articleshow/76902838.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Gurgaon||After Delhi, plasma bank likely in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: After Delhi, Gurugram is likely to become the second NCR city to set up a plasma bank for Covid patients. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Virender Yadav said on Friday the health department will also issue guidelines for plasma therapy alongside setting up the plasma bank. “There is no restriction on plasma therapy and now we will draft guidelines for it,” the CMO said. The city, which witnesssed a major spike in cases through June, has seen a slowdown in new cases this month, along with more patients being discharged, giving the administration confidence that the strategy of testing, screening and clinical management is working. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Gurugram increased from 77% last week to 83%, which is among the highest in the country, this week. The number of patients has also come down below the 1,000 mark. In the past 24 hours, over 3,000 tests were conducted in the city. So far, 58,309 samples have been collected in Gurugram and around one third of these tests have been conducted in large outbreak regions (LORs) in the past two weeks. To further augment testing, particularly the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) tests at government facilities, a second machine was made operational at Civil Hospital. RT PCR testing had started at the government hospital in June. Till then, samples were sent to PGIMS Rohtak and it used to take at least a week to get the result. Now around 500 RT PCR tests can be done at government facilities in Gurugram in a day. It can be further increased to around 700 tests per day. At present, over 70% of RT PCR tests are conducted at six private labs in the city. Elaborating on the recovery rate, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said that the department follows the strategy of “test, track and treat” to contain the spread of the virus. “The situation has improved in the past one week. The recovery rate in Gurugram has increased to 83%, which is among the highest in the country,” he said. Khatri added that from daily tests of around 300-400 in June, now Gurugram is conducting on an average 3,000 tests per day, including RT PCR and antigen tests. “The projection of Covid-19 cases has proved wrong and it was possible due to the collective efforts of the authorities and the residents,” Khatri said, adding that some more areas may be included in LORs. CMO Yadav said areas such as Patel Nagar and Sohna have emerged as hotspots and a large number of tests have been conducted in these places. “Around 1,000 tests have been conducted in Sohna and the positivity rate has been around 10%,” the CMO said, adding the national positivity rate is around 6%. Watch Covid-19: Gurugram likely to set up plasma bank after Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/after-delhi-plasma-bank-likely-in-gurgaon/articleshow/76902317.cms||Bagish Jha
July 11, 2020||India||Petition in SC said Dubey may be shot||NEW DELHI: Expressing apprehension that Vikas Dubey might be killed in an encounter, a Mumbai-based lawyer filed a petition in the Supreme Court just hours before the dreaded gangster was gunned down in an encounter while being taken to Kanpur with cops claiming that he was trying to escape after the vehicle met with an accident. Lawyer Ghanshyam Upadhyay filed the petition after Dubey was arrested in Ujjain on Thursday and pleaded with the court to direct the UP government to ensure safety of the don while in police custody. “There is every possibility that even accused Vikas Dubey shall be killed by UP police like other co-accused once his custody is obtained. Since, killing of the accused by police in the name of encounter even in heinous crimes is against the rule of law and serious violation of human rights and nothing sort of Talibanisation of the country, hence the instant petition,” he said. “The petitioner being a citizen of India is extremely disturbed and anguished on account of growing tendency of police machineries of doing instant justice by killing the accused,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/petition-in-sc-said-dubey-may-be-shot/articleshow/76902846.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Delhi||IIT-Delhi launches device to help reuse N95 masks||NEW DELHI: The reliability of N95 masks in fighting the novel coronavirus has prompted a start-up at IIT-Delhi, Chakr Innovation, to develop an ozone-based decontamination device that will enable safe usage of such face covers by at least 10 times.  Designed in the shape of a cabinet, Chakr DeCoV has a decontamination mechanism that utilises the high penetrability of ozone to clean the pores of the mask. The innovation team claimed that proper exposure of ozone, could result in inactivation of SARS CoV-2 and a 99.99% reduction in bacterial load, after which an N95 mask could be reused up to 10 times. The device was tested at IIT-Delhi's Centre for Biomedical Engineering. The cleaned mask was tested by South India Textile Research Association.  IIT-Delhi director Ramgopal Rao, in a webinar where the product was launched, said, "The product is necessary as we are generating a lot of biowaste without any policy for discarding them. That may cause diseases in the future." The CEO of Chakr Innovation, Kushagra Srivastava, said, "The device has an ozone-based mechanism, which ensures effective decontamination with high reliability and safety, as needed in a hospital environment."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/iit-delhi-launches-device-to-help-reuse-n95-masks/articleshow/76902848.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC cites waste rules, pauses K Chandrasekhar Rao’s secretariat demolition||HYDERABAD: Four days after chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s pre-dawn surprise of dismantling old blocks in the secretariat, the Telangana high court on Friday stayed the ongoing operation contending that the state government had not furnished its demolition and waste disposal plan to the authorities. Stopping the demolition till the next date (July 13) of hearing, a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said it was not sure if the government had obtained an approval from the local authorities before pulling down the buildings in the secretariat. The bench said: “The state government is supposed to furnish the plan to the local authorities and obtain the approval from them before taking up demolition in tune with the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules-2016.” Addressing advocate general BS Prasad, the bench said: “But it is not clear whether such an effort was made and whether approval was obtained. Hence, the demolition is stopped forthwith till the next date of hearing.” Posting the case to July 13, they told the AG: “Bring those documents on that day.” Govt did not obtain approval for demolition, say petitionersThe bench gave this interim direction while hearing a petition of professor PL Vishweshwar Rao of Telangana Jana Samithi and Cheruku Sudhakar of Telangana Inti Party. Counsel for the petitioners Chikkudu Prabhakar told the judges that Rule 4(3) of the Demolition Management Rules was violated. The rule clearly specified that the government should file an application to GHMC and TSPCB and obtain their approval before taking up any work. “No such application was filed. No approval was obtained,” he said, terming the demolition exercise as “dangerous to public health,” especially during the pandemic. Prabhakar pointed out that the rules were applicable to every waste generator, which generates 20 tonnes of waste a day or 300 tonnes a month per project. “The government is supposed to walk along with the local authorities so that they would take precautions to ensure that the dust generated would be subsided effectively at the generation point itself,” he argued. Stating that the secretariat area falls within the buffer zone of Hussainsagar, the counsel cited judgments of the high court, Supreme Court and National Green Tribunal banning any constructions in the buffer zone of the lake. “In view of this, the court should not allow the government to raise a new secretariat complex there,” he said. The judges, however, said they were more concerned about the ongoing demolition and halted the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-cites-waste-rules-pauses-kcrs-secretariat-demolition/articleshow/76902852.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 11, 2020||Noida||Noida: Family out of town since one month, flat in highrise burgled||GREATER NOIDA: A 12th-floor-flat in Nirala Greens society of Noida Extension was allegedly burgled and cash and jewellery worth Rs 9 lakh was taken away on Thursday. The complainant, Soni Pandey, told police that they were away for the past one month. On Thursday, his neighbour called him when he saw the door broken. “I immediately returned and found my house ransacked. My wife’s jewellery and around Rs 30,000 cash were missing. We checked the CCTV footage and found one suspicious person entering the tower,” he stated in his complaint at Bisrakh police station. Residents have accused the builder of security lapse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/family-out-of-town-since-one-month-flat-in-highrise-burgled/articleshow/76902071.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt says exams only for final year of UG and PG||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government has decided to conduct exams only for the final year or semester of graduation, post-graduation and diploma courses before September-end, and promote all students of junior years and earlier semesters based on their internal assessment and marks of the previous semester/year exam. The decision of the higher education department is applicable to all courses, including engineering and diploma for the 2019-20 academic year but not medical courses like MBBS and BDS which come under a separate department. The state government’s order does not apply to deemed universities which come under Union ministry of human resources. Students of non-final year/semester, or of intermediate year/semester as the government order describes them, will be assessed based on a comprehensive evaluation scheme — taking into account internal assessment and marks of previous year/ semester exam in a 50:50 ratio. Students in their first semester/year will be evaluated entirely on the basis of internal assessment. “If students want to improve their scores, provision will be made for them to appear for examinations during the next semester and students who fail to succeed in the comprehensive evaluation process shall face examinations for respective subjects in the next semester. Backlog subjects can be carried over as well,” higher education minister CN Ashwath Narayan said on Friday. Practical exams can be held via appsThe scheme of carry-forward for subjects in which the student has failed will be allowed for the current academic year and every student will be promoted to the next semester. However, they should clear the exam whenever it is held next. The exam for final-year students can be online/offline or in a blended mode. Conducting classes before the exams to cover the remaining syllabus is optional. Final-year students with backlog should be compulsorily evaluated by conducting exams (online/offline/blended) as per feasibility and suitability, the order says. In case a final semester student is unable to attend the exam for whatever reason, s/he will be allowed to appear in the next exam, which will be held at a feasible time. For considering the minimum percentage of attendance, the lockdown period will be treated as “deemed to be attended”. Universities can conduct practical exams and vivas through Skype or other meeting apps. In case of intermediate semesters, practical exams can be conducted during the ensuing semesters. The institutes can adopt appropriate strategies for projects and dissertations. Reviewbased/secondary data based projects or software-driven projects can replace laboratory-based experiments and field survey based assignments. The government has taken this decision after consulting educationists and university VCs and taking into consideration students’ health, wellbeing and future, the minister said. RGUHS PG exams to begin on TuesdayRGUHS will hold finalyear PG exams for medical, dental and Ayush courses from July 14. “Arrangements have been made. Students have been called back, their quarantine period is over. Firstyear paper in MDS is optional...MBBS exams have been tentatively scheduled for August 25. It depends on the situation as the number of students is huge,” said RGUHS VC Dr Sachidanand||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-says-exams-only-for-final-year-of-ug-and-pg/articleshow/76902884.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa’s driver, cook, electrician test positive for Covid-19||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa will work from home for the next few days. Sources said the CM’s office-cum-residence, Krishna, has been sealed for five days for sanitization. This is the third time the office is shut. Officials in the chief minister’s office said his four personal aides — a driver, cook, telephone operator and an electrician — have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Three personal assistants are under the scanner. After the first case was reported at Yediyurappa’s home office, the health department has been conducting tests on all employees who work with the CM every fortnight. Of the four infected, the driver and the cook have had interactions with the CM. Official residence Cauvery and home office Krishna are separated by a gate. While the public has been banned for the next few days, legislators and ministers can continue to meet the CM, but will have to maintain a distance of 15 feet. A special officer will coordinate with Yediyurappa in signing important files.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappas-driver-cook-electrician-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76902891.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Daunting task for small Telangana hospitals as cases surge||HYDERABAD: The mismatch between requirement and availability of beds for Covid-19 patients in both government and private hospitals has thrown up several challenges. Though the state government has told Telangana high court that it would come up with a digital solution for better coordination, lack of a dashboard on bed availability in government and private hospitals is making matters worse for both the patients and their families.Experts said though big corporate hospitals may have sufficient number of beds and are ready to serve Covid-19 patients, there is a greater need to encourage smaller hospitals to serve patients. “But, lack of trained staff in smaller hospitals to handle emergencies like Covid-19 or breathlessness can be a big handicap,” they explained. Experts in the field said it is high time the government appointed a nodal officer to take up this role so that worries of hospitals would be minimised to a large extent. “Many patients do not even know that the nodal Covid hospital — Gandhi Hospital — does not accept mild and symptomatic patients and that it admits only critical patients or those who need ventilator support,” an expert said. Surprisingly, despite so much noise being made by the medical fraternity and the court, the government has no correct data on the bed strength in private hospitals, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/daunting-task-for-small-telangana-hospitals-as-cases-surge/articleshow/76902895.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Girl washed away in Bellandur drain||BENGALURU: A six-year-old girl playing by the retaining wall of a storm water drain near Marathahalli is suspected to have been washed away in the drain filled with rainwater on Friday afternoon. A search for the girl went on till night in vain and will be resumed in the morning. Mallika N, younger daughter of Nityananda Kuli and Boni Kuli, was among a group of children playing near the drain. Mallika was trying to chase a boy when she slipped into the drain, police said. Nityananda works as a security guard and Boni a housekeeper in a private apartment near the drain. Seven families, all from Assam, live in makeshift sheds near the drain and most of them work as housekeepers or security guards in the apartment. When Mallika fell into the drain between 2pm and 2.30pm, the other children alerted the elders. “A few women in the vicinity, too, raised an alarm. Soon, Nityananda and Boni arrived at the spot. Nityananda entered the drain and searched for his daughter for more than an hour, but in vain,” said Iqbal Khan, who resides near the sheds. Incident worrisome, inquiry on: BBMPNityananda searched for his daughter for more than an hour. Owing to the depth and garbage, he met with no success. By then, police and fire and emergency services joined him,” Iqbal Khan, who was a part of the search operation, said. Fire and emergency personnel, armed with metal hooks and four rubber boats, scoured the drain. The search operation was very slow as the water was too deep and the flotsam too became an obstacle. Overnight rain pushed up water level in the drain. “It looks like we need assistance from National Disaster Response Force. At many places, the water is more than 10 feet deep with huge deposits of silt,” a senior officer said. The incident is “worrisome” as the drain is “completely fenced”, said a senior BBMP official from the storm water drain department, adding a miscreant may have cut the fence and the drain might have been in spate when the girl fell into it. “The Bellandur SWD has six cameras and sensors to alert us if water level breaches the 75% mark. But we received no such alert,” he added. BS Prahallad, chief engineer (SWD), BBMP, said new sheds have come up in the buffer zone of Bellandur storm water drain. “We have ordered an inquiry,” he added. Watch Bengaluru: 6-yr-old girl washed away in drain filled with rainwater||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-girl-washed-away-in-bellandur-drain/articleshow/76902901.cms||---
July 11, 2020||India||CDS, Service chiefs meet Rajnath||NEW DELHI: India will continue to closely track the operational situation along the LAC with China while maintaining full military readiness for any contingency, even though both Indian and Chinese troops have more or less pulled back from the confrontation sites in eastern Ladakh. This emerged in an hour-long comprehensive review by defence minister Rajnath Singh with chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the three Service chiefs, Gen M M Naravane, Admiral Karambir Singh and Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria, among others. Gen Naravane gave a detailed presentation on Phase-I of the de-escalation plan, which has seen rival troops slightly withdraw from the ‘friction points’ in Galwan Valley, Gogra, Hot Springs and the Finger-4 area in Pangong Tso. Over the last few days, the two armies have set up temporary no-patrolling zones by pulling back 1.5-2 km each at Patrolling Point-14 in Galwan Valley and PP-15 and PP-17A in the Gogra-Hot Springs area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cds-service-chiefs-meet-rajnath/articleshow/76902910.cms||---
July 11, 2020||India||LAC row: Cong netas advocate pro-US tilt||NEW DELHI: Reflective of growing anti-China sentiment in the country, Congress functionaries have begun to suggest that India embrace a foreign policy closer to the US, with two prominent partymen speaking in favour of stronger leveraging of global platforms. In separate media columns dedicated to future foreign policy that India should pursue, AICC spokesman and MP Abhishek Singhvi and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda on Friday suggested that the country should lean on the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue to counter-balance China. Singhvi even suggested that India should review its commitment to “One China policy”, referring to Taiwan, Hong Kong, Uighur issues among others to needle the dragon. Meanwhile, tagging an appeal by defence veterans, Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “GOI must listen to the veterans and inform India of the steps taken to ensure no more Indian territory is taken by China and should allow an independent fact-finding mission to identify incursion, intrusion and encroachment by China.” In a radical proposal, Hooda has suggested that India should take the lead in seeking the expansion of Quad by bringing in other key countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lac-row-cong-netas-advocate-pro-us-tilt/articleshow/76902920.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Bengaluru sees record 1,447 positive cases, 29 deaths||BENGALURU: Karnataka reported 2,313 cases on Friday, 1,447 of which were from Bengaluru — both numbers marking the highest-ever 24-hour spike. The state and its capital also reported their highest-ever number of deaths in a day: 57 and 29, respectively. For the second consecutive day, Bengaluru saw more cases than Mumbai (1,218) and Chennai (1,205). The state has reported 33,418 cases so far while the toll crossed the 500-mark, touching 543. A 93-year-old man infected with Covid-19 has recovered in Bengaluru and was discharged on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-bengaluru-sees-record-1447-positive-cases-29-deaths/articleshow/76902923.cms||---
July 11, 2020||Delhi||Doctors give second life to man shot at point-blank range in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 32-year-old man, who had allegedly been shot at pointblank range by a friend, was saved by doctors at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital after a gruelling eight-hour surgery. The bullet had pierced the man’s liver, gallbladder and perforated the stomach, leading to intense blood loss. He is now stable and has been discharged from the hospital, doctors said. The shooting had occurred on June 5 around 11pm. The man was first taken to a nearby super-specialty hospital, but after being turned away his family members brought him to Sir Ganga Ram. He was in a critical condition and bleeding profusely from a bullet wound in his abdomen. “The patient was brought to us around midnight. By that time, we were prepared for surgery. Blood was ready and he was immediately rushed to the operation theatre. The bullet had injured his liver, gallbladder and perforated the stomach and duodenum, leading to a lot of blood loss,” said Dr Ushast Dhir, consultant, department of surgical gastroenterology and liver transplantation, who was also the surgeon. Dhir added that the bullet had also shattered the man’s right kidney, which was constantly bleeding. “Around 1.5 litres of blood had accumulated in his stomach by the time he reached the hospital. The challenge was to save every organ injured by the bullet. The surgery was performed wearing specialised PPE kits in the wake of the prevailing pandemic,” said the doctor. The surgery involved complex repair of each injured organ, which took over eight hours. The specialised kits had to be changed twice along with the masks for the entire team. “We began the surgery around midnight and finished at 8.30am. Since the patient was relatively young, we didn’t want to remove any organ. We spent time meticulously mending each organ and removed the 1.5 litres of blood accumulated inside his stomach. The patient was then shifted to post-operative ICU. He has been discharged and a follow-up has also been carried out,” said Dhir. Despite the prevalence of Covid-19, hospital officials said no patient suffering from any wounds was being turned away and immediate care was being provided to life-threatening injuries. “The way doctors operate has changed due to Covid-19. Surgeries have become more complicated, but our teams have been handling every critical case with the same priority as the viral disease,” said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doctors-give-second-life-to-man-shot-at-point-blank-range/articleshow/76902879.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
