July 12, 2020||Allahabad||Sale of ‘immunity-boosting’ plants increases in Covid-19 times||With a lot of stress being given to raise immunity levels to fight COVID 19 infection, the sale of immunity boosting plants has upped manifold in the past few months. Some of the nurseries in the city are over selling these immunity boosting plants over ornamental ones which till now had formed the major chunk of the earnings of these nurseries. Shyamji Patel, who runs a plant nursery in Manduadih area in Varanasi, says, “More than 50 percent of the customers who come to buy plants now want herbal ones. Among these, Giloy and Ashwagandha tops the list. In fact, we have run out of stock of Ashwagandha saplings as the demand is so high. Ever since concoction or kadha of these herbs is being promoted from various platforms to keep the virus at bay, people are planting them in their homes.” Airing a similar view is JP Sharma, a senior staff at Chandra Shekhar Azad Park (Company Bagh), Prayagraj, “We sell at least 100 saplings of Ashwagandha plants everyday. Earlier our focus was mainly on ornamental and fruit plants but off late we have also started focusing on medicinal plants as well due to the increased demand. Other medicinal plants like giloy, neem, aloe vera, said to improve the general health conditions, also have a lot of buyers.” Ragini Chandel with her plants (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)Ragini Chandel with her plants (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) “The best part is most of these medicinal plants can be planted even in pots and do not require much garden space. So it is convenient for people to own these plants and use their leaves or stems, as the case may be, rather than use them in their bottled form available in the market. There is a 50 percent surge in such customers wanting these plants,” says Mahesh Maurya, owner of a nursery in Varanasi. Ragini Chandel, a businesswoman in Prayagraj, says, “Ever since the outbreak of the pandemic I drink a concoction of herbs or kadha twice a day for which I recently added giloy. A dash of lemon grass, another herb which I also have, in the kadha not only boosts up the immunity but also removes stress, which nearly everyone is feeling due to the present conditions.” Similarly Varanasi based homemaker Gauri Kedia planted a sapling of ajwain and giloy in her garden in the beginning of the lockdown. “Now I use these plants in the concoction to raise the immunity of my family since it is believed people with better immunity are at lower risk to catch the infection.” Science behind the immunity-booster plantsEarlier this year, a research in the US found possible benefits of some vitamins, trace elements and probiotics – including those found in certain plants and herbs – in combating viral infections, concluding that these principles could be useful in possible prevention and management of COVID-19. In India, the Ministry of AYUSH has sought details from traditional medicine practitioners to suggest techniques and therapies based on herbal and plant-based remedies to combat COVID-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/sale-of-immunity-boosting-plants-increases-in-covid-19-times/articleshow/76914742.cms||Meera Vohra
July 12, 2020||Varanasi||Sale of ‘immunity-boosting’ plants increases in Covid-19 times||With a lot of stress being given to raise immunity levels to fight COVID 19 infection, the sale of immunity boosting plants has upped manifold in the past few months. Some of the nurseries in the city are over selling these immunity boosting plants over ornamental ones which till now had formed the major chunk of the earnings of these nurseries. Shyamji Patel, who runs a plant nursery in Manduadih area in Varanasi, says, “More than 50 percent of the customers who come to buy plants now want herbal ones. Among these, Giloy and Ashwagandha tops the list. In fact, we have run out of stock of Ashwagandha saplings as the demand is so high. Ever since concoction or kadha of these herbs is being promoted from various platforms to keep the virus at bay, people are planting them in their homes.” Airing a similar view is JP Sharma, a senior staff at Chandra Shekhar Azad Park (Company Bagh), Prayagraj, “We sell at least 100 saplings of Ashwagandha plants everyday. Earlier our focus was mainly on ornamental and fruit plants but off late we have also started focusing on medicinal plants as well due to the increased demand. Other medicinal plants like giloy, neem, aloe vera, said to improve the general health conditions, also have a lot of buyers.” Ragini Chandel with her plants (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)Ragini Chandel with her plants (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) “The best part is most of these medicinal plants can be planted even in pots and do not require much garden space. So it is convenient for people to own these plants and use their leaves or stems, as the case may be, rather than use them in their bottled form available in the market. There is a 50 percent surge in such customers wanting these plants,” says Mahesh Maurya, owner of a nursery in Varanasi. Ragini Chandel, a businesswoman in Prayagraj, says, “Ever since the outbreak of the pandemic I drink a concoction of herbs or kadha twice a day for which I recently added giloy. A dash of lemon grass, another herb which I also have, in the kadha not only boosts up the immunity but also removes stress, which nearly everyone is feeling due to the present conditions.” Similarly Varanasi based homemaker Gauri Kedia planted a sapling of ajwain and giloy in her garden in the beginning of the lockdown. “Now I use these plants in the concoction to raise the immunity of my family since it is believed people with better immunity are at lower risk to catch the infection.” Science behind the immunity-booster plantsEarlier this year, a research in the US found possible benefits of some vitamins, trace elements and probiotics – including those found in certain plants and herbs – in combating viral infections, concluding that these principles could be useful in possible prevention and management of COVID-19. In India, the Ministry of AYUSH has sought details from traditional medicine practitioners to suggest techniques and therapies based on herbal and plant-based remedies to combat COVID-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sale-of-immunity-boosting-plants-increases-in-covid-19-times/articleshow/76914677.cms||Meera Vohra
July 12, 2020||India||Covid-19: India’s share in daily global cases now 12%||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 caseload crossed 8.5 lakh, a day after going past the 8 lakh mark, as the country added another record number of cases on Saturday — nearly 29,000 — with the daily count of fresh infections touching a new peak for the fourth day in a row. The day’s death toll was 540, the second-highest single-day rise in deaths so far, discounting the 2,003 mostly back-dated fatalities added on June 16. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on CoronavirusThe rapid spread of the pandemic this week has upped India’s share in daily global cases to nearly 12%. India accounted for 11.8% of the total daily cases worldwide on Friday (averaged over three days) despite the global numbers touching a new high of nearly 2.37 lakh, as per the worldometers.info website. India’s share in global cases has been steadily rising since at least early June, although it’s still less than the country’s share in the world’s population, which is more than 17.5%. However, a comparison of weekly numbers (three-day averages) in the past five weeks shows that the spike on June 10 was the sharpest, with India’s share going up by 1.3 percentage points over June 3, when the share was 10.5%. In other words, while global Covid-19 cases are rising sharply, India’s growth rate is higher than the international average. On Saturday, fresh Covid-19 cases across the country surged to 28,998, just two short of the 29,000 mark, as per data collated from state governments. India’s total caseload stood at 8,50,052, while the cumulative death toll was 22,664. Watch Covid-19: India’s share in daily global cases now 12%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-indias-share-in-daily-global-cases-now-12/articleshow/76916218.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana's Covid-19 count spirals, crosses 20,000-mark||CHANDIGARH: Haryana's Covid-19 count on Saturday crossed 20,000-mark as 648 new patients and seven deaths took the state total to 20,582 cases and 297 casualties. Meanwhile, 490 new recoveries have taken the overall recoveries to 5,394. Notably, it took almost four months to reach the 5k figure on June 9 and then June 20, Haryana's Covid count had crossed 10,000-mark. It took 20 more days when the count crossed the 20K-mark on Saturday. Now, Haryana has 4,891 active patients that include 79 critical ones. Of the seven deaths, three are from Faridabad, two from Sonipat and one each from Gurugram and Nuh districts. According to sources, Gurugram topped the table with 170 new patients and one death. Overall count has gone up to 6,728 patients with 104 deaths. There are total 1,035 active cases in the district. After Gurugram, it is Sonipat where 110 new patients have been reported, Here the total has gone up to 1,888 with 676 active cases. Faridabad had 90 new patients with overall count going up to 5,198 with 101 deaths. With 4,245 recoveries, Faridabad has total 852 active cases. As many as 56 new patients have come from Rewari, 42 from Ambala, 31 from Hisar, 28 from Jhajjar district, 21 from Panipat, 20 from Palwal, 18 from Mahindergarh and 14 from Bhiwani, 12 each from Karnal and Nuh, nine from Kurukshetra, six from Sirsa, five from Panchkula and four from Fateahabd. Meanwhile, 3,63,428 persons have been tested so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hry-covid-19-count-spirals-crosses-20k-mark/articleshow/76917378.cms||Manvir Saini
July 12, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab records 231 new Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths||Chandigarh: As Punjab recorded 231 new cases on Saturday, the total number of Covid-19 patients reached 7,587 in the state. The state also lost eight lives to the pandemic on Saturday, taking its toll to 195. Punjab rural development minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa's sample came negative. The cabinet minister had got himself tested after rural development director Vipul Ujjwal, who had attended meetings with Bajwa, had tested positive on Friday. Two Covid-19 positive patients each breathed their last in Patiala and Jalandhar. Whereas Pathankot, Sangrur, Ludhiana and Bathinda districts registered one death each. The highest number of 77 Covid positive patients were reported on Saturday from Jalandhar district, followed by 55 in Patiala, 29 in Ludhiana, 19 in Amritsar and 12 in Mohali district. Similarly, eight samples tested positive in Ferozepur district, seven in Sangrur, six in Nawanshahr, five in Moga and three in Faridkot. Results of two samples each came positive in Barnala, Fazilka and Fatehgarh Sahib districts. Bathinda and Hoshiarpur districts also got one new case each. Among the Covid positive patients reported on Saturday, there were three cops from Ludhiana and one from Patiala. Six positive cases of health care workers were reported from Ludhiana, three from Patiala and two from Barnala. At the same time, 23 patients were discharged from various hospitals in Punjab after their recovery on Saturday. Out of the total 2,352 Covid active cases in Punjab, Ludhiana is at the top with 674 cases, followed by Jalandhar with 486 cases, Patiala with 328, Amritsar with 172, Sangrur with 110 and Mohali with 104 cases. Amritsar district has recorded the highest number of 51 Covid deaths till now, followed by 31 in Ludhiana, 25 in Jalandhar, 18 in Sangrur and 12 in Patiala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-records-231-new-cases-8-deaths/articleshow/76917451.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab records 231 new Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths||Chandigarh: As Punjab recorded 231 new cases on Saturday, the total number of Covid-19 patients reached 7,587 in the state. The state also lost eight lives to the pandemic on Saturday, taking its toll to 195. Punjab rural development minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa's sample came negative. The cabinet minister had got himself tested after rural development director Vipul Ujjwal, who had attended meetings with Bajwa, had tested positive on Friday. Two Covid-19 positive patients each breathed their last in Patiala and Jalandhar. Whereas Pathankot, Sangrur, Ludhiana and Bathinda districts registered one death each. The highest number of 77 Covid positive patients were reported on Saturday from Jalandhar district, followed by 55 in Patiala, 29 in Ludhiana, 19 in Amritsar and 12 in Mohali district. Similarly, eight samples tested positive in Ferozepur district, seven in Sangrur, six in Nawanshahr, five in Moga and three in Faridkot. Results of two samples each came positive in Barnala, Fazilka and Fatehgarh Sahib districts. Bathinda and Hoshiarpur districts also got one new case each. Among the Covid positive patients reported on Saturday, there were three cops from Ludhiana and one from Patiala. Six positive cases of health care workers were reported from Ludhiana, three from Patiala and two from Barnala. At the same time, 23 patients were discharged from various hospitals in Punjab after their recovery on Saturday. Out of the total 2,352 Covid active cases in Punjab, Ludhiana is at the top with 674 cases, followed by Jalandhar with 486 cases, Patiala with 328, Amritsar with 172, Sangrur with 110 and Mohali with 104 cases. Amritsar district has recorded the highest number of 51 Covid deaths till now, followed by 31 in Ludhiana, 25 in Jalandhar, 18 in Sangrur and 12 in Patiala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-records-231-new-cases-8-deaths/articleshow/76917450.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab records 231 new Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths||Chandigarh: As Punjab recorded 231 new cases on Saturday, the total number of Covid-19 patients reached 7,587 in the state. The state also lost eight lives to the pandemic on Saturday, taking its toll to 195. Punjab rural development minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa's sample came negative. The cabinet minister had got himself tested after rural development director Vipul Ujjwal, who had attended meetings with Bajwa, had tested positive on Friday. Two Covid-19 positive patients each breathed their last in Patiala and Jalandhar. Whereas Pathankot, Sangrur, Ludhiana and Bathinda districts registered one death each. The highest number of 77 Covid positive patients were reported on Saturday from Jalandhar district, followed by 55 in Patiala, 29 in Ludhiana, 19 in Amritsar and 12 in Mohali district. Similarly, eight samples tested positive in Ferozepur district, seven in Sangrur, six in Nawanshahr, five in Moga and three in Faridkot. Results of two samples each came positive in Barnala, Fazilka and Fatehgarh Sahib districts. Bathinda and Hoshiarpur districts also got one new case each. Among the Covid positive patients reported on Saturday, there were three cops from Ludhiana and one from Patiala. Six positive cases of health care workers were reported from Ludhiana, three from Patiala and two from Barnala. At the same time, 23 patients were discharged from various hospitals in Punjab after their recovery on Saturday. Out of the total 2,352 Covid active cases in Punjab, Ludhiana is at the top with 674 cases, followed by Jalandhar with 486 cases, Patiala with 328, Amritsar with 172, Sangrur with 110 and Mohali with 104 cases. Amritsar district has recorded the highest number of 51 Covid deaths till now, followed by 31 in Ludhiana, 25 in Jalandhar, 18 in Sangrur and 12 in Patiala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-records-231-new-cases-8-deaths/articleshow/76916375.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana's Covid-19 count spirals, crosses 20,000-mark||CHANDIGARH: Haryana's Covid-19 count on Saturday crossed 20,000-mark as 648 new patients and seven deaths took the state total to 20,582 cases and 297 casualties. Meanwhile, 490 new recoveries have taken the overall recoveries to 5,394. Notably, it took almost four months to reach the 5k figure on June 9 and then June 20, Haryana's Covid count had crossed 10,000-mark. It took 20 more days when the count crossed the 20K-mark on Saturday. Now, Haryana has 4,891 active patients that include 79 critical ones. Of the seven deaths, three are from Faridabad, two from Sonipat and one each from Gurugram and Nuh districts. According to sources, Gurugram topped the table with 170 new patients and one death. Overall count has gone up to 6,728 patients with 104 deaths. There are total 1,035 active cases in the district. After Gurugram, it is Sonipat where 110 new patients have been reported, Here the total has gone up to 1,888 with 676 active cases. Faridabad had 90 new patients with overall count going up to 5,198 with 101 deaths. With 4,245 recoveries, Faridabad has total 852 active cases. As many as 56 new patients have come from Rewari, 42 from Ambala, 31 from Hisar, 28 from Jhajjar district, 21 from Panipat, 20 from Palwal, 18 from Mahindergarh and 14 from Bhiwani, 12 each from Karnal and Nuh, nine from Kurukshetra, six from Sirsa, five from Panchkula and four from Fateahabd. Meanwhile, 3,63,428 persons have been tested so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/hry-covid-19-count-spirals-crosses-20k-mark/articleshow/76917379.cms||Manvir Saini
July 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana's Covid-19 count spirals, crosses 20,000-mark||CHANDIGARH: Haryana's Covid-19 count on Saturday crossed 20,000-mark as 648 new patients and seven deaths took the state total to 20,582 cases and 297 casualties. Meanwhile, 490 new recoveries have taken the overall recoveries to 5,394. Notably, it took almost four months to reach the 5k figure on June 9 and then June 20, Haryana's Covid count had crossed 10,000-mark. It took 20 more days when the count crossed the 20K-mark on Saturday. Now, Haryana has 4,891 active patients that include 79 critical ones. Of the seven deaths, three are from Faridabad, two from Sonipat and one each from Gurugram and Nuh districts. According to sources, Gurugram topped the table with 170 new patients and one death. Overall count has gone up to 6,728 patients with 104 deaths. There are total 1,035 active cases in the district. After Gurugram, it is Sonipat where 110 new patients have been reported, Here the total has gone up to 1,888 with 676 active cases. Faridabad had 90 new patients with overall count going up to 5,198 with 101 deaths. With 4,245 recoveries, Faridabad has total 852 active cases. As many as 56 new patients have come from Rewari, 42 from Ambala, 31 from Hisar, 28 from Jhajjar district, 21 from Panipat, 20 from Palwal, 18 from Mahindergarh and 14 from Bhiwani, 12 each from Karnal and Nuh, nine from Kurukshetra, six from Sirsa, five from Panchkula and four from Fateahabd. Meanwhile, 3,63,428 persons have been tested so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-covid-19-count-spirals-crosses-20k-mark/articleshow/76916374.cms||Manvir Saini
July 12, 2020||Shimla||700 tourists visit Himachal Pradesh in five days||SHIMLA: After allowing entry of tourists into Himachal Pradesh, about 700 tourists visited the state in last five days. Interestingly, majority of hotels owners and their associations in Himachal Pradesh are against the idea of opening hotels for tourists from other states fearing they might be carriers of coronavirus. The department of tourism and civil aviation has issued the standard operating procedure (SOPs) for opening of tourism units in the state. Secretary, tourism and civil sviation Devesh Kumar said before framing SOPs, the tourism department examined the procedures followed by other states who have also opened the hotels for tourists. Kumar said according to the advisory issued, the tourists who wish to visit Himachal have to adhere to the guidelines issued by the state government. They have to register themselves on Covid-19 e-pass.hp.gov.in web portal 48 hours before visiting under tourist category, he added. The tourists have to carry certificate (RTPCR) issued by ICMR certified laboratory with negative report and this should not be more than 72 hours. In addition, the tourist must have downloaded Aarogya Setu App on their mobiles. Director of tourism & civil aviation Yunus said while entering the state, the tourists will be asked to show the medical report, confirmed booking for minimum five days in registered tourism units and Aarogya Setu app. He said these measures are being adopted for the safety of tourists and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/700-tourists-visit-hp-in-fiv-e-days/articleshow/76916380.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Shimla||Covid-19: 11 test positive in Himachal Pradesh, 22 recover||SHIMLA: Eleven new cases of Covid-19 were on Saturday detected in Himachal Pradesh, taking the number of positive cases in the state so far to 1,182. Total 22 positive patients were also reported to have recovered. Among the fresh cases, four were reported from Una district, three from Kangra, two from Solan and one person each tested positive for the virus in Hamirpur and Sirmaur districts. With the latest additions, the total number of active cases of Covid-19 in the state stands at 263, while 895 patients have recovered so far, 13 migrated out of the state and nine died of the virus infection. Two positive patients died in Chamba and Shimla districts due to non-Covid reasons. In Una, a six-year-old child is among the four positive cases reported from Saloh, Ambova and Gondpur areas in the district.In Kangra district, a 65-year-old male from Gharjarot village of Jawali tehsil, a primary contact of a Covid-positive patient, was tested positive. Another male, 37, from Nanau in Una district, who was brought to Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda, tested positive. The third patient is a 50-year-old man from Basa village, who had returned from Sangrur in Punjab on July 3 and was in institutional quarantine. In Sirmaur district, a 34-year-old Army jawan of Khera village, who had returned from Assam on July 5, has tested positive. In Hamirpur, a person from Kardoh village of Nadaun sub-division has been tested positive. A total of 63,519 persons were put under surveillance in the state till Saturday, of them 43,127 have completed their 28 days of surveillance, while 20,392 are under active surveillance. So far, 98,367 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of whom 97,104 have tested negative, while the results of 81 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/11-test-positive-in-hp-22-recover/articleshow/76916379.cms||---
July 12, 2020||India||Congress MPs chorus for Rahul as party chief||NEW DELHI: With Sonia Gandhi’s term as “interim” Congress president nearing completion, a chorus of party MPs has broken out, demanding that Rahul Gandhi return to the helm of the organisation even as he keeps up his direct attacks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over various issues ranging from handling of the Covid situation and confrontation with China in Ladakh. Interestingly, joining the debate on future party leadership on social media, veteran Digvijaya Singh questioned Rahul’s decision to step down as Congress chief and asked who was stopping him from returning to the top post during a virtual interaction between Sonia Gandhi and party MPs held on Saturday. Amid Rahul Gandhi’s attack on the PM, Congress members led by K Suresh, Manickam Tagore, Gaurav Gogoi, among others, demanded that the leader return as party president. They lauded Rahul’s role in exposing the “government’s failures” in the string of national crises where, they said, he had forced the government to respond. Sonia Gandhi’s current interim term, which began when Rahul insisted on stepping down after Congress’ repeat debacle in the Lok Sabha elections, ends on August 10. The demand for Rahul’s return at the helm seems to be becoming a routine affair, with the meeting of Congress Working Committee last month witnessing a similar chorus. The issue was also raised in another CWC gathering, besides being mentioned regularly on public forums. But it seems to be gaining momentum and there might well be a push to ensure he returns. Digvijaya Singh questioned Rahul’s decision to step down after the election defeat. “He had virtually emerged as the main challenger to Modi in 2019 and should have continued to build the party. Why did he voluntarily withdraw from the scene?” Singh tweeted. Singh said those leaders opposed to Rahul’s aggressive politics should quit the party. Watch Congress Lok Sabha MPs demand Rahul Gandhi to take over as party chief||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-mps-chorus-for-rahul-as-party-chief/articleshow/76916372.cms||---
July 12, 2020||India||Rush of PILs in SC over Dubey killing||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Saturday saw a rush of PILs seeking court-monitored investigations into the encounter killing of gangster Vikas Dubey on Friday. The first off the block was advocate Anoop Prakash Awasthi, who termed the encounter a ‘cold-blooded killing’ and referred to UP Police as an “organised gang of criminals” by quoting a half-century-old observation of Justice A N Mulla. He said Dubey’s killing appeared to be motivated to “eliminate a crucial witness to the criminal-police-politician nexus in UP”. “An exemplary action coupled with big reforms is needed to infuse public confidence in the cardinal principle ‘might is not right’ and to assure them they are not living in a medieval draconian authoritative state but in a state governed by rule of law,” he said. Awasthi sought CBI/NIA/court-monitored probe into the separate encounter killings of Dubey, his five associates as well as the 60 cases pending against him and his gang, which he said could throw light on the unholy criminal-police-politician nexus. Meanwhile, NGO People’s Union for Civil Liberties has filed an application seeking an SIT probe into encounter killings of Dubey and aides Amar Dubey and Prabhat Mishra. It sought the application to be made part of its earlier PIL, which had sought probe into encounter killings in 2017-18 and a probe by a committee headed by a sitting SC-judge into the criminal-police-politician nexus. The NGO said, “Encounter/administrative liquidation is a serious crime — murder/culpable homicide, is an offence against the entire society. If such a crime is committed with the support of the state..., it takes a very serious dimension, questioning the entire rule of law and governance in accordance with the Constitution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rush-of-pils-in-sc-over-dubey-killing/articleshow/76916440.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 12, 2020||Business||To wean business away from China, eased FDI norms likely||NEW DELHI: With an eye to attract more investment and boost domestic economic activity, the Centre is eyeing further easing of foreign direct investment rules, in addition to pushing reforms in mining, banking and capital market sectors, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said. The minister’s statement at India Global Week comes at a time when the government is working to wean away from China investors who are looking to diversify their production bases, with several firms keen to avoid concentration in China after the coronavirus pandemic. The focus has intensified after the tension with China on the Ladakh border as the government is keen to bolster domestic manufacturing. Read AlsoMoving away from China? Foxconn to expand India plantFoxconn plans to invest up to $1 billion to expand a factory in Sriperumbudur, near Chennai, where the Taiwanese contract manufacturer assembles Apple iPhones, two sources said. The move, the scale of which has not previously been reported, is part of a quiet and gradual production shift by AppleSources said the FDI reforms could be announced over the next few weeks. At the event, Goyal said the Centre is also looking at simplifying domestic approvals and bureaucratic processes to make it easier for industry to do business. “We have significant items on the table. We are looking at further reforms in the mining sector... at opening up FDI in certain sectors where there are some constraints. We’ll soon be coming out with a new industrial policy, a forest policy and several other initiatives to promote economic activities... We are looking at banking sector and capital market reform,” he said. He further said a number of indicators are showing that economic activity has ramped up over the last 30-40 days. Power consumption is back to 90%, GST tax collection has improved, he added. “So I believe we will be able to recoup very quickly.” Watch Easing of FDI norms likely with an eye to wean business away from China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/to-wean-business-away-from-china-eased-fdi-norms-likely/articleshow/76916515.cms||---
July 12, 2020||India||Railways set to get regulator as it readies for private operators||NEW DELHI: The Indian Railways will get a regulator as it starts the process of allowing private operators to run passenger train services, Railway board chairman V K Yadav told TOI in an interview. While this long awaited reform will help attract more private investment, the national transporter has decided not to outsource the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and its hospitals. Responding to a question on the need for a regulator, Railway Board chairman, Yadav said though earlier there was a proposal to set up Rail Development Authority (RDA), now they are reviewing its terms of reference. “We want to review that proposal in the current situation because when it was formulated there was no discussion about private sector participation in passenger train operation. Certainly we will have to go for some sort of RDA,” Yadav said. In 2017, the department of personnel and training (DoPT) had finalised the process of selecting a regulator, but it couldn’t happen. Now the role of regulator becomes all the more important to decide on pricing of services to protect consumer interests and to create positive environment for investment and benchmarking of service standards. Yadav said the decision to allow private operators to run trains has been taken “not in isolation”; railways targets shifting of nearly 90% of freight trains from its Delhi-Mumbai and Delhi-Kolkata network to the dedicated freight corridors by end of 2023. He added the potential speed of the entire 11,000 km high density route on GQ and golden diagonal would be 130 kmph by March 2021 and then it will be increased to 160 kmph. When asked about the recommendation of high-power group, which prepared National Infrastructure Pipeline report, for railways to get rid of non-remunerative and non-core activities such as running police force (RPF), schools and hospitals, the Railway Board chief said that they have been working on these for quite some time. “We have considered all other non-core activities except for hospitals and RPF. There are special reasons for continuing with RFP and hospitals. We have over 12 lakh employees and we have a lot of mandatory medical check-up for our operation staff such as drivers and guards. Getting these check-ups done by private or state government hospitals is not feasible,” he said. On the issue of RPF, Yadav said the security has to be provided by RPF or GRP and the system has been working well with good coordination between these two agencies. “So, we will continue with this arrangement for the time being,” he said. Yadav also said they have drastically reduced the number of schools run by the railways. “We have a very few schools only in those areas where there is no proper state government schools. Wherever states are willing, we are handing over our schools to them. We would offload schools,” Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/railways-set-to-get-regulator-as-it-readies-for-private-operators/articleshow/76916522.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 12, 2020||India||India-China LAC row: PLA reduces presence in Finger 4 area||NEW DELHI: In continued progress on disengagement in Ladakh, Chinese military further reduced its presence in the Finger 4 area of Pangong Tso. Having vacated the base of spur earlier, People’s Liberation Army personnel have thinned down presence on ridge-line as well. Agency reports said some boats from Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh had also been removed but this could not be confirmed. The reduction on the ridge-line comes ahead of another round of talks between senior military commanders from India and China to finalise modalities for “Phase II” of disengagement along the Line of Actual Control. The areas under discussion will include Pangong Lake and Depsang where Chinese troops have intruded into the area between Finger 4-8 where Indian patrols have been a regular presence. India-China LAC face off: Follow live updatesThe Chinese troops were previously an irregular presence until their recent intrusions. The Chinese are maintaining that the works, such as a road in Depsang, are on territory under their control. The escalation in tension in eastern Ladakh was triggered by a clash between the two armies in Pangong Tso on May 5 in which a sizeable number of personnel from both sides were injured. A few days later there was a similar physical clash in Naku La in Sikkim though on a smaller scale. The military face-off continued and led to skirmish at Galwan Valley patrol point 14 on night of June 15. At the military talks, the two sides are expected to specifically focus on completing withdrawal of troops from Pangong Tso and Depsang besides laying out a detailed roadmap for disengagement of large numbers of troops from the rear bases in a time-bound manner. Both sides had significantly ramped up troops and weaponry in eastern Ladakh. The de-escalation following disengagement is expected to see de-mobilising of troops. Indian commanders are keeping a very close vigil to see that PLA adheres to what its political leadership has promised. (With inputs from PTI)Watch PLA begins Pangong pullback ahead of army talks next week||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-china-lac-row-pla-reduces-presence-in-finger-4-area/articleshow/76916537.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Business||Economy going back to normal, uncertainties remain: RBI governor||MUMBAI: RBI governor Shaktikanta Das on Saturday said that the economy is showing signs of normalising in response to the staggered easing of restrictions and argued that the policy measures announced by RBI to counter the impact of Covid-19 appear to have worked so far. Despite the easing, the governor said that it was uncertain when supply chains would be restored fully; how long it would take for demand conditions to normalise; and what kind of durable effects the pandemic would leave behind on potential growth. In his address at the SBI Banking & Economics Conclave, Das urged private and public sector lenders to raise more capital, stating that recapitalisation of banks is “absolutely necessary” as bad loans could rise because of compression in growth. Highlighting the policy measures taken by RBI, Das said that central bank has released additional liquidity to the tune of Rs 9.57 lakh crore (equivalent to about 4.7% of nominal GDP) since February 2020. But these countercyclical measures were not going to be permanent. “Post containment of Covid-19, a very careful trajectory has to be followed in orderly unwinding of counter-cyclical regulatory measures and the financial sector should return to normal functioning without relying on the regulatory relaxations as the new norm,” said Das. The governor said that banks were in a better shape in March this year compared to the previous year. However, this was not enough as once in hundred-year risk events were now taking place more than once a decade, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/economy-going-back-to-normal-uncertainties-remain-rbi-governor/articleshow/76916550.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Surat||Liquor worth Rs 64K seized from govt hospital canteen in Valsad, two nabbed||Surat: Police seized 80 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 64,000 on Saturday from a tin shed behind canteen of Gujarat Medical Education and Research Society (GMERS), a government run hospital in Valsad. The spot from where the liquor was seized is a few meters away from Covid-19 ward of the hospital. Following specific information police had raided the canteen and recovered the liquor bottles. Two employees of the canteen Shyam Thakur and Usha Thakre were detained for allegedly possessing the liquor. The accused will be arrested after their Covid-19 tests. Ashish Thakar, a resident of Jolva village in Surat district, runs the canteen and has been named as the main accused in the case. Thakar is on the run. The liquor was stored in a tin shed that was used to store canteen goods. “It is suspected that the accused was selling liquor since last three months. We are investigating who else are involved in the crime,” said a police officer in Valsad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/liquor-worth-rs-64k-seized-from-govt-hospital-canteen-in-valsad-two-nabbed/articleshow/76915379.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Patna||A major feat for SSB’s small action team||PATNA: For small action team (SAT) of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), the commandos of which neutralised four armed Maoists after heavy exchange of fire deep inside the jungles of Valmiki Tiger Reserve at Bagaha in West Champaran district on Friday, it was the biggest successful operation in Bihar and Jharkhand since its formation in 2018. While the major task of SSB is to guard porous and sensitive Indo-Nepal international border, three of its battalions under Patna frontier have been deployed in anti-Maoist operations in the state and two more at Dumka and Ranchi in Jharkhand. SAT commandos remain equipped with bullet-proof vests, head-gears, ultramodern communication equipment, navigational devices and sophisticated weaponry for conducting anti-Maoist operations. SSB Patna frontier IG Sanjay Kumar, who conceptualised SAT in 2018, said SSB’s success rate in anti-Maoist operations was low in Bihar and Jharkhand due to which SATs were formed so that Maoists having expertise in guerrilla warfare could be countered by the same technique. “Only those below 35 years of age with high motivation level are handpicked to undergo grey-hound training at Hyderabad and Counter-Insurgency and Jungle Warfare (CIJW) training at Gwaldam in Uttarakhand for three months each to become SAT commando,” he said. “They are not included in general duty and kept aloof from public to hide identity. They keep conducing dry practices, refreshing courses and do case studies round the year. Several facilities are given to SAT commandos,” Kumar said. The IG said a SAT comprises 23-24 commandos. “They move swiftly in jungles without exposing themselves just like Maoists. A SAT commando can survive in dense forests on his own resources for five to seven days,” he added. “On July 18, 2018, SAT had neutralised two Maoists. Later, one more Maoist was neutralised in January last year in Dumka. Last year, SAT had eliminated one armed Maoist in Muzaffarpur,” Kumar said. The IG said each battalion in anti-Maoist operation has two SATs with maximum 30 members each. “In future, the SAT strength will be increased. Every SSB company in five battalions involved in anti-Maoist operations in Bihar and Jharkhand will have one SAT each,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-major-feat-for-ssbs-small-action-team/articleshow/76915047.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 12, 2020||Patna||Flood scare as rivers cross danger mark in north Bihar||PATNA/BAGAHA: Water level in several rivers in north Bihar crossed the danger mark on Saturday following heavy to very heavy rainfall in Terai region of Nepal and districts along the foothills of the Himalayas in Bihar over the last two to three days. The water resources department (WRD), however, said the situation was not alarming as discharge from barrages on many rivers flowing from Nepal to Bihar decreased on Saturday. The WRD also said all embankments of rivers flowing in the state were safe. As per the daily flood bulletin issued by WRD on Saturday, Bagmati was flowing above danger level at six places in Sitamarhi district. Kamla Balan was flowing above danger level at two places in Madhubani district. Bhutahi Balan, on the other hand, was also flowing above the danger level in Madhubani district. Lalbakeya river too was flowing above danger level in East Champaran district. Kosi was flowing above danger level at five places in different districts in north Bihar. Similarly, Adhwara, Mahananda and Ghaghra rivers were also flowing above danger level in Sitamarhi, Kishanganj and Siwan districts, respectively. The volume of water flowing through the barrage across Kosi at Barahkshetra in Nepal plunged from 2.10 lakh cusecs on Friday afternoon to 1.78 lakh cusecs by Saturday afternoon. Down south at the Birpur barrage across Kosi in Supaul district, the water discharge increased from 2.35 lakh cusecs to 2.74 lakh cusecs by Saturday morning, but dropped to 2.41 lakh cusecs by the afternoon. The water discharge was showing falling trend at both barrages. On the other hand, the water discharge through Valmiki Nagar barrage across Gandak increased from 1.89 lakh cusecs on Friday afternoon to 2.73 lakh cusecs on Saturday morning, but again plunged to 2.51 lakh cusecs by the afternoon. The high level of water discharge from Valmikinagar barrage caused displacement of small population in the low-lying areas. Assistant engineer at Gandak barrage, Vikas Kumar, said the floodwaters entered SSB outpost camp at Jhanduwa tola of 21 battalion at Bagaha and Chakadahawa village under Valmikinagar police station. People from several villages under Piparasi, Madhubani, Thakaraha and Bhitaha blocks took shelter on ‘machans’ or uplands. West Champaran DM Kundan Kumar has sounded an alert in 18 blocks of the district situated on the banks of hilly rivers like Masan, Shikarahan, Pandai and Gandak. Meanwhile, Patna Meteorological Centre maintained a yellow alert for thunderstorm with lightning over the next two days. India Meteorological Centre stated in its all- India bulletin that monsoon trough line was passing along the foothill of Himalayas, a situation which causes heavy rainfall along India-Nepal border. Accordingly, the IMD has predicted isolated extremely heavy rainfall over Bihar on Sunday. WRD minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said a close vigil was maintained as far as water level in the rivers flowing from Nepal to Bihar is concerned. “Water discharge from Birpur and Valmikinagar barrage decreased on Saturday, but we are keeping a close watch on the situation,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flood-scare-as-rivers-cross-danger-mark-in-north-bihar/articleshow/76914927.cms||Tirthraj Kushwaha
July 12, 2020||Patna||Border districts put on alert after killing of four Maoists||PATNA: The killing of four Maoists in an encounter by security forces in West Champaran’s Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) on Friday has once again brought the focus on left-wing extremists still active in some districts bordering Nepal. Apprehending a backlash from the CPI-Maoists over the killing of their active members and seizure of sophisticated weapons, the state police headquarters on Friday directed all SPs in north Bihar districts to keep a close watch on red rebels operating under their jurisdiction. Besides West Champaran and East Champaran, districts such as Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Muzaffarpur and Vaishali have been put on high alert. “We are cautious and keeping surveillance on movement of the members of the banned outfit,” Sitamarhi SP Anil Kumar said. Mahindwara and Belsand in Sitamarhi, which is close to the India-Nepal border, are considered to be hotbeds of Maoist activities. Similarly, areas falling under Tariyani, Shyampur Bhatahan and Purnahia police stations in Sheohar districts are affected. Madhuban and Dhaka in East Champaran district had earlier witnessed Naxal-related incidents. Acting Vaishali SP Pushkar Anand said that villages under Hajipur Sadar, Patepur, Jandaha and Tisiauta police stations in the districts had earlier witnessed Naxal-related incidents, which showed their influence on local residents. “The SHOs of the police stations concerned have been asked to verify how many of them were out on bail,” he told TOI over the phone on Saturday. Sources in the state police headquarters said those killed in the VRT forest in West Champaran were part of the Maoists’ group, which had envisaged a detailed strategy to impart training to newly recruited cadres. However, it is yet to be verified whether Maoists from Nepal were also present at the congregation. Top ranking leaders from Darbhanga, Sheohar, Sitamarhi, East Champaran and West Champaran in Bihar besides some from Jharkhand had assembled in VTR forests. Ram Babu Ram alias Rajan, who belonged to the East Champaran-Sheohar region, however, managed to escape unhurt in the gunbattle. A source in the state intelligence wing said, “The Maoists have focused on strengthening their base in north Bihar districts, especially those sharing their borders with Nepal in the wake of stepped up police operations against ultras in south and central Bihar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/border-districts-put-on-alert-after-killing-of-four-maoists/articleshow/76915039.cms||Ramashankar
July 12, 2020||Patna||Giriraj Singh raises population control law bogey once again||PATNA: Union minister and Begusarai MP Giriraj Singh has called for a strict population control law in India, which should be applicable for everyone in the country, irrespective of religion. “New population control norms are needed if the country wants to stand on a par with developed countries,” Giriraj said on the occasion of World Population Day on Saturday. The BJP MP has raised similar demands in the past as well. Amid the tensions with China over the Galwan valley clash in Ladakh, Giriraj cited the example of the neighbouring country’s effective population control norms. “If China didn’t introduce population control laws in 1969 it would have had another 60 crore population now. The fundamental reason behind the present day development of China is its population control norms. Similar, strict laws are required to put a curb on the rising population in India,” he said in a statement posted on his official Twitter handle. Elaborating on the issues arising out of “uncontrolled population”, Giriraj stated, “Population can be an asset and it can also be a liability. In the case of India, it has become imperative to control the population explosion. Our population is a little above 15% of the global population. The land left with us is mere 2% of the global land availability. Water resources with India are also only 4% and the water level is plunging every year.” The firebrand Hindutva leader appealed that population control should not be made into a political issue nor should it be linked with religion. “This issue should only be raised for the development of the country. Our resources are limited and we are facing population explosion. We need a strict law if we want to move ahead on the trajectory of development.” Giriraj’s statement, however, invited sharp criticism from opposition RJD. “He is a Union minister and should be thinking about the Covid-19 pandemic in which India is at the highest position. But he is talking about controversial issues like population control. The ruling party should talk about more important issues like availability of food, employment and other basic amenities in the country,” RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/giriraj-raises-population-control-law-bogey-once-again/articleshow/76914910.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 12, 2020||Patna||43 firefighters test positive for Covid||PATNA: Functioning at Lodipur fire station was affected as 43 of its personnel have tested positive for Covid-19. Lodipur fire station officer Ajeet Kumar said of the 43, six were tested positive on Saturday and 18 on Friday. The rest were tested positive earlier. He said only eight personnel are currently working at the station. Kumar said all the Covid-infected personnel are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Bihta. “The fire department has its training centre at Anandpur in Bihta. Our quarantine centre and other facilities are also there. Hence, the Covid positive fire personnel were shifted there,” he said. Kumar said Lodipur fire station has five big and four small fire tenders. “The small fire tenders remain stationed at PMCH, Pirbahore, Digha and Buddha Colony police stations. They are functional,” he said. The fire officer said the Town area of Patna has fire stations at Sachivalaya, Phulwarisharif, Patna City, Danapur, Lodipur and Kankarbagh. “There are three more fire stations at Paliganj, Masaurhi and Barh outside the town area,” he said. Meanwhile, at least 56 Bihar Military Police (BMP) personnel from central zone have tested Covid-19 positive in the last 24 hours in the state. BMP AIG Arvind Thakur said altogether 191 BMP personnel have tested positive till now. “Of them, 169 are from central zone and 22 from northern zone. Only 15 are in hospital,” he added. Meanwhile, a DSP and two driver constables of HQRT section of state police headquarters located inside the premises of Lodipur police lines have also tested Covid-19 positive. HQRT sources said of the three, one constable has recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/43-firefighters-test-positive-for-covid/articleshow/76915552.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 12, 2020||Surat||Three held for attack on BJP councillor, one tests positive of nCov||Surat: Crime branch sleuths on Saturday nabbed three persons in connection with the firing on BJP municipal councillor Bharat Vaghasiya in the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC). A team of Detection of Crime Branch (DCB) arrested Naresh Dhagal, a resident of Varachha, for attack on Vaghasiya, councillor of Karanj Magob ward. Another accused, Vijay Gadhvi, was detained and admitted to hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19. The third accused, Jitu Nishad, who was arrested in past in Arms Act, will be arrested after Covid-19 test. According to police, one Labhu Mer, a resident of London, had paid Rs 8 lakh to kill Vaghasiya. Dhagal and Gadhvi contacted Nishad to arrange a shooter. Police also seized a motorcycle that was used in the attack.Police investigation revealed that Dhagal and Gadhvi were involved in a land deal near Jagdish Nagar in Varachha. They wanted to sell the land to Mer and Dhagal had some portion of the land in his possession. The land is owned by Vadiwala family in the city. Meanwhile, Vaghasiya got one portion of the land, which irked the accused. The accused then informed Mer about the development, who sent Rs 8 lakh and asked the accused to do whatever they want with Vaghasiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-held-for-attack-on-bjp-councillor-one-tests-positive-of-ncov/articleshow/76915246.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Malnad youth use social media to dissuade tourists||MYSURU: Youths of Malnad region have taken to social media platforms to appeal visitors, especially from Bengaluru, not to visit their places this monsoon as a precaution to arrest the spread of the novel coronavirus. Travellers can enjoy the nature next season, the youths say, advising them to plan their trips for next year. Even though major tourist destinations of Malnad are shut for tourists, except those located in Shivamogga which is considered as gateway of Malnad, several travellers continue to throng to places like Jog Falls. Some Malnad residents are advising people who seek suggestions on weekend trips on social media to abandon their plans to visit any parts of the regions. Their main concern is that health infrastructure is poor in the region. The roads are in a bad condition. Except Shivamogga, no other district has a super specialty hospital to treat seriously ill patients. “Government health infrastructure is poor. If Covid-19 spreads in villages, it will be difficult to contain,” said Lokesh H, a resident from Bankal in Chikkamagalur. “If any tourist arrives, we ask them to return,” he said. Ajay Kumar Sharma, an activist from Shivamogga said, “We don’t need any guests this monsoon. During monsoon people quickly get infected and that’s the reason we keep ourselves warm by sitting in front of a fire. But if tourists flock in large numbers without any safety measures, then it is the locals who will have to bear the consequence.” According to tourism minister CT Ravi, people are reacting with panic due to fear of the spread of Covid 19. “We authorised district administrations to take a decision on shutting tourist destinations. If the situation returns to normal, we will lift the ban on tourist activities in the next few days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/malnad-youth-use-social-media-to-dissuade-tourists/articleshow/76915012.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Surat||Three staffers at SMC headquarters test positive||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) headquarters in Mughalsarai has come under the grip of coronavirus after three employees of the secretariat branch tested Covid-19 positive on Friday. The branch office located in the annexe building of the SMC has been shut and all other employees have been placed under home quarantine.The secretariat branch is the key branch in the SMC handling the documentation work of the civic body’s various departments including offices of civic chief, standing committee, mayor, important committees of the SMC, ruling party office and the office of the opposition party.Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik, while confirming the cases told TOI, “We have shut down the secretariat branch after three employees tested Covid-19 positive. The other employees are home quarantined and have been asked to work from home.” “The disinfection work of the entire branch office has been undertaken, while close contacts of the infected employees are being traced,” added Dr Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-staffers-at-smc-headquarters-test-positive/articleshow/76915165.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Leopard cub found dead in Nanjangud||MYSURU: The carcass of a young leopardess was found at a farm in Nanjangud taluk on Friday night. Foresters said that the cub, aged about six months, was found at the farm of farmer Sripada at Siddegowdana Hundi village. After being informed by the villagers, range forest officer Lokesh Murthy and wildlife veterinarian Nagaraj visited the place and also conducted the postmortem. After preliminary investigation, the foresters said the leopardess may have died of attack by another leopard. Samples collected from carcass have been sent to a lab to know the exact cause of death. The foresters are investigating the case in all angles, including poisoning of the cub. Last year, three leopards had died in the village under suspicious circumstance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/leopard-cub-found-dead-in-nanjangud/articleshow/76913993.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Bhagalpur girl to reach out to 6,000 teenagers||PATNA: Even as Covid-19 pandemic has forced people to remain confined to their houses, Bhagalpur-based Shalini Jha is working towards sexual and reproductive health and rights of young unmarried women, especially in the rural areas, as only 31% of girls use clean methods for dealing with menstrual hygiene in the district. Through her project, christened ‘Alharh’, Shalini is working towards creating a robust community in the state that debunks myths around menstrual health and hygiene. The 12-month campaign that started in December last year has set a target to reach out to at least 6,000 adolescent girls from government as well as private schools and also to those out of schools. “To ensure that the range of awareness is not limited to a certain group of women, the campaign targets to create awareness and inform frontline group of at least 50 members comprising youth volunteers, teachers, parents, anganwadi workers and ASHA workers by the end of this year,” she said. On the name of the campaign, which uses the Hindi word ‘Allhar’, she said it defines the essence of teenage. “Young menstruates are often pushed to let go of their childlike playfulness owing to the damaging silence, judgement and anxiety around menstruation,” she said. Jha also has a year-long association as a community leader with the ‘Health Over Stigma’ campaign, started in 2017 by ‘Haiyya: Organise for Action’ that aims to fight for young unmarried women by ensuring stigma-free healthcare services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-girl-to-reach-out-to-6000-teenagers/articleshow/76914944.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Jumbos damage school, house and van||MADIKERI: Elephants damaged the pillar of a school, the roof of a house and a van at Kakkabe Yavakapadi village late on Friday night. Govt Primary School situated near the historical Nalaknadu Palace in Kakkabe is the one that bore the brunt of the elephant menace. Later, they damaged the roof of the house of Kudiyara Raju, as also his van. Forest officer Suresh and other staff have visited the spots of attack, and also promised compensation to those concerned. According to forest officials, a herd of four elephants is prowling in the area. Last week, the herd had destroyed the banana plantation of Madanda Umesh Biddappa in the village. The fences put around coffee estates have also been damaged. Because of the presence of elephants, the villagers are fearing to come out of their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/jumbos-damage-school-house-and-van/articleshow/76913960.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Patna||No place for dynasty politics in JD(U): RCP||PATNA: JD(U) national general secretary (organisation) R C P Singh on Saturday said party president Nitish Kumar never promoted dynasty politics in the party, while in one of opposition parties, three to five seats always remain reserved exclusively for the members of a particular family. Addressing a virtual rally of the Yuva JD(U) through social media platforms, Singh added, “If a person has merit and capacity and also does hard work, s/he can reach to any level in the JD(U). There is no scope for nepotism or dynasticism in the party.” “In the other party, if there is a vacancy of a minister, MLC or Rajya Sabha member, the family members will be given first priority. In JD(U), even workers become ministers and hold key positions in the organisation,” Singh said without taking the name of any political party. Singh said JD(U) was the only political party in the state which has not only preserved the socialists’ ideology, but also made all-out efforts to further propagate the thoughts of great leaders like Mahatma Gandhi, Ram Manohar Lohia, Babasaheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar, Jayaprakash Narayan and Karpoori Thakur. It was also decided at the meeting that henceforth the Yuva JD(U) will organise a programme, christened ‘Yuva Vichar-Viksit Bihar-Nitish Kumar’ on every Saturday. During the programme, the members of Yuva JD(U) will connect through social media platforms and inform youths about the good works done by the Nitish government in the last 15 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-place-for-dynasty-politics-in-jdu-rcp/articleshow/76914881.cms||Madan Kumar
July 12, 2020||Surat||‘Surat citizens flout Covid-19 precaution norms at will’||Surat: The coffers of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) are swelling at a time when the Diamond City has become the coronavirus hotspot of Gujarat. However, off the cuff, Surtis appear nonchalant about the precautionary measures prescribed by the government and city administration.In the last fortnight, the civic body has collected fine to the tune of Rs 1 crore from citizens found flouting rules about wearing masks, spitting in public places and not maintaining social distancing. The textile shops located on Ring Road, Sahara Darwaja and Salabatpura; retail shops and establishments, vegetable vendors, saloons, medical shops, diamond markets etc have been covered under the stringent checking drive in all the eight municipal zones of the city. Out of the total Rs 1 crore fine collected, about 40% comes from flouters of the mask rule. About 20,000 people including commuters and pedestrians had to cough up Rs 40 lakh for moving outside without wearing masks.On an average about Rs 1.5 lakh fine per day has been collected from the textile shops for flouting social distancing, not wearing masks and not keeping sanitizer etc. A lumpsum amount of Rs 5,000 fine is collected from the textile shops found flouting the norms. Central zone, Varachha (A), Varachha (B) and Katargam, which are Covid-19 hotspots, have topped the chart for flouting of norms. About 60% of the penalties have been collected from these four zones in the last fortnight. On Saturday, fine to the tune of Rs 10 lakh was collected from all the eight municipal zones, out of which Rs 6 lakh was collected from Central, Varachha (A), Varachha (B) and Katargam zones. Kamlesh Naik, assistant municipal commissioner (enforcement wing) said, “Since last fortnight, intensive checking has started, especially in the hotspots, to penalise those not wearing masks and flouting social distancing norms.”Naik added, “Our teams in various municipal zones are facing ire from the shop owners when they fine them for not wearing masks and social distancing. At many places, our staff is collecting fines with the support of the city police.” Deputy municipal commissioner, Dr Ashish Naik said, “Despite the sharp increase in Covid-19 cases, people are not bothered to wear masks and follow social distancing. Penalising them is the only way to inculcate the habit of wearing masks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-citizens-flout-covid-19-precaution-norms-at-will/articleshow/76915147.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Surat||Two youths drown in Ichhapore village pond||Surat: A pall of gloom descended upon the residents of Ichhapore village, some 15 kilometres from the city, after two youths drowned in a pond on Saturday morning. The deceased were identified as Harsh Kosambia (21), a nursing student and Gaurav Sailor (19), studying in the Industrial Training Institute (ITI), both residents of Mandir Mohalla in Ichhapore village. The duo had gone for a swim in the pond on Saturday morning. Sources in the fire and emergency department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) stated that the incident occurred at about 10 am. After the youths went there for a swim, villagers could see no movement in the waters. It took about three hours for the rescuers to fish out the bodies of the deceased. A fire officer said, “The deceased may have waded into deep waters and could not move due to the sticky mud inside the pond. Some villagers, who rushed to the pond after hearing their cries for help, informed the fire department.” The fire officials rushed the youths to the New Civil Hospital (NCH) where doctors declared them dead on arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-youths-drown-in-ichhapore-village-pond/articleshow/76915335.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Patna||Patna: Two notorious criminals arrested, arms recovered||PATNA: Police arrested notorious criminal and contract killer Bijendra Sharma alias Chotu Singh (25) along with one of his associates, Mantu Kumar (22), from Akhtiyarpur bridge under the Paliganj police station area in western Patna on Saturday. A military-grade hand grenade, two country-made pistols and five live cartridges were recovered from the possession of the arrested criminals. Police said Bijendra was involved in several contract killings in Paliganj, Arwal and Jehanabad. While Bijendra is a native of Mera village under the Khidi Mor police station area in Paliganj, Mantu hails from Jhiktiya village under the Kinjar police station area in Arwal district. Bijendra is also nephew of Anil Sharma, who was once commander of now non-existing Ranbir Sena. Paliganj SHO Sunil Kumar said acting on a tip-off, police intercepted the two criminals on the bridge and arrested them. “The seized grenade is generally used by the Indian Army,” the SHO said, adding Bijendra’s criminal history dates back to 2010. “He was evading arrest in connection with at least five murder cases lodged with Paliganj and Khidi Mor police stations in Patna,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-notorious-criminals-arrested-arms-recovered/articleshow/76914990.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Patna||Situation not conducive for elections in Bihar: Congress MLC||PATNA: After RJD and LJP, Congress and poll strategist Prashant Kishor on Saturday favoured postponement of assembly polls in the state in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Congress MLC Prem Chand Mishra said the  Commission should convene an all-party meeting to reach a consensus on holding elections in the state in October-November amid Covid-19 pandemic. Kishor, on the other hand, took a swipe at CM Nitish Kumar, saying it was time to fight Covid-19 pandemic, not elections. “The coronavirus situation in Bihar is worsening. But a big part of government machinery and resources are busy making preparations for the assembly elections,” he tweeted. Congress MLC Mishra said conduct of elections would pose a threat to the safety of voters, polling personnel and security forces. Describing the situation as “unfavourable” for holding elections, Mishra said the number of Covid-19 positive cases was increasing day by day and if the trend continues, it will be difficult for political parties to face polls. “However, Congress is keeping a watch on the situation and, at the same time, it has started initial preparations for the polls,” he added. Mishra hoped that the Election Commission would ensure poll-related arrangements in such a manner that there will be least chances of people getting infected with deadly virus. Earlier in the day, Kishor took to twitter to slam Nitish for favouring assembly elections amid Covid-19 outbreak. Kishor, once considered a confidante of JD(U) national president Nitish Kumar, was expelled from the party in January this year after their relations got strained. Kishor’s reactions came a day after Chirag Paswan, national president of LJP, expressed concern over the rising number of Covid positive cases and said that it was not the right time to conduct elections in the state. Prior to Chirag, RJD leader and former deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had advocated for deferment of elections. “The situation is not conducive to hold elections in the state,” Tejashwi had said. “Except BJP and JD(U), all major political parties have described the situation as not conducive for holding the elections. Under such circumstances, the task of the Election Commission has become difficult,” said a political analyst.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/situation-not-conducive-for-elections-in-state-cong-mlc/articleshow/76914854.cms||Ramashankar
July 12, 2020||Mysuru||NR constituency in Mysuru to be sealed after 4 fatalities||MYSURU: Following four deaths in Narasimharaja (NR) assembly constituency, the district administration has decided to clamp a lockdown for a week, in a bid to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. Deaths have been reported from Kalyangiri, Udayagiri and Subhashnagar. Door-to-door visits and clamping a lockdown in these areas is inevitable, on the lines of Mumbai’s Dharavi module, officials say. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said that they have the support of community leaders and people’s representatives in this regard, as they suspect that this could be a cluster case. “Only officials alone can’t handle the situation. We are now involving community leaders and local residents as well,” he said. “We held a meeting with community leaders and people’s representatives on Friday. We are not getting enough support for the door-to-door survey now. Many are not sharing details,” the DC said. “Deaths are taking place as soon as patients are rushed for treatment. Patients are being brought when they are in a critical stage. Our aim is to bring down the mortality rate,” the DC stated. “Our idea is intensifying the door-to-door survey and to identify the vulnerable in the population. Early medical support to the needy is our aim. We are planning to follow the Dharavi model,” Abhiram stated. “Sealing areas, carrying out intensive surveys and segregating vulnerable groups was done in Dharavi. The same will be followed here,” he said. “A covid care centre is also planned in the locality, with the participation of locals and volunteers. A burial ground will be identified on government land outside the city limits,” he added. District minister S T Somashekar expressed concern over the increase in number of Covid cases in NR constituency. “Residents are not cooperating with health and district authorities to carry out testing and door-to-door surveys. Therefore, we are planning to seal a few localities in the constituency. A final decision will be taken after holding discussions with local leaders,” the minister said. Covid care centreA covid care centre with 600 beds has been established at the KSOU building in Mandakalli. The centre will have free WiFi facility, TV and indoor games, apart from other facilities. DC Abhiram and district in-charge minister S T Somashekhar visited the new Covid-19 care centre set up at the KSOU building in Mandakalli and inspected it. Somashekhar told reporters that 550 beds are ready here, which can be increased to 600. “It will be ready by the next couple of days,” he said. “For 100 patients, two staff nurses and a doctor will be deputed at the centre,” he said. Rapid testing kits Abhiram G Sankar said that the district will receive 2,300 rapid antigen test kits soon. “Testing will start in the next couple of days, by using the kits. First, we need to identify the priority groups,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/inspired-by-dharavi-model-narasimharaja-segment-to-be-sealed-after-4-covid-fatalities/articleshow/76914822.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Patna||Centre OKs bridge parallel to Vikramshila Setu||PATNA: State road constriction minister Nand Kishor Yadav on Saturday said infrastructure finance committee of the ministry of road, transport and highways (MoRTH) has given its nod to construction of a four-lane bridge parallel to Vikramshila Setu over the Ganga in Bhagalpur. The bridge is proposed to be constructed with an expenditure of Rs 1,116.72 crore over the period of four years. The 4.367-km-long bridge, to be constructed east of Vikramshila Setu, will have 68 pillars. The minister said of the total 21.3 hectares of land required for the bridge, 2.2 hecates have been acquired so far. “The state government will acquire the remaining 19.1 hectares of land using its own funds. A sum of Rs 51 crore has already been allotted to the Bhagalpur district administration for the purpose,” he said. The bridge along with 10.6-km-long approach road was included in the Prime Minister’s special package for Bihar in December 2018. Later, approval for the proposed alignment for the new bridge was given by a high-level committee of MoRTH in September last year. “Bidding process for roping in firm for construction of the bridge is expected to commence within a month,” Nand Kishor said. He said the bridge would be a part of new national highway (NH) from Naugachia to Bhagalpur and further up to neighbouring Jharkhand. “The road from Naugachia to Bhagalpur has recently been notified as NH-131 (B) by the Centre. The road from Bhagalpur to Hansdiha has also been notified as NH. The two roads will act as approach roads for the upcoming bridge,” the minister said. He added the construction of the new bridge would improve vehicular movement between Seemanchal area in north Bihar and Jharkhand as well as West Bengal. “Sufficient space will be left underneath the bridge to allow movement of ships as per requirements of Indian Waterways Authority of India,” he said. The need for construction of the bridge parallel to Vikramshila Setu was felt after damages were detected in the existing bridge, which was inaugurated in 2001.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/centre-oks-bridge-parallel-to-vikramshila-setu/articleshow/76915062.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 12, 2020||Patna||Laptop may unravel Reds’ ‘safe haven’ plan||BETTIAH: Apart from the cache of arms, ammunition and detonators the joint team of the Bagaha police special task force (STF) and the SSB’s small action team (SAT) recovered along with the bodies of four Maoists after a 50-minute encounter in the Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) jungles on Friday, the cops also seized a laptop and some Maoist literature from the encounter site. “The seizure of the laptop is important. This should provide us with vital information on their plans and present organisational links,” Champaran range DIG Lallan Mohan Prasad told this newspaper on Saturday. Friday’s successful encounter, the DIG said, was an outcome of close coordination and input sharing between officers of the STF led by ASP (operations) Dharmendra Jha and the SSB’s inspector Rituraj, an officer of the Muzaffarpur-based 32nd battalion that monitors extremist activities in north Bihar. Rituraj, who was injured in the exchange of fire, is out of danger. Late on Thursday evening, when Jha, a CRPF officer from the Hazaribagh-based 203 Cobra unit on lien to the Bihar Police exchanged notes with the SSB officer, their inputs matched and the location of the Maoists were confirmed. At 10pm that night, their joint team moved towards the jungles. The heavy downpour made movement slow but the cops managed to reach the jungles around Chautha naala after midnight. With the first rays of light, movement was detected and the team opened fire around 4.45am. “The operation lasted for 50 minutes and when firing from the other side stopped, our men moved in cautiously,” the DIG said. Jha, the ASP (ops), instantly recognised the body of Vipul whom he had arrested in 2018 for the murder of Manoj Singh, mukhiya of Champapur-Gonouli. A native of Pavitranagar in Sheohar, Vipul had first moved to these jungles in 2017 to re-establish base and recruit fresh cadre. He had befriended and recruited Nisha Majhi, a young Musahar girl. The two were soon married. Nisha too was arrested in the mukhiya murder case. “After she secured bail, she soon grew disillusioned and left the organisation,” a local officer said. In the 1990s, the Maoists had entrenched themselves in the VTR jungles under the leadership of Narendra Nath, a maverick originally hailing from Surajkund, Haryana. Apparently a ‘bhakt’ of Godman Rajneesh, he had assumed and was known by the name of ‘Osho’. A BIT-Mesra grad, Osho moved to JNU and undertook doctoral research on the peasant struggle in Hazaribagh. He then moved to the VTR jungles and opened a school at Sundarpur within this area. His arrest in August 2001 blew his cover of being an educationist and social worker. He was an ideologue and had recruited local Tharus and Oraons. For the last 15 years, VTR has been peaceful and government development work, especially education, is visible. The return of the Reds, therefore, raises concerns. While a number of young women too were recruited then, the fresh attempt is believed to be in nascent stage. In 2018, Chanda Mahto, a 19-year-old Tharu girl was recruited. But she too was soon disappointed and returned home. Among the four Maoists killed in Friday’s encounter was 22-year-old Chotu Mahto, a Tharu youth who the Reds had recruited just three months ago. Friday’s encounter thus is a body blow to fresh Maoist designs, but recruitment patterns preceding this along with their plans to resurrect Champaran’s VTR jungles as their safe haven may now be unlocked with the examination of the seized laptop’s contents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/laptop-may-unravel-reds-safe-haven-plan/articleshow/76915028.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
July 12, 2020||Kolkata||St Thomas’ Church School gets campus in Chinsurah||HOWRAH: St Thomas’ Church School has been permitted by the Church of North India (CNI) to start a second campus in Chinsurah. The school has been allowed to keep its brand-name intact on the second campus. Looking at the performance of the school over the last 160 years, it has been allowed to expand its base by Bishop Paritosh Canning, the head of the Kolkata Diocese of the CNI. The new school will be administered by the governing body of the Howrah school. The Chinsurah campus will be inaugurated on July 14 by the bishop. The new building has come up just beside Duff School, which is again a heritage campus run by the CNI. To start with, the school will admit children up to Class IV this year and move gradually up. The school will seek affiliation from the CISCE and plans are to go up to Class XII. Nearly 300 kids have already sought admission in the school. There was a long-time demand for an English-medium missionary school in the area and hence this decision to start the school, said sources in the CNI. “Duff School is also run by us and has a brilliant track record, but it is a Bengali-medium school. So to meet the demand of the people, the bishop has allowed St Thomas’ Church School, Howrah, to start its second campus in Chinsurah,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/st-thomas-church-school-gets-campus-in-chinsurah/articleshow/76915809.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tribal woman kills self, leaves note about husband’s cruelty||Ahmedabad: A 20-year-old woman from Harni Road in Vadodara, Anand Vasava, lodged a complaint at Ramol police station on Friday, stating that her 28-year-old sister Amruta, who had a 6-year-old daughter, committed suicide by consuming poison on June 6, allegedly because her husband used to harass her because they belong to a scheduled tribe. The FIR alleged that her husband, Chirag Pandya, a resident of Gayatri Park in Odhav, had demanded and a cash dowry of Rs 4 lakh from them to buy a flat. Police found a suicide note in which Amruta has written about the harassment she was subjected to. The complainant, an MBA student, stated that Amruta married Pandya in 2013. He is presently a contracted data entry operator with the district panchayat. According to the FIR, at the time of the wedding, Pandya worked for the health department in Dholka and would commute there from Ahmedabad on a daily basis. “He and Amruta lived in Dholka for a while and then returned to Ahmedabad. They then shifted to Vastral, where Pandya had bought a house,” said a police official. The complainant alleged that for about a year and a half, Pandya never took her sister out and even barred her from participating in social functions at the house, because of her caste. The FIR says Pandya would not even let Amruta speak to them (her family) and would speak ill of her ‘character’ time and again. “The FIR alleges Pandya has also driven his wife out of the house to coerce her to bring Rs 4 lakh from her parents to buy a house, which they eventually gave him,” added a police official. The FIR says that in February Pandya drove Amruta out of the house again. “She came to live with us in Vadodara and then went to our maternal uncle Sanjeev Vasava’s house in Narmada district. Pandya later went there and took Amruta back to his new house in Vastral,” a police source said. Inspector K S Dave said they lodged an offence under Sections 323, 306, 498(a) of the IPC and under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act and transferred the investigation to the SC/ST cell. The FIR states that a relative of Amruta’s had gone to Pandya’s house in Vastral to talk about a divorce. The door was locked from the inside and when they opened it, Amruta’s body was lying on a bed. “They called an ambulance to take her to hospital but paramedics declared her dead. We also found a suicide note, saying she was committing suicide due to harassment by her husband,” said a police official. The complainant said that they were late in registering the FIR because they busy with her last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tribal-woman-kills-self-leaves-note-about-husbands-cruelty/articleshow/76915723.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Surat||Seven booked for selling scarce Covid medicine in black||Surat: Seven persons were booked by Umra police on Friday for allegedly selling high demand scarce medicine for treatment of critical Covid-19 patients in black. The accused were arranging the injections to be brought from Ahmedabad on forged papers and selling it at inflated prices of Rs 57,000 for one vial against the actual MRP of Rs 40,545. A complaint was lodged in this regard by Mahesh Italiya, drug inspector, in FDCA, Surat, after the Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA) laid a trap and started investigation. Police booked two residents of Surat, owner of Sarthak Pharma, Uma Saket Kejriwal and Mitul Shah, owner of New Shanti Medicines. The others are Amit Manchharamani, Ghanshyam Vyas, Abhishek, Bhavesh Solanki of Dhruvi Distributors, four from Ahmedabad and a resident of Mumbai, Bhavesh. The accused were booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 406 (criminal breach of trust), conspiracy and others. They were also booked under Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Essential Commodities Act as well. On June 19, FDCA had laid a trap at Sarthak Pharma on Vesu-Abhva Road following specific information. “FDCA had received specific information about black marketing of the medicine Tocilizumab by Sarthak Pharma. We sent a dummy buyer and after few days they arranged the injection. We seized total three injections from them which they were selling at Rs 57,000 for each,” said R M Patel, assistant commissioner, FDCA, Surat. Investigation by FDCA revealed that Kejriwal bought the injection from Shah who bought it from Manchharamani. Working for the syndicate Vyas had arranged positive report of Covid patient and prescription as well. “FDCA’s Ahmedabad office is investigating the case now since it is a huge racket,” Patel added. “Police registered the offence based on the investigation done by FDCA. Police will now arrest the accused. The accused were not found when police went to arrest them,” said M L Salunke, police inspector, Umra police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/seven-booked-for-selling-scarce-covid-medicine-in-black/articleshow/76915222.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kolkata||Bravehearts overcome injuries, trauma to pass boards with flying colours||KOLKATA: Amidst the pandemic-induced lockdown and personal issues of physical pain and loss, several ICSE and ISC students have come out on top. ISC student Somay Gupta of St Xavier’s Institution, Panihati, scored 86% despite being in a wheelchair due to a spinal cord injury he sustained in 2018. The lower part of his body was paralyzed after he dived into a pool and hit the stairs. Gupta was forced to take a break from school and was sent to NIIMHANS in Bengaluru. “He spent four months in Bengaluru, after which his condition improved,” said his mother Seema. The 17-year-old is planning to study commerce and wants to become a chartered accountant. Though he has to devote three-and-a-half hours in the morning and evening to physiotherapy every day, he is a confident student. Since he wheelchair-bound, he could not sit for long hours initially. But gradually, in the last two years, he has been able to stretch it to four hours, which allowed him to take the ISC exams. St Augustine’s Day School, Kolkata, student Fiza Tabassum is another braveheart who scored 91% in ISC. A humanities student, Tabassum suffered an attack of Guillain-Barre Syndrome and Cervico Melycius when she was in Class IX. “I was left paralysed and was admitted to Belle Vue Clinic. I was in the ICU for 15 days,” said the Elliot Road resident who had scored 86% in ICSE. Her knees and feet are not strong enough and she still has neurological issues. “But I was determined not to miss a year,” Tabassum said. Heritage School student Harsh Gupta lost his father on the day he took his ISC accountancy papers. He rushed to the exam hall from the crematorium. “My father always wanted me to pursue my dreams of being a chartered accountant. Now that he is no more, I have a bigger responsibility to make that dream come true,” he said. With an 85.2% score, he now wants to enrol in a Kolkata college and follow his dream.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bravehearts-overcome-injuries-trauma-to-pass-boards-with-flying-colours/articleshow/76915803.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 12, 2020||Patna||Decision to trim syllabi garners mixed response||PATNA: With some examination boards trimming and redesigning their syllabi amid the Covid-19 pandemic, teachers are trying to boost the confidence of students, who are on the threshold of joining colleges or Plus II schools. International School director Farhat Hasan, who informed her students about the development, claimed that many students welcomed the decision, but there were also some who criticised it. “The pandemic has disrupted the academic calendar and also affected students mentally. Our teachers and lab technicians are, therefore, making sure that everything is explained properly through live streaming. I too conduct regular sessions to motivate the students,” Farhat told this newspaper. Litera Valley School principal Sharat Kumar pointed out that the trimmed syllabi would not be of much help to the students. “Certain topics, which are important for understanding the entire chapter, have been removed,” he said. Class XII student Piyush Sinha is also not happy with the change. He rued, “I had been preparing for civil services exams ever since I turned 14. It seems as if I have forgotten everything and my entire future is at stake.” Unlike Piyush, Hansika has hailed the decision. “I hardly understand anything during online classes. The decision of reducing the syllabi will ease the burden on us,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/decision-to-trim-syllabi-garners-mixed-response/articleshow/76914960.cms||Archi Rani
July 12, 2020||Patna||Patna: Rs 14 lakh realised as fine on Day 2 of weeklong lockdown||PATNA: The weeklong lockdown imposed in Patna on Friday seems to have lesser impact than the nationwide curbs implemented from March to June. Although Covid-19 cases are rising unabated in the state capital, people can be seen roaming unnecessarily on the streets. The movement of autos, buses, trains as well as flights continues and vegetable and fruit markets remain crowded, especially in the evenings. According to Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi’s order issued on Wednesday, shops selling essential commodities such as groceries, fruits, vegetables, dairy products and meat will remain open amid the curbs till July 16. Those, who violate the lockdown norms, will face legal action. “The officials concerned have been asked to ensure that everyone wears masks and follows social distancing norms,” Kumar Ravi said. Divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal has also directed the officials to ensure strict deployment of police officers to make the lockdown effective. “They have been told to speed up contact tracing and inform people about the containment zones,” he said. Sources claimed that altogether 430 people were fined for not following traffic rules and other precautionary measures in the state on Saturday. A sum of Rs 14.5 lakh was collected as penalty from them. Many city residents pointed out that people were hardly following the lockdown norms. Nahar Khagaul Road resident Manish Kumar (name changed), who had gone to buy fruits and vegetables from the Jagdeopath market on Saturday morning, said, “Hundreds of people thronged the market where most vendors were without masks. The situation is pathetic because such people are the reason behind the sudden rise in the number of corona cases in Patna.” Kadamkuan resident Uma Shankar Prasad also witnessed a huge crowd on Daldali Road. “Since the shops were shut in the afternoon, a large number of people went out to buy groceries in the evening. There were some who were standing there unnecessarily,” he rued. Meanwhile, Patna sadar sub-divisional officer Tanay Sultania issued an order on Saturday regarding closure of Mithapur vegetable market for three days as people violated social distancing norms openly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-14-lakh-realised-as-fine-on-day-2-of-weeklong-lockdown/articleshow/76915649.cms||Archi Rani
July 12, 2020||Patna||1,000-bed boost for Bihar to fight coronavirus||PATNA: The state’s capacity to fight the coronavirus pandemic has received a boost with the addition of around 1,000 beds following a government order declaring AIIMS-Patna as a dedicated Covid-19 facility and setting aside 100 beds at all government medical and hospitals. Before the addition of AIIMS, there were three dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in the state — NMCH in Nalanda with 447 beds, ANMCH in Gaya with 450 beds and JLNMCH at Bhagalpur with 600 beds. “As per guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Covid-19 positive patients cannot be kept on closely arranged beds. Hence the number of beds had to be reduced in comparison to our total strength,” said a doctor posted at one of the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. Even before making AIIMS-Patna the fourth dedicated Covid-19 facility in Bihar, 400 beds were reserved for coronavirus patients and with 1,597 beds at three dedicated hospitals, the total number of beds for serious patients stood at 1,997 in Bihar. AIIMS-Patna has a total capacity of 960 beds and the hospital administration on Saturday said they will now be using all of them for treating Covid-19 patients. When asked about the ICMR guidelines to maintain distance between beds of patients, AIIMS-Patna superintendent Dr CM Singh said, “We are working on that.” With additional 100 beds in six other MCHs and the beds in all four dedicated hospitals, the number of beds for treating serious Covid-19 patients has gone up to 3,057. As of Saturday afternoon, there were 374 Covid-19 patients admitted in the four dedicated hospitals of whom 84 are in ICU and 20 are on ventilator support. Several patients are also admitted at the other MCHs. The health department on Friday had even tagged districts with all MCHs and now people from particular district will be sent to MCH with which it is tagged. When asked about the preparations in this regard, Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital principal Dr Harsh Narayan Jha said, “We are in a better position as we have two newly constructed buildings in our campus which we will be using to treat Covid-19 patients. We have already identified 100 beds.” There is a three-tier system for Covid-19 positive patients in Bihar. Serious ones are admitted at the dedicated hospitals. The second rung is that of District Covid Care Centres (DCCC) made out of hotels, guest houses and government buildings lying vacant and coronavirus positive people who mainly need isolation and not much medical treatment are kept here. Doctors and paramedics visit to take the stock of situation. The third tier is the Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHCs) which have been earmarked in the sub-divisional and district hospitals as well as newly constructed buildings in hospital campuses. These have facilities of pulse oxymeter, oxygen pipelines and availability of doctors and paramedics 24X7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1000-bed-boost-for-bihar-to-fight-virus/articleshow/76915414.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 12, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Queen of studio pottery, Jyotsna Bhatt dies at 80||VADODARA: India’s celebrated ceramic artist Jyotsna Bhatt passed away at her residence in Vadodara on Saturday afternoon. She was 80 and had suffered a sudden spike in blood pressure resulting in a brain stroke, her family members told TOI. The octogenarian artist, who, like her husband – Padma Shri awardee artist Jyoti Bhatt – had remained both a student and teacher at M S University’s famed Faculty of Fine Arts. “She was doing well but suffered from a brain haemorrhage. Doctors informed that there was excessive bleeding in the brain which had affected all vital parts of her brain,” her nephew Arjun Mehta told TOI. On Saturday morning, she was brought home from a private hospital where she was being treated with ventilator support. Meanwhile, her Mumbai-based daughter Jaii had also reached Vadodara. “Incidentally, only a few days back, during a family conversation, Bhatt had clearly stated that if something happens to her, she should not be kept under any ventilator or tubes, stating that it would be the ‘worst thing that would happen to her’,” recalled Mehta, adding that even the doctors had opined that under ventilator she would remain in a vegetative state with a major part of her brain not functioning. She remained unconscious throughout till she breathed her last at her own home. “It was peaceful amongst family members,” he said. The last rites were performed at Vadi Wadi crematorium later in the day in presence of few members of the family. Hailed as queen of studio pottery, Jyotsna Bhatt had moved from Mumbai to Baroda in 1958 to learn sculpture under legendary teachers like late professor Sankho Chaudhuri. She married Jyoti Bhatt, a student of the first batch of fine arts and accompanied him to New York where she got trained in ceramics at the Brooklyn Museum Art School after which she started practising sculptural pottery. In her own words, she discovered her interest in making three-dimensional figures in Vadodara where she taught and later even headed the ceramics department till her retirement nearly two decades back. Her ceramic works included images of cats and dogs, distinctive clay toys and art works prepared from alkaline earths, amorphous moulds and matte finish glazes that earned her admirers. The late artist had mentored and encouraged several young ceramicists during her career spanning over 50 years during which she remained part of several group exhibitions, workshops, art camps and solo shows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/queen-of-studio-pottery-jyotsna-bhatt-dies-at-80/articleshow/76915344.cms||Prashant Rupera
July 12, 2020||Allahabad||Former MLA shifted to Bareilly jail from Naini||PRAYAGRAJ: Former Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA and mafia-turned-politician Atiq Ahmed’s younger brother Khalid Azim aka Ashraf was shifted to Bareilly district jail from Naini Central Jail on Saturday morning. Azim was arrested on July 3 after dodging the police for more than two years. Azim, who was carrying a cash reward of Rs one lakh on his head, was arrested in Kaushambi and had 33 criminal cases registered against him. The charges against him included extortion, land grabbing, threatening witnesses and possessing illegal firearms. He was wanted by various police stations including Khuldabad, Dhumanganj, and Shahganj. He also had cases registered against him at police stations in Kaushambi, Unchahar and Chandauli districts. He was wanted in four different cases including a double murder which took place in Mariadih village of Prayagraj a few years back. He and his brother Atiq Ahmed are key accused in the 2004 murder case of former Bahujan Samaj Party MLA Raju Pal. DIG (jail) BR Verma said, “Azim has been shifted to Bareilly jail on the orders of the state government and he was taken there amid tight security. He was taken from Naini central jail in a police vehicle at 6am and reached Bareilly district jail by afternoon.” Azim’s brother Atiq Ahmad is currently lodged at Ahmedabad Jail on the instructions of the Supreme Court. Atiq’s son Umar is also wanted for allegedly abducting and assaulting a Lucknow-based realtor. He is currently on the run and the case is being investigated by the CBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/former-mla-shifted-to-bareilly-jail-from-naini/articleshow/76913996.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Patna||Plasma donors trickle in at AIIMS-Patna||PATNA: Even as plasma donation is yet to pick up in the state, 12 people, including a doctor, have donated their plasma at AIIMS-Patna, which has got the nod from ICMR to conduct convalescent plasma therapy to treat seriously ill Covid patients. The human trial of indigenous vaccine for Covid-19 will also commence at AIIMS- P from Monday. Begusarai-based orthopaedic surgeon Dr Brajesh Kumar voluntarily donated his plasma on July 1. Kumar, who was declared Covid-19 negative on June 7, said being a doctor it’s his responsibility to work for the welfare of the common people. “Plasma donation is just like normal blood donation. In fact, the quantity of blood taken out during this process is much less. All corona-recovered people should come forward to donate their plasma as it can save precious lives,” he said. Dr Kumar added the therapy is based on the concept of passive immunity, where antibodies of diseases developed in a person are used for treating others. Dr Neha Singh, blood transfusion officer at the department of transfusion medicine and blood bank at AIIMS- Patna, said several people, of late, have come forward to donate plasma for the therapy. “At least 15 Covid-recovered people from Patna, Muzaffarpur and other places in the state voluntarily came forward to donate their plasma. Of them, three were not fit,” she said, adding a recovered patient can donate plasma after every 15 days. Khajpura resident Deepak Kumar, who donated his blood for the second time on Friday, also happens to be the first plasma donor. “Despite my family stopping me from donating plasma, I donated it again because I know how one feels after contracting the virus. However, for a change, I didn’t feel weak this time,” he said. Meanwhile, the human trial of Covid-19 vaccine — Covaxin — which has been jointly developed by the National Institute of Virology-Pune and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) in collaboration with the ICMR, will begin at AIIMS-P from Monday. AIIMS-P superintendent Dr CM Singh said screening of people would commence from Monday. “A slew of tests, including urine test and blood test, will be done. After this, the healthy patients will be selected for further trials. A team of doctors has also been formed for the purpose,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/plasma-donors-trickle-in-at-aiims-patna/articleshow/76915548.cms||Archi Rani
July 12, 2020||Patna||Patna: Universities await chancellor’s nod to declare fresh exam dates||PATNA: Patna University (PU) and Nalanda Open University (NOU) may have postponed all their exams scheduled in July in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, but have not announced the fresh dates in absence of any instructions from the Raj Bhavan. The pending exams of Degree Part III students of PU were to begin from July 21, but were postponed after the announcement of the weeklong lockdown in Patna district. The exams of NOU students admitted to different courses were also postponed. Similarly, in Patliputra University, the undergraduate examinations of the last academic session were not conducted in March-April due to the nationwide lockdown. The fresh dates are yet to be announced. Munger University also postponed its Degree Part I and Part II examinations scheduled from March 24 and 25, respectively. The fresh examination dates will be decided only on the basis of the instructions from the chancellor’s secretariat. Aryabhatta Knowledge University also postponed some exams, but later decided to promote all the students of the 2019-2020 session, except for those in the final semester. “Students of BTech, BPharm, vocational, MBA, MCA, MTech and MEd programmes will be promoted without examinations,” pro-vice-chancellor (VC) S M Karim told this newspaper. Some time back, the Raj Bhavan had constituted a seven-member committee of VCs to take a decision on the conduct of university examinations. “It is likely to submit a report to the chancellor next week. Only then the universities will receive any instruction from the Raj Bhavan,” said sources. In its latest guidelines, the University Grants Commission (UGC) had directed the universities to complete all the final semester examinations by the end of September. “As things stand today, it does not seem feasible for the universities to complete their exams as per the UGC’s deadline,” said a senior academic of PU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/univs-await-chancellors-nod-to-declare-fresh-exam-dates/articleshow/76914973.cms||B K Mishra
July 12, 2020||Surat||Avoid travel to Maha and Delhi, traders told||Surat: Surat municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani has urged the residents, especially the business community, to avoid travelling to Maharashtra and Delhi and strictly follow the 14-day home quarantine rule after return, to contain the spread of coronavirus in the city. He stated that people from the city have been frequently travelling to Maharashtra and Delhi for trade and business purposes and the movement has increased after unlock-1. “One of the reasons behind the increase in Covid-19 cases is the constant movement of people from the city to Maharashtra and Delhi for business and trade purposes. We have urged them to avoid visiting these two states. Even if they have to visit, on return they must strictly follow the 14 days quarantine rule,” Pani said. He further said that cases galore where people returning from Maharashtra and Delhi are found moving freely putting at risk not only the lives of their family members, but also those who come in their contact. “Those having Covid-like symptoms including cough, fever, weakness etc must immediately seek doctor’s advice. Those suffering from malaria and dengue are also susceptible to the Covid infection and they too must have early diagnosis to prevent further complications,” Pani added. 195 NEW HOTSPOTS IDENTIFIED The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Saturday released a list of about 195 hotspots in the city where the Covid-19 cases are on the rise. Out of the 195 hotspots, 87 are in the Varachha (A) and Varachha (B) zones and 30 are in the Katargam zone. “Residents in these areas have been requested to stay indoors and stop unnecessary movement out of their homes,” said a senior SMC officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/avoid-travel-to-maha-and-delhi-traders-told/articleshow/76915205.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 35-year-old shot dead in Vaishali district||PATNA: A 35-year-old barber was shot dead by a group of armed men in Vaishali district, triggering protest by some locals on Saturday. Police said the body of one Chandan Thakur was recovered from Surha culvert under the Sahdei Bujurg police outpost in the district on Saturday. Chandan, a resident of Rampur Badhel village, had left home with three people, whose faces were covered with masks. The father of the deceased, Ramji Thakur, told police that Chandan had informed his family while leaving home around 7am that he was going to attend a religious congregation with the three acquaintances. Later, his body was found near the culvert on Hajipur-Samastipur Road. The assailants had pumped three bullets into Chandan’s body. While the first had hit his temple, marks of two bullets were found on his two hands. As the news about his murder spread in the area, some residents blocked the Hajipur-Samastipur Road and disrupted traffic for an hour. The situation was brought under control after the intervention of senior police officers. Sahdei Bujurg police outpost SHO Dhananjay Choudhary said, “Efforts are on to ascertain the identity of the three people, who were accompanying Chandan. The reason behind the murder is yet to be ascertained.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/35-year-old-shot-dead-in-vaishali-district/articleshow/76915007.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Varanasi||1st plasma unit from Lucknow to save BHU’s Covid-19 patient||VARANASI: Even as no donor turned up to save the life of a private medical practitioner after the formal beginning of plasma therapy at Banaras Hindu University hospital three days ago, the district administration arranged a plasma unit from Lucknow on Saturday. To ensure availability of plasma units collected from cured Covid-19 patients at blood banks of Varanasi, the district administration also roped in the officials of Red Cross and Indian Medical Association (Varanasi branch) who have been mobilising Covid patients who got cure by mid-June to come forward and donate their plasma. Talking to TOI, the district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “As no plasma unit could be arranged at the blood bank of BHU hospital and it was urgently needed for a private medico, we spoke to KGMU officials in Lucknow after which one unit of plasma was arranged and transported to Varanasi on Saturday afternoon.” With its arrival, the first plasma therapy will be conducted in Varanasi after the announcement of its formal beginning at BHU hospital on July 9. BHU hospital is designated for providing level-3 facility for critical Covid positive cases, while it also houses the only laboratory for sample testing in east UP region. When asked about the reason behind the delay in beginning the plasma therapy even as the cases are on a constant rise, the DM said, “The BHU hospital authorities informed us that their initial application for clinical research of plasma therapy had been turned down by ICMR. When I talked to ICMR officials, they said permission was being sought for research work, but there was no restriction on giving plasma therapy to those Covid cases who need it. Thereafter, BHU hospital authorities were asked to provide therapy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/1st-plasma-unit-from-lucknow-to-save-bhus-covid-patient/articleshow/76914759.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19 norm: Saturday is the new Sunday||CHENNAI: For years now, Saturday was the slowest day of the week in terms of sales for Malini Palayam, a fishmonger who peddles her stock in the Saidapet area. But that was until the state government declared that Sundays were going to be days of “intense lockdowns” where trade of any kind would not be allowed. Now, says Malini, she works extra time on Saturdays just to keep up with the demand of her regulars stocking up for the week. “I used to sit on the pavement from 6am to 9am on Saturdays, but now I don’t leave before 1.20 pm,” she says. “I bring double my usual stock of fish on Saturday because people get angry if I run out.” Sunday was usually the day when families would bustle about to complete their grocery shopping, meat and fruit buying for week, but the no-excuses lockdown declared on that day have resulted in Saturdays becoming the new Sunday. Fish mongers, meat delivery websites, fruit and vegetable stores all claim that Saturday has become their busiest day of the week in terms of sales. On Saturday alone, for instance, the Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Corporation website and app Meengal, recorded the highest amount of sales since mid-April. Official sources said that there was a 150% hike in orders compared to other days. The highest selling items were the seer slices, nethili and catla, crab. Over half a tonne kilograms of more than 15 varieties of fishes were sold on Saturday. Local meat vendors say the Saturday demand is quite literally becoming the ‘new normal’. Abdullah, a local meat vendor in the Saidapet area, says in the first week of the lockdown he was unprepared for the Saturday demand, and lost out on sales to his competitors. “But now I have caught on. I’ve stocked up for the bulk orders that come in. My customers usually cook mutton and chicken on Sundays and so would line up outside my store early in the morning. Now, they just stock up on Saturday.” Like Abdullah, Kalaivani L, who sells vegetables on a cart, too learned the hard way about the Saturday demand. "I didn't take the first week of the intense lockdown seriously. I brought the usual amount of vegetables to sell. Within minutes of me pulling into my usual corner, I was surrounded by men and women grabbing whatever was in the cart. Most bought more than usual and I was sold out in 30 minutes. Now I bring four times my usual stock because it is a big sales day." Triplicane resident TE Srivatsan says he went to a popular vegetable shop on RK Mutt Road on Saturday and because of the crowds, guidelines pertaining to how many people should be inside the supermarket were not followed. "In supermarkets, shelf space is maximised so the aisle space is very less. The place was crowded and people were walking rather close to each other. Those at the billing counters had also removed their masks. They complained about wearing masks constantly," he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/saturday-is-the-new-sunday/articleshow/76915725.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Patna||Fresh lockdown in districts a political move: Yashwant||PATNA: Accusing the state government of trying to thwart people’s interaction initiatives of the opposition with fresh lockdown, former Union minister Yashwant Sinha said on Saturday that he will now use social media to reach out to people of Bihar. Sinha had embarked on a nine-day tour of several districts in Bihar, including Gaya, Aurangabad, Jehanabad and Sasaram on Tuesday under his ‘Badlo Bihar, Banao Behtar Bihar” campaign with a view to dislodge the NDA government led by CM Nitish Kumar. He issued a statement on Saturday saying he would now interact with people through the digital medium in the wake of the lockdown enforced in various districts. “The government seems to be scared of my public interactions, and probably because of the same reason, lockdown has been enforced in different districts. It is a political move to stop the opposition. Otherwise lockdown was not being enforced all these days, when Covid cases were surging but it has been enforced now when we are interacting with people,” Sinha tweeted. Training guns at the state government on the issue of handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, Sinha said in another tweet: “The number of Covid infected persons is rising steeply across the state. The situation is deteriorating with every passing day but the rate of Covid-19 testing continues to remain very low. It is a matter of concern that Covid testing in Bihar is perhaps the lowest as compared to the rest of the country.” Sinha, a former BJP stalwart, was slated to conclude his nine-day tour on July 16 after visiting different districts, including Bhabhua, Buxar, Chapra, Siwan, Gopalganj, Bettiah, and Motihari among others. Other leaders who have joined his campaign as part of exploring a ‘third front’ in Bihar include former Union ministers Devendra Prasad Yadav, former MP Arun Kumar and Nagmani, former minister Narendra Singh. JD (U) lashed out at Sinha, calling him an ‘outsider’ and ‘non- political’ entity. “First of all, when the second front in Bihar is on the verge of collapsing, then there is no question of a third front. Besides, we are answerable to people of Bihar not to him (Sinha), who is an outsider and a non-political entity,” JD (U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fresh-lockdown-in-districts-a-political-move-yashwant/articleshow/76914864.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Bihar opts for rapid tests as cases cross 15,000-mark||PATNA: On a day the number of Covid-19 cases crossed the 15,000 mark, the state government on Saturday authorised the use of rapid antigen kits for coronavirus tests in Bihar to ramp up testing capacity. The state health department will make these rapid test kits, which can show results within 30 minutes, available to the districts in a week. Sources said bigger districts will get at least 1,000 kits. The decision to introduce the rapid kits was taken after a letter from the Union ministry of health and family welfare to all states instructing them to ramp up testing and it recommended the use of a rapid point-of-care antigen test kit for diagnosis. The introduction of rapid test kits will come as a boost with the coronavirus cases surging in the state. Altogether 709 new cases were added to the Covid-19 tally taking the state-wide count to 15,039. The death toll reached 131 with six more deaths on Saturday, including two from Patna. With 10,991 recoveries the number of active cases now stand at 3,298. However, the health department’s official death toll stands at 118. Four deaths were reported from AIIMS-Patna, which includes a 48-year-old woman of Patna City. The other deceased were from Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga and one from Giridih in Jharkhand, said the hospital’s Covid-19 in-charge Dr Sanjeev Kumar. The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, said two Covid-19 positive people died on Saturday. One was a 70-year-old male, who resided near the Shiv Mandir in Jakkanpur locality. “He had a medical history of hypertension and asthma. Another deceased was a 46-year-old female from Sitamarhi, who died of cardiac arrest. She also had comorbidity,” said Dr Mukul. As per information shared by the health department, Covd-19 cases were reported from 34 districts with maximum 133 cases from Patna. Other districts which reported large number of cases include Bhagalpur (75), Nawada (69), Jamui (39), Gaya (38), Muzaffarpur (38), saran (27), Sitamarhi (24), Gopalganj (23) and Saharasa (20). State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 740 people recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 10,991 and hence the recovery rate in Bihar stands at 73.08%. In the same time period, 709 new cases were registered and 9,108 samples were tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-opts-for-rapid-tests-as-cases-cross-15k-mark/articleshow/76915531.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 12, 2020||Surat||Dip in new cases brings positivity in diamond city||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) authorities heaved a sigh of relief with decrease in the number of Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday. The city recorded 180 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total number of cases to 6,907. Since the last fortnight, the city has been recording an average of 200 Covid-19 positive cases everyday. However, this is first time that the cases have decreased on Saturday. Official sources said that the hotspots in Katargam zone continued to register high number of cases with about 40 cases recorded on Saturday itself. Varachha (A) recorded 28 cases, Varachha (B) 26 and 16 cases each in Limbayat and Central zone, respectively. Three more Covid-19 positive patients including 45-year-old male from Varachha (A), 60-year-old man from Katargam zone and 52-year-old male from Central zone succumbed to the infection on Saturday. All the three deceased were suffering from co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, blood pressure and kidney disease. About 114 patients were discharged after they recovered fully on Saturday. About 4,256 patients have recovered so far in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dip-in-new-cases-brings-positivity-in-diamond-city/articleshow/76915179.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Surat||Woman constable to face inquiry||Surat: City police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt has ordered an inquiry into the controversy that involves a female lok rakshak police constable, Sunita Yadav, who is heard using abusive language in an audio recording. Audio call recordings of Yadav talking with her senior officers have also gone viral. Police suspect that Yadav herself made the audio clips viral. According to sources in the department, friends of Prakash Kanani, son of minister of state for health, Kishor alias Kumar Kanani, entered into argument on Thursday night. Yadav was posted on an internal road near Mini Bazaar in Varachha when the incident took place at around 10.30 pm. “Friends of my son were out for treatment of a Covid positive patient when the policewomen stopped them. They called up my son for help. However, when my son reached there to help, the woman started abusing everybody including my son,” Kanani told TOI. Kanani demanded that a fair inquiry should be done by the police and punish the guilty. He claimed that his son did not say anything insulting to the woman, but asserted that he too should be punished if he had done anything wrong. “The audio recording that went viral is edited portion. She was abjectly abusive, hurling profanities at all those present there. As a police officer she has the right to enforce law, but cannot abuse and insult people,” Kanani added. In the audio, the woman is heard hurling expletives. Meanwhile, Yadav went on sick leave and she has informed her senior officers in police head quarter that she has cold and viral infection. Despite several attempts, the woman constable was not available for her comments. “The cop is on leave due to cold and viral infection,” said a police officer at head quarter. Yadav is posted in the head quarters and was assigned bandobust duty in Varachha. “I have been ordered to inquire into the incident and behaviour of the woman. It is clear that she made the audio recordings viral in which she is using abusive language,” said C K Patel, assistant commissioner of police. “I ordered thorough inquiry into the incident. Based on the detailed report actions will be taken against those found responsible for unlawful behaviour,” said city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt. Sources in police informed that the woman’s point of duty was changed thrice in past few days. B N Sagar, police inspector of Varachha police station, visited twice to point of duty of the woman in recent past after locals complained against her. Her senior officers have received photos of her forcing people to do sit-ups on road and also of abusing people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-constable-to-face-inquiry/articleshow/76915232.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Varanasi||Mukhtar Ansari aide’s house, property seized in Varanasi||VARANASI: In the statewide crackdown against gangsters, police continued to tighten the noose around jailed mafia don-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari. On Saturday, police confiscated property worth Rs 58.91 lakh belonging to Jhunna Pandit, a listed sharpshooter of Mukhtar, in Varanasi. In Ghazipur, arms licences of three of Mukhtar’s henchmen and relatives were suspended. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “A double-storey building, two plots and two motorcycles of Mukhtar’s sharp-shooter Shriprakash Mishra alias Jhunna Pandit of Ramduttpur under the limits of Cantonment police in Varanasi have been confiscated by a joint team of district administration and police.” When the team led by ADM City Gulabchand and SP City Vikas Chandra Tripathi along with heavy police force raided the Ramduttpur residence of Jhunna, some women present there tried to protest. After they left, the officials completed the process of confiscation. The total value of the confiscated properties and cash recovered from Jhunna’s brother Om Prakash was Rs 59 lakhs, the officials told TOI. Jhunna’s menace was last seen in Varanasi in 2019 when he had murdered a physically challenged youth in a property dispute. Later, he surrendered in Punjab’s Roopnagar on October 11, 2019. This 24-year-old sharp-shooter of Mukhtar gang had entered the crime world at the age of 15. As per police records, 10 cases of murder are lodged against him in Varanasi and neighbouring districts while many cases of murder, kidnapping and ransom have also been registered against him in Delhi. Police had announced cash reward of Rs 1 lakh on him while he had also been booked under Gangster Act. The ADG said that other action against Mukhtar’s henchmen and relatives was taken by the Ghazipur administration and police on Friday when on detection of irregularities in documents concerned the arms licences of Mohd Salim, Nuruddin (both relatives of Mukhtar) and a henchman Masood Alam were suspended. He said that all the arms were also deposited by the police. For the past few months, especially after May end, the henchmen, relatives and shooters of Mukhtar are facing the heat as the cops are hitting their economic empire as well as their armoury. In this period not only their illegal possession from government lands were removed in Ghazipur, but their monopoly in fish trade of east UP region was also challenged. A large number of henchmen were also booked under Gangster Act and sent behind bars in Mau, Ghazipur and other districts of the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mukhtar-aides-house-property-seized-in-varanasi/articleshow/76914785.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 4 cops hurt in Vaishali mob attack||PATNA: At least four police personnel, including an assistant sub-inspector (ASI), were seriously injured when a mob attacked them at Sarsai village under the Sarai police station area in Vaishali district around 2am on Friday. A police patrolling vehicle was also damaged in the attack. The incident took place when two groups of people were engaged in an altercation following a dispute over land. A member of the group led by Umesh Sahni was detained by another group led by Raju Singh. When the police team led by ASI Kapildeo rescued Umesh Sahni and was about to leave for the police station in the police patrolling car, the supporters of Sahni attacked the police team and set Umesh free. The cops were pelted with stones in which four of them were injured. SHO of Sarai police station Sunita Kumari said raids were on to nab the accused. “The police had gone to the village after being informed about an altercation between two rival groups,” she told TOI over the phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-cops-hurt-in-vaishali-mob-attack/articleshow/76901071.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||ACB nabs GPCB officer with Rs 5 lakh cash||Ahmedabad: The Anti-Corruption Bureau on Friday night intercepted a luxury bus at Ch-K Circle in Gandhinagar and detained a Class I regional officer of GPCB, Bhaya Sutreja. The ACB recovered Rs 4,91,813 from his suitcase. The bus was coming from Rajkot The ACB had got a tip-off that Sutreja, who is posted in Jamnagar, has been making money by corrupt means. On searching him, investigators found Rs 17,800 in his pant pocket. The Gujarat Pollution Control Board officer failed to provide a satisfactory explanation about the source of the money. He was taken to the ACB office. A search was carried out at his Gandhinagar residence. “We found Rs 5 lakh cash and 20g of gold worth Rs 80,000 from the house. He failed to provide a satisfactory explanation, and was hence booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act,” said an ACB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/acb-nabs-gpcb-officer-with-rs-5-lakh-cash/articleshow/76915735.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||City schools fare well in ISC and ICSE exams||Thiruvananthapuram: City schools have fared well in Class X ICSE and Class XII ISC examinations, the results of which were declared on Friday. A total of 169 students appeared for ICSE (Class X) examination from Christ Nagar Higher Secondary School, Kowdiar, and all secured distinction. Asna Nazreen S is the topper with 98.2%, followed by Nitya Tiwari (98%) and Johann Luke John (97.6%). In ISC (Class XII), of the 84 students who appeared for the exam, 76 secured distinction and 8 got first class. Mythili A secured the highest marks of 97.25% from the school, followed by Shreya R S (96.5%) and Teresa Jacob (96.25%). At Trivandrum International School, 85.7% of the students who appeared for ICSE examination have secured distinction while 92.8% have first class. Nasreen Rijas, the school topper, scored 95%, followed by Malavika Pradeep who scored 94.4% and Hridya Madhu and Vaishnavi Nair, both with 93.8%. Little Flower Vidya Vihar secured 100% results in the Class X examination and 82% students got distinction. The school topper, Anantha Sreekanth S R, secured 95% marks. At St Thomas Residential School, Mukkolakkal, of the 131 students who appeared for the ISC exam from the science stream, 120 secured distinction and 10 got first class. Siddharth Stephen secured the first position in the school with 97.75%. Amal Govind S, Pranav A Nair, Mansi Manoj and Sarangi Shyam shared the second position with 97.25% and the third position was secured by Bishnu R with 96.75%. In the commerce stream at the ISC, 27 students out of the 40 who took the exam secured distinction and 11 got first class. Rohan K George secured the first position in the school with 94.5%, Aditia Sarathi came second with 93.25% and the third position was grabbed by Malavika Krishnan G with 92%. In the Class X exam, of the 206 students, 201 secured distinction and 5 secured first class. Lekshmi G S secured the first position in the school with 98.8%. Leah Rachel Mathew secured the second with 98.4% and the third was grabbed by Nandana D with 98.2%. Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Nalanchira, also secured a 100% result in the ICSE and ISC examinations. In the ICSE section, 177 students appeared and 171 of them secured distinction and 6 received first class. In the ISC section, of the 84 students, 65 got distinction, 16 received first class and 3 got second class. The school toppers are Rishikesh Panicker, Saket B and Sarath Roy (ISC - 97.8%) and Amrutha Krishna and S Fathima Mehrin (ICSE - 98.8%). At Lecole Chempaka Silver Rocks, Edavacode, Sreekariyam, of the 67 students who appeared for the ISC exam, 57 secured distinction, 9 got first class and 1 received second class. Advaith Balamurali has topped the school in humanities stream with 98.75%, Diya K Prasad with 98.5% in science stream and Avantika R with 94% in commerce stream. Of the 121 students who appeared in the ICSE examination from the school, 105 secured distinction, 13 first class and 3 second class. Gauri M bagged the first place scoring 97.8%, Parvathi Nair and Ananthakrishnan A V shared the second position with 97.7%, followed by Damini Nair with 97.2%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/city-schools-fare-well-in-isc-and-icse-exams/articleshow/76915738.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Goa||In a first, centralised degree admissions in Goa||PANAJI: Admissions to the first year degree programmes will begin via the directorate of higher education (DHE) portal from July 15. DHE officials have said that the entire admission process, including payment of fees, can be completed online and that students need not visit the colleges. Besides BA, BCom, BSc, BCA, BBA, music, home science, BSc/B Ed, BA/B Ed degree programmes, admissions to law programmes will also take place through this portal. For the first time, DHE is carrying out admissions to all non-professional degree programmes using a centralised system. The Class XII result of the state board was announced around 15 days ago. Usually, admissions to first year general stream degree programmes begins immediately, but this year it could not due to the pandemic. DHE told students that the admission process for all colleges will take place under a common portal. In the meantime, colleges made their prospectus and course details available online. “As per the MHA guidelines, the admission process is completely online without visiting off site campus,” the directorate stated. DHE stated that it has developed a comprehensive online admission software for all non-professional colleges to process admission through a common portal. “Students seeking admission in any of the colleges under the administrative control of DHE, should apply through https://www.dhe.goa.gov.in/ from July 15. The portal will provide detailed guidelines for the students about the online application process. Students can apply to a maximum of two colleges across Goa with the priority option,” the directorate has stated. The portal will also facilitate merit list generation, counseling, final selection, and online payment. The students who are not shortlisted in first round of admission will get a chance to apply in second iteration, DHE has stated. It had earlier assured students that no one would be left without a seat. Earlier, individual colleges carried out their admissions on their own. Some had already shifted the process online, but it was through the college’s own internet-based management system. Under the common management system implemented by DHE, it will be able to get live updates centrally on the number of students enrolled and seats filled and vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-a-first-centralised-admissions-to-degree-colleges-in-state/articleshow/76916454.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||NHAI sitting on revised Kamptee Road flyover design||Nagpur: Even though Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari had asked the head office of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to approve the revised plan of Kamptee Road double decker flyover weeks ago, the file is still pending with the agency. Residents of Mohan Nagar continue to have sleepless nights as the plan to start the flyover’s ramp opposite SFS Church is still on the table. They regularly enquire with MahaMetro officials only to learn that a final decision from NHAI is awaited. MahaMetro had submitted a revised plan shifting the ramp towards LIC Square opposite VIMS Hospital but NHAI is yet to approve it. As on date, the ramp begins opposite the cathedral on paper. Rajeev Agarwal, regional officer of NHAI, said that the matter was under consideration and the decision would be made public whenever its taken. MahaMetro needs to acquire 0.7 acre land at a cost of Rs70 crore if the ramp starts opposite SFS Church. If the ramp begins opposite VIMS Hospital, 0.3 acre land is needed at a cost of Rs50 crore. However, the cost of construction will increase by Rs30 crore. So, the second proposal will cost only Rs10 crore than the first. Mohan Nagar residents are against the ramp beginning from opposite the church as it would become an accident-prone spot putting lives of hundreds of school children and church-goers at risk. There are many schools near the church. MahaMetro had made its plans public in January 2019. Immediately, residents of Mohan Nagar joined hands to oppose the flyover. They met Gadkari and corporators. In March 2019, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) passed a resolution in the general body clearing the proposal to acquire 0.3 acre land at a cost of Rs50 crore near VIMS Hospital. MahaMetro then prepared a revised design and submitted it to NHAI. The highway agency did nothing for months. MahaMetro could not carry on the work of Kamptee Road flyover as there was no approval from NHAI. NHAI finally cleared the flyover in August 2019 but the location of the ramp remained unclear. Since then, MahaMetro has been working full swing on the flyover but not touching the ramp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nhai-sitting-on-revised-kamptee-road-flyover-design/articleshow/76915742.cms||Ashish Roy
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two bike lifters nabbed, nine vehicles seized||HYDERABAD: Two thieves were arrested on Saturday for allegedly stealing two-wheelers in Kalapathar. Police seized nine bikes from their possession. The accused were identified as Mohammed Irshad, 32, and Mohammed Adeem, 22. According to police, the duo, carrying duplicate key sets, would steal vehicles parked near apartments and other areas. “After receiving a complaint, we made efforts to identify the offenders,” Kalapathar inspector S Sudarshan said. During investigation, police found CCTV footage of an incident and identified the offenders. “After receiving information, the duo was nabbed during vehicle checks. We stopped them, verified their papers and found they were moving on a stolen vehicle,” the officer added. The two were booked for theft and sent to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-bike-lifters-nabbed-nine-vehicles-seized/articleshow/76916181.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Chennai||Confusion reigns over property tax collection in Chennai||CHENNAI: Cash-strapped Greater Chennai Corporation had made an appeal to the property owners to pay the arrears of tax and the present due, last week. However, it is hounded by several issues as residents are unable to pay. Despite the corporation’s claims of having updated all details, the column concerned in the portal keeps displaying a higher tax amount, complain residents. M V Krithivasan of Kodambakkam made a property tax payment in 2018-19 despite the confusion on revision. After the tax was rolled back, he was sure the portal would reflect the extra amount paid. However last week when he decided to check for his bill, he was shocked to see a higher rate of Rs 928, the same amount he had paid last year still showing due this year. Another resident, Indra Ganesh, who had paid Rs 1,814 as tax also said his tax amount had not been updated. “We have asked members of our association to not make any payment. We need to check the due amount and only if it is correct, payment will be made. The civic body should update the portal,” said V S Jayaraman, president of Motilal Street Residents’ Welfare Association in T Nagar. Deputy commissioner (revenue) Meghanatha Reddy said the portal had been updated and those who paid extra would find the amount in negative. They need not make any payment. “There could be minor discrepancies which we will resolve in a couple of days,” he said, adding that in the past 10 days, Rs 2.21 crore was collected from 5,691 assessments. Tamil Nadu had announced a revision of property tax for the period 2018-2019 based on the street rate and not the guideline value as was calculated earlier. They said the tax amount would not be more than 50%. However, residents, especially in added areas complained of higher taxes being collected with some having to pay a more than 100% increase, while those in the core city areas only had 10% increase. The revision was rolled back after a lot of complaints and the civic body had stopped collecting taxes. As per their figures, by March 2020 a collection of Rs 925 crore was made, including the revised amount. There are 12.14 lakh assessments in the city, of which revision took place for 10.34 lakh properties. As per data available with TOI, more than 5 lakh properties had self-declared increase in their area. Corporation commissioner G Prakash said they would resolve the issues. Meghanatha Reddy said, those who have grievances can call the assistant revenue officials, whose numbers are available on the corportaion website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/confusion-reigns-over-property-tax-collection/articleshow/76915743.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||UK-India parliamentary group will foster ties: Om Birla||JAIPUR: A UK-India parliamentary group comprising members of parliament from both nations will be formed to foster ties, said Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla on Saturday. The information was shared during a conversation with Padma Shri awardee British MP Bob Blackman, deputy high commissioner of the UK in India Peter Cook who was in conversation with Rajasthan BJP state president Satish Poonia. The programme was organised by the Rajasthan Association in UK over a video conference on Saturday. “The lawmakers will be from all political parties. A collaboration between the parliamentarians will strengthen the relationship between the two traditional democracies. The inter-parliamentary discussions will bring out the best of best practices and will benefit governance,” said Birla. “I will speak to the speaker of the British parliament to bring a delegation from the UK in the next parliament session,” said Birla, who thanked the UK government for carrying out a project on a farmers’ market in Bundi. Blackman is an MP from Harrow East in London which is dominated by Indian diaspora. He is also the recipient of Padma Shri 2020. “Unfortunately, due to the pandemic, I missed taking the award in a ceremony in person from president Ram Nath Kovind,” said Blackman, who was nominated for strengthening ties with India and public affairs works. Responding to a question by Blackman on how to deal with parliament in the pandemic, Birla said that the structure of India’s parliament is such that virtual sessions cannot fit in the system. “The committee meetings which consist of all party members have started and their nature is confidential so they can’t take place virtually. The necessary arrangements are being made to ensure that we hold physical parliamentary sessions and continue the legacy of discussions on every bill,” said Birla. The British MP suggested following a hybrid system with a mix of virtual and physical sessions due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/uk-india-parliamentary-group-will-foster-ties-om-birla/articleshow/76916186.cms||Shoeb Khan
July 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Teacher holds virtual expo to raise funds for poor family||Thiruvananthapuram: For regular visitors of cultural events in the city, the art and craft works of 83-year-old retired school teacher P S Padmini would be familiar. She has hosted four exhibitions in the city and always took pride in explaining the intricacies of her creations to visitors. The lockdown has not hampered her will to express her talent through paintings and crafts. Unlike her past four exhibitions, the latest one is virtual and more than that, it is for a noble cause. Titled ‘Breaking Impossibilities: An Exhibition of Arts and Crafts for a Cause’, Padmini is conducting the exhibition to raise funds to construct a house for a 14-year-old girl from a financially poor family. “I was interested in craft work from childhood and used to make handicraft items. After retirement, I started learning painting and have a series of art works,” Padmini said. She has been receiving training in art from artist George Fernandez for the past 18 years. Padmini likes to experiment with various mediums in her works, such as mural, glass, oil, watercolour and epoxy. Her craft work includes ornamental candle making, embroidery, clay work, flower making, metal imposing, thread work, paper patch work, paper ribbon work, tie and dye and soft-toy making. Around 200 art and craft works have been displayed in the virtual exhibition. The initiative was suggested by her son Prakash P Gopinath, the ‘bicycle mayor’ of Thiruvananthapuram who is engaged in social work. People may log in at http://induscyclingembassy.com to visit the virtual exhibition. The exhibition will conclude on August 4. “I came to know about the girl through my friends. When my friends suggested conducting an exhibition to raise funds, she readily agreed. The Class IX girl is a resident of Vattiyoorkavu and lost her home in a fire. Her family comprises mother, a daily-wage labourer; elder brother, a Class XII student; and grandmother could not afford to construct a house. We will be collecting funds and will be constructing the house. Some people have come forward to help with the construction,” said Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/teacher-holds-virtual-expo-to-raise-funds-for-poor-family/articleshow/76915771.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Private hospitals in Mangaluru mull home isolation packages||MANGALURU: Several private hospitals in the city are expected to launch ‘home isolation packages’ soon. A few private hospitals in the state capital have already announced such packages. With this, patients are expected to get treatment kits and virtual monitoring by nurses and doctors, based on the package the patient opts for. However, the launch may not be an easy task amid the rising challenges. ‘Adequate staff needed’An official from a private hospital told TOI: “To introduce these packages, hospitals need to have adequate staff, as it requires a couple of video consultations per day, kits to be provided and if needed, a staff member may have to visit the house. A dedicated home visit team has to be constituted. Meanwhile, four medical colleges have shared responsibility of collecting swabs of Gulf returnees under institutional quarantine, which amounts to around 1,500 people.” “There could be a slight delay in launching the package as several hospital staff have tested positive. Added to this, the Kerala government has imposed restrictions on daily commuters. Nearly 20% of the health care staff are from the neighbouring state. Labour OTs in a couple of hospitals have been sealed down forcing the other hospitals to share the burden. Doctors serving the Covid wards are working in shifts. Those exposed to Covid-19 patients are being quarantined for few days too.” Most patients availing treatment under Ayushman scheme: Private hospitals Private hospitals have observed that most Covid-19 patients are opting for treatment under the Ayushman scheme. “A positive patient who is asymptomatic as per guidelines can be discharged and sent for home quarantine after notifying the district health department along with a consent obtained from a patient that he/she is aware and responsible on dos and don’ts for home quarantine as laid down by the government,” the officer added. A source from a private hospital said around 10 % of beds in the Covid ward is occupied by its staff. Dr Prashanth Marla K, medical director, and transplant surgeon, A J Hospital & Research Centre said, “I don’t think there are as many admissions for Covid-19 in private hospitals and beds are also not that full. However, based on demand, we may consider teleconsultation and telemonitoring for asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid patients.” Vishal Hegde, pro-chancellor, Nitte Deemed to be University, said they will soon launch home isolation packages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pvt-hosps-in-mluru-mull-home-isolation-packages/articleshow/76915049.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man stabbed to death in robbery on Guruji Bridge||Ahmedabad: A 21-year-old man Umang Darji, a resident of Khokhra, was stabbed to death by some unknown assailants on the Khokhra Guruji Bridge on Friday night at about 11pm.  According to the father of the deceased, Haresh Darji, Umang had no enmity with anyone. Police suspect that Darji was killed in a loot attempt. “More than four persons were involved in the murder. The deceased’s mobile phone and his wallet, which had his Aadhaar and ATM cards, were missing from the spot. His bike was found by the side of the bridge,” said inspector K B Sankhala of Isanpur police station. Darji’s father, who has some disability, runs his family by sewing clothes. “Haresh Darji informed us that his elder son Umang went out of the house on his bike at about 10pm, saying that he would come back soon. At about 11pm, he got a call that his son has been stabbed on Guruji Bridge and is lying in a pool of blood,” a police official said. The victim’s father along with his neighbour, Dhruv Trivedi, went to the spot and saw that his son was stabbed in the stomach and chest, and was lying in the middle of the bridge. He was still breathing then, said the official. “Umang told his father that some unknown persons stopped his vehicle and stabbed him. They then fled with his mobile phone and wallet,” said the police official. After that, he fell unconscious. He was taken to the Civil Hospital by 108 emergency service. However, he died during treatment. ACP J Division Rajpalsinh Rana said the police currently don’t have any CCTV footage of the crime. A complaint under Section 397 of the IPC was registered by Isanpur police. Later, the section of murder was added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-stabbed-to-death-in-robbery-on-guruji-bridge/articleshow/76915751.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||SOG's FIR and arrest brings political rivalries to the fore||Jaipur: A high-voltage political drama has unfolded in the state in the past 24 hours. Hours after the BJP filed a privilege motion against chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday, the Special Operations Group of the state police registered an FIR and arrested two persons to probe charges about BJP’s attempts at toppling the Congress governement in the state. A month ago, Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi complained to the SOG that the BJP was indulging in horse trading to win the Rajya Sabha polls. The complaint was tossed to ACB and finally to the ATS but none of the three agencies registered an FIR in the matter. The SOG suddenly registering an FIR on Friday and the two arrests on Saturday morning has raised a question mark on the timing of the political and police developments. It all started with Gehlot accusing senior BJP leaders of luring MLAs 10 days ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls on June 9.Though the investigating agencies remained quiet for a month, the issue suddenly gained momentum after the SOG filed an FIR giving BJP the much-needed ammunition to take on the Congress. Gehlot has put his weight behind the allegations by directly pointing at the senior BJP leaders through a presser. Replying to the accusations of the timing, Gehlot said, “SOG should be asked why they took so much time.”The BJP doesn’t want to leave this question unanswered. Party state president Satish Poonia’s main argument is that the move was aimed at hiding the failures of the Covid situation in the state. “The script of this entire episode was written in advance by Gehlot. First, levelling false allegations of horse-trading against us, then a complaint with the SOG and ACB, and then moving a privilege motion against me in the assembly. When we moved a similar privilege motion, the panicked Congress leaders drafted a letter on behalf of its MLAs against us. It has been found out that the Congress MLAs were not even aware of it,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sogs-fir-and-arrest-brings-political-rivalries-to-the-fore/articleshow/76916180.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh aims to snare China’s global sanitizer market||LUCKNOW: Indian diplomats are still tactically engaging China for a thaw at the Line of Actual Control after the Union government banned 59 apps in a crushing financial blow, while the Yogi Adityanath government is aiming to dislodge the dragon as the top sanitizer provider in the global market. “It might sound odd, but Uttar Pradesh is all set to dislodge China as the top sanitizer supplier to the US, European Union countries and other markets. The reason is China is selling sanitizer at rates that are four times more than ours,” said additional chief secretary excise and sugar, Sanjay A Bhoosreddy, while talking to TOI on Saturday. “Sanitizer produced in UP has captured market in almost all the states and now we are planning to tap the global market. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has also given a go ahead for this,” he added, “On the intervention of our chief minister, the central government has lifted the ban on export of sanitizer and the state government is now facilitating the sanitizer producers to go global,” said Bhoosreddy, who had come up with the innovative idea of allowing distilleries and sugar mills to manufacture sanitizer at a time when the state was reeling under shortage with coronavirus disease enveloping the state in May and April. Bhoosreddy said, “An informal survey and trade inquiries revealed that China is selling a 200 ml bottle of sanitizer for around eight to 15 dollars in the US and other countries in Europe.” “Trade inquiries by our manufacturers received very enthusiastic response from western countries as our rates were considerably less, and so we are all set to capture the global market soon, where China holds a monopoly position. It’s the right time to dethrone China,” said Bhoosreddy. Before the corona crisis, the state was producing just 8,777 litre sanitizer per annum and only one factory in Modinagar was manufacturing it. As the corona crisis started engulfing the state, demand for sanitiser soared and the prices sky-rocketed. Since sanitiser was needed in the situation, the chief minister called Bhoosreddy and asked him to find a solution. “I involved distilleries and sugar mills which already had raw material in abundance. Soon there were 32 manufacturing units, and from 8,777 litres an year we started producing 60,000 litres a day within a fortnight. Some amendments in laws were done for decentralisation of powers to lower-rung officials for speedy approvals in this regard,” he said. “As the production grew exponentially so did the revenue. Earlier, while the state was earning Rs 8.36 lakh from sanitizer production, by June-end the excise has given Rs 100 crore revenue to the state amid lockdown,” Bhoosreddy added. “We are producing six lakh litres of sanitizer every day, out of which nearly two lakh litres is consumed in the state. We can think of exporting now as other states have also started manufacturing it. There is adequate availability of raw material as well as production capacity. And since the export ban has been lifted we are in a position to storm the global market,” said Bhoosreddy. As per the current production capacity, the manufacturing units in UP UP can sell 60 crore bottles of 200 ml with better quality than China’s and earn Rs 1,680 crore, translating to around $240 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-aims-to-snare-chinas-global-sanitizer-mkt/articleshow/76916458.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 12, 2020||Goa||Goa government plans to rush ten bills, budget in one-day assembly session||PANAJI: The state government is planning to pass as many as ten bills, as well as the budget, during the one-day monsoon session of the Goa legislative assembly that’s slated for July 27. A senior official said that the entire budget would be passed even though the opposition made it clear that it wouldn’t allow the Rs 21,056 crore budget to pass. Sources said that it is not known how the 10 bills and the budget would be passed unless the bills gets the assembly’s approval without proper discussion. During the budget session, the government took a vote on account for five months, till August. The opposition has been demanding the reset of the budget before it’s passed in view of covid situation . Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat had suggested that the government takes a vote on account on the budget as it is only a one day session. “The government has to reset the budget as it has no meaning,” he had said. A senior official said that bills would be introduced by the departments of finance, panchayat, labour, the inspectorate of factories and boilers, etc. Besides these bills, appropriation bills too will be introduced. He said that the state government has come out with various ordinances over the past four months, pertaining to matters such as revision of GST and the one-time settlement scheme for the commissioner of commercial tax on value added tax. An ordinance was recently promulgated by the government with regards to a one-time settlement scheme covering all taxation acts for the assessment period up to March 31, 2016 in case of undisputed assessments, and up to June 30, 2017 in case of disputed assessments. The official said that it’s necesary to convert ordinances into bills and pass them. “It is a constitutional requirement, or the ordinance will lapse,” he said. “As per procedure, any ordinance issued by the government has to be passed by the assembly within six months.” One important legislation will be to bring three major amendments to the Goa Panchayati Raj Act— one will address the issue of waste management in village panchayats, another will allow MLAs and zilla panchayat members to participate at gram sabhas, and the third pertains to rationalisation of house and commercial tax in village panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-plans-to-rush-10-bills-budget-in-one-day-assembly-session/articleshow/76916460.cms||Murari Shetye
July 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Half-eaten female fetus found||Ahmedabad: A female fetus, half-eaten by scavengers, was found near VK Estate in Odhav on Friday. A partially scavenged corpse of a newborn had been discovered in Amraiwadi on Sunday. Police sources said they have registered an offence and are gathering CCTV footage from shops nearby to identify the person responsible. “In neither the Amraiwadi case nor this one have the police any clues,” said a local. Hitesh Shalecha, who owns a factory in VK Estate, saw the fetus when he was closing his factory in the afternoon and informed the police. “The fetus was eaten but seems to be of a girl. We have sent the it to Civil Hospital for a postmortem,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/half-eaten-female-fetus-found/articleshow/76915766.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||For want of Rs15cr, police’s control centre for CCTVs lying idle||Nagpur: One of the salient components of the Smart City Project, the Command and Control Centre (CCC) was set up with an expenditure of around Rs51 crore for the police department to control crime and traffic related violations using CCTVs installed across the city. But the centre is lying idle for the last four months for want of just Rs15 crore. Instead of readying the CCC, Smart City special purpose vehicle, Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) has earmarked Rs40 crore for garbage transfer stations, a project which was later revised to bio-mining of garbage though not a part of Smart City project. Public representatives and officials have locked horns over the issue. The works on CCC were supposed to be completed in November 2017. After a visit to CCC being constructed on premises of Police Control Room in Civil Lines, it came to fore that even some interior civil works are yet to complete. All types of heavy machineries for storage, operation, cables, and video wall with 32 screens are yet to be installed. CCC is part of the Rs520 crore Safe and Smart City Project which was the first component of Smart City Project. It was approved in 2016 by the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. L&T was awarded the project on October 18, 2016, with a deadline of one year followed by operation and maintenance (O&M) for five years. Sources in NSSCDCL told TOI that Rs40 crore were spent on procuring machineries. A few software are in use at City Operation Centre (COC) developed at NMC Head Office and remaining lying idle for over a year. “Project got delayed due to lack of funds for construction of CCC builiding. State-run Maha IT which planned the project had sanctioned an additional amount of Rs 10.42 crore for G+2 floor building and deadline was March 1, 2020. But Rs 15 crore more are needed for completing civil works and O&M for 5 years,” sources said. The central government had sanctioned Rs7 crore for Smart Solid Waste Management Solutions under Smart City Project. NSSCDCL had spent around Rs2 crore for bins etc. NSSCDCL earned interest of Rs35 crore on funds unutilized for long-time. Instead of giving this money for completion of CCC, the NSSCDCL proposed development of five garbage transfer stations at the cost of Rs40 crore in 2019. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe later diverted the funds for bio-mining of garbage. It is one of major reasons behind union minister Nitin Gadkari and mayor Sandip Joshi up in arms against Mundhe. The tender is incomplete and supposed to be scrapped following technical issues. Despite availability of funds, NSSCDCL is pursuing funds of Rs15 crore for completion of CCC with Maha IT. Also, NSSCDCL as per suggestion of police department had proposed to develop artificial intelligence (AI) to detect traffic violations. But traffic cops have been detecting violations sitting before a video wall at COC for the last two years. As per police department’s suggestions, NSSCDCL also proposed to install 3,000 more CCTVs and increase storage capacity from 15 days to 90 days. NSSCDCL chairman Pravin Pardeshi said, “I had spoken to Maha IT secretary. We will resolve these issues and ensure all works are back on track within a month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/for-want-of-rs15cr-polices-control-centre-for-cctvs-lying-idle/articleshow/76915762.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 12, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi reports 38 new Covid-19 cases as lockdown unfolds||VARANASI: With 38 new cases, the tally of Covid-19 cases reached 798 in Varanasi on Saturday while one patient breathed his last. Meanwhile, another round of lockdown became effective in the district, compelling local denizens to stay indoors. A sharp jump in the figures of Covid-19 cases was also evident in Ballia and Mirzapur districts as 49 and 34 new cases, respectively, were reported from there. District magistrate Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “A total of 233 lab test reports were received in the district in which 38 persons were found positive, taking the tally to 798. With the death of one more patient, the toll in Varanasi is 27. As four patients were discharged on Saturday, the number of cured patients is now 436 while 335 are under treatment at different hospitals.” The nearly three-day statewide lockdown also became effective in the district since Friday late night. Its effect was visible on the city roads as after the closure of vegetable wholesale markets and sale of essential articles like milk at 10 am, they wore a deserted look. The medicine shops remained open till 2 pm but they also lacked crowds after 12 noon. Men in khaki at almost all city crossings and roads checked those who ventured out. The police and Rapid Action Force personnel also carried out route marches in many parts of the city. ADM City Gulabchandra and SP City Vikas Chandra Tripathi also led some of those route marches taken out to sensitise the people for staying indoors and following guidelines to stay safe. Checking drives were also launched on highways as except goods carriers, no passenger vehicles including personal two or four wheelers were allowed to move. Though the officials of district administration and police were keeping a sharp vigil on roads to check people coming out without reason, several persons were seen in city lanes and Ganga ghats. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 cases rose in Ballia as 49 new infected persons were detected after the arrival of 267 lab test reports. Chief medical officer Ballia PK Mishra said with new cases, the total number of positive cases in the district now is 368, of which 173 have been cured and two had died. Now, active cases in the district are 188. The Ballia administration had already ordered for complete lockdown from July 2 till 21 when the number of Covid-19 positive cases started increasing. In Mirzapur, CMO Dr OP Tiwari said that among 520 lab test reports received in the district, 24 persons were found positive after which the total number of cases touched the mark of 235. The number of active cases in the district is 120, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-reports-38-new-covid-cases-as-lockdown-unfolds/articleshow/76914827.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||Prove allegations or quit politics, BJP to Rajasthan CM||JAIPUR: Rajasthan BJP has accused chief minister Ashok Gehlot of scripting a political drama of horse trading against his government to hide own failures in handling the Covid situation in the state. In a presser hours after Gehlot’s allegation of horse-trading against BJP leaders on Saturday noon, leader of the opposition Gulab Chand Kataria challenged the CM to either prove his charges or quit politics. BJP state president Satish Poonia and deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore, who also attended the news conference, demanded an inquiry into ‘elephant trading’ by the Congress that merged six BSP MLAs into its fold. “Who has stopped you from investigating (horse trading by BJP)? I want you to investigate all allegations you have levelled against us. We will not let you blame us for your failures and unresolved internal issues,” said Kataria. Responding to Gehlot’s allegations of horse-trading against BJP, Kataria added, “We don’t have time for all such activities. You got the support of 124 MLAs in Rajya Sabha polls but if you can’t manage to hold them together, it means your house is not in order. Don’t blame us.” On the FIR filed by the SOG, Poonia said the state government was misusing the investigating agencies to create fear among independent MLAs and the opposition. “It would have been better had they used these agencies to eliminate corruption from the state. It would have been a great service to the citizens,” said Poonia. Taking strong exception for dragging the name of PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah for scripting the toppling of state governments in Maharashtra and MP, Poonia said, “It is unfortunate that Gehlot has stooped to such levels for political gains. Using such a language for the PM and the home minister is a case of privilege motion.” Deputy leader of opposition Rathore said investigation was in fact required over the merger of six BSP MLAs into Congress in violation of the rules. “Without the consent of the BSP central leadership or an agreement with the party state head, the merger is illegal,” said Rathore, who accused the Congress government of tapping the phones of BJP leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/prove-allegations-or-quit-politics-bjp-to-gehlot/articleshow/76916195.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Mysuru||Home isolation of Covid-19 patients begins in Mysuru||MYSURU: Isolating Covid positive patients at their homes has started in Mysuru, but on a small scale. Though healthcare workers are given this option, the district administration has extended this facility even to others, provided they meet all criteria. Even patients are allowed to stay in private hospitals. To start with, four patients, all aged between 23 and 28, have been put on home quarantine while less than a dozen patients are being treated at private facilities. Five patients including a taluk official are being treated at home in Mysuru of the 250 plus case active cases. According to officials, all those under home quarantine are doing fine and round the clock monitoring is being done. Earlier, only health care workers were allowed to be treated at home given that they know the precautions to take. An infected physician too is given treatment at home. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar confirmed that the home quarantine initiative began on a small scale on Wednesday. A team of officials are keeping track of patients regularly through tele verification and by visiting homes, he said. This has alleviated the burden on the Covid hospital that is full of patients. The 250-bed district hospital that was yet to be inaugurated was converted into a Covid hospital. District health officer Dr R Venkatesh said the Covid hospital is full as the number of cases is going north. “We have identified the neighbouring ESI hospital to house Covid patients. There are about 100 beds available,” he said. An official claimed a centre belonging to a higher education institution on the city’s outskirts has been identified for any emergency in case there is a spike in patient numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/home-isolation-of-covid-patients-begins-in-mysuru/articleshow/76915071.cms||Lawrence Milton
July 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist logs 71 new cases, tally rises to 1,142||Coimbatore: The district recorded 71 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking its tally to 1,142. Among the new cases is a 34-year-old head constable, who was on duty at Sulur court. Sources say he might have been in contact with the 33-year-old judicial magistrate, who tested positive for the virus earlier in the week. The Selvapuram goldsmiths cluster, meanwhile, continued to grow with two more people - a 54-year-old man and a 26-year-old woman – testing positive from neighbouring Ponnaiyarajapuram. After a gap of several weeks, Mettupalayam recorded six new cases, including four of a family on Annur Road in Aravindhan Nagar and a 48-year-old man from Anna Nagar in Vellopalayam. A 29-year-old woman was tested positive in Peedampalli and a 44-year-old man in Malumichampatty. Narasimanaickenpalayam also saw a positive case. Cases were also reported from Velandipalayam, Vadavalli, Saibaba Colony, Poo Market, Subramaniam Street, Ponnurangam Road, Cheranmanagar, Keeranatham and SIHS Colony, among others. The city corporation carried out a disinfection drive on income tax office premises on Saturday, a day after 59-year-old chief commissioner of income tax tested positive for Covid-19. Samples have been collected from his family members and 16 senior officers in the department. The income tax commissioner had reportedly conducted a closed-door meeting with an air-conditioner on with the officers on Thursday. While there were reports of three of his family members testing positive, officials refused to confirm the same. As per the state bulletin, there are 812 active cases in the district. It also recorded the two deaths - that of a 60-year-old woman from Kurichi and a 58-year-old man from Sulur - that the TOI reported on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-logs-71-new-cases-tally-rises-to-1142/articleshow/76916194.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Goa||Admissions for PG diploma in med lab techniques open, confirmation after test||Panaji: The applications for admission to the post graduate diploma in medical laboratory techniques (PGDMLT) programme offered at the Goa University will be accepted online, the university has said. The students are asked to submit the applications before July 16, 6pm. There are 25 seats on offer for the course. GU-ART for PGDMLT will be held on July 20, detailed guidelines for conduct of the examination shall be issued subsequently, the university said. “Admissions to the PGDMLT programme shall be entirely based on the Goa University Admissions Ranking Test (GU-ART). The marks or percentage obtained by the students while graduating would only be used to ascertain the eligibility of candidates for the programme,” the university said. To be eligible for admission to the PG diploma course, a student must have a BSc degree from GU or any recognised university, with at least 32 credits in the first, second and third years taken together under the choice-based credit system (CBCS) in the subject of either microbiology, bio-technology, or zoology. Also, the student must have chemistry as a subject upto the second year level. The candidates who have completed their graduation or are in their final year of graduation are eligible to apply, the university said, as final year exams for graduation are to be held in August. “The rank list shall be declared on the university website by July 25 along with the list of selected candidates as per the reservation policy of the state government,” GU said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/admissions-for-pg-diploma-in-med-lab-techniques-open-confirmation-after-test/articleshow/76916476.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||The two accused have no criminal history: SOG||JAIPUR: The SOG on Saturday claimed it had found no criminal records of the two men arrested in connection with the ‘horse-trading’ issue. The duo was arrested based on intercepted phone conversation between them. “We were investigating the mafia angle. It was suspected that Bharat Malani and Ashok Singh Chouhan might be involved in illegal dealings of arms and explosives. However, we found no evidence of that nature against them. Instead, we found that they were discussing attempts to topple the state government,” said Ashok Rathore, ADG (SOG and ATS). “Both the accused have their own mines and are financially well to do,” claimed the officer. Elaborating on the reason for arresting the duo based on phone conversation, Rathore said, “They have been arrested for criminal conspiracy and sedition. It was the nature of the conversation for which we filed the FIR and arrested them. Their phone conversation established that the two were talking about horse-trading of MLAs.” On June 11, Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi had complained to the SOG alleging that attempts were being made to topple the government. The SOG chief, however, said the two arrests had nothing to with Joshi’s complaint. “The recent arrests were purely based on intercepted calls and not on Joshi’s complaint. That is a separate case and this investigation is not related to it,” he said. Chouhan and Malani’s mobile phones were being tapped since June 13 but they have been arrested a month later. Explaining this, Rathore said, “There is a module which works to establish the nature of the calls, which is a time-consuming process.’ Rathore joined as ADG (SOG and ATS) on July 3 after taking over from Anil Paliwal. He was previously ADG of State Human Rights Commission and the recent arrests of the alleged conspirators comes exactly after a week of him taking over. He was earlier Jodhpur police commissioner, the home turf of Ashok Gehlot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/the-two-accused-have-no-criminal-history-sog/articleshow/76916191.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kanpur||Two on-the-run don's aides nabbed in Thane, 2 conduits held in Gwalior||KANPUR: A day after most-wanted gangster Vikas Dubey was shot dead in an encounter in Kanpur, police crackdown on his aides crossed state borders with two henchmen who fled to Mumbai suburbs smoked out of their hideout in Thane by Maharashtra anti-terrorist squad and two conduits of the slain don nabbed in Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh. Maharashtra ATS nabbed Arvind Ramvilas Trivedi alias Guddan, an aide of Dubey from Kolshet Road in Thane on Saturday along with Guddan’s driver, Sushil Kumar alias Sonu Tiwari, clearly showing the don’s on-the-run henchmen fled to Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh soon after the carnage while Dubey dug in his heels for 48 hours in adjacent Shivli forests before fleeing to Faridabad and then taking a circuitous route to Ujjain. Trivedi, who carries a bounty of Rs 25,000 and is on the 15 most-wanted list of UP Police was present in Bikru on the night of the carnage, Kanpur police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-on-the-run-dubey-aides-held-from-thane-hideout/articleshow/76916073.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Thunderstorm likely to lash parts of Telangana: IMD||HYDERABAD: Southwest monsoon is active across Telangana as the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad has issued thunderstorm and heavy rainfall warning at isolated places in the state till July 15. On Saturday, parts of the city such as Pedda Amberpet, Narayanaguda, Sivarampally, Kachiguda, LB Stadium, received up to 16 mm rainfall till 6 pm, bringing down the maximum temperature to 29.6 degree celsius, which is 1.9 degree celsius below normal. Meteorologists predict rainfall is likely to intensify over next few days. “This is regular southwest monsoon, resulting in rains. The state received normal rains over the last few days. We expect the same activity to continue,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, IMD, Hyderabad. As per IMD figures, the state has received 40% excess rainfall in the last 40 days, 284.6 mm as against normal rainfall of 203.2 mm during the period. Hyderabad has received 52% excess rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thunderstorm-likely-to-lash-parts-of-t-imd/articleshow/76916202.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||Sedition charges on two arrested in ‘horse trading’ case||Jaipur: Rajasthan police’s Special Operations Group (SOG) on Saturday arrested two persons for trying to topple the state government by allegedly indulging in horse-trading of MLAs. The two were detained from Udaipur and Ajmer late on Friday night. The SOG claimed that it had intercepted the phone conversation of the two while probing an arms deal case in June and found that they were talking about BJP’s alleged plans to topple the Gehlot government. The officials claimed that based on this conversation, the two were arrested under IPC sections 124 A (sedition) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy). Both the accused were sent to two days of police custody after being produced in court on Saturday evening. A four-member team of officials has been constituted for supervision of the case.According to officials, the accused discussed the alleged rift between Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot as an opportunity for the BJP to lure Congress MLAs.The accused were identified as Ashok Singh Chouhan (57) from Udaipur and Bharat Malani (43) from Ajmer. Their mobile phones were put on surveillance on June 13 after the SOG learnt from a source that the duo might be linked to a mafia dealing in arms and explosives. Police officers investigating the case heard the duo’s conversations on politics and after gathering information for nearly a month lodged the FIR on Friday.ADG (SOG and ATS) Ashok Rathore said, “In a phone conversation the duo could be heard talking about attempts to topple the state government before the Rajya Sabha elections (held on June 19). They were heard discussing to try and lure MLAs with crores of rupees.” According to the FIR, Chouhan and Malani spoke about how a new CM could be appointed after toppling the present government. The officials claimed that the arrested wanted a leader from the BJP to become the chief minister and give Sachin Pilot a place in the Union ministry. “During their conversation, the duo talked about deputy CM’s visit to Delhi and in case the present government topples, they would make around Rs 1,000 crore to Rs 2,000 crore. They said while the BJP wanted the next CM to be from its ranks, the deputy CM was eyeing the post,” added the official.The two men said change of government would gain momentum after June 30, stated the FIR. They apparently discussed that they will get in touch with independent MLAs as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sedition-charges-on-two-arrested-in-horse-trading-case/articleshow/76916201.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Vadodara||Gotri hospital equipped with Li-Fi||Vadodara: The GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri, Vadodara’s designated Covid-19 hospital, is now equipped with Light Fidelity (Li-Fi) technology. The technology will help in real-time monitoring of patients’ health condition inside the isolation wards while reducing exposure of all the medical professionals, who are assigned duty in such wards. The facility was inaugurated by Dr Vinod Rao, senior IAS officer and officer on special duty for Covid-19 in Vadodara in presence of medical superintendent, dean and other doctors of Gotri hospital. Ahmedabad-based Nav Wireless Technology Pvt Ltd which has invented the technology has set up the communication facility at the hospital. Li-Fi is a mobile wireless technology that uses light rather than radio frequencies to transmit data. “With the use of this technology, patients’ health conditions such as temperature, pressure, heartbeat, glucose level and respiratory conditions can be monitored through a centralised monitoring system,” said an official. “While the risk to doctors and hospital staff of getting infected gets reduced, the technology provides a live health data monitoring system and patients too can make video-calls to their doctors and family members,” said Hardik Soni, co-founder of the firm.  “Apart from the speed factor, Li-Fi is more suitable in hospital for monitoring condition of patients without frequency interference,” said Pratik Parikh, global business head of the firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gotri-hospital-equipped-with-li-fi/articleshow/76915411.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kanpur||Cops seek help of Bikru villagers in finding looted arms over ‘munadi’||KANPUR:IN a bid to recover looted firearms from police personnel by gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides on the night of July 2 & 3, district police on Saturday reached his native Bikru village and took to the age-old system of ‘munadi’ or public announcements. Through this system, the cops asked villagers to help the police in recovering looted firearms of policemen. "On the instructions of seniors, we are making announcements (munadis) across the village warning residents against hiding firearms looted during ambush on July 2 & 3 night. Besides, police have also given 24-hour deadline appealing to the residents to assist them in providing clues about firearms. After the deadline, in case, we will recovered the looted firearms from any villager's possession, we would then act as per the law. The whole family will be held responsible if a looted firearm is found in any house," said IG Range Mohit Agarwal. Police, meanwhile, have claimed to received a positive response from villagers of Bikru in this regard. Meanwhile, a massive search operation was launched in village. Circle Officer (CO) Tripurari Pandey later also convened a meeting with the villagers to instil faith in them and listen to their other problems. To recall, Dubey and his family have been controlling the village panchayat for almost 15 years. Pandey also listened to the complaints of people whose land and property was forcefully grabbed by Dubey. He assured them that he will help them get their land back. "We are meeting the villagers in order to remove the fear from their minds and to listen to their grievances. Situation is restoring to normalcy after Vikas Dubey's killing," he said. Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel have also been deployed in the village for maintaining law and order, the CO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cops-seek-help-of-bikru-villagersin-finding-looted-arms-over-munadi/articleshow/76916099.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||Govt stable, will complete full term: Gehlot||Jaipur: Amid Congress claims that BJP was trying to topple the elected government in the state, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday asserted that his government was stable and would complete its full term.Gehlot said the present establishment had already begun preparations for winning the next assembly elections in 2023.Addressing reporters here, the chief minister claimed that despite its best efforts to win over MLAs during the recently held Rajya Sabha elections, the BJP was taught a lesson by the Congress in the state. He further claimed that the saffron party was still into the toppling game that it played in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh lately.“BJP leaders are playing the game at the behest of PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. MLAs were offered money. Rs 10 crore in advance and Rs 15 crore after the government is toppled,” the chief minister claimed.“The BJP and its leaders have broken all limits of humanity. On the one hand, we are striving to save lives and livelihoods during the pandemic and on the other hand these people are engaged in toppling the government,” he said.The chief minister named three BJP state leaders — leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore and BJP state president Satish Poonia — claiming that they were carrying out the agenda of the party’s central leadership. He alleged that the BJP treats MLAs like goats and takes pride in buying them.He said in Gujarat 14 MLAs were purchased before the Rajya Sabha elections in 2017 and recently seven MLAs resigned for the saffron party to win two Rajya Sabha seats there.He said it was unfortunate that horse trading is done in Gujarat, the land of Mahatma Gandhi, and claimed that Rajasthan has no such history.Gehlot further said, “If common people do not recognize the danger in time, democracy will be in peril. The country has seen many ups and downs in the last 70 years, but democracy has survived. But now these people are shaking the roots of democracy.”After coming to power at the Centre in 2014, the BJP has turned arrogant and fascist in thinking. They have no faith in democracy, he alleged.BOXCabinet reshuffle While replying to a query, chief minister Gehlot said the decision on cabinet reshuffle will be taken by the party high command. There were rumours of an imminent cabinet reshuffle to accommodate some independents and the six BSP MLAs who joined the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-stable-will-complete-full-term-gehlot/articleshow/76916198.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Amritsar||Youth denied bail ‘for his betterment’||Amritsar: In a rare decision , an 18-year-old youth has been denied bail by the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB), Tarn Taran, on the grounds that if back in society, he could again be exposed to criminals and carried the risk of harming himself morally, psychologically and physically, thus, defeating the very purpose of justice. Principal magistrate Anuradha, while considering the bail application of the youth, who is a resident of Bachare village in Tarn Taran, ruled that the bail could be denied on reasonable grounds for believing that the release was likely to bring the 18-year-old into association with unknown criminals or expose to him to physical, moral and psychological dangers. Stating that while Section 12 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, was a beneficial legislation intended for reform of the juvenile, mere juvenility didn’t give the right to get bail. The JJB said it was not a fit case for grant of bail to the youth since the Juvenile Justice Act was not only meant for the juvenile, but was also for the interest of the children in care and protection. Notably, the abovesaid youth is one of the nine alleged accused involved in an explosion that took place at a vacant plot in Pandori Gola village of Tarn Taran on September 4, 2019, in which two persons were killed. A case under the Explosive Substances Act was registered in September 2019 and was re-registered by the NIA on September 23, 2019, for investigation during which it was revealed that the alleged accused were planning to target Divya Jyoti Jagriti Sansthan dera at Tarn Taran. The NIA on March 11 had filed a charge sheet at the special NIA court at Mohali. Reacting to JJB’s decision, youth’s lawyer Jaspal Singh Munjpur questioned the risk of physical and psychological danger to him as he is being lodged along with other criminals at Amritsar central jail for the past 10 months. He said if the JJB didn’t give bail to the youth, he could turn hardliner while living with hardcore criminals in the jail whereas it would have been better if he lived in the society, take care of his widow mother and a sister. “He has been declared a juvenile, denied bail and lodged with other criminals whereas bail is his right,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/youth-denied-bail-for-his-betterment/articleshow/76916199.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Convert old airport building into CFLTC: Shashi Tharoor||Thiruvananthapuram: Shashi Tharoor MP on Saturday made an appeal to the state government to convert the old airport building at Shangumugham into a Covid First-Line Treatment Centre for the affected people of Poonthura and other nearby regions rather than transporting them to centres at distant places such as Varkala and Karakonam. The Congress MP has made the appeal in the wake of allegations from the people shifted to the CFLTC at Karakkonam regarding the unhealthy and unhygenic conditions there, which was also one of the causes that culminated in the untoward incidents that broke out at Poonthura on Friday. The Thiruvananthapuram MP also made a five-point list, which he presented before the state government, urging the latter to ensure the implementation of the same to bring down the tension inside critical containment zones comprising Poonthura, Manikyavilakam and Puthanpally wards. The five appeals he made are ward-wise segregation of positive cases; proper communication with the people to clear misunderstandings while also providing proper medical care following Covid-19 protocol; compassionate behaviour and supportive approach from police; supply of essential items using mobile Maveli stores during specified timings, including facility for mobile ATMs, and distribution of provision kits through daily subsistence. The MP also condemned the unpleasant incidents that occurred at Poonthura on Friday, especially the attack against the health workers. He also said it was equally wrong to discriminate against or isolate the people of Poonthura, mostly fisherfolk who braved their lives to save many during the 2018 floods. Meanwhile, senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy issued a statement on Saturday dismissing the government’s allegation that the conflict at Poonthura was a result of the political conspiracy hatched by the opposition. He said the residents of Poonthura, most of whom are daily wagers, took to streets because they had no other options. The government failed to understand and provide their basic needs before clamping down restrictions on them, forcing them to revolt, Chandy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/convert-old-airport-building-into-cfltc-shashi-tharoor/articleshow/76915797.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kanpur||Four injured as debate over Vikas Dubey encounter turns nasty||KANPUR: At least four people were injured when two groups clashed over a debate at Bhadawal village in Derapur area of Kanpur Dehat on Friday. Police said members of two groups, from same caste, were debating over Vikas Dubey's encounter. While, one group was justifying the encounter, while other was opposing, leading to verbal exchanges and later attacking and injuring each other on Friday at the village under Derapur Police Station in the district. The police on coming to know about the incident rushed to the spot and pacified the situation. Police thereafter registered separate FIRs against people from both the sides, while those injured were identified have been admitted to hospital. "We have lodged separate FIRs in this regard and further investigations are continuing. Three persons from both the sides were detained and their questioning is underway in this connection.," said ASP Anoop Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/four-injured-as-debate-over-dubey-encounter-turns-nasty/articleshow/76916010.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Amritsar||Cotton arrivals up 8.46% till June 30 in northwest India||BATHINDA: With the marketing season nearing its end, arrivals of raw cotton have gone up by about 8.46% till June 30 from September 1, 2019 as compared to the corresponding period last season in the three northwestern states of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. As per the data gathered by the trade body the Indian Cotton Association Limited (ICAL), arrivals of 66.90 lakh bales (1 bale=170kg) of cotton were recorded in the mandis of the three states till June 30. According to the ICAL data, arrivals of 61.68 lakh bales were recorded in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan till June 30 in 2019. The cotton marketing year follows the September-August cycle in India. Traders and experts said the surge in cotton arrivals was due to higher area under the crop. ICAL president Mahesh Sharda said with the increase in area under the cotton, the production also increased by over 5 lakh bales in the 2019-20 as compared to the previous season. In the 2018-19 crop year, cotton was sown over 14.45 lakh hectares in the three states whereas in 2019-20 the acreage went up to 18.28 lakh hectares. As per the data compiled by the ICAL, 9.53 lakh bales had arrived in mandis till June 30 in Punjab. In Haryana, the cotton arrivals stood at 24.26 lakh bales while in Rajasthan 33.11 lakh bales had arrived in the mandis, totalling 66.90 lakh bales in the three states. Cotton arrivals are estimated to go up to 67.40 lakh bales as nearly 50,000 more bales are expected in the three states in days to come. A total of nearly 350 lakh bales are expected in the country. Cotton was sown over 3.92 lakh hectares in Punjab in 2019-20 whereas it was in 6.76 lakh hectares in Haryana and 7.60 lakh hectares in Rajasthan. Initially, the estimate of total arrivals was about 66 lakh bales. With the higher acreage, the arrivals estimates were revised to 67.5 lakh bales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/cotton-arrivals-up-8-46-till-june-30-in-northwest-india/articleshow/76916207.cms||Neel Kamal
July 12, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Three of a family bitten by snakes in 3 days, two dead||BAREILLY: Snakebites claimed the lives of two members of a family — including a six months pregnant woman — while it left another one seriously injured in Khamaria area of Dhaurahra tehsil in Lakhimpur Kheri district over the past three days. According to family members, Pramod Kumar, 25, was sleeping on the floor of his house in Tamolipurva village on Tuesday night when he was bitten by a venomous snake in his sleep. He died even before he could get medical assistance. Three days later, early on Friday, when his 22-year-old sister-in-law (younger brother’s wife) Pooja and her 15-year-old sister Nishtha were sleeping on the floor, they were bitten by a venomous snake. While Pooja died on her way to the hospital, the condition of Nishtha is stable. According to divisional forest officer (DFO), Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR-buffer) Anil Patel, Tamolipurva village headman had sought the help of their rescue team, but since one of the members of the team recently tested positive for Covid-19 in Dhaurahra, other members were quarantined, too. As the rescue team could not reach the village, locals called a snake charmer who rescued the snake — a cobra -- from their house. The DFO told TOI, “We sent a team from another range to the village, but the snake was rescued by then. According to villagers, it was a cobra, which was released into the forest far from the village.” According to the DFO, snakebite cases increase during monsoon as holes get filled with rainwater and snakes often take shelter in houses or abandoned buildings. Terming the incident “tragic”, Dhaurahra sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Sunandu Sudhakaran said a team of revenue department officials had visited the grieving family to collect the details of the victims and their beneficiaries so that the process to provide then ex-gratia under the Uttar Pradesh Calamity Act could be initiated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-of-a-family-bitten-by-snakes-in-3-days-25-year-old-man-pregnant-sis-in-law-dead-15-year-old-hospitalised/articleshow/76914282.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||Citizens thank Mundhe for Covid control||NAGPUR: After the two leading political parties, BJP and Congress, going hammer and tongs against municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, support for the beleaguered officer have started pouring in gradually. While the entire BJP is against Mundhe, Congress is a divided house. Some Congress leaders including city president Vikas Thakre are gunning for the commissioner. Guardian minister Nitin Raut has neither praised nor flayed Mundhe. Some Congress corporators like Kamlesh Chaudhari, Bunty Shelke and others have openly supported him. A large number of people on Saturday gathered at Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) under the leadership of Congress corporator Kamlesh Chaudhari to thank the officer for controlling Covid-19 in the city. Chaudhari told TOI that people from Gittikhadan, Gaddigodam, Sadar and other areas gathered in NMC’s Civil Lines office with banners praising Mundhe for his work. “We did not raise any slogans. Mundhe asked ten women from our group to come inside his chamber. He did not accept roses saying that he was a government officer and it would not be appropriate. We said that we had no problem with it. He should continue to work for the city,” the corporator told TOI. “Mundhe told us that the Covid situation did not spiral out of control in the city not because of him but that of the entire team,” said Chaudhari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citizens-thank-mundhe-for-covid-control/articleshow/76915801.cms||Ashish Roy
July 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: 14-year-old violinist wins at international contest, set for Carnegie debut||PANAJI: A 14-year-old girl from Orlim this week reached a step closer to her dream — to perform at New York City’s iconic Carnegie Hall. Anthea Dias, a Class IX student at Fatima Convent high school, Margao, was recently named winner in an online competition run by Progressive Musicians. The winners’ recital, originally scheduled for December, has been postponed to July next year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Anthea is the only resident Indian to be declared winner in the competition, in which she played Kreisler’s Preludium and Allegro in the style of Pugnani. Not only was the submission for the contest online, even Anthea’s practice and training sessions were conducted on WhatsApp. Her teacher, Winston Collaco, who guided her through the competition, made sure the lockdown didn’t interfere with his ward’s preparation. “All classes moved online,” said her mother Marianela. “She visited her teacher a few times, but would send videos and audio clips on WhatsApp, and Collaco would respond with suggestions and corrections. They were busy all day, and worked as a team.” Collaco, a proponent of the Suzuki method, has been Anthea’ teacher since she began the violin at three. Under his guidance, she completed Grade 8 at nine, and at 11, earned an associate diploma from the Trinity College of Music, London (ATCL). This competition involved participants submitting videos online, and judges evaluating their performances and giving them 15 days to improve in specific areas suggested by them. “My girl gave it her all, and practiced all day, before and after meals,” Marialena added, emphasising that Anthea set her eyes on this competition because the prize it offered was a spot on her dream stage. Carnegie Hall, one of the world’s foremost venues for live music, has hosted luminaries across genres, from classical masters like Tchaikovsky, Bernstein, Horowitz, and Heifitz, to popular acts like the Beatles, Frank Sinatra and Judy Garland. However, while most of these played the main stage, winners of this competition will play the smaller, 268-seater Weill recital hall. Collaco himself witnessed a performance at the Weill hall in 2006, when he was on a teacher training programme. “Never did I dare to dream that one day, one of my own students would perform on this stage 14 years later,” he said. He added that the competition is a great stepping stone for promising students like Anthea, from a small state that has no conservatory that many of her competitors are enrolled in. Before her dream comes true next year, Anthea and the other winners will perform at an online recital on August 9 and 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/14-year-old-violinist-wins-at-intl-contest-set-for-carnegie-debut/articleshow/76916461.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Sedition charges slapped on two arrested in ‘horse-trading’ case||JAIPUR: The Special Operation Group (SOG) of Rajasthan police has sought time and venue from chief minister Ashok Gehlot, deputy CM Sachin Pilot, Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi and others, including independent MLAs, to record their statements in the alleged horse-trading case against BJP. Ashok Rathore, the ADG of SOG and ATS, said, “We have asked the CM, deputy CM and Joshi, among other leaders, to give us time and place for when we can take their statements in the matter. We will take statements from others in the coming days.” This move came after two persons, identified as Bharat Malani and Ashok Singh Chouhan, were arrested by the SOG over an alleged criminal conspiracy to topple the present state government. Rathore said that at present the SOG has not found that the accused had any political affiliations and further investigation will reveal more details. On June 11, Joshi had complained to the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) that attempts were being made to lure Congress MLAs with money. Joshi had claimed that there were people at work trying to influence the voting in the Rajya Sabha elections and destabilise the state government. The arrests, a month later, has created a political storm in the state as, according to SOG officials, the two persons discussed at length on ways to topple the present government. Officials claimed that the duo named few Congress leaders who had been allegedly approached by a BJP leader to change parties. Through sources, police found that few Congress and independent MLAs had been offered Rs 25-25 crore for changing parties. The FIR against Chouhan and Malani mentioned that ahead of Rajya Sabha elections, Gehlot had spoken about perceived horse-trading of MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sog-to-quiz-cm-pilot-and-others-in-horse-trading-case/articleshow/76916206.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||UG nursing: Exams only for final year||Ahmedabad: In what will bring relief to undergraduate nursing students at Gujarat University-affiliated colleges, the varsity is planning to hold exams only for final-year students. The decision, expected to be announced soon, will end days of uncertainty over exams for undergraduate students, sources said. This is according to the fresh guidelines issued by the Indian Nursing Council, which said exams should be held only for final-year students till the Covid-19 situation returns to normal. There are 150 colleges across Gujarat with close to 25,000 undergraduate nursing seats. Students in intermediate years will be graded on internal marks and performance in the previous year. Following the announcement, sources at GU said a similar decision is likely to be taken for the undergraduate physiotherapy programme. The Indian Nursing Council clarified that exams are to be held for both first and second year PG students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ug-nursing-exams-only-for-final-year/articleshow/76915789.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Varanasi||Fake websites posting jobs in AIIMS-Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: The administration of AIIMS Gorakhpur has informed police about some fake websites carrying notifications of job openings in the institute and requested urgent action from the cybel cell against the fraudsters involved in the scam. On Saturday, Gorakhpur AIIMS administration filed a complaint with the cyber cell and sent copies to district magistrate and SSP, said AIIMS doctor and head of media management committee, Dr H S Joshi. “I got information that some websites are spreading fake messages about job openings in Gorakhpur AIIMS. When I looked up on internet, I found the information was true. So, I informed executive director of AIIMS, and filed a complaint with the cyber cell, and also sent copies to DM and SSP,” Dr Joshi said. “Some websites are spreading fake information regarding direct recruitment in Gorakhpur AIIMS. I want to make it clear that all such information or advertisements are misleading and should not be believed. The true information is available only on our website https://aiimsgorakhpur.edu.in/,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/fake-websites-posting-jobs-in-aiims-gorakhpur/articleshow/76914819.cms||Arjumand Bano
July 12, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Time to place ITBP under Army’s control and ensure better civil-military relations’||By: Lt Gen D S Hooda There is finally some good news in Eastern Ladakh with the mutual disengagement of Indian and Chinese soldiers from the areas of Galwan and Hot Springs. The contentious areas of Pangong Tso and Depsang are yet to be addressed, but with the stalemate along the border having been broken, the differences between the two sides can be narrowed. Irrespective of how the current crisis plays out, it carries one major lesson. Our strategic differences with China will come into sharper focus as China grows more powerful and assertive, and this competition could increasingly play out along the unsettled Line of Actual Control (LAC). The brutality of the clash at Galwan on June 15 has demolished the existing protocols and agreements that guided the conduct of soldiers, and we could see a hotter LAC in the coming years. Dealing with China in the future will require a comprehensive strategy that combines our diplomatic, economic, and military response. We must ensure that our military differential with China does not become so large that coercion along the LAC becomes difficult to resist. The talk about enhancing military capability conjures up visions of a larger defence budget, but capability is also about the institutional mechanisms that are a part of a nation’s security approach. I will suggest two institutional measures that only require a change in mindset to bring in greater cohesion in our strategy. The first is our policy for the management of the LAC. Currently, responsibility for the India-China border is that of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) under the Ministry of home affairs (MHA). The 2019 Annual Report of the MHA states that “based on the principle of One Border, One Border-Guarding Force”, the China border has been entrusted to the ITBP. Paradoxically, the same paragraph of the report reads, “Indian Army is guarding land borders along the…LAC on China border along with ITBP”. This is an absurd situation with two separate forces under different ministries manning the same border. The Group of Ministers constituted after the Kargil Review Committee had noted, “At present, there are instances of more than one force working on the same border and questions of conflict in command and control have been raised frequently. Multiplicity of forces on the same border has also led to lack of accountability on the part of the forces. To enforce the accountability, the principle of ‘one border one force’ may be adopted while considering deployment of forces at the border.” Almost 20 years later, we continue to pay lip service to this principle without implementing it. This bizarre border management process also leads to fragmented capability development at the LAC. In 2018, it was announced that nine ITBP battalions would be raised to “reduce the inter-BOP (border outpost) distance” at the border. This reflects an inadequate understanding of how forces are deployed at the LAC and ignores the need to dovetail the ITBP with the Army’s deployment. Despite the ITBP being responsible for the LAC, it is the Army that takes a lead role in border management. Army officers lead all border meetings at the LAC with the Chinese military, and all crisis management is handled by the Army, as we are witnessing today. Even as the Corps Commander at Leh plans the various contingencies for handling the stand-off with the Chinese in Eastern Ladakh, the ITBP continues to report to the MHA, a ministry that appears to have no responsibility in the current situation. This incongruous situation of dual management of the LAC has been regularly flagged in the past but remains ignored. The Group of Ministers’ report had pointed out, “The present tendency on the part of each agency to guard its turf, even at the cost of compromising national security interests, needs to be deprecated and put down sternly.” The time has come to bite the bullet and place the ITBP under the Army’s operational control. The second measure concerns the current nature of India’s civil-military relations. For many years the political leadership has taken the view that conventional wars are a thing of the past. There was certainly an understanding that India faces internal and external security challenges, but it was felt that these could be politically and diplomatically handled. When necessary, domestic sentiment against terror attacks emanating from Pakistan could be assuaged through limited cross-border military strikes without risking a major conflict. This political viewpoint resulted in the absence of a regular civil-military dialogue to discuss matters of internal and external security and frame strategic plans. Consequently, the political-military interface has been primarily restricted to personnel matters, budget management, and Defence Acquisition Council meetings, the latter being reported with great fanfare in the media. The setting up of the Defence Planning Committee, headed by the National Security Adviser (NSA), added another layer between the service chiefs and the political leadership. The politician is the ultimate decision-maker on matters of national security, but he must engage directly with the military leaders to get their inputs in the preparation of coherent strategic assessments. Now that we are faced with the enormous challenge of a powerful and assertive neighbour, it is more necessary than ever that we build in our military response options in crafting a consistent long-term strategy. We must establish institutional mechanisms for regular information sharing and discussions on national security issues between political and military leaders. Military leaders possess detailed knowledge about force capabilities, military strategies, and routinely wargame operational contingencies along the border. Conveying this information through another conduit robs it of much of the value that comes from face-to-face interaction. The absence of a civil-military dialogue also results in the preparations of military plans that could be inconsistent with the political objectives. It is often said that every crisis also provides an opportunity. I am certain that the government is reviewing the entire range of India-China relations and the geopolitical challenges posed by the hegemonic ambitions of China. The efficacy of our structures for civil-military strategic coordination and management of the LAC must also form part of this review. (Author is former Army commander, Northern Command)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/time-to-place-itbp-under-armys-control-and-ensure-better-civil-military-relations/articleshow/76916204.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Gurgaon||Locust swarms cause flutter in Haryana districts||HISAR/ROHTAK: Locust swarms on Saturday once again attacked parts of Haryana, mostly western and south-western districts of the state, including Sirsa, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri and Mahendragarh, though no major loss has been reported from anywhere so far. A huge locust swarm coming from Rajasthan side entered Madhosinghana, Malekan, Nanakpur, Mangala and Rangri Kherai villages of Sirsa district. While the farmers claimed the swarm to be 15-20km long, the agriculture department officials said it was two-km long and two-km wide. According to the villagers, the locusts first entered Madhosinghana village at around 2.30pm and then spread over to more areas covering Modia Khera, Chauburja, Rangari Khera, Malekan and Nanakpur villages. As the swarm entered the area, the villagers, agriculture department employees and police personnel started making noise to scare them away, they said. Rangari Khera village sarpanch Chandrashekhar said when the locust swarm came to the village, it felt like a dark cloud covering the sky. He said the locust swarm is sitting on the cotton plant and the villagers are trying to scare them away. Mahendragarh district saw locusts entering on Friday night and then moved to Bhiwani on Saturday morning and reached Charkhi Dadri district by the evening. Farmers in these districts made loud noise to prevent the insects from settling on their cotton and bajra crops, while the district administration carried out sprays to eliminate the locusts. In Mahendragarh, locusts settled in Kurahwata, Palri Panihari and nearby villages, while the swarm reached Loharu side of Bhiwani district, and in Charkhi Dadri districts, locusts visited Hindola, Lamba, Kohlawas, Kasni and Saunf villages. A farmer in Charkhi Dadri said they were taking all precautions and measures to not allow the locusts to settle on the crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/locust-swarms-cause-flutter-in-hry-districts/articleshow/76916216.cms||Sat Singh
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||NGOs fear action on oxygen traders will hurt poor||HYDERABAD: City-based NGOs and other groups that have undertaken initiatives to provide free oxygen supplies to suspected and positive Covid-19 patients from poorer backgrounds in the city have now come under the scanner. This, after the government’s orders to police and other authorities to crack down on suppliers and traders of oxygen supplies.Teams formed under this exercise will initiate prosecution in case of violations. “Hundreds of patients from Old City are being helped due to the free and timely supply of oxygen as they fear going to government hospitals and cannot afford private care. At least 50% of patients to whom we have provided oxygen under supervision are showing improvement and if the government cracks down on this, many patients will die,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari of Helping Hand Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngos-fear-action-on-oxygen-traders-will-hurt-poor/articleshow/76916223.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: ACB begins probe against 3 independent MLAs||JAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has launched a preliminary inquiry against three independent MLAs for alleged involvement in offering money to few of their counterparts for toppling the ruling government. According to ACB sources, investigation has been initiated against Om Prakash Hudla, Suresh Tak and Khushveer Singh. “The names of MLAs came up during an investigation of attempts to indulge in horse-trading and at present a preliminary investigation has been initiated to check the veracity of the allegations.” Sources claimed that ACB will try to get the phone records of the MLAs and further details. “The probe is still in its infancy and we will gather facts and evidence as the investigation progresses,” said an official. After SOG arrested the two accused, officials claimed that they till now have only intercepted their phone records and no one else was currently being monitored. Also cops said that they would look into the possibility that the arrests and the alleged involvement of the independent MLAs are part of a bigger conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-begins-probe-against-3-independent-mlas/articleshow/76916217.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Religious societies fleecing potential immigrants’||Jalandhar: The British Columbia Gurdwaras Council (BCGC) and Ontario Gurdwaras Committee (OGC) have written to Canadian immigration refugees and citizenship minister Marco, claimimg that there were hundreds of registered non-profit societies and charitable societies, apparently operating under Sikh names, involved in immigration fraud cases by sponsoring religious workers through illegal means and then abandoning them. In a letter to the minister, BCGC spokesperson Moninder Singh and OGC spokesperson Amarjit Singh Mann have sought a meeting with the minister. They mentioned there was a sharp rise in cases of potential immigrants paying tens of thousands of dollars to these societies to secure ‘Work Permits’. They described the trend as shocking and undermining the immigration process and laws in Canada. This letter comes close on the heels of a Sikh man holding a press conference in Surrey, alleging that he was defrauded by members of management of a gurdwara in Abbotsford who used the name of some other “Sikh organization” to sponsor him, but then turned back from their promises. “There have been longstanding procedures in place to manage the movement of genuine Sikh religious workers in response to fraud. These procedures were designed with input from the various parties involved in this process (including gurdwaras) to meet the needs for religious workers, while ensuring the integrity of the immigration/visa process as well. In April 2012, new procedures were introduced to ensure there was more control over the issuance of invitations by gurdwaras in Canada to religious workers. This allowed the ability to track and maintain a record of the number of religious workers at any given gurdwara in Canada at any given time,” BCGC and OGC spokespersons have said. “While this process may have seen some early success, there are now hundreds (if not thousands) of registered non-profit societies and charitable societies that operate under pretenses within Canada. “These societies are engaging with immigration process and potential immigrants in fraud, blackmail, and threatening type behavior. This behavior cannot be allowed to continue and stricter measures must be put in place to ensure innocent individuals do not become victims of immigration fraud and the perpetrators of these offences continue to financially gain from this illegal activity,” they have said. “Potential immigrants to Canada are often fleeing poverty, state-sponsored violence, genocide and oppression and to be further marginalized by this type of illegal and fraudulent behavior, through individuals and societies in Canada, is unacceptable,” they have added in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/religious-societies-fleecing-potential-immigrants/articleshow/76916220.cms||IP Singh
July 12, 2020||Jodhpur||Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat terms Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot's charge a cooked up story||JODHPUR: Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has termed Ashok Gehlot’s theory about horse trading of its MLAs a cooked up story created by the chief minister himself. Shekhawat, who reached his hometown on Saturday, shot a barrage of questions to Gehlot on the issue. Shekhawat compared these allegations with the film industry’s publicity stunts. Stating that the chief minister was himself the script writer, producer, director, actor and villain of this film, Shekhawat said if Gehlot was right, he should come with the name of the MLAs whom he considered saleable and share evidence to corroborate the allegations. He alleged that Gehlot had fabricated this entire episode to defame and eliminate his party president and deputy chief minister for his personal political gains. “If the BJP has attempted to destablise the state government, Gehlot should share evidence of it instead of cooking up stories,” he said, calling upon the SOG to conduct a free and fair probe into these allegations. He said Gehlot leveled fabricated allegations on the BJP leadership and he himself gave contradictory statements. “On one hand he has been claiming that there was a renewed organised attempt to pull down the state government, while on the other he has been saying he has no idea advising it to the SOG”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/union-minister-shekhawat-terms-gehlot-charge-a-cooked-up-story/articleshow/76916210.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||This patient sets example by keeping contact details ready||Thiruvananthapuram: The 27-year-old water purifier technician at Alamukku in Poovachal panchayat, who has been tested positive for Covid-19, kept a copy of the job card and recorded his daily contact details on phone. This has proved immensely helpful for the contact-tracing team. Being a technician, he had been on assignments to houses, offices and institutions from Thiruvananthapuram to Kollam and he kept a copy of all contact details and when the health team contacted him as part of tracing exercise, he handed over the data that was ready with him. Right from the onset of symptoms, he confined himself to home and sought medical help at Vellanad community health centre. He was given medication and he went to room isolation at home. He had read about the possible symptoms of Covid-19 and when he lost his sense of smell and taste and symptoms did not relieve after one week, he contacted the health team in his panchayat. He waited till an ambulance arrived and he went to give his swab at General Hospital on Tuesday night. He had attended Sunday prayer in the church near his house last week. He did not have any symptoms that day. He could effectively recount the contacts at the church, the people he had met as part of his job and communicate it to the disease-investigation team. “I have my parents, grandmother and brother at home. I have done my best to isolate myself from them ever since I had symptoms. I have also handed over all contact details to the health team. I feel better now but I cannot sense any taste or smell,’’ he said. He is undergoing treatment at General Hospital. His friends who accompanied him to Vellanad hospital when he had developed symptoms for the first time are also under room isolation. “We decided to go into room isolation because they had gotten in contact with me. It started off with body pain, later I experienced all symptoms about which I had read,’’ he said. He is not sure where he would have contracted infection from. A few weeks ago, they had taken part in a house construction unmindful of the showers and initially he thought he was feverish because of that. His brother is also feverish and swabs of his family members will be collected on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/this-patient-sets-example-by-keeping-contact-details-ready/articleshow/76915810.cms||Aswin J Kumar
July 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: Govt closes unit making crucial Covid test kits||PANAJI: The government’s decision to order three companies, including seven manufacturing units run by Tulip Diagnostics Pvt Ltd, to go for a 14-day shutdown, has stalled the production of critical medical diagnostic kits, including double antigen Covid-19 test kits. Tulip Diagnostics, which got the nod for manufacturing ‘Coviscreen’ a rapid, double antigen test for total antibodies to Sars-Cov2, has been forced to shut down the unit where it was producing these test kits, even though no Covid positive case was found at the particular facility. The kits are being manufactured for Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odhisa, and even for the ICMR. “We have a lot of orders for the test kits but everything has stopped,” said the firm’s president, DG Tripathi. “The cases came positive at other units, not the one where we are manufacturing these test kits.” After Covid-19 cases were detected in some units in the Verna and Cuncolim industrial estates, South Goa collector Ajit Roy had on Thursday issued closure notices to three industrial firms – one at Verna, and two at Cuncolim - under provisions of the Disaster Management Act 2005. The closure orders were issued to Tulip Diagnostics, which operates seven manufacturing facilities in the Verna industrial estate, Global Ispat Pvt Ltd and Indo Spirit Beverages Pvt Ltd, the latter two located in Cuncolim. Tulip Diagnostic’s seven units are Coral Clinical Systems, Orchid Biomedical Systems, Qualpro Diagnostics and Zephyr Biomedical where Covid cases have been detected, while the remaining three units are Tulip Diagnostic, Microexpress and Bioshields, where no Covid cases have been reported. “We have written to the authorities that their time period is excessive and that they should reconsider. In the Covid scenario, this is in the interest of the economy and of the nation,” Tripathi said. Responding to this, Roy said, “This is a public health emergency and we expect all to be responsible. This is not about a company’s profits, but about people’s lives and we are dealing with a disaster. I am not here to negotiate.” Industry sources said that the south Goa collector’s order to shut down Tulip Diagnostics for 14 days came after the company attempted to hide it when its workers tested positive for the virus. Two workers of Tulip Diagnostics, who had come from an infected zone were the first to test positive but the company did not inform GSIA, officials said. The ministry of health and family welfare’s guidelines on preventive measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus in the workplace says that if positive cases are detected, the entire building will have to be closed for 48 hours after thorough disinfection. However, the state government has called for the industrial units to be shut for 14 days. Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry along with the Goa State Industries Association have written to the authorities asking them to reconsider this directive. “We feel that the units should be properly disinfected after which all those who test negative for Covid-19 should be allowed to resume work. In view of MHA guidelines, we feel that the order to shut down these seven units for 14 days is a bit harsh and unwarranted,” GCCI chairman Manoj Caculo said. GSIA president Damodar Kochkar said that while industry is ready to cooperate with the government, a 14-day shutdown was uncalled for. “We have supported the government every time on the Covid-19 matter, but they didn’t consult us when they decided to shut down industries. If they feel we must take additional preventive measures, we are open to it. But economic activity is important,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/production-of-critical-covid-testing-kits-stalled-after-govt-shuts-down-unit/articleshow/76916463.cms||Newton Sequeira
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Gandhi hospital nurses continue pay protest||HYDERABAD: For the second day in a row, over 200 contract nurses Gandhi Hospital, the nodal centre for treating Covid-19 patients in the state, protested for higher wages. The nurses are particularly upset over their Rs 17,500 salary as a batch of 180 nurses who were recruited last month are being given Rs Rs 28,000 salary. “We have been working here for the past 14 years and have been on Covid duty for the last four months,” said one of the protestors. “Instead of giving us any incentive, the government has brought nurses by paying them higher salaries. We feel cheated,” she added “The nurses are feeling slighted as new nurses are getting higher salaries despite these nurses putting in their heart and soul in Covid duty. We are also demanding that they be regularized apart from being given a hike to match the salaries of the newly recruited nurses,” said R Narasimha, president, Contract Nurses Association, Gandhi Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandhi-hosp-nurses-continue-pay-protest/articleshow/76916243.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Bareilly||Poacher escapes from police custody||PILIBHIT: A poacher caught on Friday evening, managed to give police the slip on Saturday morning. Identified as Bhopali of Bhooda village, under Amaria police station, he was caught with 5 kilos of wild boar meat. Jai Praksh Yadav, superintendent of police, said action will be taken against the policemen responsible for the escape. Udai Veer Singh, SHO, said police had informed about Bhopali’s arrest to the deputy range officer of Amaria circle Dev Rishi on Friday evening but no one from the forest department responded till Saturday. However, Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer, denied that the forest department had received any information about the poacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/poacher-escapes-from-police-custody/articleshow/76914314.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh urges PM Narendra Modi to review UGC guidelines on exams||CHANDIGARH: Punjab has sought permission to adhere to its July 3 decision on cancellation of university and college examinations in view of the exponentially rising Covid-19 cases. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has written to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging to advise the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) and the University Grants Commission (UGC) to reconsider its decision on mandatory conduct of final term exams by September. “UGC may be asked to reiterate its earlier issued guidelines of April 29, wherein it had been clearly mentioned that the guidelines were advisory in nature and each state/university would chart out its own plan of action taking into consideration the issues pertaining to Covid-19 pandemic,” he urged the Prime Minister. Amarinder noted that the state government, after due deliberation and taking into account the Covid-19 situation and attendant issues of safety of students and staff, had on July 3, decided to cancel all pending UG and PG final term examinations and to promote students on the basis of performance in previous years/semesters. “In addition, we have also allowed conduct of examination for the purpose of improvement of grades for interested students, once the situation becomes conducive,” Captain Amarinder pointed out, stressing that “This would ensure academic credibility, career opportunities, future prospects and fair and equal opportunity for students in both urban and rural areas.” “In view of this rising trend of cases, I am not sure whether the situation will be conducive for conducting offline physical examinations by September,” he said, adding that conducting physical examination will also involve huge logistical and operational challenges. On the other hand, Amarinder said, “Conducting online examinations for such a large number of students, majority of whom reside in rural areas without assured access to computers/laptops and internet, is also not possible in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-urges-modi-to-review-ugc-guidelines-on-exams/articleshow/76916244.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Total Covid cases cross 700 in dist||Thiruvananthapuram: The district recorded more than 700 Covid cases till date as 69 new positive cases were reported in Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday. Local transmission continues ceaselessly in the district with 58 cases being contact cases and only 11 being imported ones. The coastal wards in the district have begun to show signs of wide spread with positive cases being reported from wards such as Beemapally, Kottapuram, Perumathura and Valiyathura along with growing cluster of cases from Poonthura and Manikkyavilakom. Sourceless cases also branched out to the suburbs with positive cases being reported from Attingal and Venjaramoodu. Another medical representative was also tested positive at Pattom. A medical representative who has been tested positive at Poonthura is under treatment. Two others residing at Pattom as paying guests were tested positive on Friday. They were employed at a private institution at PMG. They had completed quarantine and been given quarantine completion certificate by the authorities. Four other persons who reside in the ground floor of the building have been quarantined. The local transmission percentage in the district has risen to 63%. Isolated sourceless cases have also been reported from Palayam, Kalippankulam and Fort as well. In rural areas, persons with no travel history or contact with Covid-19 positive cases were tested positive at Poovachal, Parassala and Pachalloor on Friday. Clusters of cases also tend to develop around Paruthikuzhy from where around five cases have already been reported. The long contact list in cluster of cases has made it difficult for the disease-investigation team to dig into the origin of cases with no known travel history. Cases that were confirmed at Pettah, Chackai, Vanchiyur, Palayam, Kalippankulam, Fort are posing new challenges for the contact-tracing team. Small clusters are repeatedly being reported from Manacaud and Paruthikuzhy and there aren’t much data available to ascertain where the cases within these clusters are linked or have originated simultaneously in different places within the same cluster. There are also worrying signs from rural areas like Uzhamalakkal, Poovachal and Aryanadu where positive cases have been reported. Swab collection of contacts of the policeman from Uzhamalakkal panchayat who was tested positive will be held on Sunday. Three wards in the panchayat — Pulimoodu, Chittuveedu and Mumbala — have been partially closed. Swab collection will also be held at Poovachaal where a youth has been tested positive for Covid-19. District panchayat president V K Madhu convened a meeting and assessed the situation on Saturday. He said cases being reported from rural areas shall be viewed with utmost seriousness. As many as 573 persons were brought under disease surveillance in the district on Saturday. A total of 817 persons completed observation period without showing symptoms. As many as 18,648 persons and 1,810 are under room isolation in houses and Covid-care centres, respectively. A total of 87 persons were admitted to hospitals with disease symptoms and 60 persons were discharged on Saturday. As many as 472 persons are under observation in different hospitals in the district. A total of 663 samples were sent for testing and 392 results have been received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/total-covid-cases-cross-700-in-dist/articleshow/76915822.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjabi singer Gurnam Bhullar, 40 others booked for violating Covid norms||PATIALA: The police have registered a case against singer Gurnam Bhullar and over 40 others for doing a video shoot in Patiala without prior permission, in violation of the Covid-19 protocols. Giving details of the case, Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said the police acted based on a tip-off regarding the video shoot at a cinema hall in Rajpura. They had come to know that singer Gurnam Bhullar, along with video director Khushpal Singh and around 40 others, was shooting for a song at Prime Mall in violation of the Covid-19 guidelines, without obtaining permission for the same. Led by Sadar Rajpura station house officer, a police team conducted a raid at Prime Cinema and found the shoot in progress there. The accused could not show any permission and most of them were also not following any guidelines issued by the government in view of the pandemic outbreak. “The police apprehended them and took their shooting stuff also in custody,” SSP Sidhu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pbi-singer-40-others-booked-for-violating-covid-norms/articleshow/76916241.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Kishan shares dais with KTR, says let’s join hands for Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy on Saturday said that people are afraid to go to Bengaluru due to traffic menace and investors are looking towards Hyderabad. “Investors are afraid to go to Benguluru due to traffic snarls, to avoid such situation in future too irrespective of political affiliations, we should strive for development of the city,”said Reddy who was the chief guest for the foundation stone laying ceremony of two projects held near Indira Park. He shared the stage with MAUD minister KT Rama Rao and other TRS leaders. He emphasised that roads and flyovers play a vital role in city’s development, and thanked CM K Chandrasekhar Rao and KT Rama Rao at the foundation stone laying ceremony of four lane bi-directional elevated corridor from Indira Park to VST and three lane bi-directional flyover from Ram Nagar to Baghlingampally. The cost of the two projects is Rs 426 crore. KT Rama Rao, who laid the foundation stone for the flyover said that central government should allocate land for road widening. “To execute developmental projects, there is need of defence lands which include the Nagpur highway and the highway going towards Ramagundam. The state government is ready to build 18 km skyways in these locations. The government is ready to execute these works with Rs 5,000 crore. We are pursuing the issue since three to four years, I urge Kishan Reddy’s cooperation in this issue,” said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-shares-dais-with-ktr-says-lets-join-hands-for-city/articleshow/76916257.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab education department starts online redressal meets||CHANDIGARH: Punjab school education department has started online district level meetings for redressal of employee grievances. These meetings will be held every Saturday. The first such online meeting with school teachers and non-teaching employees of Pathankot district was held through You Tube link on Saturday. During the meeting, teaching as well as non-teaching staff shared their grievances directly with school education secretary Krishan Kumar. The meeting was also attended by DPI (elementary) Lalit Kishore Ghai, nodal officer concerned and district education officers from their respective places. The meetings are aimed at ensuring positive reinforcement of hopes and aspirations of teachers who have being doing a commendable job in taking virtual classes, enhancing enrollment, distributing text books and performing various duties during the Covid-19 pandemic, the department spokesperson said. Issues taken up for discussion included seniority, promotions, pay fixation, higher qualification from universities outside the state, problems in updating data on department web portal and regularisation of service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-edu-dept-starts-online-redressal-meets/articleshow/76916247.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal urges PM Narendra Modi to cancel exams at DU||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to cancel final-year exams of Delhi University and other central universities. In his letter, Kejriwal asked the PM to intervene and direct University Grants Commission and the human resources ministry to cancel the final-year exams. “For the sake of our youth, I urge the honourable Prime Minister to personally intervene and cancel final-year exams of DU and other central government universities and save the future,” the letter said. The chief minister requested the UGC to amend its guidelines in the larger interest of students. “If institutes like IIT and NLU have already awarded degrees to their students on the basis of internal assessment, then why can’t other universities do the same?” Kejriwal asked, adding that “even global universities have awarded degrees on the basis of internal assessment in the time of pandemic.” Earlier during the day, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had announced cancellation of all exams at state-run universities in the capital and said that Kejriwal would be writing a letter to Modi requesting him to cancel the exams at central universities too. Watch Cancel final year exams of central varsities: Delhi CM urges PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kejriwal-urges-modi-to-cancel-exams-at-du/articleshow/76916465.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu custodial death case: CBI team spends seven hours with with family of Jeyaraj, Beniks||TUTICORIN: A day after taking over the Sathankulam custodial death case of father-son duo P Jeyaraj, 58, and J Beniks, 31, from the CB-CID, the CBI team led by additional superintendent of police V K Shukla on Saturday visited the house of the victims in Sathankulam and made inquiries with their kin. The CB-CID, in its 10-day probe, had arrested 10 policemen and officials and slapped murder charges on them. Two CB-CID personnel accompanied the CBI team on Saturday. The team held detailed inquiries with Jeyaraj’s widow J Selvarani and her daughters J Beulah and J Berlin, stretching to almost seven hours. The eldest daughter J Persis could not be questioned as she and her two children are down with chickenpox. The team later visited the mobile phone shop of Beniks near Sathankulam old bus stand, where the two victims were first confronted by Sathankulam police before they were arrested. CBI officials also visited Sathankulam Government Hospital where the victims were treated on June 20 morning, before they were produced before Sathankulam magistrate and lodged in Kovilpatti sub jail. The team videographed the places where the victims were treated and where they were made to wait. They questioned the medical officers and staff at the hospital in the evening. Meanwhile, Kovilpatti judicial magistrate M S Bharathidhasan, who is conducting an inquest on the deaths, visited Kovilpatti sub jail on Saturday and held inquiry for about three hours. Jeyaraj and Beniks were taken from the jail to Kovilpatti Government Hospital on June 22 night, where they died without responding to treatment. The magistrate had visited the sub-jail two days ago also. The magistrate questioned the prison officials and fellow inmates, who were present in the jail on June 20 to 22, about the condition of Jeyaraj and Beniks when they were lodged there. He recorded the statements of the witnesses||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cbi-conducts-inquiry-with-the-kin-of-jeyaraj-beniks-for-seven-hours/articleshow/76916251.cms||M K Ananth
July 12, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Whistleblower’ suspended||Amritsar: Punjab government has suspended Dr Shivcharan, professor and head of the department of medicine, Government Medical College for alleged dereliction of duties. According to an official release, D K Tiwari, principal secretary, Punjab government, in his orders issued on July 10, informed that Dr Shivcharan was assigned duty of nodal officer for coronavirus pandemic, which he didn’t fulfill with sincerity. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/whistleblower-suspended/articleshow/76916250.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Trichy||Covid works in Trichy take toll on waste collection||Trichy: With focus shifting from solid waste management (SWM) to containing the Covid-19 outbreak, the door-to-door waste collection has taken a hit in several parts of Trichy city. For more than a week now, residents of Selva Nagar in K Abishekapuram zone have complained that frequency of daily waste collection at doorsteps has come down to once in five days now. Similarly, the timing of arrival of the waste collection vehicles is also hit. Ponmalaipatti residents claimed that corporation vehicles are themselves violating the SWM rules by dumping the waste at vacant sites. In Cantonment, waste mounds have reappeared. Corporation has two sets of the workforce each assigned with a specific task. While self-help group (SHG) workers collect waste from households and commercial establishments at the doorsteps, permanent workers are assigned the task of sweeping the streets. “We face hardships in supervising the waste collection process due to the Covid-19 work. All our sanitary supervisors are now occupied, residents can cooperate by refraining from littering in public places,” a corporation sanitary official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-works-in-trichy-take-toll-on-waste-collection/articleshow/76916258.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 12, 2020||Vadodara||Another peak for Vadodara with 72 new cases in a day||Vadodara: There seems to be no let up in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases being reported in the city and district. In yet another spike, 72 persons tested positive since Friday evening taking the total number of cases to 2,994.The number of tests conducted in a day crossed the 500 mark for the first time with 502 samples being tested. Amongst the new cases within VMC limits, the largest number was from the north zone of the city where 26 cases were reported. This was followed by the south zone where 12 cases were reported and the east zone where nine cases were reported. Seven cases were reported from the west zone.The rural areas of the district saw 18 more cases since Friday evening. These included cases from Savli, Dabhoi, Bil, Bhayli Road and Padra. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) did not confirm any deaths in the city and the death toll of Covid-19 positive persons with the viral infection as the primary cause of death remained at 57. Several other Covid-19 patients with comorbidities or suffering from other serious ailments have passed away, but their number has been kept under the wraps by the civic body.With 31 more persons being discharged from various hospitals and home isolation, the total number of patients who have been discharged reached 2,131. This leaves 806 persons under treatment including 37 on ventilators or BIPAP machines. As many as 140 others are on oxygen support while the condition of 629 patients is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/another-peak-for-vadodara-with-72-new-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/76915425.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mistrust undesirable: state IMA president||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Friday demanded that Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare) prove her allegations on tocilizumab misuse or take her words back. “In her conference on Thursday, the principal secretary has alleged the doctors of misusing the tocilizumab injection. The medical fraternity is enraged - when the injections are distributed by government, how are the private doctors responsible?” stated a press release on Friday. Dr Chandresh Jardosh, president of IMA Gujarat, said that so far during the epidemic, the government and doctors have worked shoulder-to-shoulder. “Such statements create atmosphere of mistrust, which is undesirable,” he said. The state health department in Surat has constituted a three-doctor committee to review need for administering tocilizumab and hospitals will receive the drug after the committee approves requisitions. Doctors in Ahmedabad said that the treating doctor is the best judge of a patient’s condition. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said, “Shortage of some medicines is a fact, but there should be other mechanisms to address the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mistrust-undesirable-state-ima-president/articleshow/76915827.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops record statements||Ahmedabad: Chiloda police, investigating the suicide of Piue Ghosh, 32, a research scholar at IIT-Gandhinagar (IIT-Gn), on Saturday recorded the statements of some of her fellow researchers. Investigators said that they are yet to determine the reason for the suicide. On July 6, Ghosh, a PhD scholar in the electrical engineering department at the institute, was found dead at her quarters on the campus. She was a West Bengal native. Her parents were informed and they rushed to the residential campus in Palaj. The incident sent shockwaves across the education hub in the periphery of the state capital. “The statements of the students who were available on the campus have been recorded,” an investigator said. “Some more will be recorded in the next few days to ascertain the events before her death.” Cops are looking for any conversation or correspondence that could point to a specific reason for the suicide. No suicide note has been found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-record-statements/articleshow/76915828.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||PG seats: 64 vacant in dental, 425 in medical||Ahmedabad: After the second round of admissions by the Admission Committee for Professional Postgraduate Medical Education Courses (ACPPGMEC), as many as 425 seats remain vacant in PG medical courses and 64 in PG dental programmes. Students who were selected for the admission had to confirm their admissions till July 11. For the 1,550 seats for MD, MS and diploma programmes, 1,125 students have confirmed admissions, ACPPGMEC said on Saturday. For 205 seats in MDS programmes, 141 students have confirmed admission by registering at help centres, it added. The Dental Council of India (DCI) recently relaxed the minimum admission qualification criteria. According to the revised criteria, candidates in the general category who ranked in the 31st percentile or better in the PG NEET entrance exam will now be eligible for college admission. Earlier it was the 50th percentile. Students who qualify for admission have been instructed to re-register by the admission committee, sources said. There is speculation that the Medical Council of India (MCI) may take a similar decision, sources in the state admission committee said. If this happens, the registration process for PG medical students will also have to be re-initiated, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pg-seats-64-vacant-in-dental-425-in-medical/articleshow/76915816.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Trichy||Panic-stricken people line up at fever OPD for Covid-19 testing||Trichy: People in contact with Covid-19 patients have started forming queues at the fever outpatient ward at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy for the diagnosis of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), influenza like illness (ILI) and fever in the past few days. The fever clinic was set up at the hospital in the third week of June. Several people with Covid-19 symptoms of fever, cough, sneezing and diarrheaa came forward for testing. But, the ward has also been witnessing people without any of these symptoms, who demand the health workers to take Covid-19 testing. The hospital administration found it difficult to test everyone though the hospital accepted their appeal for undergoing the test in case of medical necessity. “Patients only with the symptoms such as fever, cold, cough, chillness need to be tested. Contacts of the patients can isolate themselves at home. It would be better they test after five to seven days of home isolation,” dean of MGMGH Dr K Vanitha told TOI. As the awareness about Covid-19 spread has increased among the people, they panicked in the event of contacting someone who tested positive for Covid-19. Though it could be proactive measure to undergo the testing voluntarily, the hospital administration expected the asymptomatic and non-vulnerable people to wait for seven days until any symptoms surface. “Several people without any symptoms come for testing due to the fear that they contacted Covid-19 patients. We prescribe antibiotics for them and advise them to be in home quarantine for seven days,” said medical superintendent of the hospital Dr R Yeganathan adding that 250 to 280 people with and without the symptoms visit the Covid-19 OPD. The health workers at the public health and preventive medicine department should take at least five primary contacts and seven secondary contacts of the positive patients. The deputy director of health services (DDHS), Trichy, Dr A Subramani recommends compulsory testing for people above 55 years, pregnant women, and those having comorbidities. “Even though people in the vulnerable category have no symptoms, they should undergo testing if they were exposed to the infectious circumstances,” DDHS told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/panic-stricken-people-line-up-at-fever-opd-for-covid-19-testing/articleshow/76916259.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 12, 2020||Madurai||5 more ambulances to cater to Covid patients||Madurai: As Covid-19 cases rise rapidly in Madurai and demand goes up for ambulances to ferry patients to hospitals, five more 108 ambulances are now catering exclusively to Covid-19 patients. With this, Madurai now has 10 functioning 108 ambulances for Covid-19 patients. “So far, there has been no shortage of 108 ambulances in Madurai. Inevitably, delays were there in ambulances reaching Covid-19 patients on time as we have to handle a large number of cases in a day. However, a majority of patients who are asymptomatic are using their own vehicles to travel too. Now, we have converted five more vehicles as Covid-19 special ambulances to ensure they reach patients on time,” said R Prasad, regional manager, Madurai region, GVK-EMRI 108 Ambulance Services. In Madurai, the service currently has 30 ambulances in its fleet for the district and 160 ambulance pilots and emergency technicians. “Ferrying Covid-19 patients between rural areas on the outskirts of Madurai to Government Rajaji Hospital in the city has been challenging as we have to travel up to around 45 km for one patient and return for the next who would face delay,” said an emergency technician working with one of the special 108 ambulances. Despite tiring long hours of duty, emergency technicians and pilots with the ambulances are handling around 100 patients a day in Madurai. With personnel too facing risk of infection as cases rise in the district, PPE kits are provided for all personnel with Covid-19 vehicles. “So far, none of the staff working with 108 ambulances in Madurai has tested Covid-19 positive. If by chance a patient who is ferried in the ambulance tests positive later, the vehicle is immediately disinfected and the respective personnel are screened. All staff are also being screened regularly,” said Prasad. Additional staff are also being recruited by GVK-EMRI across various districts of the state to cater to the demand. “We are prepared. Since the fleet is likely to be increased, we require additional personnel as backup. So far, 200 candidates have applied in Madurai alone. Online training will be provided for them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5-more-ambulances-to-cater-to-covid-patients/articleshow/76916261.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 12, 2020||Mumbai||DCGI approves Itolizumab for emergency use in Covid patients||MUMBAI: Biocon’s drug Itolizumab has been approved by the Drugs Controller General of India’s (DCGI) for treating Covid-19 patients. The company said it received DGCA nod to market Itolizumab injection for emergency use for treatment of cytokine release syndrome (CRS) in moderate-to-severe ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome) patients due to Covid. Biocon said the approval is based on results from the successful conclusion of a randomized, controlled clinical trial at multiple hospitals in Mumbai and New Delhi. Itolizumab which was launched in 2013 for treating chronic plaque psoriasis and recently repurposed, is the first novel biologic therapy to be approved globally for treating patients with moderate to severe complications, the company said. Itolizumab will be manufactured and formulated as an intravenous injection at Biocon’s bio-manufacturing facility at Bengaluru. The SARS-CoV-2 virus has been observed to induce an overreaction of the immune system, generating a large number of cytokines that can cause severe damage to the lungs and other organs, and, in the worst scenario, multi-organ failure and even death. Details of the clinical trials were not immediately available. However, the company said primary endpoints for reduction in mortality rate were met and other key secondary endpoints for efficacy and biomarkers were also achieved. Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, executive chairperson, Biocon said, “The data is compelling and I am confident that this ‘first-in-class’ biologic will save lives and help reduce the mortality rate in our country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dcgi-approves-itolizumab-for-emergency-use-in-covid-patients/articleshow/76916273.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Trichy||Encroachments being removed from tank||Thanjavur: The revenue authorities have started retrieving a 78-acre irrigation tank from encroachers after several years, near Peravurani in Thanjavur district. Encroachers have occupied around 30 acres of the tank by cultivating paddy and pulses on the tank bed, officials said. According to revenue officials, the tank is located at Kuruvikarambai village near Peravurani and it had been maintained by PWD authorities. It irrigates thousands of acres of agriculture lands. Meanwhile, it came to light that a few villagers had encroached around 40% of the tank and had been raising paddy, black gram and coconut trees. On a court directive, revenue officials headed by K Jayalakhsmi began clearing encroachments from the tank. They commenced the work using earthmovers on July 9. Meanwhile, a group of farmers who had occupied the tank petitioned district collector M Govinda Rao seeking to allow them to continue cultivation in the waterbody. However, officials began clearing the crops without any prior notification, they said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/encroachments-being-removed-from-tank/articleshow/76916267.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Youth held for molesting 9-year-old in Shamshabad||HYDERABAD: A 22-year-old youth was arrested in Shamshabad on Saturday on the charges of molesting a nine-year-old girl. The accused, a jobless dropout student, lured the girl by offering black plums two days ago. “He took the girl to his room and then molested her by touching her inappropriately. He locked the room from outside and escaped leaving her inside,” said Shamshabad inspector Y Prakash Reddy. A class IV student and daughter of daily wage labourers, the girl was rescued by a neighbour when she raised an alarm. A complaint was lodged with police after the girl told her parents about her ordeal. “The accused, who was at large, was nabbed from Shamshabad area,” Prakash said. The accused was booked under sections 341 and 366-A of the IPC and relevant sections of the POCSO Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youth-held-formolesting-9-year-old/articleshow/76916268.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Madurai||Madurai students shine in ICSE, ISC Class X, XII board exams||Madurai: Students of various ICSE and ISC board schools in Madurai district, who wrote their Class X and Class XII board exams, secured 100% pass, the results for which were declared on Friday. Students from the Lakshmi school secured first ranks in both ICSE and ISCE exams. “In ISC, the top marks was 490/500 while for ICSE it was 593/600. There were 12 centums in various subjects in ISC and 45 in ICSE. We have 100% results and even our average score has been high this year,” said Shanthi Mohan, principal, Lakshmi School. She, however, added that this time there were no rankings since exams for some subjects including biology were cancelled due to Covid-19. Headmaster of Jeevana School, A K Srinivasan said the overall performance was good this year. The top scores in the school are 586/600 for ICSE and 487/500 for ISC exams. “The policy devised to calculate marks for the cancelled exams has also been satisfactory for students,” he added. In both ISE and ICSE exams, a total of 27 centums were scored by the students. In VMJ school, the top marks scored were 584/600 for ICSE and 485/500 for ISC. “Our average marks had marginally declined, as we had some low scorers,” said K R Udhayam, secretary of the school. In Vikaasa School, out if 182 students, 152 scored marks with distinction in ICSE exams, while 58 out of 82 scored marks with distinction in ISC. “The top scores in ICSE was 97.5% while for ISC it was 95.6%. A total of 40 centums were scored in various subjects by ICSE students while five were scored by ISC students,” said Navaneetha Krishnan, principal, Vikaasa School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-students-shine-in-icse-isc-class-x-xii-board-exams/articleshow/76916266.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||Akola Covid patient, close contacts booked for refusing hospitalization, tests||Nagpur: The Akola district health administration has booked a 36-year-old Covid-19 positive patient from Sindhi camp area, a woman and 2 others from his close contacts for not cooperating with authorities in containment measures. This is the first time a Covid-19 positive patient and close contacts have been booked in Vidarbha for not going to the Covid hospital and refusing to get tested. Earlier, several persons have been booked in Maharashtra for violating lockdown rules and spreading fake news. “After testing positive for Covid-19, this patient refused to get admitted in hospital. He was insisting on home isolation while the close contacts were not ready to give samples for tests. As they had planned to leave Akola and stay at some relative’s place in other towns, we had to book them under relevant sections,” said resident deputy collector of Akola, Sanjay Khadse. “There is no other option but to book such patients and their relatives because cases in Akola are increasing every day and we can’t take any risk,” he said. Offence has been registered under sections 269, 271,188 of IPC and sub-section 3 of Epidemic Act and sub section 51B of Disaster Management Act. “We have been constantly appealing to people to cooperate. Positive patients, even if asymptomatic, need to get examined at hospitals,” said Khadse. After check-up at hospitals, administration shifts asymptomatic patients to Covid Care Centre (CCC) in Akola. Staying here is must as home isolation facility has not been implemented in Vidarbha so far. Akola has registered 1,859 Covid-19 cases till date. Of them, 1,464 have already recovered and discharged. Currently, 303 patients are under treatment in hospitals as well as at CCC. With 92 deaths, Akola has the highest mortality rate in Vidarbha. According to authorities, many suspects leave Akola and travel to some other town, village to avoid getting tested. Some of them develop symptoms later and test positive at the respective places. Many patients in Yavatmal, Nagpur and Amravati districts are natives of Akola. Complete lockdown next week Considering the grave situation and to avoid migration of suspects, guardian minister Bachchu Kadu has instructed authorities to announce complete lockdown next week on July 18, 19 and 20. The lockdown will be on the lines of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. District administration will announce lockdown rules soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/akola-covid-patient-close-contacts-booked-for-refusing-hospitalization-tests/articleshow/76915836.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 12, 2020||Trichy||Concern over door-to-door waste collectors testing +ve in Trichy||Trichy: Two workers of the Trichy Corporation involved in door-to-door waste collection in Ponmalai zone tested positive recently. Residents have now urged the civic body to prepare a standard operating procedure (SOP) for those involved in waste collection to prevent the spread. The two workers - a 49-year-old waste collection vehicle driver from Kallukuzhi and a 58-year-old woman sanitary worker from Palakkarai - associated with the Thangaya Nagar micro-compost centre (MCC) near Sathanur, were involved in waste collection in K K Nagar vicinity that had a few positive cases. They had no travel history outside. “Civic body should sensitise the workers and residents to ensure contactless waste disposal. Sanitary workers’ health must be frequently examined,” H Ghouse Baig, a resident of Khajamalai said. Corporation officials maintained that waste from home with people under home quarantine was collected and disposed of separately. Officials added that the workers might have contracted the infection during their off-duty hours. “Contactless waste collection is followed when workers go door-to-door. Health camps and Covid-19 testing are conducted periodically to monitor the health of our workers. People need not panic,” S Sivasubramanian, corporation commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/concern-over-door-to-door-waste-collectors-testing-ve-in-trichy/articleshow/76916264.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's GTB among two hospitals to get video-calling facility||NEW DELHI: After Lok Nayak Hospital in central Delhi, Covid-19 patients admitted at northeast Delhi’s Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital (GTB) and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSS) will also be able to connect to their relatives via video calls. All Covid wards in the two hospitals have been provided tablets by Delhi government to make video calls to their families. On June 25, the first such facility was launched at the LNJP hospital by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “Most of the patients admitted in these hospitals are senior citizens who are not very tech savvy. Even though phones are allowed, many don’t have smartphones or don’t know how to make video calls,” a Delhi government official said. “This is why the CM started the video call facility at LNJP and was keen on starting similar facilities in other dedicated Covid hospitals as well,” he said. The official said that even though helpdesks are also available at the hospitals to make calls, relatives remained worried as they couldn’t see the patients. “Taking to the patient over video enhances the experience for the family members,” he said. Both RGSS and GTB hospitals have a tablet for each ward. “There are separate booths for patients to make video calls to relatives. Hospital attendants assist them in connecting the calls and even bring the tablets closer to the patients,” the official said. The official said that seeing and talking to their relatives also brings some cheer to patients and helps them develop mental strength, which is much required in fighting Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gtb-among-two-hospitals-to-get-video-calling-facility/articleshow/76916467.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||57% fresh cases on Friday reported from western city||Ahmedabad: AMC zones from the western parts of Ahmedabad have been reporting over 50% of fresh cases in city for the last fortnight. On Friday, the western city reported 86, or 57% of the total 153 Covid-19 cases reported in Ahmedabad. The city had registered 153 fresh cases on Thursday too. On Saturday, the count of new Covid cases in the city went up to 166. On Friday, the West Zone of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), which includes Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Ranip, Paldi, and Vasna wards, reported 39 cases, the highest among the AMC’s seven zones.It was followed by North West Zone, which reported 29 fresh cases. The North Zone includes areas like Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia and Gota. The East Zone which comprises Viratnagar, Nikol, Gomtipur, Odhav, Vastral, and Amraiwadi reported the third-highest, 25 cases, among all zones. The South West Zone reported the fourth-highest 18 cases and includes the Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Maktampura and Sarkhej areas. Of the five deaths reported on Friday, one death each was reported from Central, North West, East, North and South Zones. AMC officials said that of the five deaths, four were from private hospitals and one was reported from SVP Hospital.Even on Thursday, the western part of the city had reported 88 of the 153 new Covid cases in city. The West Zone had reported 33 cases while the North West zone reported the highest for the day, 34 cases, among all zones. The South West Zone reported 21 cases on Thursday.Currently, the western parts account for 48% of the active cases in the city. As of Saturday morning, the city had a total of 3,138 active cases of which 1,504 were from the western parts. Of these, the West Zone had 580; the North West Zone had 476 cases and the South West Zone had 451 active cases. The other active cases are 246 from the Central Zone, 455 from the North Zone, 483 from the East Zone, and 447 from the South Zone.12 new cases in rural AhmedabadAhmedabad: The Ahmedabad district barring the AMC areas reported 12 Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Six cases were from Sanand town, of which four were from Greens-2 Residency. One case was reported from Ambika Tower in Sanand town. The district had 946 cases till Saturday evening. There is a decline in cases from rural Ahmedabad, which is now reporting average 15 cases a day. On Saturday, three cases were reported from Bavla and one each from Dhandhuka, Dholka and Viramgam. As on Saturday, 2,453 people are under home quarantine in Ahmedabad district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/57-fresh-cases-on-friday-reported-from-western-city/articleshow/76915856.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Trichy||Farmers seek more water in channels for paddy irrigation||Thanjavur: Even as officials are claiming that more than 90% of desilting works being carried out by the public works department (PWD) in delta districts are complete, farmers from a village in Thanjavur alleged that their irrigation channel was not getting the required quantum of water flow forcing them to water their paddy nursery by carrying water in pots. The farmers also staged a protest by pouring paddy seeds in front of PWD office in Thanjavur on Saturday. Water was released from Kallanai (Grand Anaicut) for delta irrigation on June 16. Farmers, meanwhile, from Kandiyur and surrounding villages in Thanjavur district had already started raising paddy nursery with the help of bore wells in around 100 acres , farmers said. Meanwhile, their main irrigation sources such as Thiruvalampozhil, Sankarakulam, Thiruthukkal and Kandiyur channels received a very low flow of water. As the water is flowing at the bottom of the channels, farmers are unable to irrigate the nursery and hence, the y are forced to carry water in pots, P Sugumaran, a farmer from Thiruvaiyaru said. The irrigation channels would get water from Kudamurutti river only after the water released in the river is enhanced to 2,800 cusecs from Cauvery. However, only 1,000 cusecs have been released in the river now. Meanwhile, the PWD officials had stated that the farmers from Kandiyur and surrounding villages usually take up samba cultivation. Only during the samba season water would be released in these four channels. Slamming the PWD officials’ remarks, around 100 farmers protested at the PWD office in Thanjavur. After PWD official's assurance to release water on the four channels, the farmers dispersed from the office. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-seek-more-water-in-channels-for-paddy-irrigation/articleshow/76916272.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana conducts over 11,000 tests; records 1,178 Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD: While Telangana conducted a record 11,062 tests on Saturday — highest single-day figure till date — the state’s daily count of Covid-19 positive cases dropped further to 1,178. As many as nine more patients succumbed to the virus over last 24 hours. On Friday, the state had tested 10,354 samples and recorded 1,278 cases. With this, Telangana’s death toll now stands at 348 while the total positive cases’ tally has touched 33,403. The sudden jump in count of tests, officials said, was on account of the rapid antigen tests that have begun in the state. “Also 13 private laboratories that were found flouting norms and were given an ultimatum, to make necessary changes, have completed the mandatory procedures and come back in to the fold. As a result, testing has nearly doubled in the state over the last three days,” said a senior official from the state health department. They, however, remained mum when asked about the dropping positive cases, despite higher rate of testing. Among districts, Khammam, Nalgonda and Rajanna Sircilla were among the latest to see a surge in cases, while Ranga Reddy and Medchal districts continued to clock big numbers. In fact, both the districts have recorded over 100 cases per day, over the last few days. an appeal was made to the public not to panic and avail telemedicine service on the government helpline number- 180059912345- in case of any Covid-19 symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-conducts-over-11k-tests-records-1178-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76915851.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||Dr Jhunjhunwala gets IMA’s national honour||NAGPUR: Dr Kush Jhunjhunwala, immediate past president of the Nagpur branch of Indian Medical Association (IMA), has been honoured with the institution’s prestigious national award. The awards are given every year on the occasion of Doctor’s Day. This year, they were announced on July 8. In all, 87 doctors from across the country were chosen for their exemplary work after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Dr Jhunjhunwala is the only one from Vidarbha to get the award. As president of IMA Nagpur during 2019-20, Dr Jhunjhunwala led a project under which IMA members conducted health check-ups for more than 15,000 migrant labourers during Lockdown 1. “This award has come as a surprise for me. IMA Nagpur shouldered the responsibility of the health check-up of migrant labourers to be sent back to their respective states. We conducted many health check-up camps at several places during the lockdown period and issued health certificates,” said Dr Jhunjhunwala. The camps were held at Panjhari Naka, Pardi Naka and NMC School, Bijli Nagar. IMA members examined and certified more than 15000 migrant labourers free of cost. Apart from the health check-up, IMA Nagpur also distributed toilet kits to the needy women labourers. The kits include soap, sanitary pads, cotton and disposable bags. The kits helped women labourers to maintain personal hygiene. “It was team work. The credit of this award goes to every member of IMA who worked on this project. We are also thankful to the police department, the district administration and many NGOs for helping us to organize the camps,” said Dr Jhunjhunwala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dr-jhunjhunwala-gets-imas-national-honour/articleshow/76915847.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 12, 2020||Bhopal||537 cases in July, curfew fails to contain Covid in Madhya Pradesh's Morena||BHOPAL: Coronavirus continues to spread in Morena, despite the curfew since past 10 days. Morena has had 537 cases in July. The district, emerging to be state’s new hotspot, reported 101 fresh cases on Friday night. With this, Morena’s tally jumped to 942. The additional chief secretary Mohammad Suleman held a review meeting on Friday, and admitted that the cases of corona in Morena are “more as compared to other parts of the state.” He said that testing will be increased from Sunday onwardsto curb the spread. In fact, the entire Gwalior-Chambal region has witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases. On Friday, 219 tested positive in the Gwalior and Chambal divisions. This includes 33 cases in Shivpuri, 15 Bhind, 54 Datia and 2 in Sheopur district. In Gwalior, 62 new cases were diagnosed with the infection. Following spurt in corona cases in Morena, a 3-day curfew clamped down on July 1 which has been extended up to July 15. However, the spike in infections continue. Overall 537 positive cases have been reported in the district since July 1. However, mere 25 days ago on June 15, Morena had only 148 cases. Explaining the cause, district collector Morena Priyanka Das said, “It was unlock in our district but nearby places like Agra were locked. Also, there was a spurt in cases in neighbouring Dholpur of Rajasthan between June 21 and June 24 and as shops were closed there, people rushed to Morena markets for marriage shopping. “Spike in Morena started from June 21 and we imposed restrictions from June 24 onwards, but there was a jump on June 26, infection has probably reached here from the neigbouring Dholpur, now it is spreading in local people”. “Our analysis so far reveals that more than 75 shopkeepers who sell clothes, jewellery, grocery and other things related to wedding shopping have tested positive.” However, she claims with more recoveries and only five deaths, Morena has the ‘lowest’ death rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/537-cases-in-july-curfew-fails-to-contain-covid-in-morena/articleshow/76916270.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Another secretariat man tests +ve, now in Vallabh Bhavan III||BHOPAL: With another secretariat employee testing positive, the virus has infected total 17 staff members so far. On Saturday, a class four employee of medical education department in Vallabh Bhavan III was diagnosed with Covid-19. This is the first positive case of the VB III. On Friday, two employees had tested positive from the home department. Of the total corona positives, fifteen people are from Vallabh Bhawan II. The employees have demanded to seal the Vallabh Bhawan II building and to shift the department’s working in the old building — also called as Vallabh Bhawan I. The employee union had also demanded to open fever clinic in the secretariat. Acting on it, the general administration department has written to public health and family welfare department. The general administration department issued orders to again sanitise all three administrative buildings- Vallabh Bhawan I, II and III on Saturday and Sunday. Earlier, the employees working in the Vallabh Bhawan II warned the government to go on mass leave if the building is not sealed, considering the high number of cases there. Corona has claimed two lives in the state secretariat so far — both from building 2 — the same building which also houses the office chief secretary and chief minister. One of them was working in the home department where two positives were found in the day. Sudhir Nayak, president of the Mantralayin Karmachari Sangh said, just sanitation is not enough. Vallabh Bhavan II employees should be shifted in another building. With 15 cases so far, Vallabh Bhavan II should have been sealed by now, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/another-secretariat-man-tests-ve-now-in-vallabh-bhavan-iii/articleshow/76916274.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Trichy||Fever surveillance begins in Big Bazaar St containment zone||Trichy: A day after establishing a big containment zone in Big Bazaar street covering three civic body wards, Trichy Corporation commenced fever screening for the people there on Saturday. Except for the grocery shops and other commercial outlets including medical stores, all other shops were shut as part of the containment measure. The Big Bazaar vicinity has reported more than 125 positive cases, the highest in any particular locality in the city so far. As the cases started spreading to other wards, the urban local body on Friday night cordoned off 30 entries and exits of the Big Bazaar street falling under ward 16, 17 and 18. Police personnel were deployed at the entries to allow goods vehicles and people leaving the containment zone for emergency purposes. Officials said that houses were covered in a phased manner for fever surveillance. Upon checking the body temperature of residents, people with fever symptoms were directed to give their samples at Beerangikulam urban primary health centre for RT-PCR test. “On Saturday morning, there were a few people in front of the shops. We requested city police to patrol the streets after which, the public movement was completely curtailed,” a corporation official said. The civic body has warned the residents that containment measure would be extended further if there was a lack of cooperation from the people. Officials said that distribution of Kabasura Kudineer will continue in the containment zone. Disinfection process through sanitary workers is also underway in the area. A section of shops that are outside the containment zone was also closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fever-surveillance-begins-in-big-bazaar-st-containment-zone/articleshow/76916284.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Madurai||South TN reports 1,096 Covid-19 cases, 18 deaths||Madurai/ Trichy: As many as 1,096 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the 10 southern districts of the state on Saturday. This is the fourth time the region has crossed 1,000 cases in a day, with Madurai (277) recording the highest number of cases. The total cases in the region touched 18,141, which include 10,481 active cases. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded 230 cases of Covid-19 pushing the total tally of the eight districts to 4,549 on Saturday. With 18 deaths, the total toll in the south TN has climbed to 217, which includes 111 in Madurai district. The district also reported one imported case. Madurai (3,843), Tuticorin (1,096), Theni (1,066), Ramanathapuram (1,026), Virudhunagar (994), Tirunelveli (815), Kanyakumari (741) and Tenkasi (365) districts have more active cases compared to those who have been discharged. In Madurai district, on Saturday alone, there were 277 Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths recorded. Out of the 10 deaths, three deaths were at private hospitals whereas seven deaths were at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). The 277 Covid-19 cases recorded in Madurai on Saturday included 110 Influenza-like illness (ILI) cases, 28 contacts of ILI cases, 102 contacts of Covid-19 patients, 10 frontline workers, five pregnant women and eight others who were set to undergo various medical procedures. A 61-year-old man from Madurai without co-morbid conditions died on July 10 at a private hospital. Two more patients, a 72-year-old man and an 82-year-old woman died of Covid-19 at private hospitals as well. Meanwhile, at GRH, seven Covid-19 patients with various co-morbid conditions died. The Madurai district Covid-19 tally is now 5,757 cases, including 3,843 active cases and 11 deaths. Tuticorin with 2,124 including 175 fresh cases on Saturday became the second in the south to cross 2,000 cases after Madurai (5,757). The district also reported three Covid-19 deaths on Saturday taking the overall death toll to 11 in the district. Two patients from Tuticorin with various co-morbidities died at Tuticorin Medical College Hospital. A 75-year-old man from Tuticorin with co-morbid conditions who died at Kanyakumari Government Medical College Hospital was also included in the district tally on Saturday. Kanyakumari saw the highest single day spike in cases with 133 including 131 indigenous cases. According to a senior district health official, the district is witnessing rapid rise in local Covid-19 cases during the past week. “Initially, we saw more imported Covid-19 cases and those from other districts testing Covid-19 positive. But, now, more sporadic local cases across various areas are turning up. We are testing around 1,500-1,700 samples per day. Fever surveillance was also being done regularly,” said the official. The district also reported one Covid-19 death on Saturday, that of a 43-year-old man with multiple co-morbid conditions who died at Kanyakumari Government Medical College Hospital. The district Covid-19 tally has now risen to 1,203 cases, including 741 active cases and five deaths. Theni (119) is the only other district in the region to record more than 100 cases on Saturday. Theni reported two Covid-19 deaths on Saturday whereas Virudhunagar reported one death. A 56-year-old man and a 64-year-old woman from Theni both with co-morbid conditions died at Theni Medical College hospital, taking the district death toll to 16. Virudhunagar saw 94 Covid-19 cases and one death on Saturday, taking the overall district total to 1,833 cases, including 994 active cases and 12 deaths. A 77-year-old man from Virudhunagar with diabetes and hypertension died of Covid-19 at a private medical college hospital on July 10. Tirunelveli, meanwhile, saw 80 fresh Covid-19 cases, while Ramanathapuram saw 81 new cases. A 60-year-old man from Tirunelveli with pulmonary tuberculosis and pulmonary tuberculosis sequelae died on July 7 at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, taking the official death toll to 10 in the district. For the fifth day in succession Dindigul (5) recorded 10 or lesser cases. The district has only 232 active cases, which is the lowest in the region. According to the state bulletin, Ariyalur and Tiruvarur districts registered their first casualty of Covid-19 patients on Thursday. A 44-year-old diabetic man of Trichy died at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy. A 56-year-old man of Tiruvarur died at the hospital. He had systemic hypertension, chronic kidney disease and coronary artery disease. Both of them tested positive for Covid-19. Including the latest death of a 41-year-old Covid-19 patient in Karur on July 10, the death toll in the region has climbed to 36 cases. Trichy district once again recorded more than 100 cases on Saturday. The district registered 128 cases taking the total tally to 1,401. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Sivaganga (67) and Tenkasi (65), Pudukottai (36), Thanjavur (27), Nagapattinam (6), Ariyalur (12), Karur (6), and Perambalur (2). Tenkasi remains the district with the least number of Covid-19 cases overall with only 665 cases. Tiruvarur recorded 13 new positive cases on Saturday. With that, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases has climbed to 694, the highest toll in delta districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-1096-covid-19-cases-18-deaths/articleshow/76916278.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||‘Hospitality industry is heading for doom if lockdown continues’||The three-month nationwide lockdown has severely crippled every industry, but the tourism and hospitality sector has been hit the hardest across the globe. With no end in sight due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the future of the hospitality industry looks extremely bleak as tourists are avoiding travelling until a vaccine is developed. The Maharashtra government recently allowed hotels to reopen with 33% capacity after a meeting with a delegation of aggrieved hoteliers. However, the response has been extremely poor, according to Nagpur Residential Hotels’ Association (NRHA) president Tejinder Singh Renu. In an interview with TOI, Renu speaks about how the industry is in deep trouble due to zero income in the lockdown period and why the centre and state government need to grant them a rescue package immediately. Excerpts... Q. How many members are part of the NRHA? A. The NRHA was formed in 2010 when the local authorities imposed draconian measures in accordance with the newly enacted Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act 2006. As it was implemented retrospectively, we needed to fight against it unitedly. Currently, we’ve 96 members, which includes only those having rooms to stay. A couple of service apartments are also in our team. Q. How has the response been after the government allowed the reopening of hotels?A. It’s extremely poor. As Nagpur isn’t a tourist place, only those with commercial and business interests come here and stay at hotels. Now with restrictions in place on transportation like flights, trains and buses, visitors aren’t coming to the city. Our only meagre source of income is quarantine patients who are arriving from other cities or countries and are made to mandatorily stay in hotels for about a week. Since their numbers are very low, unlike in Mumbai and Pune, not many hotels are benefiting. Q. Should the 33% cap on number of customers be implemented in a city like Nagpur where cases are not as much as in Mumbai or Pune?A. The government should delegate authority to local officials regarding the handling of such matters as the situation differs in every region and district. You can’t set uniform rules for all. Our apex body — Federation of Hotels and Restaurant Association of India (FHRAI) in Delhi — has already submitted many representations to the central ministries regarding our grievances and the state body — Hotels and Restaurants Association of Western India (HRAWI) has approached the state authorities. We also listed our grievances with the civic authorities and met guardian minister Nitin Raut as well. However, we’re yet to receive any positive response from all of them. Q. How are hotels coping with the current situation?A. Our major source of income is restaurants and banquet halls for marriages, birthdays and other events like seminars. The government is allowing only 50 persons for marriage-related functions and a maximum of 15 for other meeting and seminars, but those having bigger halls of 5,000 or 10,000 capacity are suffering. We’re requesting the government to grant relaxation as per square metre area so that more visitors could be allowed while maintaining Covid distancing. We also requested the government to allow us to reopen restaurants with all safety mechanisms like mandatory masks, sanitizers, temperature checking and Covid distancing. At least we’re in a position to allow customers only if they are following norms. If you visit any market area, you can see complete chaos with hardly any norms being followed by citizens and sellers, but no authority acts against them. Q. What about the staff? Are they continuing or have they left for their native place?A. Fortunately for us, very few are from outside the city. We’ve managed to retain the local ones by paying them part salary. Most of them have been working with us since two to three decades and they have nowhere to go. Since the reopening, they have been coming, but there’s hardly any work to do due to the absence of customers. Those staying outside are unwilling to come back. However, those associated with leading hotel chains have been laid off due to mounting losses. Q. What does the future look like for hotels?A. In a city like Nagpur, it’s bleak unless the government steps in. We suffer losses everyday due to zero occupancy. Barring a few, the majority are budget hotels which are providing rooms for as low as Rs300 onwards. Due to the three-month closure, equipment like deep freezers have developed a snag. Many hotel owners are already talking about closing down and exploring new businesses due to massive losses. They’re thinking of entering the garment business as their hotels are located in the market area. The entire situation is very tricky and uncertain as tourists wouldn’t venture out in the near future unless there’s an emergency or some official work. Q. What are your expectations from the government?A. Like in the United Kingdom, where the government is paying half the bill on the customer’s behalf, our government could also come up with such innovative concepts. We’ve requested the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to allow us to pay property taxes as per residential rate and also to the state government to charge industrial tariff for electricity consumed as our establishments were closed for three months. Our biggest expenditure is the property tax & electricity bills and such rebates could help us to survive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hospitality-industry-is-heading-for-doom-if-lockdown-continues/articleshow/76915865.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Youth dies after dumper accident||Ahmedabad: A 47-year-old man from Danilimda, Yusuf Qureshi, lodged a complaint at K division traffic police station on Friday stating that the driver of a dumper, Mohammed Shaikh, a resident of Behrampura, accidentally injured his 21-year-old son, Inayat, with the vehicle. K division traffic police rounded up Shaikh and sent him for a pre-arrest Covid-19 test. Qureshi stated that his son, Inayat, worked with the accused on the dumper. On Friday, Shaikh called him up and said that when they were near the old Pirana octroi naka, while Inayat was getting off, he accidentally moved the dumper, causing Inayat an injury to his chest. “An ambulance was called to the spot but paramedics said he had suffered only bruises and dressing his injury would be enough. They did so and left,” a police source said. Qureshi stated that he later took Inayat to a private doctor who referred him to LG Hospital, where he died during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/youth-dies-after-dumper-accident/articleshow/76915857.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Trichy||Plasma therapy is effective, 24 cured in Chennai GH: Min||Pudukottai: Stating that plasma therapy on Covid-19 patients has proved effective, state health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar on Saturday said that the Tamil Nadu government has ordered equipment worth Rs 2 crore for taking forward the treatment in the state. Speaking to reporters in Pudukottai on Saturday, the health minister said that plasma therapy has been permitted by the central government in 44 centres across India. “The Rajiv Gandhi government general hospital (RGGGH) in Chennai has led the way across the country by performing the highest number of plasma therapies on 26 patients so far. Of these, 24 patients have already been cured and discharged,” Vijayabaskar said. He added that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami advised the health department to expand the plasma therapy to more patients. The health minister also said that Covid-19 death rate in the state has been brought down because of the availability of required medical facilities. Vijayabaskar said that the work on setting up the Covid-19 testing centre and oxygen pipeline in government, taluk and other hospitals in the state was being taken up. He also reiterated the contribution of the Indian medicine and homoeopathy department in the fight against Covid-19. “In an attempt to give importance to India medicine, costly drugs are being kept ready in all government hospitals. The integrated treatment incorporating siddha and ayurvedha medicines is being provided to patients in all the Covid treatment centres in the state. This has resulted in the recovery of patients,” he said adding that yoga and breathing exercises were also part of their treatment. The minister also highlighted the increase in number of beds with the provision for oxygen supply and the procurement of latest equipment to provide up to 60 litres of oxygen to each patient. He added that Covid-19 patients are also given mental health programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plasma-therapy-is-effective-24-cured-in-chennai-gh-min/articleshow/76916279.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||GUJARAT RECORDS 10 DEATHS, LEAST IN 77 DAYS||Ahmedabad: Gujarat reported 10 Covid deaths in 24 hours, taking its toll to 2,034. The deaths included four from Ahmedabad, three from Surat and one each from Dahod, Kutch and Patan. These were the lowest numbers of daily deaths for Gujarat and Ahmedabad in 77 days. The last date on which Gujarat recorded a lower figure, six deaths, was on April 25. Gujarat has now reached 10,000-plus active Covid-19 cases, with 10,308 on Saturday evening. About 25% of the total cases in the state are now active, with patients being treated at hospital or home. The share of discharged patients and deaths are 70% and 5%, respectively. In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Saturday, Gujarat recorded 872 new cases, taking the state’s tally so far to 41,027. This was the first time in July that the state did not record a new daily-high of new cases. Surat reported the most new cases on Saturday, 270, followed by 178 in Ahmedabad, 72 in Vadodara and 49 in Bhavnagar. A total of 502 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 28,685. The discharges included 136 in Surat, 126 in Ahmedabad and 68 from Vadodara. With Saturday’s data updated, only six districts have fewer than 100 total Covid-19 cases. So far, 14 districts have recorded 10 or more Covid deaths. The share of districts other than Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara in Saturday’s tally was 40%. These three districts account for 81.6% of Covid-19 cases so far. The state carried out 7,717 tests in these 24 hours, taking the total of tests conducted to 4.57 lakh. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat had 3.16 lakh persons under quarantine, of which 3.13 lakh were in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-records-10-deaths-least-in-77-days/articleshow/76915877.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Coastal districts touch new high with 276 Covid-19 cases||MANGALURU/UDUPI: Covid-19 numbers shot through the roof in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Saturday with the districts combining for 276 positive cases. Of this, DK with 186 recorded its single biggest 24-hour spike, inching past the July 8 tally of 183, while Udupi accounted for remaining 90 cases. The spurt also saw DK tally 2,034 positive cases while Udupi’s tally is 1,567. Three fresh reports of Covid deaths were reported on Saturday. The district has seen a 63% spike in cases as on date since July 1 with addition of 1,285 new cases with double-digit spurts on six of these days and three-digit spike on remaining 5 days. All three victims who died in the last 24 hours were patients with co-morbidities. Taking into consideration the surge in cases, the administration has opened 80 Covid care centres (CCC) across DK for asymptomatic and patients with mild conditions not requiring hospitalisation. The CCCs have 2,287 beds, DC Sindhu B Rupesh said adding the 270 beds at designated Covid hospital will be used for those with high risk comorbidities requiring intensive care intervention, DC said, adding district has 1,211 active cases. Udupi on the other hand recorded 90 positive cases. Out of these, 66 are from Udupi, 20 from Kundapur and four from Karkala, district health and family welfare officer Dr Sudhir Chandra Sooda, said. Barring 15 cases who had history of inter-district travel from Mangaluru, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Raichur, the rest are primary contacts, Dr Sooda added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/coastal-districts-touch-new-high-with-276-covid-cases/articleshow/76914844.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 12, 2020||Trichy||Saturday the new Sunday for meat lovers||Trichy: With Sundays set to witness a complete lockdown, people on Saturday thronged meat stalls to stock up their favourite meat and seafood. These stalls in the city witnessed a big surge in footfalls, similar to that seen on Sundays. The government had announced a complete lockdown on Sundays throughout July to contain public movement and thereby limit fresh Covid-19 infections. Since non-vegetarian food lovers have their favourite dish on Sundays and customarily make the purchase on the day, the complete lockdown has been playing spoilsport. Having had a bitter experience last Sunday, residents seem to have decided to advance their purchase to Saturday from now on. “With complete lockdown on Sundays, people are turning up more on Saturdays. Sales have increased significantly compared to the normal Saturdays,” N Balakrishnan, a chicken stall owner in Bhima Nagar said. Poultry stall owners say they usually sell 1,000 to 1,200 kilogram of chicken meat and about 3,000 eggs on Sundays. On Saturday, they managed to achieve 75% of Sunday’s sales. Fish markets at Puthur and Gandhi market saw brisk sales and appeared crowded as well. Anticipating a surge in crowds, Trichy corporation deputed supervision teams to penalise people not wearing face masks. “In Gandhi market shops alone, we have collected Rs 1,500 as penalty from people not wearing facemasks on Saturday,” a sanitary official with the corporation said. Civic body officials added that they will intensify the supervision on the coming Saturdays too apart from sensitising fish and meat stalls to ensure social distancing with the increasing footfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/saturday-the-new-sunday-for-meat-lovers/articleshow/76916285.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 12, 2020||Nashik||Fewer containment zones in rural Nashik||NASHIK: The number of containment zones in the rural areas of the district has come down in the past few days despite the number of Covid-19 cases rising. The increase in the number of new cases being identified is offset by the growing number of people being discharged. That is why the number of containment zones has been reduced by the health department. “Just 21 days ago, we had 471 containment zones. Today, we have 375 containment zones – 96 fewer than before. The number has been falling since there have been no fresh cases in the specific areas in a 28-day period,” district health officer Kapil Aher said. Currently, 1.57 lakh people are containment zones across the 15 talukas of the district, excluding the municipal corporation areas of Nashik and Malegaon. “This indicates that most of the new cases are high-risk contacts of the people already tested positive. The other reason for the rise in cases is the intensive survey being carried out in the containment zones,” Aher said. The officer said there were 566 teams, each comprising two members, surveying the containment zones to find people with symptoms and direct them to the health system for further investigation and the treatment as required. “Many of the teams are carrying pulse oximeters during the survey. They identify people whom they believe are symptomatic and take them to hospitals. Citizens’ health is scanned and if required the swabs are taken,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fewer-containment-zones-in-rural-nashik/articleshow/76915867.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 12, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Youth’s birthday bash trashes prohibition, distancing rules||VADODARA: Beer being sprayed freely, multiple cakes, a large group, a sword to cut the cake and no one wearing mask– hardly looked like a birthday celebration in the state particularly in times of Covid-19. But videos of this celebration held near Virpur in Mahisagar district went viral sparking a major row as it was alleged that members of the Gujarat State Youth Board and BJP were a part of the celebrations. The viral videos are said to be of Friday when a youth Kavan Patel was to celebrate his birthday. Friends and aides can be seen with him in the video. At least half a dozen cakes were displayed on the bonnet of a car. After being sprayed upon with beer, Patel is seen cutting the cake with a sword amidst loud cheers. The police registered an offence and arrested 13 persons based on the footage it had received. Deputy superintendent of police N V Patel said that the offence registered at the Virpur police station was for violation of notification and the prohibition law. Balashinor MLA Ajitsinh Chauhan from the opposition Congress slammed the act and said that the police was dragging its feet in taking action, but the cops denied the allegations. Chauhan even claimed that the incident had taken place around 200metres from the Virpur police station. He claimed that members of youth BJP were involved in the celebrations. Mahisagar BJP president J P Patel said that no office bearer of the BJP was involved in the incident. He added that the youth board will take action if anyone was involved and said that the police had already swung into action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/youths-bday-bash-trashes-prohibition-distancing-rules/articleshow/76915441.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Pune||Looming lockdown sparks stock-up surge in Pune||PUNE: Shops selling essentials and vegetables witnessed a threefold increase in footfall, as people scrambled to stock up before the 10-day total lockdown comes into effect at midnight on Monday. “People are stocking up as they fear that the situation could be like earlier lockdowns, when essentials were in short supply and overpriced,” Sachin Nivangune, president of Pune District Retail Traders’ Association, said. Ramdas Jadhav of Om Vegetables near the Pune railway station said people were also buying perishable goods in large quantities. “Since Saturday morning, my shop has had 40-50 customers at any time. Also, since Friday, retail tomato prices have risen to Rs50-60/kg, as against the earlier prices of Rs30/kg,” he said. Vitthal Hanamgar, a vendor on NIBM Road, said he ran out of vegetables early in the day. “Saturdays are normally lean days for most vegetable vendors, but there was a lot of demand today,” he said. All slots were full on a popular online food grocery portal, with several items going out of stock as early as 8am on Saturday. Social distancing went for a toss as citizens thronged grocery stores and petrol pumps, while many vegetable vendors saw twice as much footfall than normal. Sameer Ladkat, president of Petrol Dealers Association, Pune, told TOI that pumps in the city areas recorded a 25-30% increase in rush compared to regular days, while those outside the city saw a 15-20% increase in demand. Chitra Nair, district nodal office, LPG supplies, Pune, said calls to agencies in the city too increased. “People wanted to know if the agencies will be open. We have been told that the lockdown may not affect LPG cylinder supply, though we are waiting for an official communication” Nair said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/people-throng-shops-pumps-to-stock-up-before-lockdown/articleshow/76916276.cms||Neha Madaan
July 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Payment delay, Covid hit CETPs’ deadline||Ludhiana: The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) is going to extend the deadline for completion of common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) at Focal Point and Tajpur Road up to December end. This deadline extension is a result of delay in payment of grants and Covid-19. These CETPs would be key to tackle pollution in Buddha Nullah as discharge coming from dyeing units located in these areas flow into the water body. Three CETPs were planned for the city out of which Bahadur K Road CETP is ready. It was on put on a trial run before Covid-19 lockdown came into effect. But the trial run was stopped following closure of industries. Now it has been started again. Two CETPs for treating effluents from Tajpur Road and Focal Point dyeing units are under construction. Earlier, these plants were expected to be ready by June-end, but delay in release of grant from the state government and then Union government affected the project. The dyeing units’ association had knocked on the door of National Green Tribunal for grants. Following directions from NGT, the state government will release its share of grants. Krunesh Garg, member secretary of PPCB, said, “We are thinking to extend the deadline up to December end and there will be no more extension after this. The state government is expected to release its share in a day, following which a matching grant from the Center will also come. So, funding will no longer be an issue.” He claimed that they will try to make these CETPs functional by year end. Box: Chinese order cancelled At Focal Point CETP, the members of the dyeing units’ association had ordered a turbo blower from China, but now they have dropped the order following Galwan Valley clash in Ladakh where 20 soldiers were killed flighting the Chinese. Now they have ordered the blower worth Rs 2 crore from South Korea. They claimed that their CETP will be ready by October-end. No roadmap for scattered units The PPCB has not prepared any roadmap for the dyeing units scattered all over the city. Even in the recent meeting with MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, PPCB officials could not bring data of scattered units. Now they have been told to make arrangements for these units as well to prevent flow of effluents into Buddha Nullah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/payment-delay-covid-hit-cetps-deadline/articleshow/76916288.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Video of squalid Covid-19 ward at Karwar hospital goes viral||KARWAR: The very poor conditions of the Covid-19 ward at the Karwar Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) have, through a video recorded by one of the patients, found their way to the public domain. However, far from admitting to the fact that the condition of the ward needs to be improved, or providing assurances of working on it, the institute’s director has lashed out at the patient for recording the video and subsequently sharing it on social media. Many Covid patients housed at the Karwar hospital, however, have not taken kindly to the director’s reaction, asking him not to ‘shoot the messenger’. The patient who shot the video was admitted to the hospital on Friday and disgusted with the dismal condition of the ward, made a video, which highlighted the lack of basic cleanliness and the glaring lack of hygiene there. The video also reveals that the clothes of a Covid victim had not been cleared from the ward days after his demise. Furthermore, the patient has alleged in the video that those in the ward were forced to clean it themselves owing to the irregularity among the staff. The video also shows that there is only one tumbler in the ward, and just the one water heater for the 53 patients housed there. When the condition of the Uttara Kannada’s designated Covid hospital was brought to the attention of the deputy commissioner, he directed KIMS director Dr Gajanana Nayak to respond to the exposé. The latter, in a letter to the press, clarified that bio-medical waste was being collected every day for the past three months. The latter goes on to add that, in addition to the 60 Covid patients currently being treated at the hospital, 200 had recovered and had been discharged, all of whom having expressed their gratitude to the staff at KIMS. The director accused the patient who shot and released the video of levelling wild allegations, and misusing permission to use the mobile phone at the ward. Dr Nayak, in his turn, urged the DC to initiate action against the patient concerned. Watch Video of filthy COVID-19 ward in Karnataka hospital goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/video-of-squalid-covid-ward-at-karwar-hospital-goes-viral/articleshow/76914892.cms||Deepak Kumar Shenvi
July 12, 2020||Meerut||Watertight security as police enforce 2-day lockdown||Meerut: With sudden spike in Coronavirus cases, police came down heavily on the residents enforcing complete statewide lockdown. Meerut, which has witnessed more than 40 cases consecutively in the last couple of days, saw curfew-like situation.Police manned every crossing as senior police officials patrolled the roads. The complete lockdown will stay until Monday 5 am. In the curfew-like situation, most of the establishments remained closed, including vegetable markets, kirana stores, among others.SP traffic Meerut, Jitender Srivastava, said, "At least 788 traffic challans were issued for traffic violations as traffic police kept vigil over all crossings of the city. Anyone who could not give a valid reason for his movement on the road was turned back."On Saturday 35 persons were found Covid-19 positive that pushes the total tally to 1,434. Just two days ago, the district witnessed the highest single-day cases to be 56.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/watertight-security-as-police-enforce-2-day-lockdown/articleshow/76914361.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Ashram Chowk underpass work at Mathura Road to disrupt traffic||NEW DELHI: Expect congestion around Ashram Chowk as the construction of the underpass to Mathura Road reaches a crucial point. Police will divert heavy vehicles passing through the congested traffic intersection to other approach roads. Traffic police said on Saturday that between 7am and 10pm, goods vehicles destined to Badarpur and Tughlaqabad reaching Ashram from Sarai Kale Khan or the DND flyover will have to cross the Ashram flyover towards Lajpat Nagar. They will take the left turn to Captain Gaur Marg, then on to Modi Mill flyover before accessing Mathura Road. Cars, two-wheelers and autorickshaws coming from Sarai Kale Khan will be allowed to turn left to CV Raman Marg just before Ashram and access Mathura Road via Mata Mandir Marg. Vehicles coming from the direction of India Gate are advised to avoid Mathura Road and take the Sarai Kale Khan or Defence Colony routes to reach south Delhi. “Goods vehicles coming from Badarpur and going towards Dhaula Kuan should climb the Modi Mill flyover and reach Outer Ring Road to proceed,” said a traffic police statement. The cops expect traffic snarls at the U-turn under Kalkaji Mandir flyover, Captain Gaur Marg and the left turn on Ring Road towards Moolchand underpass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ashram-underpass-work-at-mathura-rd-to-disrupt-traffic/articleshow/76916469.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Meerut||UP ashram horror: 'Godman' drugged kids with 'Covid medicine', sodomised them||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Every evening, after the day’s work was done, children at an ashram in Shukratal, 30km from Muzaffarnagar, would wait in dread. The manager, they knew, would force them to drink alcohol calling it “coronavirus medicine”, watch porn and then sexually abuse them. If they refused, they would be beaten up. For years, children have been sent to the ashram by trusting parents with limited means in hopes of a good education. But the ashram hid hell. “Maharaj would make us drink coronavirus medicine. Then he’d get naked and lie down, show us dirty films and do bad things to us,” said a 10-year-old from Mizoram in a statement to the Child Welfare Committee, which TOI has gained access to. The boy was among 10 rescued early this week after a tip-off from a whistleblower who had been evicted for objecting to the sexual abuse. The children are from Tripura and Mizoram — nine between seven and 16, and one 18. Medical examination confirmed four of them had been sexually assaulted, an FIR at the Bhopa police station said. “I was brought here in October 2017 by the ashram’s cook. I lived like a slave, was asked to massage Maharaj and bring him alcohol and bidis,” said a 13-year-old from Tripura. “He would sodomise me.” Refusal to submit had consequences. “Saying no would lead to a thrashing,” said an 18-year-old from Tripura. The 10-year-old from Mizoram said the same, “If we refused, he would beat us.” Money their parents sent would be appropriated as “living costs”. The cook, Govind Das, recurs in the children’s accounts as the person who brought them to the ashram. The “Maharaj” spoken of is a 'godman', Bhakti Bhushan Govind, who had been running the ashram with an associate, Mohan Das. The two have been arrested with charges under the Pocso Act, and the IPC for unnatural offences and voluntarily causing hurt. The ashram had not been registered under the Juvenile Justice Act. “The Maharaj is a resident of Sisauli village (65 km from Meerut). He set up the ashram 12 years ago,” Muzaffarnagar SSP Abhishek Yadav said. He has no prior record. Locals said he had amassed donations in his previous stint as a godman in Chandigarh, which he used to set up his ashram here. The children had been engaged in the construction of the grand two-storeyed ashram building, they added. The horrors came to light after an inmate, Hari Om, intervened. “I spoke to one of the children and was horrified. When Maharaj got to know I was trying to probe them, he kicked me out,” he said. So he called Childline. “What he said was very disturbing,” said Poonam Sharma, director of the Muzaffarnagar chapter of Childline. Her team, along with Bhopa Police, raided the ashram and rescued the children. Their parents have been informed but, given the lockdown, it is difficult to say when and how they could get here. (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Shocking: Cops arrest 'godman' over sexual abuse of minors in UP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-ashram-horror-godman-drugged-kids-with-covid-medicine-sodomised-them/articleshow/76914366.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19 hits city police personnel||Nashik: Personnel of the Nashik city police commissionerate who are at the frontline of the Covid duty are getting affected with the contagion over the past few days, senior officials of the police department said. Senior officials said that 12 police personnel tested positive for coronavirus till Friday. They were admitted to different Covid facilities in the city. As of now, 24 policemen have been affected with Covid-19. A 53-year-old police constable – Arun Waman Tongare attached to the Indiranagar police station — succumbed to the coronavirus infection on July 1. He was admitted to a private facility on June 12 and was later shifted to Mumbai on June 23 where he died. The first police personnel of the city police commissionerate to contract the infection was reported on May 30. However, after June 11, many police personnel began contracting the infection. As many as 11 police personnel were admitted in various hospitals between June 11 and June 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-19-hits-city-police-personnel/articleshow/76915874.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Traffic chokes roads amid frenzy to make purchases||PUNE: Thousands of citizens were seen on city streets making purchases in preparation for the total lockdown starting from July 14. The large crowd led to major traffic congestion in several neighbourhood. The Pune police installed barricades in several areas to curb movement of people and vehicles in anticipation of the total lockdown. Citizens were further irked by the move since the blockades caused a great inconvenience. Heavy traffic was observed on Saturday morning at Salunkhe Vihar road, Market Yard, Tilak road and several other areas, where marketplaces are located. There was heavy traffic on Karve road until late in the evening with a sizeable number of cars vying for road space. Pramod Deshmukh, a working professional, said, “The road to Mukundnagar was blocked at Laxminarayan Talkies junction so the entire peripheral area was choked on Saturday afternoon. Sarasbaug, Satara Road, Market Yard were completely blocked. I took close to an hour to get out of the traffic.” Deshmukh faced traffic congestion at Tilak road as well. “I tried to follow online maps to avoid traffic but that didn’t help,” he said. A resident of Salunkhe Vihar road Harsh Basur said, “The traffic in this area has been crazy since Saturday morning. Most lanes coming to Salunke Vihar road from Wanowrie have been blocked for many days now. However, the traffic was moving smoothly before Saturday. It was only after the lockdown was announced that the traffic increased. Traffic coming to Salunke Vihar Road from Samvidhan chowk was also at a near standstill for quite a while.” Payal Joshi, who went to Mahatma Phule Mandai to buy vegetables, said, “I did not encounter much traffic while riding in the city areas but finding parking space was a hassle. It looked like everyone was out on the roads. The scene around Mandai was what we would see before the pandemic hit Pune. There were people everywhere, walking on the streets and crowding vegetable stalls,” she explained. According to the city police, greater traffic was witnessed as people stepped out to purchase essentials before the lockdown. “A lot of double parking was also noticed around grocery stores and markets. This narrowed the carriageway in different parts of the city. We had to seek help from local police stations to man the traffic during the peak hours,” an officer stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traffic-chokes-roads-amid-frenzy-to-make-purchases/articleshow/76916283.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 12, 2020||Meerut||20-year-old Meerut student’s body chopped into pieces, dumped in borewell ‘by friends’||MEERUT: A 20-year-old Industrial Training Institute student from Meerut is believed to have been killed by four “friends”, who hacked his body into pieces and dumped them in a 40-feet borewell about 18km from the city. No body part has been found yet and the four youths are in police detention. On June 25, Rupak went out for a party with his “friends” but did not make it back home. Worried, his family filed a complaint with the local police the following day. A search began. The obvious trail led to the people he was last known to be with, his four “friends”. Police said the four of them confessed to having killed Rupak. “There seems to have been a confrontation between Rupak and the prime suspect, Vikas, over Rupak’s sister which turned violent,” SP (city), Meerut, Akhilesh Narayan Singh said. “They are believed to have shot him, after which they buried his body in a field near a brick kiln. But worried they might be caught, they exhumed the body,” Pankaj Singh, circle officer of Daurala, said. But SP (city), Meerut, Akhilesh Narayan Singh said the suspects could also be “misleading” the police. “They said initially that his body had been buried in a field. Later, they said it had been cut into pieces and dumped inside a borewell,” he said. The borewell is at Jataula village in Rohta, about 18 km from Meerut. “A tunnel is being dug to reach the bottom of the borewell. We have started digging around it with cranes and earth movers,” he added. No body part has been found yet — police said they must have slipped to the bottom of the borewell. So while the four youths remain in detention, no formal arrest has been made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/20-yr-old-meerut-students-body-chopped-into-pieces-dumped-in-borewell-by-friends/articleshow/76914377.cms||Piyush Rai
July 12, 2020||Pune||Car confiscation turns cabbie into vegetable vendor; but poor income forces him to sell masks for a living||PUNE: Kailas Awtare (36) gave up the wheel as a cab driver to try his fortune as a vegetable vendor, only to settle for being a mask-seller to tide over the financial crisis caused by the Covid-19 lockdown in the past few months. A resident of Sinhagad Road, Awtare was a cab driver for three years before the lockdown was enforced. He earned between Rs1,500 and Rs3,500 on an average each day then. His earnings dipped to Rs600-700 per day when he took up selling vegetables and later it nosedived to around Rs100 a day because of stiff competition. Awtare is presently earning Rs500-700 a day by selling masks. After a fortnight, he might again change the profession if his current venture does not fulfil his financial needs. “Things were not great for me even before the lockdown. I have a wife and two children to take care of. I bought my own car three years ago but was always under financial stress. Things got out of hand once the lockdown was announced. My car was taken away by the finance company as I was unable to pay the monthly instalments,” Awtare told TOI. He tried his hand at selling vegetables after the car was taken away. “Sitting at home and waiting for things to be fine isn’t an option for poor people like us. So, I started to sell vegetables. Soon, I saw more and more people turning into vegetable vendors. The increase in competition mounted to losses and I gave up selling vegetables after a month,” he said. Awtare then took to selling masks. “I hang the masks for sale on a temporary stand near a petrol pump on Sinhagad Road while keeping a lookout for police. They come and confiscate whatever people are selling by the roadside. I cannot put up my shop often because of the rains. The sale of masks isn’t very good either,” he said. “My landlord has been kind enough to waive the monthly house rent for the time being. While I want to drive again, the cab business is suffering too. I might switch professions again if things don’t improve,” Awtare added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/car-confiscation-turns-cabbie-into-vegetable-vendor-but-poor-income-forces-him-to-sell-masks-for-a-living/articleshow/76916287.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 12, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Degrees sans exams will impact career of students, says UGC vice-chairperson||UGC vice-chairperson Bhushan Patwardhan firmly believes examination is an integral part of the academic system. He told TOI in an online interview that cancelling exams, citing the Covid-19 situation, would have a long-term negative impact on students’ careers. Excerpts:How should Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) conduct the exams, considering the spurt in Covid-19 cases in Pune?Not just SPPU but any university, can go for online, offline, a combination of both or open book exam, depending on what suits which course the best. If the university decides to go for offline exam for some subjects, they should ensure all safety protocols, including physical distance and sanitisation norms, prescribed by the UGC. Now that most hostels of varsities are vacated, what happens if a student in a remote area can’t take the online exam because of connectivity/gadget issues?The UGC has allowed varsities or colleges to give such students one-time special examination. Such examinations can be proctored or conducted in different cities/towns with the help of local government bodies. The Maharashtra government has stressed that it is impossible to conduct the final-year exams by September because of the Covid-19 situation. Your take?Agreeably, there are real challenges in conducting examinations in the Covid-19 situation. But when there is a will, there is a way. During Unlock-1, liquor shops and salons were reopened and home delivery was allowed. Now, temples are also being opened. Thus, temples of knowledge can also be reopened with all safety measures and precautions. Why the UGC is firm on conducting the exams when the pandemic is peaking?Exams are an integral part of the academic life-cycle. Will you trust a doctor who has not appeared in the final exam, or an engineer or a pharmacist for that matter? Awarding academic degree without examination is not acceptable. In the US and the UK, most of the reputed universities have either completed or deferred final-year examinations. Current global picture indicates that 73 countries have postponed/rescheduled, 23 have introduced alternative approaches and 22 have maintained exams, while only 11 countries have cancelled them altogether. This scenario supports the UGC policy regarding the examinations. What if no exams are conducted?It will set a wrong example. Such students would be labelled as “Covid Batch”. Sanctity of their degree will remain questionable. Will the students be affected if there are no exams?Of course. The transcript of universities on report cards can spoil their career. If only “Pass” is written as result, many students will find it difficult to pursue higher studies. A few years down the line, there can be hardships on career progression and the job front too. Is there a possibility of average students gaining from no exams?No way. An average student might have prepared very well for the final exam/semester. If the exam is conducted, that particular student’s grades can improve. And, meritorious students will naturally have the chance of bettering their grades. Then why students are clamouring against exams?It’s a wrong conception. I know many students who want the exams to be conducted. They may not be as vocal. We have done a great disservice by keeping them waiting so long for the exams, triggering anxiety. Teachers and parents need to tell them that such shortcuts may be very detrimental in the long run. Several faculty members claimed that many universities would not be able to conduct exams by September 30 because there is too little time to prepare.On April 29, the UGC had told the varsities to conduct the final exams by July-end. Had the universities acted in time, many problems faced today could have been avoided. Now, we have extended the deadline till September 30. We are keeping a close watch on the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/degrees-sans-exams-will-impact-career-of-students/articleshow/76915879.cms||Chandan Chatterjee
July 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Ashu visits areas facing water accumulation problem||Ludhiana: In view of the water accumulation on the roads during the current monsoon, Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Saturday took a round of various parts of the city. He was accompanied by mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, besides several others. Ashu took a round of the under passes along the Sidhwan Canal that are located under the Ludhiana-Ferozepur Road, C block of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, Panj Peer Road, Hambran Road, besides several others. He said that the MC Ludhiana officials were called at all places where problem of water accumulation was being faced. He said that both under-passes along the Sidhwan Canal were cleaned by the officials and strict directions were issued that this thing should not be repeated in future. He also directed the MC officials to ensure that all water recharging wells should be cleaned so that the rain water seeps through them in case of heavy rainfall as was witnessed in the city on Saturday. Ashu also visited the Panj Peer Road and Hambran Road and directed the MC staff to ensure that rainwater does not accumulate there in future. A poklane machine and JCB machine has also been deputed along various points of Budha Nullah so that there is no overflow of water in case of heavy rainfall. MC starts spreading messages about flood control room Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu has said that the MC has set up a dedicated 24x7 control room (number 0161-4085039), on which residents can complain in case of any problem related to water clogging/drainage/water mixing, etc. He said senior MC officials Ravinder Garg (9988820840) and Ravinder Singh (9780900123) can also be contacted for this purpose. For creating awareness among the masses now they have started sending text messages as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ashu-visits-areas-facing-water-accumulation-problem/articleshow/76916295.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||Barmer city re-opens after 7-day lockdown||JAISALMER: Barmer city re-opened after a seven-day lockdown on Saturday. Zero mobility was imposed for a week from July 3 to prevent spread of the coronavirus. From now on, the markets can remain open from 10am to 4pm and krishi upaj mandi from 5am to 11am. There will be a total ban on entry of general public into krishi upaj mandi. On the other hand, corona cases are continuously increasing in Barmer. On Friday, total 49 cases were reported in the district, of which 43 were from Barmer city. The virus has reached the collector’s office too. An employee at the revenue department of the collectorate tested positive after which the collector office was closed. The health department on Saturday took samples of people who came into contact with the employee. District collector Vishram Meena said that an employee working with revenue department showed corona symptoms 5-6 days ago and was on leave since then, but two days ago, a sample was taken which tested positive on Saturday evening, after which the collector office was closed for two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/barmer-city-re-opens-after-7-day-lockdown/articleshow/76916291.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Bhopal||90-year-old woman beats Covid-19 in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A 90-year-old woman with a will to live survived Covid-19 and was discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Hospital here on Friday. She is being dubbed as the oldest to recover from the deadly infection at the premier hospital. According to AIIMS-Bhopal experts, coronavirus is more dangerous for children and the elderly, but with strong will, some people also prove it otherwise. The 90-year-old was discharge from AIIMS after hospitalisation of two weeks and fought over the deadly infection. The patient, a resident of Ashoka Garden, was brought to AIIMS with cough and difficulty in breathing. She was first diagnosed as Covid-19 positive on June 27. Her two other Covid-19 tests on July 8 and 9 turned out to be negative. According to the information provided by the premier institute, the patient had no travel history nor came in contact with anyone with the infection. As for her line of treatment, she was placed on high flow of oxygen and antibiotics. The elderly woman was kept under observation for the initial 24 hours. “When she was admitted, her general condition was poor with Covid-19 pneumonia. Initially, patient was admitted to the Covid-19 ICU and later when her condition stabilised, she was shifted to a normal Covid-19 ward. It took her 10 days to get into the normal Covid-19 ward,” said an AIIMS official. The patient has been prescribed a regular check-up in the next fortnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/90-yr-old-woman-beats-covid-19/articleshow/76916294.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nashik||Traders in Nashik & Kolhapur have opposing views on total lockdown||NASHIK/KOLHAPUR: Stricter lockdown measures have found supporters and critics in almost equal numbers among the state's trader community. While many traders in Nashik city are mounting pressure on the administration to announce a complete lockdown — in line with the plan for Pune city — in Kolhapur, business owners said new restrictions would add to their woes. On Saturday, Kolhapur civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti clarified that there are no current plans to impose a lockdown in the city. Most of the traders in Nashik’s old city areas had recently opted for a seven-day voluntary shutdown. It offered a breather to the store employees too. “If Pune city can take a break, why can’t Nashik. Stringent efforts are required to stamp Covid-19 out. At least, the number of active patients will be under 300 and there will not be a strain on the health institutions,” Satish Patil, a Nashik trader, argued. However, a section of traders said that it is time that everyone learnt to live with Covid-19. “Keeping the shops closed is not the solution. The economy is only now taking baby steps towards normalcy,” Keshav Patel, another trader from Nashik city, said. In Kolhapur, during the standing committee meeting on Friday, corporators cutting across party lines demanded a stricter lockdown to slow down the spread of coronavirus. So far, Kolhapur city has reported 81 Covid-19 cases and two deaths. Both the deaths and a majority of the cases have been reported in the past two weeks. “We are undertaking several measures to stop the spread. Stringent actions are being taken against those flouting rules and containment measures are adopted swiftly in the localities from where Covid patients are being reported. We currently have no plans to impose a lockdown or put any restrictions going against the state government's order,” Kalshetti told TOI. Traders and industrialists are worried that a fresh lockdown would hamper their operations. Ajit Kothari, president of Kolhapur Electricals Association, said, “Even after unlocking, our businesses have not picked up even by 10%. We can restrict the opening of the shops partially. Fresh lockdowns will not guarantee that cases will reduce, however, they will cause irreparable damage to the business activities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/some-nashik-traders-push-for-lockdown-most-in-kolhapur-oppose-such-demand/articleshow/76915893.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 12, 2020||Chennai||NGO files DVAC complaint against Bharatnet tenders||CHENNAI: Anti-corruption NGO Arappor Iyakkam has written to the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) demanding a probe into the Rs 1,900-crore Bharatnet tenders floated by Tamil Nadu Fibrenet Corporation Ltd (Tanfinet) after the Centre directed TN government to cancel existing tenders and float fresh ones. The tenders were floated to identify contractors to lay optic fibre cable network to provide broadband connectivity in rural areas of the state. Centre intervened in the process after Arappor Iyakkam and a few private companies wrote to TN and central government agencies about how corrigenda to the tender had changed conditions favouring a select group of companies. The complaints pertained to non-compliance of public procurement (preference to make in India) order of 2017. On June 26, the department of promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) had ordered scrapping of the tenders and asked Tanfinet to re-invite bids with non-restrictive qualification criteria. In the representation sent to DVAC on Saturday, the NGO’s convenor Jayaram Venkatesan said a cognisable offence has been made out against state government officials involved in framing the tender conditions. “An FIR should be filed and top IAS officials and other public officials should be investigated by the state anti-corruption agency,” Jayaram said. Reiterating this, A P Suryaprakasam, an advocate at the Madras high court, said a case was made out. “Since tender conditions have been tweaked in favour of one party, a criminal intention is established. It amounts to cheating or criminal breach of trust as the officials were dealing with public money and the objective should have been honesty,” he said. Retired IAS official M G Devasahayam said from an administrative point of view, sending a complaint to the state vigilance wing was the correct thing to do. “The question is, however, whether the state government will act upon it. Since the Centre is involved in this, a complaint should also be sent to the Central Vigilance Commission,” he said. The project has been in trouble since January, when then IT secretary Santosh Babu was shunted out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ngo-files-dvac-complaint-against-bharatnet-tenders/articleshow/76915917.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: More than 1,000 cabs, autos to ply only for essential purposes||PUNE: Over 1,000 private cabs and autorickshaws have been permitted to ferry commuters travelling for essential purposes during the 10-day total lockdown. As many as 400 autorickshaws and private cabs each will operate as a part of the on-call service. Pre-paid autorickshaws and sanitized cabs will also be available at the airport. Over 500 cabs will be operational as part of “Book2Ride”, an app-based cab service, its founder Kunal Kharat, said. “During the earlier lockdown phases, the police, in association with a private company, operated the ‘autorickshaw on call’ service, which will continue. Around 400 private cabs will be operational for travel to the airport and back. They will get passes via the company coordinating their movement,” assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Surendra Deshmukh said. He said Ola and Uber cabs would not operate in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad during the lockdown. Nayana Gunde, the chairperson and managing director of the PMPML, said buses would ply for essential service providers. Pune airport authorities said the facility and flight movements would not be affected. “At least some Ola and Uber cabs should be allowed to ply to the airport. I have to fly to Delhi on July 17 and I am already worried,” said Rudranil Bagchi, a working professional. Rahul Shitole, who runs the CityGlide service, which will manage operations of the autorickshaws and cabs, said he would get the passes for vehicles by Sunday afternoon. Commuters can book an autorickshaw or cab via WhatsApp message to 9859198591 or by messaging “@RahulShitole11” on Twitter with details of travel. Kharat said commuters can download “Book2Ride” application on their cellphones or call 020-66100100 to book the cabs. “The pickup or drop point has to be either the airport, railway station or a hospital,” he said. Deshmukh said only vehicles with passes would be allowed to ply during the 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-than-1000-cabs-autos-to-ply-only-for-essential-purposes/articleshow/76916293.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 12, 2020||Pune||Trio injured in accident on Pune-Mumbai Expressway||PUNE: Three persons headed to Pune for attending a wedding were injured after their speeding car rammed the safety railings on Pune-Mumbai Expressway village near Gahunje during the early hours of Saturday. The Talegaon Dabhade police said the accident’s impact was such that the railing bar pierced the front windscreen and also tore off the rear seat. Police and expressway patrol teams rescued the three occupants, who were then admitted in a private hospital. The driver suffered a fracture to his leg, the car owner and his wife suffered minor injuries.  Inspector Kishor Mhaswade of Talegaon Dabhade police said, “Driver lost control over the wheel as he was feeling drowsy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-injured-in-accident-on-eway/articleshow/76915891.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 1,813 cases, 17 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh recorded its highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases with 1,813 people testing positive on Saturday. The cumulative caseload in the state has gone up to 27,235. The toll moved past the triple century mark, with 17 more people succumbing to the disease. The Covid-19 death toll in AP now stands at 309. Altogether 1,199 people recovered and were discharged from various Covid-19 hospitals and care centres on Saturday. There are currently 12,533 active cases in the state with 14,393 cumulative recoveries and 309 deaths. Anantapur alone contributed 311 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday to cross the 3,000 mark. Chittoor reported 300 new cases, followed by Kurnool 229, Srikakulam 204, East Godavari 143, and Krishna 123. Kurnool district also crossed the 3,000 local case mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-1813-cases-17-deaths/articleshow/76915900.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Deaths cross 500, active cases touch new high of 5,376||JAIPUR: Covid fatalities crossed the grim 500-mark in the state following the deaths of six more persons. As on Saturday evening, the casualty count stood at 503. The infections count rose further to 23,743 following 574 fresh cases. While Jaipur registered two more deaths, Ajmer, Hanumangarh, Kota and Udaipur reported one death each. The fatalities in Jaipur has gone up to 172. In the past eight days, the state has reported 4,696 new infections with an average of 587 cases per day. The spike in new infections pushed up the active cases to a new high cases of 5,376 on Saturday. It was 5,057 on Friday, 5,002 on Thursday, 4,715 on Wednesday, 4,357 on Tuesday, 3,949 on Monday and 3,780 on Sunday. Among the districts which reported new cases, Bikaner topped the list with 105 new infections, followed by Jodhpur (81) and Jaipur (53). Other districts which reported new cases are Alwar (45), Jalore (45), Udaipur (36), Barmer (30), Nagaur (28), Bharatpur (24), Pali (23), Sirohi (18), Rajsamand (14), Sawai Madhopur (8), Sikar (8), Churu (8), Ajmer (7), Dungarpur (7), Bhilwara (5), Hanumangarh (4), Jhunjhunu (4), Pratapgarh (3), Dausa (3), Karauli (3), Dholpur (2), Banswara (2), Baran (2), Sriganganagar (1), Kota (1), Tonk (1) and three from other states. As many as 249 Covid-19 patients have also recovered taking the tally of cured patients to 17,869. In Jaipur, 26 different places reported 53 cases. The areas which reported new cases are Mansarovar (5), Malviya Nagar (5), Jhotwara (3), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/deaths-cross-500-active-cases-touch-new-high-of-5376/articleshow/76916802.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Meerut||Sexual assault survivor 'kills self', family alleges harassment by tormentor||Meerut: A 19-year-old girl allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling of her house in Bulandshahr under the limits of BB Nagar police station on Friday. Police have begun a probe into the allegations of the girl's family who claimed they were being harassed."The family has alleged that a case of sexual assault was registered and the family of accused was metally harassing them, forcing the girl to take the extreme step. If any foul play is unearthed during the probe, suitable action will be taken," Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr SSP, said.According to police, a charge-sheet in the case was submitted in court this year and the accused has obtained a stay order on his arrest from the high court.Last year in February, the deceased was sexually assaulted by a youth against whom a case under section 354-B (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the IPC was registered.Police later claimed that a cross FIR was also registered by the sister of the accused against the brother of the deceased. It was later expunged in the probe by an officer of the level of deputy superintendent of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sexual-assault-survivor-kills-self-family-alleges-harassment-by-tormentor/articleshow/76914378.cms||Piyush Rai
July 12, 2020||Pune||Coronavirus patients not welcome home after recovery, find hospitals||PUNE: Refusing to bring home Covid-19 patients after recovery, delaying pick up or providing incorrect contact details of family members are some of the issues faced by hospitals with regard to discharge of recovered patients on a daily basis. Sanjay Lalwani, medical director, Bharati Hospital and Research Centre, said, “There have been a few cases when family members or relatives of patients have failed to show up despite our staff calling them repeatedly to take the patients home.” Some elderly patients have even landed up in oldage homes in the city as their family members did not respond. Sudhir Patsute, head, Naidu Hospital, said sometimes genuine phobia plagues the relatives. Some cannot come because they are themselves quarantined. Few family members have refused to come. Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, said, “We inform patients’ family members about the discharge a day in advance to avoid such issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/coronavirus-patients-not-welcome-home-after-recovery-find-hospitals/articleshow/76916289.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
July 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Buddha Nullah pollution: PPCB warns dairy units of action||Ludhiana: Taking serious note of pollution caused by dairy units located outside municipal corporation limits, the Punjab Pollution Control Board issued a strict warning to dairy owners on Saturday. Kahan Singh Pannu, secretary, agriculture-cum-director, directorate of environment and climate change, held a meeting with these dairy owners and clarified that that no relaxation would be given to them. They will have to manage waste on their own. The PPCB officials claimed that 23 dairies falling outside MC limits at Bhammian village have not installed effluent treatment plants and are discharging untreated effluents directly into Buddha Nullah. The cow dung is also not being managed properly which also ends up in the drain. PPCB has already issued show-cause notices to all these dairies and imposed bank guarantees of Rs 1 lakh each on all the dairy owners. These dairies had also been directed to install individual treatment facility for treatment of effluents generated from their premises. However, the dairies have failed to submit any compliance. In the show-cause notices, PPCB had warned sealing of dairies in case of failure to stop effluent flow into Buddha Nallah. Pannu said a lot of time has already been given to the dairy owners to manage the cow dung and effluents. He said effluents being discharged into Buddha Nallah leads to pollution. Saying that no additional time should be given to these dairies, he directed the dairies to make arrangement for the cow dung and untreated effluents immediately and give concrete proposal during their hearing already scheduled before the member secretary of PPCB on July 21. He cautioned that a strict penal action will be taken against the violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/buddha-nullah-pollution-ppcb-warns-dairy-units-of-action/articleshow/76916297.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Deaths cross 500, active cases touch new high of 5,376||JAIPUR: Covid fatalities crossed the grim 500-mark in the state following the deaths of six more persons. As on Saturday evening, the casualty count stood at 503. The infections count rose further to 23,743 following 574 fresh cases. While Jaipur registered two more deaths, Ajmer, Hanumangarh, Kota and Udaipur reported one death each. The fatalities in Jaipur has gone up to 172. In the past eight days, the state has reported 4,696 new infections with an average of 587 cases per day. The spike in new infections pushed up the active cases to a new high cases of 5,376 on Saturday. It was 5,057 on Friday, 5,002 on Thursday, 4,715 on Wednesday, 4,357 on Tuesday, 3,949 on Monday and 3,780 on Sunday. Among the districts which reported new cases, Bikaner topped the list with 105 new infections, followed by Jodhpur (81) and Jaipur (53). Other districts which reported new cases are Alwar (45), Jalore (45), Udaipur (36), Barmer (30), Nagaur (28), Bharatpur (24), Pali (23), Sirohi (18), Rajsamand (14), Sawai Madhopur (8), Sikar (8), Churu (8), Ajmer (7), Dungarpur (7), Bhilwara (5), Hanumangarh (4), Jhunjhunu (4), Pratapgarh (3), Dausa (3), Karauli (3), Dholpur (2), Banswara (2), Baran (2), Sriganganagar (1), Kota (1), Tonk (1) and three from other states. As many as 249 Covid-19 patients have also recovered taking the tally of cured patients to 17,869. In Jaipur, 26 different places reported 53 cases. The areas which reported new cases are Mansarovar (5), Malviya Nagar (5), Jhotwara (3), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/deaths-cross-500-active-cases-touch-new-high-of-5376/articleshow/76916803.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Deaths cross 500, active cases touch new high of 5,376||JAIPUR: Covid fatalities crossed the grim 500-mark in the state following the deaths of six more persons. As on Saturday evening, the casualty count stood at 503. The infections count rose further to 23,743 following 574 fresh cases. While Jaipur registered two more deaths, Ajmer, Hanumangarh, Kota and Udaipur reported one death each. The fatalities in Jaipur has gone up to 172. In the past eight days, the state has reported 4,696 new infections with an average of 587 cases per day. The spike in new infections pushed up the active cases to a new high cases of 5,376 on Saturday. It was 5,057 on Friday, 5,002 on Thursday, 4,715 on Wednesday, 4,357 on Tuesday, 3,949 on Monday and 3,780 on Sunday. Among the districts which reported new cases, Bikaner topped the list with 105 new infections, followed by Jodhpur (81) and Jaipur (53). Other districts which reported new cases are Alwar (45), Jalore (45), Udaipur (36), Barmer (30), Nagaur (28), Bharatpur (24), Pali (23), Sirohi (18), Rajsamand (14), Sawai Madhopur (8), Sikar (8), Churu (8), Ajmer (7), Dungarpur (7), Bhilwara (5), Hanumangarh (4), Jhunjhunu (4), Pratapgarh (3), Dausa (3), Karauli (3), Dholpur (2), Banswara (2), Baran (2), Sriganganagar (1), Kota (1), Tonk (1) and three from other states. As many as 249 Covid-19 patients have also recovered taking the tally of cured patients to 17,869. In Jaipur, 26 different places reported 53 cases. The areas which reported new cases are Mansarovar (5), Malviya Nagar (5), Jhotwara (3), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/deaths-cross-500-active-cases-touch-new-high-of-5376/articleshow/76916296.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Deaths cross 500, active cases touch new high of 5,376||JAIPUR: Covid fatalities crossed the grim 500-mark in the state following the deaths of six more persons. As on Saturday evening, the casualty count stood at 503. The infections count rose further to 23,743 following 574 fresh cases. While Jaipur registered two more deaths, Ajmer, Hanumangarh, Kota and Udaipur reported one death each. The fatalities in Jaipur has gone up to 172. In the past eight days, the state has reported 4,696 new infections with an average of 587 cases per day. The spike in new infections pushed up the active cases to a new high cases of 5,376 on Saturday. It was 5,057 on Friday, 5,002 on Thursday, 4,715 on Wednesday, 4,357 on Tuesday, 3,949 on Monday and 3,780 on Sunday. Among the districts which reported new cases, Bikaner topped the list with 105 new infections, followed by Jodhpur (81) and Jaipur (53). Other districts which reported new cases are Alwar (45), Jalore (45), Udaipur (36), Barmer (30), Nagaur (28), Bharatpur (24), Pali (23), Sirohi (18), Rajsamand (14), Sawai Madhopur (8), Sikar (8), Churu (8), Ajmer (7), Dungarpur (7), Bhilwara (5), Hanumangarh (4), Jhunjhunu (4), Pratapgarh (3), Dausa (3), Karauli (3), Dholpur (2), Banswara (2), Baran (2), Sriganganagar (1), Kota (1), Tonk (1) and three from other states. As many as 249 Covid-19 patients have also recovered taking the tally of cured patients to 17,869. In Jaipur, 26 different places reported 53 cases. The areas which reported new cases are Mansarovar (5), Malviya Nagar (5), Jhotwara (3), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/deaths-cross-500-active-cases-touch-new-high-of-5376/articleshow/76916804.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Jalna deploys mobile swab collection vans||AURANGABAD: The local civic body in Jalna has started using mobile vans to collect throat swab samples for Covid-19 tests. Jalna municipal council CEO Nitin Narvekar on Saturday said 36 areas of the city and the outskirts have been identified for the collection of swabs using the mobile vans. “The vans are being used for collecting swabs of pregnant women and people aged above 60 years, as these people often face difficulties in reaching testing facilities,” he said. Narvekar said the target groups would have to give their swab samples even if they are not showing Covid-19 symptoms. “We have initiated a health survey of around 70,000 homes within the city limits. Door-to-door visits are being made to screen citizens. Swabs are collected from the high-risk groups,” he said. The local authorities have set a daily target of 225 sample collection for testing. Jalna district has reported -------- Covid-19 cases and ---- deaths by Saturday evening. ---- people have been cured. Jalna still does not have Covid 19 testing facility of its own and swab samples are sent to Aurangabad and other places. A testing facility is being set up at Jalna and is slated for formal inauguration soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-deploys-mobile-swab-collection-vans/articleshow/76915904.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||Let us operate or stop private buses: RSRTC to 2 states||JAIPUR: Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC) is yet to get nod from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand counterparts to operate interstate buses. However, there is no bar on private buses to function. Therefore, RSRTC has asked its counterparts in two states to either allow its buses to run or stop private buses from plying. Meanwhile, after getting nod from the Delhi government, the RSRTC will ply 45 buses from July 13. Moreover, private buses are not following the SOPs of social distancing and are also fleecing people. TOI on Thursday visited Polo Victory and Gopal Bari area from where private buses leave for Dehradun and Lucknow. Asked for the ticket to Delhi, a private bus operator said, “You need to pay Rs 650 per passenger and there is a possibility that you might be taken only up to Sarai Kaley Khan and near Rajiv Chowk in Gurugram.” Meanwhile, the RSRTC authorities have been regularly calling up the authorities in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi and getting a clear cut no from their counterparts. “In this Covid-19 time, if they are not allowing us why are they allowing the private buses? Are they taking action against the private buses who are not following the SOPs. It seems to be a big nexus of the government officials and private bus operators,” said an office-bearer of the Rajasthan State Roadways Employees Union. Naveen Jain, CMD, RSRTC, said, “We are in constant touch with officials of other states. I have heard that some private operators are plying their buses to these states. So, it is problematic for the passengers too as in absence of our buses these private operators must be fleecing the customers. Usually wherever our buses ply, private operators charge fare at par with us. But, they are only plying will give them a chance to fleece the customers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/let-us-operate-or-stop-pvt-buses-rsrtc-to-2-states/articleshow/76916305.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||Over 99,000 women in Rajasthan bat for injectable contraceptive Antara||JAIPUR: More women in the state are adopting injectable contraceptives popularly known as Antara. Compared to 88,000 injectable contraceptives used by women in 2018-19, the numbers rose to 99,496 in 2019-20. The health department released the figures on the occasion of World Population Day on Saturday. “We have achieved 90% of the target of injectable contraceptives, which is quite satisfactory. We had set a target of 1,10 lakh women, but despite Covid, we achieved 90% of the target,” said Dr Girish Dwivedi, project director (family planning). These are free of cost injectable contraceptives, which are safe but it may cause irregular bleeding initially in some women after the first dose, health department officials said. Four doses of injections in equal intervals will prevent pregnancy for a year. Second dose is given three months after the first dose. The government has introduced it as an option for spacing between two children without surgery. The methods for spacing are postpartum intrauterine devices (PPIUD) which needs minor surgery and pills which remain effective for a very short time. The state will popularise Antara further in the next fortnight as the state will celebrate population stabilization fortnight from July 11 to July 24 in which the officials will encourage people to adopt family planning measures. Rajasthan’s total fertility rate (TFR) is 2.5 and the state government is aiming to bring it down to 2.1 children per eligible couple. TFR is the average number of children born to women during their reproductive years. Health minister Raghu Sharma said that population stabilisation is must to bring down TFR from 2.5 to 2.1. While addressing a state-level programme on the occasion of World Population Day, he felicitated institutions and individuals who worked exceptionally well in population stabilization. He said for popularizing family planning methods and other health and social schemes, they have identified swasthya mitras, one man and one woman, in every 41,645 revenue villages. All swasthya mitras will be completely trained till July 15. With the help of swasthya mitras, the state will move toward fulfilling Nirogi Rajasthan campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-99k-women-in-raj-bat-for-injectable-contraceptive-antara/articleshow/76916303.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Only 44% vendors registered so far, MC blames it on exodus||LUDHIANA: The MC officials could register only 44 % of the street vendors against the total number of vendors surveyed by the civic body almost two years back through the registration programme. The officials blamed exodus of migrant workers from the city during lockdown for lesser registration and claimed that they were still adding names to the list. Meanwhile, the officials are also planning for vending zones and for that designs and estimates are being prepared. In June, the civic body officials had given time to the vendors for registration. As of now almost 8,500 vendors came for the registration while the survey that was conducted by the civic body had come out with a total 19,000 street vendors. In the past two months many migrants have returned to their homes during lockdown period due to which most of those who were identified during survey are not here. The officials claimed now they are taking help from the councillors for getting the vendors registered with the civic body. Only those vendors will be registered whose names are there in the survey list. Zonal commissioner Neeraj Jain said, “The registration rate is low due to coronavirus and exodus of migrants from city. Many are coming back, so we have kept registration open for the vendors.” He said they had sent the proposal of establishing vending zones in the city to be tabled in the MC general house meeting, but the meeting had not been scheduled as of now. Meanwhile, under Street Vendors Atam Nirbhar Scheme the street vendors will also get Rs 10,000 as loan amount to resume their business. This scheme has been introduced by the Union government for helping the street vendors whose business was disturbed during the pandemic. The vendors who will be registered with MC will be able to avail this loan at 7% interest rate. In this regard the civic officials also conducted a meeting with members of the town vending committee on Friday evening and they had been assured that vending zones would be established shortly. The matter of vending zones has been hanging fire for a long time and even after conducting a survey around two years back the civic body officials could not finalise the vending zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/only-44-vendors-registered-so-far-mc-blames-it-on-exodus/articleshow/76916307.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
July 12, 2020||Bhopal||Chhatarpur baby girl’s body exhumed after ‘sudden’ death||BHOPAL: Three days after a baby girl’s ‘sudden’ death in Chhatarpur, her body was exhumed from a dried pond of the village for autopsy. The report is awaited and she was buried back after post mortem. Her father Vijay Kumar Sharma lives with in Gandhinagar village of Chhatarpur district — the district also infamous for skewed sex ratio. Police said that Sharma’s second wife had given birth to a baby girl about two weeks. The baby was all hale and hearty, thus her sudden death raised suspicion among the villagers and police was informed. The police informed the local administration and the SDM Badamalhera deputed a tehesildar to supervise the whole process of exhuming the body for the post mortem. Initial investigations have revealed that Sharma had taken the help of a quack from a nearby village for the delivery. He did not inform the local health authorities after the baby was born. Investigating officer Maniram Gond, who was also present when the body was dug out from the dry water body, said, “ the post mortem report is awaited. We will take any action only after the report is out.” Chhatarpur has 883 females against 1000 males — much less than the national sex ratio of 909 females against 1000 males. Last week, a woman had lodged complaint that her family ostracized after she gave birth to a baby girl.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chhatarpur-baby-girls-body-exhumed-after-sudden-death/articleshow/76916301.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Bhopal||As cases rise in state, CM seeks 4,000 oxygen beds||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan asked for making available 4,000 beds with oxygen facility for treating Covid-19 patients. Expressing satisfaction over the Covid status in Madhya Pradesh, while on a visit to the new Corona hotspot on Gwalior on Saturday, Chouhan said the situation in MP is under control. He said all medical arrangements including oxygen must be ensured in hospitals and hospitals must also be fixed for treatment of other diseases. “With everyone’s cooperation we will soon defeat Corona completely in the state,” he said. The chief minister said that mortality rate of Corona in the state is on the decline and the state government is making all efforts to ensure that every Corona patient recovers and returns home. Besides reviewing the Covid-19 situation, Chouhan also presided over the meeting of district crisis management group in Gwalior. Chouhan said death rate in Gwalior is very low and one of the primary reasons of which is the strong immunity of the residents here. But, in the last few days there has been a slight increase in infection. Crisis management group members should work in this regard keeping in mind the current circumstances. The infection should not spread at all, he said. Chouhan said that markets should remain open but physical distancing should be ensured. Every person must wear a mask, and maintain adequate distance between each other, must not spit anywhere and take all other precautions. During the review, health minister Narottam Mishra directed the survey work under Kill Corona campaign must be speeded up and completed by July 15. Patients who have symptoms of Corona should be examined. He said that the campaign is bringing good results in the state. We will identify each Corona patient, treat them and free the state from Corona. Collector Kaushalendra Vikram Singh informed in the meeting that pool sampling work is being done prominently to detect Corona infection in the district. So far, about 9,000 pools have been sampled, out of which only 25 are infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/as-cases-rise-in-state-cm-seeks-4000-oxygen-beds/articleshow/76916304.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon GMCH gets 11 more bed attendants||Nashik: Eleven more local residents have vowed to serve as bed attendants of Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at the Jalgaon government medical college hospital (GMCH). Dean of Jalgaon GMCH Jaiprakash Ramanand told TOI that a total of 20 bed attendants have started working at the hospital a few days back. Initially, in the first week of July, nine local residents had volunteered to work as bed attendants for Covid patients. Later, 11 more volunteered for the task. “We conducted an orientation programme for all the 20 bed attendants explaining the ways to take care of themselves while working in the midst of affected patients. They have also been trained to deal with the patients,” said Ramanand. According to Ramanand, the task of the bed attendants would be to provide bed pans to patients,serve meals to patients,escort them to and from toilets, etc. These bed attendants would be paid and they have been insured under the government’s medical insurance scheme, added Ramanand. Jalgaon GMCH sources said that the attendants are a “boon” for the hospital. “There is a paucity of such attendants in the hospital. The doctors and the nurses are busy in treating patients. Therefore, these 20 attendants will assist patients in non-medical needs,” hospital sources added. The Jalgaon GMCH, in the recent past, faced severe criticism following the recovery of the body of 82-year-old Covid-19 woman patient from the bathroom of the hospital ward. The incident took place in the second week of June. The woman went missing for five days before her body was recovered. The state government then appointed Ramanand as the new dean replacing the then dean of the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-gmch-gets-11-more-bed-attendants/articleshow/76915909.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||Dalit woman thrashed in Churu||JAIPUR: A Dalit woman was thrashed by five men in Churu’s Sujangarh when she resisted their sexual advances. The woman was hospitalised and a case was registered on Friday evening. Police have initiated an investigation; however, no one has been arrested yet. The 50-year-old woman was beaten up on Friday following which her family registered a case. The incident is of Amarsar village in Sandwa police station. Narendra Kumar Sharma, circle officer, Sujangarh, who is investigating the case, said, “The victim claimed that the five persons tried to molest her and when raised an alarm, they beat her with sticks. According to her statement, of the five accused, four are from same family.” While the woman is still undergoing treatment for her injuries, officials claimed that they would arrest the accused once the facts are established. “We will get her medical examination done and talk to other villagers as well to check the veracity of the allegations before making any arrests,” Sharma said. Initially, the injured woman was taken to Sandwa community health centre, but was later referred to the district hospital as the injuries appeared to be serious. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dalit-woman-thrashed-in-churu/articleshow/76915916.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ludhiana||8-yr-old boy rescued; had left father’s home||Ludhiana: The ticket checking staff of a passenger train rescued an eight-year-old boy from Jan Shatabdi Express when it arrived at the city railway station here. Annoyed with his father's treatment during the lockdown period, the boy had boarded the Jan Shatabdi train to Ludhiana and reached the city railway station. The child was safely handed over to his family members after investigation by the childline welfare team of Ludhiana railway station. Later, the boy was identified as Arman, a resident of Noor Basti of Saharanpur city of Uttar Pradesh. During counselling, the minor told the childline care that, “After divorce of his parents, he was residing with his father but for the past few days, his father was treating him well and he couldn’t even listen to his demands, which forced him to leave his father’s home, and reached his maternal grandmother’s home. Meanwhile, I took the train to reach the city station.” Kuldip Singh, coordinator, Childlin Care, Ludhiana, said on Saturday, they received an alert from a city resident on the helpline number 1098 about the boy. “During counselling, the boy revealed that his father had scolded him a few days ago. Upset over this, he boarded a train from Saharanpur railway station and reached Ludhiana railway station.” But during all this, the ticket checking staff of the city found him and took him to the Childline Care for further proceedings. “A five member team of the Childline Care have been appointed at the city railway station that will look after the grievances of women passengers and make necessary arrangements for them. Apart from helping passengers, the childline service has already worked in the direction of taking care of all minor children who get separated from their family members while travelling in trains,” he said. Childline India Foundation has partnered with Swami Ganga Nand Bhuriwale International Foundation, Dham Talwandi Khurd, for giving best possible service to all children,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/8-yr-old-boy-rescued-had-left-fathers-home/articleshow/76916310.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur's SMS Hospital doctor & team frame rules to diagnose chest ailments||JAIPUR: It has always been a difficult task for chest specialists to diagnose Interstitial Lung Diseases (ILD), a group of 200 lung ailments. However, a guideline prepared by a SMS Hospital doctor in coordination with more than 40 doctors, including from AIIMS Delhi, will help in diagnosis and treatment of such patients. Frontal Indian chest organisations — Indian Chest Society and National College of Chest Physicians (NCCP) — prepared the ILD guidelines which were endorsed by global thoracic bodies such as American Thoracic society and Asia Pacific Society of Respirology. “ILD is a rapidly increasing disease in India. In ILD, lungs are so shrunken that they are unable to deliver oxygen to the body. Delay in treatment makes the disease irreversible and patient dies. Now, we have guidelines to diagnose patients early and treat interstitial lung disease,” said Dr Sheetu Singh, associate professor, SMS Medical College, who is the first author of the guidelines on ILD. Other doctors who played a key role in preparing the guidelines are Dr Ganesh Raghu from USA and Dr Virendra Singh, who were co-chair of the guidelines. Other chest experts are S K Jindal, D Behera from PGI Chandigarh, Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS Delhi, Jarir Udawadia, Beach Candy, Mumbai, Surya Kant, KGMC Lucknow, and Deepak Talwar and Rajadhar from Fortis Kolkata. These guidelines have been published simultaneously in two international journals Lung India and IJCDAS. “ILD is a rapidly spreading disease and evidence-based guidelines will help respiratory physicians not only in India, but also globally. It has complete details, how certain investigations should be done to diagnose ILD accurately,” said Dr Virendra Singh, co-chair of the guidelines. Some of the common ILDs are rheumatoid lung disease, IPF, sarcoidosis, silicosis and bird-induced HP in which normal lungs are shrunken and these fail to deliver oxygen to blood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sms-doc-team-frame-rules-to-diagnose-chest-ailments/articleshow/76916309.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||No action yet on 1,200 violators of heritage building bylaws in Jaipur's Walled City||JAIPUR: It has been around five months since the completion of 3D drone survey for identifying heritage buildings that were altered without prior permission, but no action has been taken against the violators yet. Around 1,200 buildings have been identified in the Walled City with altered façade, revealed a drone survey that started in October 2019 and ended in February 2020. Some have changed the external structure by using different shade of paint, altering the balcony to fix the AC duct, etc. Such owners of the building were supposed to be given notices. On July 6, Jaipur Nagar Nigam, Heritage Conservation and Protection Bylaws, 2020, were notified and now the Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Heritage, will have authority to take action against the violators. According to Sec 12 of the Heritage bylaws, no development or redevelopment or additions/alterations, repairs, renovations shall be allowed except with the prior permission of competent authority. This, however, will take time to be implemented as authorities are waiting for urban body elections to be over. A senior JMC official on condition of anonymity said, “We have been waiting for the urban body elections to be completed as political body has more power to take action than the officials at JMC. But elections have been postponed due to the pandemic and there are chances of their further postponement. So, it is not possible to implement the survey report this year.” This argument of the JMC officials does not stand as they are still capable of sending notices to the persons responsible for it. “Officials can send notices to the owners whose properties have been identified, but they are sitting on the survey report. One important issue is to remove encroachment and vote bank politics comes into play here. Hence, officials are waiting for the elections to get over,” said another JMC official on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-action-yet-on-1-2k-violators-of-heritage-building-bylaws/articleshow/76915911.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Bhopal||Two held in Gwalior for sheltering Vikas Dubey aides||BHOPAL: The Uttar Pradesh special task force (STF) on Saturday arrested two persons – including the elder brother of slain Vikas Dubey aide Prem Prakash Pandey -- from Gwalior for allegedly harbouring two members of the gang after the murder of eight policemen in Kanpur on July 3. Vikas, who was gunned down by UP cops on Friday morning near Kanpur, is believed to have had a strong connection with Gwalior and was once arrested in the city a decade ago. Two alleged members of his gang -- Sashikant Pandey alias Sonu and Shivam Dubey of Chaubepur area – had fled to Gwalior after the July 3 killings and hid here for four days, say sources. They were listed among 21 active members of the Vikas Dubey gang and carried bounties of Rs 50,000 each. A team of UP STF had been camping in Gwalior since July 4 in search of Vikas and the other fugitives. Police say Gwalior residents Omprakash Pandey and Anil Pandey, who were arrested on Saturday, had allegedly sheltered Sonu and Shivam for four days before they moved to another place. Om Prakash is the elder brother of Prem Prakash Pandey, 55 who was killed in retaliatory firing after the Kanpur killings. Police claim he was a distant relative of Vikas and was alleged to be his accomplice in multiple crimes. Police say Prem Prakash had fired on police from Vikas’s terrace on July 3, and snatched rifles from wounded policemen. DSP Mishra was allegedly killed in Pandey’s home.While Prem Prakash was killed by police, his son Shashikant fled to Gwalior with Shivam and took shelter in his uncle’s home in Bhagat Singh Colony of Bahodapur area, say police, adding that he stayed here for four days before moving to a different hideout. Omprakash’s wife denied that Shashikant had stayed in their house during his flight. He told mediapersons that they have lived in Gwalior for more than 20 years. “My husband Omprakash works in a factory and is not involved in any criminal activity,” she said. Police said Om Prakash and Anil have been booked under IPC section 216. Vikas’s bro-in-law freedUP police have released Vikas’s brother-in-law Raju Khullar alias Gynendra Nigam and his son. Raju was Vikas’s friend from their school days but they fell apart. Raju and his wife said they had fled Kanpur 15 years ago to escape Vikas and had nothing to do with him. Raju was picked up by police on July 8. A police team dropped them home on Saturday morning. Raju said he was treated well by police in MP and UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/two-held-in-gwalior-for-sheltering-vikas-aides/articleshow/76916313.cms||P Naveen
July 12, 2020||Nashik||For NASHIK - 102 cases, 11 dead in Nashik city||Nashik city on Saturday recorded 11 Covid-19 related deaths. This is the highest single-day fatality number so far. A 34-year-old man from Shivaji Nagar in Satpur was the youngest of the deceased on Saturday while of a 76-year-old man from Wadalagon was the oldest. Deaths were also recorded in rural areas of Nashik, Niphad and Deola talukas. Overall, there were 14 deaths in the district. Meanwhile, the city reported 102 new cases. The city now has 1,435 active patients, while 2,264 have been discharged and 165 have died. The district, overall, reported 241 cases. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/for-nashik-102-cases-11-dead-in-nashik-city/articleshow/76915915.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||4,000 GU BSc seats may have no takers||Ahmedabad: More than 4,000 BSc seats are likely to remain empty at colleges affiliated with Gujarat University. Of 13,000 seats at 37 such colleges, 10,767 students are on the provisional merit list which was released recently. Many more students who are seeking admission to engineering and medical colleges are also likely to exit the admission process once their engineering or medical admissions are confirmed, sources in GU said. In all, more than 4,000 seats are expected to remain vacant, they added. A second and third round of admissions may have to be carried out to fill the seats, sources added. Of the seats allotted in the provisional merit list, 3,568 are from the general category, 3,397 from SEBC, 937 from SC, 717 from ST and 2,049 are from EWS category, sources said. The final merit list and mock round of admissions will be conducted on July 15. Round one of allotments will be held on July 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4000-gu-bsc-seats-may-have-no-takers/articleshow/76915919.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Villagers protest against NHAI for charging toll for ‘incomplete’ road||Ludhiana: Several villagers from around Samrala lodged a protest against the NHAI on Saturday as it began toll collection on the Ludhiana-Chandigarh highway from Friday evening. The protesters also blocked the road for some time before the officials pacified them and assured that the matter would be brought to the notice of the higher authorities. Locals said that a group of 100-150 persons from Samrala, surrounding villages, including Bijlipur, Ghulal, Chehlan, Sihala, Rupalon, Barma took part in the protest, which began at 11.30am for about one and a half hours. Various social group members were also supported the protesters. Amarjeet Singh, a 63-year-old farmer from Balion village who was among the protesters, said that they were opposing collection of toll by the authorities as the road was still incomplete. “They haven’t even constructed Neelon bridge and Bhaini Sahib flyover completely and even the bridge near Jatana village is incomplete, so how can they collect toll? Also the toll charge of Rs 55 is not reasonable. If a person starts from Chandigarh and has to go to Amritsar, he will have to pay toll at Kharar area, then near Ghulal and then at Phillaur and then at few tolls before entering Amritsar. This way it is heavy on the pocket of commuters,” said Amarjeet Singh. He added that they would continue to oppose the toll collection till the road was completed and would cause traffic jam on Monday as well. Another protester Sandeep Singh said that the toll should be reasonable and that too after the road was fully constructed. “We have the right to know about the investment made by the road construction and managing authorities and how much they will earn in a single day from it. They will need to make the toll reasonable and collect it after construction is complete,” he added. Sanjok Singh, Samrala president of Lok Chetna Lehar Punjab, said that it was completely unjustified and was illegal to collect toll for an incomplete road. He rued that the road on either side of Samrala had not been completed. “We will not allow them to collect toll before road construction is completed. We will hold a meeting on Sunday, wherein we will decide the future course of action,” said Sanjok Singh. “We will also meet the deputy commissioner and SDM against the move.” Meanwhile, NHAI officials said that they were charging toll for the road they had completed. An NHAI officer asking not to be named said that they were charging toll for 69 km they had completed and the rate would be increased after the whole 76 km of road length was completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/villagers-protest-against-nhai-for-charging-toll-for-incomplete-road/articleshow/76916325.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Vadodara||Fraud siphons off Anyonya Co-op Bank’s recovered money||Vadodara: Dues amounting to Rs 1.75 crore recovered from the borrowers of the now defunct Anonya Cooperative Bank Ltd was siphoned off from the Punjab National Bank (PNB) using forged documents by an unidentified person.The scam came to light on June 24 when Anyonya bank’s manager went to PNB to get balance certificate of the dues that was kept as fixed deposit (FD). He was shocked to know that the amount of FD was pre-maturely withdrawn. The manager informed Arjun Damor, liquidator of the bank appointed by the state government. Based on Damor’s complaint, offence of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy was registered by the Vadodara crime branch on Friday night.According to police, the accused forged identity cards like PAN card and letters in name of Damor to transfer the FD to a bank account in Vadodara. Police said that the accused first got a demand draft made on February 10 for Rs 1.75 crore. The demand draft was payable at Kolhapur. A week later the draft was cancelled and another demand draft payable at Vadodara was made. The accused opened a current account in name of Anyonya bank in Central Bank of India’s Karelibaug branch using forged documents and deposited the demand draft there. On February 20, the accused transferred Rs 1.5 crore from the Central Bank of India account to an IDBI bank account in Mumbai held by Destiny Trading and invested the remaining Rs 25 lakh as fixed deposit in same bank. Later on March 5, the Rs 25 lakh FD was pre-maturely withdrawn and transferred to the account of RA Sales Corporation in Mumbai. The crime branch has registered a case of forgery and cheating and is investigating into the fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fraud-siphons-off-anyonya-co-op-banks-recovered-money/articleshow/76915454.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nashik||‘Mission Begin Again in people’s interest’||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Friday said that state government’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ was in the best interest of the citizens and hence the people need to co-operate with the same by following Covid-19 health advisory. Bhujbal was speaking at the meeting of all the elected representatives of ‘Mahavikas Aghadi’ convened by him at the government rest house. MLAs from the district including deputy speaker of legislative assembly Narhari Zhirwal, representatives of the zilla parishad and office-bearers of Shiv Sena, Cogress and NCP were present. “The economy across the globe is in shambles. After some more time, providing food would not suffice to cater to the needs of people. They have their loans to repay and much to achieve in their life for which the wheel of economy should be kept running,” Bhujbal asserted. “The elected representatives and the party workers should take the message down to the people and educate them on the ways and means to fight the disease by taking all precautionary measures,” Bhujbal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mission-begin-again-in-peoples-interest/articleshow/76915920.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rs 100 crore project to mitigate drinking water crisis||JAIPUR: In a bid to provide relief to three water scarcity-hit districts in the state—Pali, Sirohi and Jalore, the water resources department will expand the capacity of the tunnel that links Sei Dam with Jawai Dam in Pali for the supply of water to this dam. The Rs 100-crore capacity-building project, which was announced by chief minister Ashok Gehlot in the budget, will help mitigate the acute drinking water crisis in the three districts. In the current scenario, drinking water is transported to drought-hit Pali and other districts from Jodhpur via trains. The tender process for capacity-building of the tunnel has been initiated with a sanctioned budget of Rs 15 crore for financial year 2020-21. This will lead to increase in the tunnel’s capacity from 34.13 million cubic feet per day to 73.87 million cubic feet. “Over the years, it was observed that Jawai Dam (total capacity of which is 7327.50 million cubic feet) in Pali district was not getting filled to its capacity due to change in rainfall pattern and disturbance in the catchment area. Even though it is the most important dam in western Rajasthan, its deficit was increasing. However, it is the lifeline for these three districts as it provides drinking water to the people and the dam water is also used for irrigation purposes,” said Naveen Mahajan, secretary, water resources department. “Even as the capacity of Jawai Dam was huge, due to the disturbance in catchment area, the dam was not being filled to capacity, the rain water got wasted during monsoon as it travelled to Gujarat.”  “Later, we came up with an idea to rejuvenate the dam and fix the deficit. So, we decided to expand the capacity of the tunnel that links Jawai Dam with Sei Dam, which is a feeder dam of Jawai for supply of water. The capacity and size of the tunnel being relatively smaller, it had a limiting factor in terms of volume of water to be supplied to Jawai Dam. With the completion of the project, there will be no deficit in drinking water in these districts. It will take at least two years to complete it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-100cr-project-to-mitigate-drinking-water-crisis/articleshow/76915922.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||Bikaner and Jaipur papad makers evaded Rs 4 crore import duty, unearths DRI||JAIPUR: The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence on Saturday conducted raids on the papad manufacturers at Bikaner and Jaipur and unearthed evasion of Rs 4 crore import duty. With the hike in import duty, the manufacturers were importing one ingredient of papad from Afghanistan as the duty on products imported from Pakistan was 200%. Sleuths said that Saji Khar is a type of salt used in making papad (snack) of Bikaner and is mainly produced in Pakistan. “Prior to Pulwama attack, the manufacturers were getting Saji Khar from Pakistan with an import duty of 15%. However, post-Pulwama attack, the government of India increased the import duty on products from Pakistan to 200%. Thus, the manufacturers in Bikaner and Jaipur started getting the Pakistan manufactured Saji Khar via Afghanistan to evade import duty,” said a senior officer of DRI on the condition of anonymity. On receiving specific inputs, the sleuths raided four importers based in Bikaner and Jaipur. “We unearthed an import duty evasion of Rs 4 crore out of which the importers agreed to pay Rs 1 crore,” said an officer. “Some importers are importing it by the name of sodium bicarbonate at the rate of 7.5%. The documents of the importers were also checked to find any other nexus,” said an officer. The authorities said that preliminary investigation suggested an estimated import duty evasion of Rs 4 crore which might further increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/papad-makers-evaded-rs-4cr-import-duty-unearths-dri/articleshow/76915927.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nashik||Rly-DoP parcel op extended to more cities||Nashik: The Department of Post and Central Railway have extended their ‘parcel service’ to Nashik, Akola, Solapur and Kolhapur railway stations, following a successful launch in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. The two entities have joined hands in Maharashtra to provide the service in the backdrop of Covid-19. A parcel will be picked up from the doorstep of a consumer and delivered at the recipient’s address. A senior official of the CR said, “The DoP will collect and deliver parcels at the given addresses while the CR will transport them between different stations,” An official from the DoP said, “We generally accept parcels up to 10 kg at post offices and then take them to a railway station or MSRTC stop for transportation to the destination. However, our parcel van will now go to the premises of the sender and carry any load or parcel permissible by the Railways,” . The CR has, during the Covid-19 lockdown, run special parcel services across the country to enable people dispatch their goods, especially in the times when road transport was affected due to travel curbs and other reasons. The CR official said the new service is an extension to the same launched on a pilot basis in some areas. “It is picking up and we will soon have door-to-door service in far-flung areas of the state while using the reach of the postal department,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rly-dop-parcel-op-extended-to-more-cities/articleshow/76915929.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||Monsoon weakens in Rajasthan, may revive from Tuesday||JAIPUR: Except a few places, the southwest monsoon has weakened across the state due to upper air cyclonic circulation and northerly winds. Jaipur Meteorological office said that southwest monsoon is likely to revive in the state from Tuesday. In the absence of rainfall, many places in the state witnessed its maximum temperature around 40°C. Sriganganagar remained hottest in the state where a maximum temperature of 43.5°C was recorded, the meteorological reports said on Saturday. Attributing the vanishing of the southwest monsoon in majority of the state to the active upper air cyclonic circulation and northerly winds, the meteorological office said that presently the state is under a dry spell. For the third consecutive day, no rainfall was reported in and around Jaipur despite cloud cover in the morning. In the absence of rainfall, mercury took an upward swing in the city as a maximum temperature of 38°C was recorded. Earlier in the morning, a minimum temperature of 28.8°C was recorded. Even in Jaipur district as a whole, no rainfall was reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/monsoon-weakens-in-raj-may-revive-from-tuesday/articleshow/76915939.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nashik||2 lab technicians of civc hosp booked||Nashik: The Bhadrakal police have booked two lab technicians of Dr Zakir Hussain Hospital under IPC sections and Epidemic Prevention Act for not reporting to work. Senior PI Sajan Sonawane said the two were responsible for conducting rapid covid tests. While one of them stopped coming to work since the last week of June, the other has not shown up for the last few days. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-lab-technicians-of-civc-hosp-booked/articleshow/76915944.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Bhopal||Tiger Shivraj Singh Chouhan, don’t be so frightened: Digvijaya Singh||BHOPAL: Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Saturday took a dig at chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and the BJP leadership for not being able to distribute portfolio to the council of ministers even more than a week after the cabinet expansion. He also claimed that Ashoknagar district is without a collector for 11 days because Jyotiraditya Scindia’s personal assistants have not yet found the right officer. The former chief minister on Saturday tweeted, “It is eight days since the cabinet expansion took place. The chief minister’s work-out for department allocation seems unending. Has the tiger become toothless and clawless? Let us see who runs away from his territory.” Digvijaya Singh was referring to the cabinet expansion last week in which 28 new ministers were sworn-in as part of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. Twelve of these ministers belong to the Jyotiraditya Scindia faction and were Congress MLAs who switched to the BJP in march this year. After the oath taking ceremony, Scindia dares veteran Congress leaders Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh claiming, “Tiger abhi zinda hai (tiger is still alive)”. Incidentally, this same metaphor was used to describe himself at a public meeting by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in December 2018. In second tweet, the Singh said, “Entire BJP from Delhi to Bhopal is trying to “work-out” the distribution of portfolios for the new MP ministers. This is not a fight over cabinet department distribution, rather it is the fight for plunder. Scindiaji (Jyotiraditya Scindia) would not want to leave departments like transport, excise, revenue, urban development. Why? You will know.” Digvijaya also claimed that not just cabinet portfolios, even post of district collector Ashoknagar is vacant. “On June 30, the district collector retired from services, but Scindiaji is not getting the right officer who can pass the scrutiny of Prashantji and Parasharji (PAs personal assistants of Jyotiraditya Scindia),” @digvijaya_28 tweeted. “Tiger Shivraj, don’t be so frightened,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tiger-shivraj-dont-be-so-frightened-digvijaya/articleshow/76916335.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Goa||GU to offer 10% EWS quota for PG seats||Panaji: Goa University on Saturday said that it has decided to implement the 10% quota for economically weaker sections (EWS) for postgraduate seats from the academic year 2020-21. Of the around 1,000 PG seats offered at the GU campus, now 10% will be available to EWS students. The varsity has also spelt out a separate application procedure for these seats. “Those candidates who had applied for round one and round two of the Goa University Admissions Ranking Test (GU-ART), and wish to apply under the EWS category, are required to fill up a Google Form and upload a valid EWS certificate issued to that effect by the officer of the rank of mamlatdar or any other authorized officer as notified by government of Goa,” the university has said. The EWS quota will also be offered for PG programme seats in GU affiliated colleges, except in the case of minority institutions. Students who have cleared the bachelor’s degree examination of any recognized university, with at least 40% aggregate marks in the qualifying exam, are eligible to seek admission to the masters programmes of GU and affiliated colleges. “Seats under the unreserved category will be filled first, followed by respective reserved categories,” GU has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-to-offer-10-ews-quota-for-pg-seats/articleshow/76916477.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||CM: Telangana to build Rs 25-crore cold storage in a year||HYDERABAD: The government will construct an ultra modern cold storage at a cost of Rs 25 crore for storing seeds by the Telangana State Seed Development Corporation. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who held a review meeting with officials here on Saturday, asked the officials to construct Rythu Vedikas (farmers’ facilitation centres) in all the clusters by Dasara. “Telangana is transforming itself into a great agriculture-based state. The agriculture university and TSSDC have started producing fine quality seeds. To store the seeds, the government has decided to construct an ultra modern cold storage facility. Funds will be released shortly and the facility should be completed within a year,” he said. The CM said Rythu Bandhu scheme benefits should reach every farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-t-to-build-rs-25-crore-cold-storage-in-a-yr/articleshow/76915957.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Bhopal||Highest single-day spike of 544 takes state count to 17,201||Bhopal: With 544 people testing positive on a single day, Madhya Pradesh reported highest number of Covid-19 positive cases found so far in a day on Saturday. Tally of positive cases also crossed 17,000 mark and reached 17,201. Along with it, six deaths were reported taking the death toll to 644. A whopping 26% of the total 17,201 cases that have been reported in 109 days of lockdown have only been reported in past 11 days of July when 3,608 people have been tested positive. Thus on an average at least 328 people have tested positive everyday in July. And of these 3608 a whopping 1057 have tested positive from Morena and Gwalior alone. Overall state capital Bhopal has registered highest number of cases between July 1 and July 11 where 618 new cases were reported in the given period followed by Morena (537 cases), Gwalior (520 cases) and Indore (467 cases). Adding more to the worries, a whopping 66 deaths or more than 9% of the total 644 casualties that have been reported till now have been reported in these 11 days of July. On Saturday when highest single day positive cases were reported in the state, the number of tests conducted in the state was also one of the highest wherein 13520 tests were done and alarmingly rate of people testing positive out of the total samples tested was higher compared to previous average 3% as 4.02% people tested positive. It is clearly evident from the recent spike that now it is not only Indore and Bhopal but it is other districts too which are reporting more cases. It was again Morena district which reported largest number of positive cases on Saturday where 101 people tested positive. Number of active cases in the state has also gone up while there were only 2625 active cases on July 1, it jumped to 3878 on July 11, registering an increase of 47% in just 11 days. There were at least 14 districts out of the 40 in which fresh cases were reported on Saturday where new cases were reported in double digits. At the same time, 198 people recovered on Saturday and total number of people who have recovered reached 12679. Thus overall recovery rate fell down to 73.7% on July 11 from 76.8% on July 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/highest-single-day-spike-of-544-takes-state-count-to-17201/articleshow/76916337.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Dehradun||60-year-old woman mauled to death by leopard in Nainital, second attack in fortnight||DEHRADUN: A 60-year-old woman was mauled to death by a leopard when she went to collect fodder for cattle in Manora forest range of Nainital forest division. Deceased Uma Devi was a resident of Saun village. This is the second leopard attack in a fortnight in the same area, leading to the conviction that the same leopard is behind both attacks. According to Nainital divisional forest officer (DFO) Bijulal (who uses only his first name), forest teams have installed cages and camera traps and are trying to find the leopard. A process has also been initiated to give the woman’s family Rs 3 lakh compensation. The previous attack was on June 23 in Sonkot village of Ramnagar area, when a 58-year-old woman was mauled to death. A similar attack had taken place in Belpadav forest area of Ramnagar on June 8, when a leopard dragged away and killed a teenage girl while she was listening to music on earphones. “Saturday’s incident took place on the border of Ramnagar and Nainital forest divisions. It is the act of the same leopard as all these attacks happened in close vicinity of each other. The sites merely fall under separate forest divisions but are all in Nainital district. They are 1.5 km apart as the crow flies,” said DFO Bijulal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/60-year-old-woman-mauled-to-death-by-leopard-in-nainital-second-attack-in-fortnight/articleshow/76914504.cms||Shivani Azad
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||BJP trying to topple my government but it is stable, says Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: The BJP is still playing the toppling game in Rajasthan, one that they played in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh recently, said Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot here on Saturday and asserted that his government is stable and will complete its full term. Gehlot said his government has already begun preparations for winning the next assembly elections in 2023. Even as Gehlot brought charges against BJP, Rajasthan police’s Special Operations Group (SOG) on Saturday charged two persons with sedition and criminal conspiracy for trying to topple the state government by allegedly indulging in horse-trading of MLAs. The SOG claimed that it had intercepted phone conversation of the two while probing an arms deal case in June and found that they were talking about BJP’s alleged plans to topple the Gehlot government. According to officials, the accused discussed the alleged rift between Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot as an opportunity for the BJP to lure Congress MLAs. “It was the nature of the conversation that led us to filing the FIR and arresting them,” said Ashok Rathore, ADG (SOG and ATS). Gehlot, who addressed a press conference, claimed that despite its best efforts to win over MLAs during the recently-held Rajya Sabha elections, the BJP was taught a lesson by the Congress in the state. Gehlot named three state BJP leaders -- leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, deputy leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore and BJP state president Satish Poonia -- and claimed they were carrying out the agenda of the party’s central leadership. He said 14 MLAs were purchased in Gujarat ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections in 2017, and recently, seven MLAs had resigned for the saffron party to win two Rajya Sabha seats there. ‘CM scripting a political drama’The BJP hit back at Gehlot, with Kataria challenging the CM to prove his charges or quit politics and also accusing him of scripting a political drama of horse trading against his own government to hide own failures in handling the Covid situation in the state. Poonia and Rathore demanded an inquiry into ‘elephant trading’ by the Congress that merged six BSP MLAs into its fold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-trying-to-topple-my-govtbut-it-is-stable-says-gehlot/articleshow/76916341.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Goa||Round 3 of GU’s admission ranking test on July 20-21||Panaji: Goa University (GU) will be conducting a third round of GU-Admissions Ranking Test (GU-ART) on July 20 and 21, the varsity announced, adding that detailed guidelines for the test will be issued later. The results of the round three of GU-ART will be declared on July 22 on the GU website. “Candidates who have already answered GU-ART 2020-21 rounds 1 and 2 for a particular programme are not required to answer again,” the university stated. Students will be allowed to apply for a maximum of three subjects or specialisations in case of postgraduate programmes when appearing for the third round of GU-ART. “Candidates who wish to apply for more than one programme are required to use the same login details. No changes shall be entertained after the application is submitted online. The GU-ART shall be of one paper of 100 marks, containing 50 objective multiple choice questions of two marks each. There shall be negative marking, where half a mark shall be deducted for each wrong answer. No marks will be deducted for unanswered questions. The duration of GU-ART will be of 90 minutes,” GU has said. The 100-marks paper will have 20 ‘most difficult’ level questions, 15 ‘least difficult’ questions and another 15 ‘difficult’ questions, GU has said. A common GU-ART will be conducted for MSc marine microbiology and microbiology programmes. “Candidates answering GU-ART round 3 will be ranked after the candidates from the previous round,” the varsity has said. This means that they will get a preference for seats after students who have appeared for rounds 1 and 2 of the admissions ranking test. For post graduate (PG) programmes offered at both university and affiliated colleges, after the GU-ART round 3, seats will be allotted through counselling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/round-3-of-gus-admission-ranking-test-on-july-20-21/articleshow/76916479.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Abandoned in Bhuvanagiri, 75-year-old woman rescued||HYDERABAD: Moved by the plight of a 75-year-old woman who was staying under a chat masala cart in Bhuvanagiri, the local activists and Nalgonda district legal services authority’s officials rushed to her rescue and ensured a temporary stay at the local area hospital along with required treatment for hear ailments. They later found the whereabouts of her family, who had abandoned her at Bhuvanagiri bus station and summoned her son and family. After taking an undertaking from the son and grand sons that they would look after her well, they sent the old woman with them. The woman is named Barla Kistamma. She was staying with her younger son Krishna at Annojiguda in Medchal district. She was working as domestic help in several houses till the lockdown that stalled the livelihoods of several maids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/abandoned-in-bhuvanagiri-75-year-old-woman-rescued/articleshow/76915967.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Chennai||Students forced to defer plans to study abroad||Chennai: Many college students in the city have had to put off their plans to study abroad this year due to the delay in conducting final year exams for engineering, commerce and science programmes. Most foreign universities issue conditional admission letters and the students can join the courses only after submitting course completion certificates or marksheets. While the students have secured the provisional admissions, they cannot submit their degree completion certificates on time since the courses begin in September. Institutions in the UK and France have announced that international students will be accepted for the September intake after undergoing 14 days quarantine. Nikhil M S, a final year engineering student, has got admission letters from the University of Sheffield and Coventry University — both in the UK — for joining a MS programme in advance systems and controls in September 2020. Both the universities have deferred the offer as Nikhil could not submit proof of completing the UG degree. “I am not able to go to the UK because our semester exams have been pushed to September. The only option I have is to defer the joining date to September 2021 as there is no January intake for technical courses,” Nikhil said. Students planning to study further were not allowed to sit for placements in his college, he added. “I have to spend one year at home.” Accepted for the MBA programme at Bangor University in the UK, Mishel Shelton J, a mechanical engineering student, was to begin classes in September 2020. “But there is no way I can submit course completion proof without writing the end semester exams. My IELTS exam has also been postponed four times. I have to defer my admission as I cannot get the final admission letter and visa without the course completion proof,” he said. While the end semester exams were deferred for some, those who wrote the exams online also face issues. Venkateshwaran P, a final year BSc student from a deemed university in the city, got admission letter to do masters degree in international business at an institute abroad. “My college announced semester results based on model exams conducted online but I didn’t get any certificate of completion,” he said. He can apply for a visa until next month if he gets the certificate by then. “I am still hopeful. But due to the Covid-19 pandemic, getting an education loan is also becoming very difficult,” he added. This has been the case with most students who had plans to study abroad this year, said R Sureshkumar, managing director of Truematics, an overseas education consultancy. He added that students who completed their courses last year alone plan to travel this year. “Universities offer only IT and management courses in January and engineering is available only for September intake. If not now, they have to wait for another year to fly abroad to study, particularly to the UK.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/students-forced-to-defer-plans-to-study-abroad/articleshow/76915971.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Business||74% Chinese-owned Hyderabad pharma firm files for IPO||HYDERABAD\MUMBAI: In what is one of the first Chinese majority owned companies to eye a listing on the Indian stock exchanges, Hyderabad-based Gland Pharma has filed a draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) with Sebi. The company wants to raise over Rs 1,250 crore through an initial public offering (IPO). The DRHP filing comes less than a month after the Galwan Valley clash between Indian and Chinese troops left 20 Indian soldiers dead and resulted in the Indian government banning 59 Chinese apps. In addition to the fresh issue of shares, the promoters plan to offer up to 3.48 crore shares to the public, including 1.93 crore shares held by Fosun Pharma, up to a little over 1 crore shares held by Gland Celsus Bio Chemicals, 35 lakh shares by Empower Discretionary Trust and 18.74 lakh shares by Nilay Discretionary Trust. The fresh issue and the offer for sale together is expected to take the IPO size to around Rs 3,000 crore, sources said, adding that post-offer the public shareholding in the firm is expected to be about 25%. Gland Pharma plans to use the proceeds of the IPO to fund its incremental working capital, capital expenditure needs, and for general corporate purposes. Chinese pharma giant Fosun Pharma (Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical Group) holds 74% stake in Gland through Fosun Singapore. Fosun Pharma’s acquisition of Gland Pharma in October 2017 was the single largest Chinese investment in India at around $1.1 billion when it was made. Initially, Fosun wanted to acquire a little over 86% stake in Gland but was forced to scale it down to 74% after the Indian government flagged concerns over proprietary technology developed by the Indian firm going into the hands of a Chinese pharma company. This happened in August 2017 when India and China were locked in a border standoff at Doklam. The investment proposal was recommended to the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs by the erstwhile Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) in April 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/74-chinese-owned-hyderabad-pharma-firm-files-for-ipo/articleshow/76916609.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
July 12, 2020||Rajkot||Morbi clock factories stop work for 7 days||Rajkot: Morbi’s clock industry has decided to come to a halt voluntarily for one week starting from Sunday. The clock cluster that accounts for 75 percent share in Indian clock industry decided to go into self-lockdown looking at the spike in Covid positive cases in Morbi district. Morbi registered 15 positive cases on Friday, highest one-day spike in cases, while the total rose above 90 so far in the district. President of Morbi Clock and Parts Manufacturing Association, Shashank Dangi said, “Nearly 16,000 women work in our cluster, of whom nearly 14,000 commute from rural areas everyday. We decided to halt work for one week to control spread of disease in rural areas.” Morbi has nearly 80 units manufacturing wall clocks, which have now reduced its number of working days to only two from earlier five-day week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/morbi-clock-factories-stop-work-for-7-days/articleshow/76915309.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan imposes regulations on inter-state movement||JAIPUR: Keeping in view the upsurge in Covid-19 positive cases and to prevent the spread of the infection, the state government on Saturday night issued an order to regulate inter-state movement of people. This is the second time the state government has issued such an order to regulate movement of people in a month. As per the order issued by ACS home Rohit Kumar Singh, “All persons who intend to move outside the state shall be required to obtain a pass from one of the offices, which include – collector and district magistrate; commissioner of police/DCP/SP; SDM; deputy SP and local police station.” For the entry of people from outside the state by road (private bus/taxi/personal transport), it states, “Such persons shall be screened at the checkpost to be established on the inter-state borders, where personal IDs would also require to be checked.” The following category of persons shall be exempted from the requirement of a pass for travel outside the state, after veriﬁcation of travel/other documents – those who are travelling by scheduled flight/train/RSRTC bus on July 12 with prior conﬁrmed reservation and for those with reasons of personal emergency (death, accident in immediate family or immediate rushing for hospitalisation), after due veriﬁcation. “It has come to the notice of the state government that unrestricted movement of people across the state borders has emerged as one of the primary causes of the upsurge in cases,” read the order. “Instances have come to light where residents of the state have participated in social gatherings like marriages etc. in the neighbouring states, got infected with inter-state borders and have, in turn, infected many of their contacts too,” stated the order. “Keeping in view the effective steps taken by the state government to date, for preventing the spread of Covid-19, and in the interest of public safety, it has become necessary to regulate the inter-state movement of people,” it added. It states that entry of persons from outside the state shall be regulated as follows – those returning by international flights: in accordance with the SOP for movement of Indian nationals stranded outside the country issued by ministry of home affairs, GOI. For those coming to state by scheduled domestic commercial flights/train/bus, it states, “Although a set of comprehensive safety protocols are being followed before boarding at all the airports, such persons may be screened again on arrival at the destination airport/railway station/bus stand within Rajasthan.” It also states that a counter shall be set up by the district administration at the airports, railway stations and bus stands that may provide on-the-spot passes after due veriﬁcation of IDs. “However, persons applying for pass at such counters should reach the airport/railway station/bus stand well in advance, before the time of scheduled departure.” “For those travelling outside the state by road (other than scheduled bus - RSRTC etc) screening of persons and veriﬁcation of pass/IDs shall be ensured at the checkposts,” it states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-imposes-regulations-on-inter-state-movement/articleshow/76916344.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Bhopal||‘Bhopal has adequate stock of life-saving drugs for Covid’||BHOPAL: Amid reports over a shortage and blackmarketing of life-saving drugs for critical Covid-19 patients in India, the state capital has adequate stock of antivirals said an official here on Saturday. Moreover, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has in its latest notification banned sale of life saving drugs needed for Covid patients without prescription. “There is sufficient availability of medicines and more drugs are being put on the fast-track for treatment of Covid-19,” said Dr Parag Sharma, Gandhi Medical College (GMC) pulmonologist, Covid-19 team member and public relations officer in-charge. Current weather conditions are conducive to the spread of Coronavirus, according to experts. While viral infections and related ailments are on the rise, new drugs — mostly antiviral and immunosuppressive — are being given to Corona positive patients. To keep things in check, drugs like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and Favipiravir cannot be sold without medical prescription, as per a new notification by the CDSCO. Some studies reveal administering Tocilizumab to a regimen of Remdesivir in hospitalised patients with severe Covid-19 pneumonia can help. It increases the monoclonal antibodies. These are antibodies that are made by identical immune cells that are clones of a unique parent cell. Monoclonal antibodies can be a deterrent against Covid-19. Another anti-inflammatory, widely available for treatment of asthma and COPD, is the steroid, Dexamethasone. There have been reports of people stocking up the tablet form of the drug. Doctors are warning people against self-medication and it could have unintended consequences in case of a real infection. Tocilizumab, also known as Atlizumab, is an immunosuppressive drug, mainly for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis, a severe form of arthritis in children. It is a humanized monoclonal antibody against the interleukin-6 receptor. One of the most talked about drugs is Remdesiver. It is an antiviral agent, considered to be a very important first step in finding a cure for Covid-19. It has been available in the state since June 26. A number of mild and critical patients have given the dosage. All the drugs and interventions are to be as per specified protocols only, said Dr Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-has-adequate-stock-of-life-saving-drugs-for-covid/articleshow/76916340.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Aurangabad||HC asks for setting up central points to direct Covid patients to hospitals||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court has asked for central points to be set up at taluka and district level for guiding Covid-19 patients to hospitals. The court referred to the alleged refusal by hospitals to admit Covid-19 patients. The two-member bench of Justices T V Nalawade and Justice Shrikant Kulkarni also said that the court wants to see records kept at the central points, which will help ascertain as to how the refusal is committed. ‘At tehsil level and district level also, one point needs to be created where the relatives can take the patients. From there, the patients can be directed either to a public health centre or to a private hospital. The record created by the center will enable to take criminal action against those found refusing to admit Covid-19 patients,’ the court order states. The HC has also increased the scope of its criminal suo motu PIL from Aurangabad to over entire Aurangabad bench made of 12 districts and asked government pleaders to make different competent authorities respondents in the case by serving them legal notices. The authorities include commissioners of other municipal corporations, civil surgeons of the civil hospitals and deans of the government medical colleges and police authorities, among others. It came down heavily on a section of public servants. ‘This is really a testing time. Public servants will be tested and it can be ascertained as to whether they are sincere and they have devotion to the duty. If to save own life and to save skin, they are shirking responsibility, then it can be presumed that there is no use of them to the system and after taking criminal action against them, they can be removed and this way system can be cleaned,’ the judges said. The court has again directed all the government authorities concerned to preserve the record in respect of every action related to containing the spread of Covid-19. It includes declaration of containment zone, creation of staff for having control over the containment zone, staff created for supplying essential items to persons living in containment zone and the staff created to have watch on isolation centers and for giving necessary treatment and diet to the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-asks-for-setting-up-central-points-to-direct-covid-patients-to-hospitals/articleshow/76906261.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 12, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal again touches record high of 86 Covid cases||BHOPAL: As many as 86 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state capital on Saturday. This is the second time in a week that Covid-19 cases in a single day peaked in Bhopal. Areas along E-2 and E-7 of Arera Colony, along with Bairagarh, have been the most infected, going by health department’s reports on Saturday. Four family members, including three women, tested positive in Sainik Colony. The total number of cases in Bhopal has crossed the 3,400 mark. So far, 118 have died due to the infection. Earlier this week too, Bhopal had reported 86 cases in a single day. Two more deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 118. Eight people in the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) have tested positive. They are linked to the public relations office of the civic body. The official concerned at the TT Nagar office was reported positive on Tuesday. Lack of air circulation in the office has been cited in the past too. The building is adjacent to a multilevel parking, which was constructed recently. One side of the structure is without much ventilation. According to experts, for a healthy space, air passage should allow for a change in air, at least 20 times per hour. The building’s lower floor doubles as a BMC customer care centre. According to SDM Rajesh Gupta, 17 people were diagnosed with COVID-19 in Misrod-Kolar, Arera colony and Habibganj area. Three members of the same family were infected in E-2 Arera Colony. They came in contact with residents of Rudraksh Park (Gulmohar Colony). Other cases were reported from E-7 Arera Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-again-touches-record-high-of-86-cases/articleshow/76916345.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Court summons 7 persons, including Sidhu’s aide, in Amritsar train tragedy case||Amritsar: The court of Judicial Magistrate (First Class) Harpreet Singh has issued summons to seven persons, including former cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s close aide Saurav Madan Mithu, against whom the Government Railway Police (GRP) had filed charges in the 2018 Dussehra train tragedy case. The court has fixed July 30 for hearing of the case. Fifty-eight people had died and over 70 were injured after a train had run over a crowd of Dussehra revellers that spilled onto railway tracks while watching the burning of Ravana effigy at Jaura Phatak. Principle investigator of Punjab Human Rights Organizaion (PHRO), Sarabjit Singh Verka said the seven persons against whom GRP had filed charges in a court included Mithu, Rahul Kalyan, Deepak Kumar, Karan Bhandari, Kabal Singh, Deepak Gupta and Bhupinder Singh. Verka has taken up the case of accident victims at various platforms. GRP had registered a case against unidentified persons on October 19, 2018 and constituted a special investigation team (SIT) headed by assistant inspector general Daljit Singh Rana to probe the matter. Retired judge Amarjit Singh Katari, who has also conducted a probe into this accident, had recently held five employees of Amritsar municipal corporation guilty and summoned them to appear before him on August 26. Earlier two different investigations were done in the case, one by chief commissioner (railway safety) S K Pathak and another by Jalandhar divisional commissioner B Purushartha. Purushartha had submitted a 300 page report with government. Meanwhile, a local resident, Deepak Kumar, who lost his father and uncle in the accident, said that all investigation reports were shifting responsibility. “Now, GRP has presented a challan in the court against some persons but many are still roaming free,” he said. “Even the government has not fulfilled its promise of giving job to one member of the victim’s family or monthly ration,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/court-summons-7-persons-including-sidhus-aide-in-amritsar-train-tragedy-case/articleshow/76916346.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard that killed 2 children shot dead in Chamoli||DEHRADUN: After 10 days of rigorous combing operations by three shooters and other forest officials, a leopard that had killed two children was shot dead in Chamoli district on Friday night. The seven-year-old leopard was declared as ‘dangerous to human life’ after it killed a four-year-old boy in Bhayada Malethi village and a 11-year-old girl in Gairbam village of Narayanbagarh forest range in Chamoli district on June 29 and May 29 respectively. The big cat was shot dead when it returned to the spot of its second kill on Friday night. Chamoli divisional forest officer (DFO) Ashutosh Singh said, “The leopard, which had killed both the children, was identified by its pugmarks. The villages of both the victims are aerially less than 2 km apart. It was finally shot dead by shooter Joy Hukkil when it revisited Gairbaum village, just 100 metres away from its second kill.” According to sources, this is the third leopard to be shot in the state since January while six have been declared as ‘dangerous to human life’. Meanwhile, forest officials are on the lookout for two more leopards in Almora and Nainital that have killed three persons each. Sources said that the big cat in Almora had killed three persons since April and a ‘red alert’ has been issued to villagers in Bhasiyachana block where it is currently active. They added that shooters from Nainital and Bijnor have been deployed in the area to trace the animal. Almora DFO Mahatim Yadav said, “Our preliminary investigation by camera traps, pugmark analysis and combing of the forests has revealed that these deaths were caused by a single leopard. We have issued a 12-point advisory to villagers to remain alert.” Similarly, in Nainital district, forest officials are planning to deploy shooters to locate the big cat which has killed three persons. Nainital DFO Bijulal said, “We have received an approval from the authorities concerned to either catch or kill the animal. We are going to deploy shooters in the vulnerable zones along with intensive patrolling and camera-trapping.” Notably, as many as 12 people have been killed by leopards in the state this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-that-killed-2-children-shot-dead-in-chamoli/articleshow/76914524.cms||Shivani Azad
July 12, 2020||Goa||Apply for PG courses online by Jul 16||Panaji: The admission process for postgraduate programmes at Goa University and affiliated colleges for 2020-21 will be held online, the university said on Saturday. The Goa University Admissions Ranking Test (GU-ART) Round I and II were conducted earlier this year and based on this, the admissions have begun, with the GU portal already accepting admission forms. The university has said that applications for admission will be accepted online till 6pm on July 16 and has asked students not to visit the campus. “Based on the GU-ART Round-I and Round-II, selected candidates have confirmed their seats as per their rankings for various programmes,” GU said. Admissions to the PG programmes are based entirely on GU-ART and marks obtained by students at graduation will only be used to ascertain their eligibility for the programme, the university said. As the final year exams for graduate programmes in the state are yet to be conducted due to the lockdown, the university has reiterated that ‘candidates who have completed their graduation or are in their final year of graduation are eligible to apply’ for PG seats. As of now, the final year graduation exams are set to be conducted from the first week of August in colleges. “Selected candidates, who are in the final year of graduation, shall be granted provisional admission. Their admission will be confirmed after the results are declared based on the eligibility. In case a candidate fails to clear the graduation examination, the admission shall be cancelled and the fees shall be refunded,” the circular states. The university said that in their own interest, students are advised to apply for admissions much before the closing date and ‘not to wait till the last date for applying or payment of application fee to avoid possibility of disconnection, inability or failure to log on to the website as there might be heavy load on the internet or website’. “Goa University does not assume any responsibility for the candidates not being able to submit their application within the last date on account of aforesaid reasons or for any other reason beyond the control of Goa University. The printout of the application form is not to be sent to the university,” the circular states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/apply-for-pg-courses-online-by-jul-16/articleshow/76916482.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Rajkot||5 hospitals designated for Covid||Rajkot: Rajkot district administration designated five private hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 looking at the rising number of positive patients. These five hospitals will together add 148 more beds for Covid-19 patients. According to an official statement, the new wing of Wockhardt Hospital, Uday Hospital, Karmayog Hospital, HCG Hospital and Shreyas Hospital will now treat Covid-19 patients. The civil hospital with 350 beds for Covid-19 patients and three other private hospitals are currently treating active cases. There are 246 active patients in Rajkot. Health officer Manish Bhanderi said, “We have a scope of bed expansion in the civil hospital if need arises. We also have 33 percent patients from neighbouring districts like Morbi, Surendrangar and Amreli.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/5-hospitals-designated-for-covid/articleshow/76915332.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nashik||Old city traders want stormwater drain work done soon||Nashik: Traders in Old City areas agitated at the Dahipool area on Saturday demanding immediate starting of the stormwater drain construction work which was forcibly stopped by a section of traders. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had started the work of laying the stormwater drainage system that will draw the water from the higher areas in the city and drain it into the Godavari river in order to prevent flooding. “We agitated at the worksite which had been shut down by some people on Friday. We want the NMC to immediately restart the work to prevent waterlogging,” said Chetan Rajapurkar, an office-bearer of the goldsmith association. The topography of the area is such that the shops and old wadas constructed along the banks and the slope of the Godavari river have to deal with stormwater gushing down the road towards the river. “We are aware of the problems and can prepare for them when the Godavari is actually in spate and the water level rises in the river. However, even in the early days of monsoon, when the water level in the river is low, heavy rainfall can cause stormwater gushing down the streets to enter our shops and cause major damages,” said Shankar Patil, one of the traders, said. This is the fourth-year such waterlogging is taking place in this area at the beginning of the monsoon. Therefore, the local traders have requested immediate measures. District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal had visited the shops and establishments who have faced huge losses twice during this rainy season. The NMC has taken up the task to construct another stormwater drain which will draw most of the water underground directly to the river and give respite to the traders in the area. “We only want the construction to be completed at the earliest. If the work does not restart by Monday, we will sit on an indefinite agitation from Tuesday,” Haresh Patel, another trader, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/old-city-traders-want-stormwater-drain-work-done-soon/articleshow/76915978.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kochi||Experts feel loud talking at TVM market spurred cases||Thiruvananthapuram: Kumarichantha, which is assumed as the origin of multiple clusters in three coastal wards in the capital, may have set off the transmission chain with a potent combo of crowding and loud speech, said infectious disease experts. Large transmission clusters – reported recently in Washington, South Korea – emerged from high-risk settings where people shouted or sang; ascertaining studies which showed that oral fluid droplets released during normal and loud speech in crowded environment transmitted the virus. A good percentage of persons who tested positive in the three coastal wards had direct contact with the market and became positive more or less in the same timeline. Coronavirus super spreading events in South Korea and Washington had its origin in choir meetings. “Kumarichantha being a crowded market, people talk in high-pitched voice, while trying to sell stuff. This is equivalent to a choir in terms of generating aerosols like the incident in Washington or South Korea. It could be the case of small particle aerosol transmission. It was not a case of super spreader but a super spreading event that is unravelling in coastal wards,” said an infectious disease expert associated with Covid management in state. While airborne transmission is mostly associated with confined environments, lack of social distancing, negligence in using masks coupled with crowding and high pitched speech would have made matters different in Kumarichantha, officials said. An article published in Nature magazine on relation between aerosol emission, super emission, human speech and voice loudness mentioned how a fraction of individuals behave as speech super emitters when they release more particles than their peers. The study showed that smaller particles emitted during breathing and talking are less noticeable but arguably more-infectious because despite their small size, they are sufficiently large to carry a variety of respiratory pathogens. Officials said that it is not just the case of Kumarichantha; crowds in places which are highly-vulnerable, especially markets, could be potentially-risky for widespread transmission. “In many cases, people could be asymptomatic, so we can’t lookout just for persons who sneeze or cough. Silent carriers could also emit oral fluids with viral load during normal speech and when they talk loudly in a high-risk setting, the danger is amplified. It strongly emphasizes the need for constant use of masks which could ward off the possibilities of large-scale transmission,” said an official. A recent study published in the journal National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America shows that speech droplets generated by asymptomatic carriers of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) are increasingly considered to be a likely mode of disease transmission. Highly sensitive laser light scattering observations revealed that loud speech can emit thousands of oral fluid droplets per second, the study noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/experts-feel-loud-talking-at-tvm-market-spurred-cases/articleshow/76915348.cms||Aswin J Kumar
July 12, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Dengue under control across district, say officials||NASHIK: The district combating the Covid pandemic has at least been spared a dengue outbreak so far. Senior officials of the district malaria department said dengue is in under control across Nashik district. In the past two months, there were just about eight cases of dengue across the district, officials of the malaria department said. They added that this year, till June-end, there were only 96 cases of dengue in the district. Last year, the health department had found 1,443 positive dengue cases, while two deaths were also reported. A year before that, there were 1,031 positive cases of dengue and four people had died from it. Officials added that this year, maximum dengue cases were recorded in the month of January. Since then, there have been very few cases reported in the urban and rural areas. The district malaria department took up a drive to spread awareness about dengue last month. Ashas and health workers made house-to-house visits to check if there was any patient suffering from dengue and if people were storing water properly. Awareness was also spread among people to acquaint them with the causes of dengue. Dengue fever is a severe, flu-like illness that affects infants, young children and adults. Dengue should be suspected when a high fever is accompanied by at least two of the following symptoms - severe headache, pain behind the eyes, muscle and joint pains, nausea, vomiting, swollen glands or rash. Symptoms usually last for up to 2 to 7 days, after an incubation period of 4 to 10 days after the bite from an infected mosquito, said the health officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dengue-under-control-across-district-say-officials/articleshow/76915989.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Kin of Covid-19 victim shift body in auto||HYDERABAD: The body of a Covid-19 patient who died at the Nizamabad Government General Hospital (NGGH) was allowed to be shifted without following mandatory protcols. The kin of the deceased transported the body in an auto, with the head and leg protruding out of the vehicle. Even the final rites of the 55-year-old male were performed without following Covid-19 norms in Nizamabad. Asked how the body was handed over without following the norms, NGGH superintendent Dr Nageshwara Rao told TOI that an enquiry has been ordered and appropriate action would be taken. “This is something that should not have happened. We are probing the incident,” he said. Describing it as a serious issue, Director of Medical Education (DME) Ramesh Reddy said that a detailed enquiry has been ordered into how the body was handed over to the family. It has also been recommended to file criminal cases against the staff, who were involved in handing over the body. Hospital authorities learnt that the family members of the deceased took the help of an outsourcing employee at the mortuary. The family hails from Bheemgal, about 50 km from Nizamabad. However, as it was a Covid case, the last rites (burying the body) were performed in Nizamabad itself. It is learnt that on the intervening night of July 9 and 10, four deaths, including three due to Covid-19 occurred at the hospital. There was a furore at the hospital as family members alleged that the patients died due to lack of oxygen supplies. Hospital authorities said that there was no dearth. The hospital, however, has only one ambulance and it had returned after transporting one body for burial. In the midst of the pandemonium, while the staff were busy shifting the second body, family members shifted the body of the third Covid patient in an auto.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kin-of-covid-19-victim-shift-body-in-auto/articleshow/76915991.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 12, 2020||Rajkot||Dead man’s house had gold worth Rs 1.56 crore||Rajkot: Amreli police recovered gold and silver ornaments and other valuables worth Rs 1.56 crore from the residence of a dead person in Nageshree village of Jafrabad taluka. Incidentally, Hitesh Goradia who was allegedly running a racket of money laundering and used to lend money in lieu of gold and silver ornaments as mortgage, committed suicide a month ago in Rajkot. The police, after Goradia committed suicide, received several applications from people who said that their ornaments or valuables were stuck in the deceased’s house, which was closed as the family stays in Rajkot. According to sources, the ornaments belong to nearly 500 persons of Jafrabad and surrounding areas.The police called Goradia’s wife, Meenaben, along with their minor children and searched the house under Criminal procedure code (CRPC) 102 under videography. The police also summoned two jewellers for valuation of the seized valuables. Talking to TOI, DySP of Savarkundla, K J Chaudhri said, “We believe that the gold belongs to people who took money from Goradia. The ornaments are in our possession and claimants need to apply to get them back. The deceased's wife’s opinion will also be sought in the claims which will be submitted to court. On basis of court’s order, ornaments will be released. We will also inform I-T department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dead-mans-house-had-gold-worth-rs-1-56-crore/articleshow/76915339.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Indore||Spike in population puts pressure on civic infrastructure in Indore||INDORE: As World Population Day was observed on Saturday, Indore city has witnessed a growth of around 4.5 lakh voters in its 85 wards while there is an expected growth of total 10 lakh residents in the last five years. The same has created a huge pressure on basic civic amenities and infrastructures including water supply, drainage line and traffic. According to state election commission’s first voters’ list published ahead of upcoming civic body polls, there are 20.89 lakh voters in IMC’s limit while in 2015, there were a total around 16.50 lakh electors in all 85 wards of city. In 2015, the city’s population was around 22 lakh and after five years, the same has reached to 32 lakh. While IMC is working to increase basic amenities and infrastructures as directed under Masterplan 2021, the same is stated to be inadequate to cater the increased population. There are many wards including Chandan Nagar, Sirpur, Bijasan, Nandbagh, Sant Kabir, Gouri Nagar, Swargiya Rajesh Joshi, Shahid Bhagat Singh, Nipaniya, Saikripa, Nahar Shahvali, Mundla Nayata and Sukhniwas, where upto 100 per cent growth of voters, and total population in same comparison, has reported in last five years. “The Master Plan 2021 was meant to cater expected population of 35 lakh in around 505 square kilometer areas but IMC has taken only 278 square kilometer area to develop basic amenities and infrastructures while population density in the said area has increased at a rapid speed and has reached to the count of around 32 lakh” social worker Kishore Kodwani told TOI. He added that as a result, Indore city is facing traffic-jams, drinking water shortage and drainage problem as major issues on a daily basis. According to IMC Commissioner Pratibha Paal, IMC is on the verge of completing phase 1 of AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation, which focuses to establish infrastructure that could ensure adequate robust sewage networks and water supply for urban transformation by implementing urban revival projects). “In second phase of the project, we are including the increased area and population of the city to create required civic amenities and infrastructures to meet growing demands of water supply and drainage system” she said. The commissioner added that while IMC is already working on widening of roads to ease traffic movement, IMC will decide its roadmap to make further developments to cater the population on the basis of next Masterplan Year 2035.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/spike-in-population-puts-pressure-on-civic-infrastructure-in-indore/articleshow/76915974.cms||Sagar Choukse
July 12, 2020||Kochi||Experts question Kerala government’s data as officials flag rising trend||KOCHI: The chief minister’s recent statement that 66 children below 18 years of age committed suicide during the lockdown period from March 25 has sent shockwaves through the state. Among the state’s robust child-welfare networks there is a deafening silence, as the government’s number just doesn’t tally with their own. In a state where every unusual death involving a child is discussed threadbare in all circles, including news and social media, the number has left most flummoxed, unable to counter for want of better data and unable to accept that one child died every two days in the last 108 days in the state! Official sources say most of the deaths were among children in their late teens between 16 and 18 years of age. They stress that the number also includes attempted suicides. However, renowned psychiatrist Dr C J John refutes the claim, saying that since suicide has been decriminalized attempted suicides need not be reported. “It is not mandatory for hospitals to report them. If we go by the data put out by the chief minister, then the frequency of suicides works out to roughly one death every two days. It was not flagged by any agency government or NGO. We didn’t have any such reports in the media even though death by suicide is generally reported. This also, when several other deaths were discussed on public platforms and the media. The government’s figure does not tally with the known number of suicides,” said Dr John, who also works with Maithri – an NGO working on preventing suicides. Dr John said that for better understanding it is important that details be made available to policy planners, which should include professionals and experts. “If one were to look at the psychosocial support (PSS) data, around 64,286 calls were made by counsellors and 10,299 children were given counselling. The data shows stress (3,084), anxiety (2,905), behavioural issues (311) but only seven calls suggesting suicidal behaviour. Tools must be devised to reach out to children. The ‘Chiri’ project – which employs student police cadets (SPC) for primary-level intervention is ridiculous. You are asking a child to counsel another child. Do they have the maturity or training to handle it? At best, they can function as a peer group,” Dr John said. State officials admit the number is very disturbing. “We were discussing a few suicides that had happened when we asked the police for data. However, the increase in suicides among children below 18 is not a new pattern. There have been reports by Childline and Unicef flagging the issue. In the last nearly one-and-a-half years there have been about 300 such suicides reported in the state,” T V Anupama, director, women and child department. The social justice, women and child development department and the state mental health authority will analyze the cases to understand and work out a policy for prevention and intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/experts-question-kerala-governments-data-as-officials-flag-rising-trend/articleshow/76915351.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Kishan Reddy visits railway hospital in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy visited the Central Railway Hospital, Lallaguda on Saturday. Reddy was detailed about the special arrangements and facilities made for the Covid-19 patients and their wards. Later, Gajanan Mallya, general manager of SCR briefed the minister about the development proposed at the hospital. A small photo presentation was also arranged. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-reddy-visits-rly-hosp/articleshow/76915994.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Indore||SGSITS all set to start Madhya Pradesh’s first virtual lab||INDORE: Shri Govindram Seksaria Institute of Technology and Science (SGSITS) is likely to become the first autonomous college of Madhya Pradesh to start virtual laboratory. The college has been recording experiments in both English and Hindi. “We have begun with formation of experiments for our virtual lab. We have started with the first year and we have been shooting audio videos of all experiments. We will be uploading it on website and they will make use of these experiments,” director of SGSITS Dr RK Saxena told TOI. The students will be able to access all experiments and in case of queries, they will be able to float the question and faculty members involved will resolve the queries which will be open for all registered students, he added. Lab assistant will be performing the experiments and the student will experience that through the website. Registered students will have to login and will get the access of all the experiments. The autonomous institute is also in the process of making use of government platform of virtual laboratory. After getting the NIRF ranking, SGSITS has become eligible as all the requirements are now fulfilled and is in process of applying at ministry of MHRD’s Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) for virtual lab too. After getting the nod, SGSITS will be able to avail the facilities of virtual experiments of IIT Hyderabad, IIT Delhi, IIT Bombay and NIT Kurkshetra and many other institutions as these institutions will be able to give their access to the college. The college is in the process of training the associate professor and assistant professors so as to ensure that they are capable of handling the virtual laboratory. “Engineering is a discipline in which hands on training of the practicals are of utmost importance. As students cannot come to the college to do practicals, this virtual lab portal of the government will be beneficial for the students,” said nodal centre coordinator of virtual lab, Urjita Thakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/sgsits-all-set-to-start-states-first-virtual-lab/articleshow/76915986.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Rajkot||WR aims to double freight business by 2024||Rajkot: In order to give an impetus to the freight business, the Rajkot division of the Western Railway (WR) has formed a business development unit.According to a press release issued by the Rajkot division of WR, Abhinav Jef has been made the convener of this unit which consists of the officials from commerce, mechanical and engineering department. With this unit, the WR aims to double its freight business by 2024. In a meeting held on Friday, representatives of Bombay Minerals, Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals, Sujal Logistics, Tata Chemicals, Distribution Logistics and Morbi Ceramic Association held discussion with the WR officials on various issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/wr-aims-to-double-freight-business-by-2024/articleshow/76915355.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nashik||Class II officer held for taking Rs 6,000 bribe||NASHIK: The Nashik unit of the anti corruption bureau (ACB) arrested a Class II deputy education officer for accepting Rs 6,000 bribe on Friday at the zilla parishad office. ACB officials said that the suspect had demanded Rs 15,000 from a school teacher for approving a revised salary document. Subsequently, he had settled for Rs 6,000 which he received at the education department office at Nashik ZP. The matter came to light after the victim’s husband approached the ACB with a complaint in this regard. The victim is a primary teacher at a zilla parishad Urdu school in Chandwad. In his statement, the complainant told ACB officials that the suspect had demanded money for approving revised salary document of his wife. The complainant said that the revised salary document of his wife was applicable from December 2019. However, she did not get it. Upon enquiring about the same, he was told that the signatures of the official concerned in his wife’s service book was necessary. When the complainant approached the official for the same, he was asked to pay a sum of Rs 15,000. The teacher’s husband then lodged a complaint, following which a trap was laid by the ACB officials and the official was caught red-handed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/class-ii-officer-held-for-taking-rs-6k-bribe/articleshow/76915992.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Indore||Now, shutdown on Sundays to stop spread of Covid-19||INDORE: Ahead of a complete lockdown on Sunday, district administration has made widespread arrangements to check movement of people and commercial activities. On Saturday, people were making required stock of vegetables and grocery products while a large number of people were also seen outside liquor shops to purchase alcohol for the next day. During 24 hours of lockdown on Sunday, relaxation is granted only for medical emergencies, milk distribution during morning hours and airline travellers. The administration has made a public appeal to extend support in proper implementation of curfew, which was eased on June 1, to help control Covid-19 spread as the day-long lockdown is meant to discourage people from coming out in large numbers on Sunday, partying and avoiding required precautions including social-distancing and use of masks and sanitizers. As per the collector’s orders, grocery shops, fruits and vegetable shops, petrol pumps, liquor shops along with all the commercial activities will remain closed on Sunday. While the complete lockdown will continue on every Sunday in weeks to come, a ban on entry of tourists will continue on everyday till next orders related to both the condition would be released. Ahead of the Sunday lockdown, a considerable rise in the number of people were seen purchasing vegetables at Patnipura, Malwa Mill, Niranjapur, Devi Ahilyabai Holkar fruit and vegetable market, Mangliya and other major spots of the perishable commodities sellers. Though there will be a ban on movement of vehicles on Sunday, except for the administration, police, media, IMC, health, drug manufacturing units and a few such other establishments, people were seen standing in long-queue outside the petrol pump to get petrol and diesel for vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/now-shutdown-on-sundays-to-stop-spread-of-covid-19/articleshow/76915979.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Goa||Youths enter farms as Covid shakes tourism in Canacona||Poinguinim: With tourism-related activities expected to take a backseat in the present Covid-19 scenario, nearly 35 youths drawn from Loliem, Polem, Cotigao and Shristhal in Canacona have engaged themselves in mechanised farming. Fields left barren for nearly 15 to 20 years will now get a new lease of life. Some of these youths have taken land on lease, while others are working in their own tracts. Zonal agriculture officer (ZAO) Shivram Gaonkar said that in Loliem-Polem alone, these youths will bring under cultivation an area of around 1.5 lakh sqm. Mahendra Bhandari and Jitendra Phadte motivated youth in Polem Loliem too. “They are sowing Jaya, Jyoti and Karzat varieties of paddy. Jyoti and Karzat varieties can be harvested in around 115 days,” said Gaonkar. Stating that many farmers have opted for mechanised farming in different pockets of the taluka, Gaonkar said that this year there is bound to be a 30% increase in area under cultivation. Gaonkar said Bhandari and Phadte have jointly purchased the mechanized machinery for transplantation. It helped them cut labour cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/youths-enter-farms-as-covid-shakes-tourism-in-canacona/articleshow/76916490.cms||Albert Fernandes
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||Seven more positive cases in Chandrapur||CHANDRAPUR: Seven more Covid-19 cases were detected in Chandrapur on Saturday, taking the total to 169. However, 94 patients have been cured so far while the reaming 75 are under treatment and stable. Out of the seven positive patients, three are Hyderabad returnees. The youngsters were working for a biscuit factory. Two are from Gadisurla in Mul tehsil and one hails from Bagad Khidki locality in Chandrapur city. They were close contacts of an earlier positive patient from Gadisurla and used to live with him in the same flat in Hyderabad. Apart from this trio, a 30-year-old from Tadali, a 24-year-old woman from Urjanagar, a 14-year-old boy from Ghugus and a 45-year-old from Neri in Chimur tehsil tested positive on Saturday. All have a travel history and were either in home or institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/seven-more-positive-cases-in-chanda/articleshow/76915905.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 12, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun girl scores near perfect 99.75%||DEHRADUN: Bhavya Madan, 17, Uttarakhand’s top scorer in Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) class 12th Boards with a near-perfect score of 99.75 % told TOI that hard work and focused efforts are behind her success. She was also the class 10th ISC topper in 2018, scoring 98.2 %. “Even the word ‘impossible’ has ‘possible’ in it,” the Dehradun resident quoted Audrey Hepburn, while talking about her preparation strategies. “I was tense before the exams and flustered before the results appeared like every other student. I received 100 marks in Maths, Biology and Physics and scored 99 in English and 98 in Chemistry,” Madan said. “The Biology exam was cancelled due to the pandemic. I got 100 on the basis of the average of top three subjects and internal assessment,” she added. Madan studied in the city’s Brightlands School. Her father Vineet Madan is head of department (HOD) in the Chemistry department at Forest Research Institute (FRI). Her mother is a teacher. Even though she opted for both Maths and Biology in the intermediate, Madan is more inclined towards becoming a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-girl-scores-near-perfect-99-75/articleshow/76911956.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 12, 2020||Kochi||Kerala govt plans to augment ICU facilities||KOCHI: Increasing number of cluster cases and possible surge in the number of patients who require intensive care has forced the state government to augment facilities in intensive care units (ICUs) in 10 medical colleges in the state. For catering to the needs of Covid-19 patients, ICU facilities will have to be changed considering the specific requirement of patients. The state government is planning to augment the facilities in the medical colleges in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Manjeri, Kozhikode and Kannur. “The decision to augment facilities in the ICUs was taken at a meeting convened by health minister K K Shailaja and attended by health secretary Rajan Khobragade and national health mission state mission director Rathan Kelkar the other day. We are preparing a proposal in this regard,” said director of medical education Remla Beevi A. “Once the facilities are improved, the ICUs will be useful for handling non-Covid cases in the future as well,” she said. The government has authorized Dr S S Santhosh Kumar, deputy superintendent, Thiruvananthapuram Medical College, for preparing a detailed report on augmenting the facilities in ICUs. “All the ICUs will be negative pressure units. This will help reduce the ICU-borne infections,” said Dr Kumar. Another major change which will be introduced in the ICUs is ensuring an undisrupted oxygen supply system. “Covid patients in ICUs require large quantity of oxygen. So, supply of oxygen through cylinders won’t be enough. There requires a pipeline system which provides oxygen at every bedside. Tanks for storage of oxygen and pipeline for its distribution will have to be arranged,” Kumar said. There should be at least 100 standardized ICU beds for Covid patients in every medical colleges. A total of 1,000 such ICU beds should be arranged in the state. In major medical colleges like Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Thrissur and Kozhikode, there should be scalable facilities. Efforts should be made for providing at least 200 more standardized ICU beds in these colleges. While a tank for storage of oxygen will be suffix for other medical colleges, the major medical colleges which are expected to witness heavy flow of Covid-19 patients require at least two oxygen storage tanks. Other facilities in those medical colleges should be scalable. Tender procedures for scaling the facilities in major medical colleges should be readied in advance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-plans-to-augment-icu-facilities/articleshow/76915360.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Vadodara||Red stickers now for suspected nCov cases too||Vadodara: With a view to isolate persons who could be infected by Covid-19 and have not been tested, the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has decided to categorise such persons as ‘Suspected Covid-19’ cases. Much like stickers or posters declaring houses as home quarantined or contained, the civic body will also put up red stickers on the houses of suspected cases stating ‘Suspected Covid-19’. The decision to identify suspected cases and isolate them was taken as a part of the massive survey by the civic body as part of the door-to-door surveillance and through the Dhanvantari Raths. A series of acute respiratory illness cases of patients with flu-like symptoms have been identified during the drive by the VMC. Sources said that the cases are then referred to a medical officer who decided on the course of action to be taken. If the medical officer sees a possibility of Covid-19 infection, the person is asked to go into self-isolation and the sticker declaring him as a suspected Covid-19 case is pasted. According to officials, the proactive strategy of surveys and isolation of probable cases was taken up instead of waiting for a person to come to hospitals or clinics with a possible Covid-19 infection. Officials have been concerned about patients arriving at hospitals too late making their treatment a challenge. While the VMC officials were not able to arrive at the exact number of such suspected cases, sources said that these included 57 cases identified with severe acute respiratory illnesses in the red zone of the city as well as many from around 1,500 acute respiratory illness and fever cases identified during surveillance using the Dhanvantari Rath. The civic body has rolled out 17 such mobile units that examine people. So far, 19,971 persons have been examined in the city. Sources said that a similar drive had been taken up in the rural areas of the district outside VMC limits. Here too stickers will be put up outside homes of suspected Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/red-stickers-now-for-suspected-ncov-cases-too/articleshow/76915489.cms||Sachin Sharma
July 12, 2020||Nashik||Burglars decamp with articles worth Rs 2.10L||Nashik: Cash, jewellery and other articles worth Rs 2.10 lakh were stolen in two separate house break-in incidents reported from the Indiranagar and Satpur areas of the city. Offences with respect to the two thefts were reported on Friday. The Indiranagar police said that cash and jewellery worth Rs 90,000 was stolen from a closed shop in the Pathardi village between 5 pm of Thursday and 9.30 am of Friday. According to the complainant, some unidentified burglars entered his closed shop between the aforesaid period by breaking the wooden door and lock of the gate and stole cash of Rs 30,000 from the cash box and jewellery mainly silver articles worth Rs 60,000. In another incident Satpur police said that unidentified burglars entered a closed industrial unit between 6am of Wednesday and 7 am of Thursday. They entered the store room of the industrial unit by breaking the shutter and decamped with equipment related to CCTV and bundles of copper wires that were kept inside the store room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/burglars-decamp-with-articles-worth-rs-2-10l/articleshow/76915999.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Amid pandemic, there is a growing demand for jackfruit||MANGALURU: While several businesses were hit due to the lockdown, new businesses were also established. The pandemic changed the life of Hriday Pai, who was all set to move to Canada and begin work there. Forced to stay back, and with his textile store closed, he decided to launch an organic outlet ‘My Brand’. Hriday was feeling low when he realized that his Canada plan may not materialise. His father Annu Mangalore said, “I told Hriday to work on a proposal. Along with other fruits and vegetables, we decided to brand jackfruit based on the colour—red, orange, and yellow—and to our surprise, the demand for red is high, and since the outlet’s launch on June 1, we have managed to sell about 10 tonnes of jackfruit. We also do doorstep delivery of ready-to-eat jackfruit bulbs that are hygienically packed, for which the demand is increasing.” Annu said that he plans to open 9 more stores by the end of this year. The fruit is sourced from Doddaballapur and Tumakuru. Chandramouli Shenoy, proprietor, MVS Fruits, said, “I am a third generation fruit trader, and after an interaction with experts at ‘Halasu Mela,’ before the pandemic, I decided to introduce jackfruit at my store for the first time, two months ago. After the produce arrived, I shared it on WhatsApp, and to my surprise, I received nearly 100 calls. People wait for the stocks to arrive. People’s awareness about the fruit is also increasing,” he said. Shenoy has managed to sell 9 tonnes of jackfruit. Mangaluru’s success in selling jackfruit during the Covid-19 crisis is a clear indication that there is a good demand for fruits, provided they are served hygienically. Probably, for the first time, doorstep delivery of jackfruit or only bulbs has been taken up, said Shree Padre, global ambassador for jackfruit in India. “The Gowd Saraswat Brahmin factor has worked for Mangaluru. The community is always on the lookout for quality fruit. There is a latent demand for jackfruit in urban areas, and unfortunately, so far, there was no effort to procure the jackfruit being sold on the footpath, and sell it from a clean and decent shop. Time has also come for an exclusive outlets that sell jackfruit in the form of the whole fruit, pre-packed, value-added products with a longer shelf life as well as a counter that will serve jackfruit preparations such as a smoothies, milkshakes, pedas, ice-creams, and other products,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/amid-pandemic-there-is-a-growing-demand-for-jackfruit/articleshow/76914688.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||Five more test positive; only 20 persons allowed at wedding||WARDHA: The district registered five new Covid-19 positive patients, including a senior officer of collector’s office, on Saturday. Of them, two are women who are close contacts of 33-year-old newly wed man of Pipri (Meghe). A 44-year-old man from Arvi and a 27-year-old woman who had come from Akola for treatment are among the new patients. The 53-year-old senior officer at the collector’s office had returned from Dhule and was under quarantine. The two positive women, aged around 22, who are close contacts of the newly wed man, hail from Zadgaon in Deoli tehsil. The 27-year-old woman is a resident of Hanumannagar and had come to her maternal home for child birth from Akola few days ago. She was admitted to AVBRH, Sawangi, for delivery. Following increase in cases in connection to the marriage function in Pipri (Meghe), district collector Vivek Bhimanwar issued an order on Saturday tightening norms for such ceremonies. In modification of an earlier order which allowed 50 guests at marriage ceremonies, now only 20 persons — 10 each from groom and bride’s side — can take part and they all have to be in quarantine for the next 14 days. No person from containment zone will be permitted to attend the function. If rule is violated, offence will be lodged. An officer will be present at the marriage hall during the ceremony which can be organized only after taking due permission from the tehsildar. People from other districts will not be allowed to attend the marriage. If the groom or bride is from other district, only four persons will be allowed with them for the marriage, the order stated. If more than 20 persons are found at the marriage ceremony, the hall will be sealed and a fine of Rs10,000 will be slapped on the owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-more-test-positive-only-20-persons-allowed-at-wedding/articleshow/76915914.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kolkata||21-year-old student crusader shot dead in Titagarh||KOLKATA: In a rerun of the 2014 murder of Bamangachhi’s anti-hooch crusader Sourav Chowdhury, a college student was gunned down by criminals in Titagarh on Friday night for raising voice against the activities of a local gangster. Three armed goons led by gangster Arif Iqbal alias Chottu arrived in motorcycles and allegedly fired five to six rounds at the victim Toufik Ali (21) in front of his house in Titagarh’s Uranapara. Ali had protested against the gang’s anti-social activities in the locality. Police on Saturday arrested Chottu and his aide Suraj Ali. Another accused is at large. The duo has been remanded in police custody for ten days after production in a Barrackpore court. Police suspect that row over a movement launched by the victim against local criminals could have led to the murder. Locals said Ali, a second year BA student from Barrackpore Rastraguru Surendranath College, used to protest against anti-social activities in his locality and drew the ire of Chottu, a Sodepur-Titagarh based criminal. “Trouble broke out a couple of years ago when Chottu and his aides started committing crimes. Besides extortion, they used to operate several satta-gambling dens in Titagarh. They even consumed alcohol in public and made obscene gestures at girls. It was Ali who had had first raised his voice and organised a protest,” said Moharchand Ahmed, a local trader. Sources said Chottu, who was wanted in some others crimes, had fled to the Gulf to evade arrest after committing twin robberies. “Chottu returned barely six months ago and began operating a gang in Titagarh. The members on motorbikes used to roam the area till late at night creating ruckus,” a local cable operator said. On Friday night, while Ali was on his way back home on his two-wheeler, he found the bike gang creating ruckus in the locality. He protested and tried to stop them. “My braveheart brother asked them to leave the spot. But the trio whipped out their guns and fired at him before fleeing the spot. The goons pumped four bullets into Ali’s chest and one into his back. Ali then slumped to the ground, bleeding profusely,” said Nausad Alam, Ali’s cousin. The victim was rushed to Barrackpore BN Bose hospital where he was declared brought dead. Police later raided a slum areas near Titagarh’s Brambhasthan and arrested Chottu and Suraj from a hideout. “We have already arrested two with a firearm and are looking for another accused. Though the motive behind the murder couldn’t be ascertained, primarily we suspect that the miscreants fired during a heated argument,” said Barrackpore police commissionerate DCP (central) Amandeep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/21-yr-old-student-crusader-shot-dead-in-titagarh/articleshow/76916003.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
July 12, 2020||Hubballi||Incessant rain in region triggers fears of flood in Krishna basin||BELAGAVI: Heavy spells of rain have rapidly increased the inflow of water to Almatti dam in Vijayapura district, prompting the authorities to alert the field officers to monitor the situation as the threat of floods looms large over people living close to the Krishna basin. In just three days, the inflow has jumped from 26,000 cusecs to 73,971 cusecs, while the outflow stood at 21,130 cusecs on Saturday. Normally, the dam receives over 70,000 cusecs in the first or second week of August. Heavy rain is lashing the hinterland of Karnataka-Maharashtra borders since a week, especially in the catchment areas, thereby increasing the water levels in Krishna river. The people of Holemasutti, Yallammann, Bhudihal, Kasinkunte, Yalagur and other villages in Bagalkot and Vijayapura districts are now under the fear of yet another flood. However according to the authorities, the current inflow is not that worrying. But to be on the safer side, they have been asked to be vigilant and monitor the situation. The increase in water flow to over 2 lakh cusecs is a threat. In 2019, the dam saw up to 6 lakh cusecs washing away livelihoods of many people in north Karnataka. Sidram Kurabet, a villager from Yalagur said: “In 2019, the dam got 70,000 cusecs inflow in August. This is a cause for concern and we have been informed to be on alert by Karihna Bhagya Jala Nigama Ltd (KBJNL). The people have been living in fear after hearing the rapid increase of inflow.” KBJNL chief engineer R P Kulkarni said that there is no threat at present as inflow is well below the danger level. “But we have informed gram panchayats and other ground-level officers to be on high alert,” he said, adding that KBJNL, having the experience of handling the floods in 2019, is doing everything to tackle the floods. Rain subsided on Saturday, and inflow too is not increasing as it did in the previous days, he said. Ashok Chandaragi, activist and who helped thousands during floods, said this is the time for the government to closely monitor and manage water flow to thwart flood-like situations. “Amidst corona, Karnataka is not ready to face another tragedy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/incessant-rain-in-region-triggers-fears-of-flood-in-krishna-basin/articleshow/76914211.cms||Shreyas HS
July 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Drones to help cops check violations||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Kolkata Police have decided to put emphasis on slums and mixed zones to contain the spread of coronavirus after reports of multiple violations reached them on Saturday. While police will take help of technology and manpower to clamp a total lockdown on slums, the KMC teams have decided to visit all affected apartments in the quickest possible time to carry out necessary tests. In its efforts for an effective lockdown, Lalbazar will also use drones and CCTV cameras in certain pockets. Cop presence on roads leading to the effected zones has been increased too. On Saturday, several cars that tried to enter Bijoygarh and Garcha Road were prosecuted and people defying lockdown were threatened with legal consequences. Containment zones in Kankurgachhi, Ultadanga and Bhowanipore will be under special watch. “These are our main focus areas not only because of high numbers recorded in the past two weeks, but also due to the area’s highly dense and mixed population. That includes a number of senior citizens. The initial data collection from these pockets has shown that there are multiple ILI and SARI patients who are prone to Covid,” said a KMC health official. For now, the strategy is four-pronged — more swab testing (especially the neighbours of affected zones), collection of medical history, emphasis on safety measures and ensuring that senior citizens and kids are provided maximum protection. TimesViewA dynamic lockdown is, perhaps, the best way to tackle the spread. Citizens get a clear idea of the zones that are moving from good to bad or bad to good. It also somewhat incentivises responsible behaviour.The city police commissioner, too, hinted at a holistic approach. “To be successful, just blocking roads with barricades is not enough. People are moving around. Together with KMC and other government agencies, we are teaming with NGOs and penetrating the slums and apartments. Awareness announcements are also on,” said commissioner Anuj Sharma. In some of city’s worst containment zones the ward coordinators are reaching out to elderly persons with the help of civic volunteers. In Bijoygarh, local ward coordinator Debabrata Majumdar has been leading a drive to take medicines and other essentials to elderly citizens. In Ultadanga, the local coordinator distributed food for the second day. In at least two containment zones of Bijoygarh and Sakherbazar, KMC arranged for special announcements after false reports that dozens were getting infected. According to a KMC official, the root cause of spurt in cases is violation of protocols during Unlock 1. In Ballygunge and Bhowanipore, fresh cases are being reported from high-rises, apartment buildings and stand-alone buildings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/drones-to-help-cops-check-violations/articleshow/76915998.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 12, 2020||Rajkot||‘Guj tops in loans to MSME under Atmanirbhar Abhiyan scheme’||Rajkot: Gujarat tops among other states in sanctioning loans to MSME under Atmanirbhar scheme, stated energy minister Saurabh Patel in Rajkot on Saturday. Talking to media persons in the city, Patel said that the state has taken the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ task given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi very seriously and is making all efforts to make Gujarat the growth engine of the country. Giving information about loan disbursement, the minister said, “The banks have received 1,63,030 application under Atmanirbhar Abhiyan package from MSME units. Of this, 1,62,245 applications have been sanctioned, while loan of Rs 5,25,868 lakh has already been disbursed. This has resulted in commencement of production in various industrial units.” Patel further said that among Gujarat ranks third in disbursement of loan amount which will converted into the generation of lakhs of employment. He also claimed that the state government has provided relief in electricity bills to small industries. “The state government has given relief of Rs 110 crore to 16.29 lakh small industries and Rs 350 crore relief to 16,217 medium-scale industries. Total 16.45 lakh industrial units received relief to the tune of Rs 460 crore in their electricity bills,” Patel said. Rupani government had announced a one-time waiver of up to 100 units in electricity bills for customers whose power consumption is 200 units. Patel said that the scheme was announced in June and those people who got bills in the same month may not have got benefit this time. “But in their next bill cycle they will get this benefit,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/guj-tops-in-loans-to-msme-under-atmanirbhar-abhiyan-scheme/articleshow/76915367.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||MLC among single-day spike of 60 positive cases in Amravati district||AMRAVATI: It was an eventful day on the Covid front for the district on Saturday. Posting its highest single-day spike of 60 since the lockdown, the district crossed the 800 mark in positive cases in just five days since touching 700 on July 6. Badnera, a hotspot, completed a century of Covid cases in 77 days. The first case was recorded on April 25, a 53-year-old man from Noornagar. The rural areas took their collective count to 113. The 60 positive cases of Saturday include 23 females, 36 males and a two-year-old boy. The list also includes a 55-year-old MLC from Subhash Colony of the district. In the last three months, he had made many trips to Mumbai to get issues of teachers resolved. He tested positive after undergoing the rapid antigen test at the PDMC here on Saturday. The leader was referred to Nagpur for further treatment, said a health official. Saturday’s 60 cases have taken the district’s positive count to 855 from 795 on Friday. The CS office got 35 positive reports from labs in three lots on Saturday evening. The morning count was 25. Camp and Badnera posted four cases each in the first lot of the evening to take their respective counts to six and hundred. The positive report of the MLC came in the second lot in the evening which reported a case each from rural areas of Chandur Railway, Talegaon and Shinganapur in Daryapur tehsil to take the rural count to 111, which went up to 113 late in the evening as a case each came from Dhamangaon Railway and Takli village in Daryapur while a second case was from Karanja in Washim district. New cases, one each, emerged from Balaji temple premises, Navsari, Kanwarnagar (9th), Roshannagar, GajananHagar (3rd), Saturna, Vijay colony and Hamalpura in the second lot. A spike of 14 in the third lot of the evening saw two cases emerging from Rahul Nagar and a case each from Nandanvan colony, Bajrang Tekadi (2nd), Bhim Tekadi in Uttamnagar, Gawande lay-out in Saturna, Yashodanagar No.2, Sakkarsath in Jawahar Gate, Civil Lines, Pampari, Paradise Colony (3rd) and Gaglaninagar. Earlier in the morning, posting 25 cases, the district reached 800 in just five days since completing 700 on July 6. A report from the civil surgeon's office on Saturday morning said that four patients from Akot tehsil in Akola district taking treatment here tested positive to take Akot's count to seven while Sayma Colony in Paratwada town of the district too reported four cases to take the colony's count to six and Paratwada's to ten. Satargaon too reported a 30-year-old female who tested positive to take the district's rural count to 108. A couple, aged 52 and 48, tested positive in Mangilal Plots while Shegaon Naka had three cases to take its count to seven. Likewise, Kantanagar too saw a couple and their two-year-old son testing positive to take the locality's count to four. Hotspot Ashoknagar had three cases today to take its count to 37 while Badnera, the leading Hotspot, saw a couple aged 42 and 36 testing positive to take its covid tally to 96. Bajrang Tekadi in Rajapeth recorded its second case, a female aged 63, while Krishnanagar reported its eighth, a male aged 36. Siddheshwari Society reported its first case when a 78-year-old male tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mlc-among-single-day-spike-of-60positive-cases-in-amravati-district/articleshow/76915892.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Lake morning walkers beat a retreat as snakes slither out||KOLKATA: Sighting of snakes has scared morning walkers at Rabindra Sarobar with many deciding not to venture into the grounds till the overgrowth was cleaned up, making the reptiles retreat into burrows. A regular at the Lake, emission expert Soumendra Mohan Ghosh, who lives on Sarat Bose Road, recently resumed his walks following the reopening of Rabindra Sarobar. But he has again stopped going to the Lake, ever since he spotted two large snakes there. “I believe the snakes were Russel’s Viper, locally known as Chandrabora, one of the most dangerous species around. As the grounds were closed for three months during the lockdown, nature regenerated and wildlife had reclaimed their space. Now that Rabindra Sarobar has reopened for three hours a day and people are back there, the snakes will retreat. But till that time, I have decided not to go there and risk an encounter with one,” Ghosh said. He claimed to have seen a nearly 15ft-long snake near Calcutta Rowing Club and alerted others. “We waited for the snake to slither across the road and disappear into the overgrowth,” he recounted. Another morning walker saw two intertwined snakes — perhaps in the act of mating — near the joggers’ track along the water edge. Other walkers reported sighting snake skins. Snakes shed their skin to allow for their growth and remove parasites that may have attached to the old skin. Sumita Banerjee, a pro-environment crusader at the Lake, said fear of snakes had led to a sharp drop in the number of morning walkers at Rabindra Sarobar. “I haven’t seen a snake yet but others have said they have spotted them. Prior to the Lake’s opening, regular cleaning of the grounds and cutting of overgrowth had stopped after the Amphan cyclone,” she said. “It is natural for snakes to emerge when Rabindra Sarobar was shut. Now that it has reopened, I am sure the reptiles will return to their hideouts. I think a bigger hazard than the snakes are those who are out on walks without masks. Many senior citizens have stopped coming, fearing virus spread.” A KMDA official acknowledged hearing about snakes being sighted at the Lake. Pointing out it could have been due to the large number of trees being uprooted in the cyclone, he said, “Snakes and rats burrow under trees. When the trees were uprooted, their habitat was exposed and they emerged from there as there was no human activity around. We will clean the Lake in the next 10 days. Once the overgrowth is managed, snakes will return to their hideouts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lake-morning-walkers-beat-a-retreat-as-snakes-slither-out/articleshow/76916000.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||Attributing cause of death to Covid sans other tests is unscientific, says forensic science prof||Nagpur: Sevagram’s Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences’ (MGIMS) forensic medicine professor Dr Indrajit Khandekar, whose PILs have helped shape five medical policies, has initiated a new debate over attributing the cause of death to a single tested virus — Covid-19 — without investigating other viruses that cause lakhs of deaths per year. Dr Khandekar said the method is unscientific as studies have already proved that in people who are suspected to die from viral respiratory pathogens, more than one virus and bacteria are often found causing death. “Does testing only for Covid mean that all other viruses and bacteria that are causing lakhs of death have vanished due to the appearance of this new virus?” he wrote in his blog. As per doctors at government hospitals, rarely has a Covid-19 victim been found not suffering from other ailments too. “A positive test for coronavirus does not necessarily mean that this virus is always primarily responsible for a patient’s death. As we are not testing for other viruses, all other respiratory infection deaths appear to be labelled under Covid deaths. In addition to this, the WHO has asked the authorities to give cause of death as “clinically Covid” even if lab tests are negative or inconclusive. This is inflating the numbers of Covid deaths and is misleading the public about the actual number of deaths caused by the virus,” he said.Citing an government-sponsored 2019 study published in the Lancet, Dr Khandekar said, “If the natural death numbers per year are not changing, then there is no need to worry,” he said.Dr Meena Mishra, professor and Head of Department of Microbiology at AIIMS, Nagpur, said because we don’t have an exact answer to death due to respiratory diseases taking place amid the pandemic, it is important to investigate further. “We have started multiplex filmarray, a state-of-the-art technology which helps detect 22 pathogens in a single cycle. It was observed that many SARI patients were testing negative. So, it was crucial to know the cause.” Asked about Dr Khandekar’s blog, Dr Mishra said, “It is quite valid. Flu season has started and there are concerns if other respiratory viruses apart from Covid have resurfaced. This latest test aids us in monitoring different types of corona viruses, other respiratory viruses and some atypical bacteria like chlamydia, mycoplasma pneumonias, haemophilus influenza etc,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/attributing-cause-of-death-to-covid-sans-other-tests-is-unscientific-says-forensic-science-prof/articleshow/76915373.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 12, 2020||Nashik||MUHS gets lukewarm response for home district exam centre option||NASHIK: A paltry 5.52% of the nearly 9,500 final year undergraduate health science students in the state have opted to appear for their summer exams from their home districts. The final year UG exams in various courses like allopathy, dental, ayurveda, nursing, unani, etc. are starting from August 4. Last month, the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) had given the option for the final year UG students to write their exams at centres in their home districts so that they need not travel to their own colleges located in other districts in view of Covid-19 pandemic. All health science colleges in the state have closed down due to Covid-19 and the students residing in hostels have now gone to their respective home towns in other districts. Interestingly, the varsity came up with this option for the maiden time as a section of the students raised issues about travelling to other districts for exams. This home district option is not available for postgraduate students whose exams have been scheduled from August 25. “We did not receive encouraging response from final year students about writing exams from centres in home districts. They have write the papers from their own colleges” admitted MUHS sources. The varsity’s controller of examination Ajit Pathak told TOI that final year UG students cannot opt for the home district option as the deadline is over. But students of first, second and third year of different undergraduate health science courses can apply for the same till July 14 as their exams start from August 17. “The university has appealed to the students of these classes to opt for home district exam centre in large numbers. We have made this option for their own convenience,” added Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/muhs-gets-lukewarm-response-for-home-district-exam-centre-option/articleshow/76916009.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Rajkot||Dacoit on run for 38 years nabbed||Palanpur: A fugitive dacoit, wanted in a 38-year-old bank robbery case and also a murder case in Banaskantha district, was arrested from Rajasthan on Friday.The wanted criminal, Deepsinh Rajput (65) was nabbed by the Banaskantha police from Gadra village of Barmer distirct of Rajasthan, border range IG Subhash Trivedi told media persons in Palanpur on Saturday. Rajput was heading a gang of seven dacoits who had allegedly robbed a branch of State Bank of India at Amirgadh town in Banaskantha on December 30, 1982, said Banaskantha SP Tarun Kumar Duggal. According to police, the dacoits had attacked the bank manager and killed head constable Shivdutt Sharma of Amirgadh police station who had confronted them, before decamping with Rs 1.32 lakh, he said. Police said that while two members of the gang were arrested in 1983 and 1984, four others have died and Rajput was the only one who had remained absconding. As many as nine cases of attempt to murder, looting and theft were registered against Rajput at different police stations in Rajasthan, added Duggal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dacoit-on-run-for-38-years-nabbed/articleshow/76915391.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||State CID to probe firing case on mayor Joshi||Nagpur: The undetected case of life bid on the incumbent mayor Sandip Joshi in the midnight of December 18 last year by armed goons has been transferred to state criminal investigation department (CID) by the state director general of police (DGP).Joshi had received two threatening letters following which three rounds were fired on his car on the outer ring road. He and his friend, who were in the car, were saved by a whisker. As per source, the detailed documents and records of the case have been transferred from Nagpur police crime branch to the state CID.An offence of attempt to life was registered at Beltarodi police station against unidentified persons. It’s learnt that two bikers had opened fire on Joshi’s car before fleeing from the place. CP BK Upadhyay had shifted the probe to crime branch for focused attention on the case. SP, state CID, Rajlaxmi Shivankar, confirming the development, said the investigating agency is in the process of finalizing a course of action. “We have received the case papers and other details but need to scrutinize them,” she said.“We would form a team to probe the case but the other details are yet to be finalized,” she said. Shivankar assured to render best efforts to do justice to the crucial case. Mayor Joshi too welcomed the development but also gave thumbs up to the city police efforts. “The efforts under DCP, crime, Gajanan Rajmane to unravel the case is appreciable. Addl CP Nilesh Bharne was confident in cracking it too but lockdown had de-railed the entire investigation process,” said Joshi. “The pandemic had compelled the cops to re-orient their priorities from crime prevention and detection to some other types of responsibilities,” said the Mayor. City police had questioned more than 1,000 suspects in the case including several having past records of the Arms Act. The cops also had proposed for brain-mapping of two suspects but they were denied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-cid-to-probe-firing-case-on-mayor-joshi/articleshow/76915386.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 12, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Man stabs wife and her father to death||SONARPUR: A woman and her septuagenarian foster father from Subhash Gram, Sonarpur, were stabbed to death at their residence on Saturday. The husband of the woman went missing after the incident. The bodies of the duo were first noticed by a neighbour on Saturday morning when she came to the house to pluck flowers. The neighbour told cops that she first noticed the body of Basudeb Ganguly (76) in the bedroom. Suspecting something amiss, she went closer and found the blood-spattered body of the woman — Sumita Pandit (38) — in the balcony. She raised an alarm and the police were called in. Sumita’s husband Ramesh Pandit (43) was missing and his mother and their four-year-old son were at a neighbour’s house. Police noticed that the victims were brutally stabbed. There were multiple wounds on their throats and other parts of their bodies. The genitals of the man were mutilated. According to locals, Ramesh had decided to bring his mother to his in-law’s house a few years ago. A book-binder, Basudeb was finding it difficult to run the family. Ramesh did some odd jobs, but did not contribute to the family’s expenditure. On Friday night, Ramesh and Sumita had a heated argument, neighbours said. Ramesh’s mother took her grandson to a neighbour’s house when he started to beat up Sumita. “Ramesh suspected that Sumita’s father was trying to evict them from the house while Basudeb suspected that Ramesh wanted to usurp his property,” a neighbour said. Baruipur SP Rashidmunir Khan said that Ramesh’s mother was questioned and her statements offered some clarity. “We are trying to track Ramesh,” Khan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-stabs-wife-and-her-father-to-death/articleshow/76916005.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
July 12, 2020||Nashik||Three arrested, firearm recovered||NASHIK: The Nashik Road police on Friday arrested three criminals on record from the Subhash Road area of the city in connection with a firearms case and also recovered a country-made revolver from them. The history-sheeters have been identified as Sahil Mhaske of Jail Road, Yogesh Bodke of Aringle Mala and Sandeep Aloknath alias Baba Mukhtar Maniyar of Deolali Gaon, Nashik Road. The Nashik Road police said that they received a tip-off about these criminals moving around in the Subhash Road area of Nashik Road on late Thursday night. Acting on the same, they arrested the trio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-arrested-firearm-recovered/articleshow/76916014.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shop set on fire in Ranip||Ahmedabad: A 35-year-old man from Keshavnagar, Gopal Brahmbhatt lodged a complaint at Ranip police station that on Friday stating that two men on a motorcycle set his shop at Hiral Avenue Complex on fire and fled. Ranip police registered an offence under Sections 436 and 114 of the IPC and are examining CCTV footage. According to Brahmbhatt, he had got a call from others in the complex that his shop had been set ablaze. “After the fire was put outpeople told him that two men had arrived on a motorcycle. One of them threw a flammable liquid on to the shutter and the other lit it with a match before fleeing,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shop-set-on-fire-in-ranip/articleshow/76916019.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Waste to Wonder Park may soon host private parties||NEW DELHI: Till now a site that gave around 5,000 daily visitors a glimpse of iconic global structures, the Waste to Wonder Park at Sarai Kale Khan might well become a favoured location for birthday parties and corporate events, perhaps even a pre-wedding shoot. South Delhi Municipal Corporation has cleared a proposal to rent demarcated space at the park for such social gatherings. Officials of SDMC’s horticulture department said the reserved space overlooked by architectural wonders like Paris’ Eiffel Tower, Giza’s looming pyramid, New York’s Statue of Liberty and India’s own Taj Mahal could accommodate up to a hundred individuals. Bookings, however, will open only after the disruption caused by the Covid pandemic normalises. The pathway with a separate entry leading to this special area will be so designed as to ensure general visitors cannot access it. Only one site will be provided for social gatherings, but the civic body hopes to expand on the project later. “There are spaces within the park that are not being used at present. This project will optimise utilisation of space and provide a unique setting for events,” an official said. An SDMC official revealed, “For corporate events, the space will be available for Rs 25,000 for six hours, but for birthdays and other parties, the charge will be around Rs 10,000 for four hours. The fee for pre- or post-wedding shoots will be Rs 15,000 for four hours.” The Waste to Wonder Park is closed since March 17 in view of the social distancing requirements. Inaugurated in February last year, the park features replicas of seven easily recognised structures from across the world — including the Leaning Tower of Pisa, Christ the Redeemer statue of Rio de Janeiro and the Colosseum of Rome — all built of 150 tonnes of industrial waste and scrap metal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/waste-to-wonder-park-may-soon-host-private-parties/articleshow/76916017.cms||Paras Singh
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||Govt orders low-key Ganeshotsav this year||Nagpur: The state home department has asked Ganeshotsav mandals to tone down their celebrations this year due to Covid-19. The height of the idol has been limited to four feet, and no processions will be allowed. Devotees will have to maintain Covid distancing in the premises. Local mandals have agreed to abide by the guidelines, acknowledging that some restrictions were necessary in view of the pandemic.As per the guidelines issued by home department, the height of the idol for community celebrations can only be up to 4 feet, while for household celebrations it must not be more than 2 feet. Processions should not be taken out while installing and immersing the idol. Senior citizens and kids should not be present during the two functions.People should use marble or metal idols so that they do not have to be immersed. If that is not possible, the idol should be immersed at home or at nearby artificial immersion tanks. People should try to keep the idol at home till Maghi Ganeshotsav or the next Ganesh festival (in 2021), and immerse the idol at that time. This will avoid crowd formation at the time of immersion.Mandals should not erect advertisements that attract crowds. They should display social and health messages on signboards. They should hold blood donation camps and programmes to create awareness about Covid-19, malaria, dengue etc, and about general hygiene. Organizers will have to ensure that there is no crowding during aartis, bhajans and kirtans. Sound pollution norms must be followed.Mandals should make arrangements for virtual darshan of the idol through websites, Facebook, cable television etc. They should try to encourage devotees not to come to the pandal for darshan.Pandal should be frequently sanitized and devotees should be thermally screened before entering the pandal. The devotees should maintain Covid distancing. Congress leader Munna Jaiswal, who organizes Ganeshotsav in Dhantoli, said that he would abide by all the guidelines. “We will install an idol of 4 feet height. People should cooperate with the government during such times,” he told TOI.BJP MLC Pravin Datke also said he would abide by all guidelines, and appealed to others to follow suit. “We will hold health awareness programmes during the festival through virtual media. We will educate parents about online education of their kids. People who have lost their livelihoods due to the lockdown will be guided about self-employment. Most of the money collected for the festival will be donated to the government for Covid relief. I appeal to others to do the same,” Datke said.THE GUIDELINESHeight of mandal idol to be max 4 feet, household idol 2 feetNo procession during installation of idol. Same for immersionTry not to immerse idol immediately. Should be done on auspicious occasions laterArrange for virtual darshan of idol using technologyHold health awareness programmesCovid distancing, thermal screening, sanitization etc must be ensured||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-orders-low-key-ganeshotsav-this-year/articleshow/76915406.cms||Ashish Roy
July 12, 2020||Kolkata||New lockdown, pricey diesel push up veggie prices||KOLKATA: The new lockdown in certain areas in Bengal, supply problems, expensive diesel and the long suspension of suburban trains have again pushed up vegetable prices. If the price rise of perishable items has been sharp, that of semi-perishable items, like potato, which can be hoarded easily, has been even steeper. The price of Jyoti, a common variety of potato produced in abundance and consumed widely in Bengal, rose to Rs 28 a kg on Saturday, though even a week and a half ago, it sold for Rs 22 a kg. This was because a section of traders had been hoarding huge stocks, hoping for a windfall in case of further rise of potato prices, said a trader from Hooghly. Buyers have been even more shocked when it came to buying other vegetables, such as, tomato, brinjal and bitter gourd. Before Amphan hit Bengal, tomato sold for Rs 20-24/kg but it cost Rs 70-75 a kg on Saturday. Parwal or pointed gourd, which used to cost Rs 25-30 a kilo, was sold for Rs 50-60 a kg. “Transportation cost has increased manifold because of expensive diesel rates and lack of local trains. Earlier 90% vegetables was transported by train. Ferrying the essentials by road costs five times more. Secondly, a section of middlemen, who has now become active, is raising prices,” said Kamal Dey, member of Market Task Force. Moreover, containment zones in the neighbouring districts, which produce the bulk of vegetables, have been cut off from the city. “Vegetable growers there are being forced to sell their produces at local markets. The supply line issue has widened demand-supply gap. Rain in north Bengal has also cut off the supply of some vegetables,” he said. Dilip Madal, who sells vegetables at Lake Market, rued the drop in the number of middle-class buyers. “They are either not visiting or buying much less than usual. With a lot of vegetables remaining unsold, some of us are being forced to lower the rates.” Chicken prices has been higher than usual, said Bikram Dhali, a chicken seller at Gariahat Market. Asit Pramanik, who sells fish at Maniktala Market, said, “Prices of fish have not spiked much, but demand has nosedived.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-lockdown-pricey-diesel-push-up-veggie-prices/articleshow/76916015.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 12, 2020||Rajkot||Rains pound Gandhidham, Anjar towns in Kutch||Rajkot: Heavy rain lashed Kutch’s commercial city Gandhidham and Anjar on Saturday evening causing severe water-logging in many areas. However, the people welcomed the rain that gave them some respite from the humid heat. According to Kutch district administration, Gandhidham town received 70mm rainfall in just two hours. Rain coupled with heavy winds and thunderstorm damaged goods in market area, while rain water entered houses and shops in several places. At many places people had to wade through knee-deep waters in Gandhidham and Anjar towns. A few internal roads connecting villages had to be closed for traffic because water started flowing above the road surface. Till 6pm on Saturday Anjar town received 87 mm of rain while 80mm was recorded in Gandhidham. Bhuj, Kandla, Rapar and Bhachau towns of Kutch have been receiving heavy rainfall since Friday. Rain also drenched other parts of Saurashtra region like Aatkot town of Rajkot district which recorded 60mm rain in three hours. Gondal, Khambha, Babra and Virpur of Rajkot and Amreli districts also reeled under the wet spell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rains-pound-gandhidham-anjar-towns-in-kutch/articleshow/76915403.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu teen fails to land dream job at SBI, opens his own branch||CUDDALORE: The Panruti police on Saturday arrested three people for attempting to run a fake State Bank of India branch at Cuddalore district in Tamil Nadu. A 19-year-old teen, the brain behind the audacious idea, decided to take things into his own hands after he failed to land his dream job at the bank.. The arrested were identified as S Kamal Babu, 19, A Kumar, 42, who printed counterfeit withdrawal and deposit slips, and M Manickam, 52, who made fake rubber stamps. The arrests came after SBI Panruti branch manager Venkatesan lodged a complaint on the ‘functioning’ of a fake ‘North Bazaar branch of SBI’ at the teen boy’s house. Inquiries revealed that Kamal Babu’s parents were retired SBI employees and the boy used to frequent the bank branches where his parents worked. His attempts to get a job in the bank on compassionate grounds after his father’s death in 2007 turned futile as he was a minor then. His mother, too, was in service in SBI. Panruti inspector Ambedkar said the teen claimed to have sent an email to the SBI headquarters pleading for a job on compassionate grounds and the bank rejected citing he was a minor. Ambedkar said the teen sent another email after he completed 18 years but did not get any response from the bank. It was then he decided to realize his dream of working in a bank by setting up a fake SBI branch at his house. Police arrested the trio for forgery, possessing counterfeit seal, and making false document. A magistrate ranted them bail. An SBI spokesperson said the bank does not have any power to monitor such incidents, and has nothing to do with such fraudsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/tn-teen-fails-to-land-dream-job-at-sbi-opens-his-own-branch/articleshow/76916357.cms||Bosco Dominique
July 12, 2020||Bareilly||Sikh regiment jawan, 24, dies of snakebite in Pilibhit district||PILIBHIT: A 24-year-old jawan of the Indian Army’s Sikh Regiment died of snakebite at his native place Guladia Mublik Khata village under Puranpur police station of Pilibhit district late on Friday night. Victim Maninder Singh was posted in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district. His body was sent for autopsy, while two Army personnel from his regiment arrived at his home to attend his last rites. According to the victim’s cousin Gurteg Singh, Maninder was recently transferred from Pithoragarh to Pune (Maharashtra), but before joining, he was granted leave for a month and he reached here his three days ago. “On Friday evening, when he was collecting straws from the store, he was bitten by a snake. He was rushed to Puranpur community health centre doctors administered anti-venom to him, but his condition continued to deteriorate. Following which, he was referred to the district hospital, but he passed away on his way to the hospital,” said Gurteg. Puranpur tehsildar Vijay Kumar Trivedi said Maninder was cremated on Saturday evening with due honour. “His autopsy report is likely to come by Sunday, following which we will start the proceeding of providing the family an ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh under the Uttar Pradesh Clamaity Act,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sikh-regiment-jawan-24-dies-of-snakebite-in-pilibhit-district/articleshow/76914619.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Rajkot||Cops reunite 80-year-old woman who lost her way to home with family||Rajkot: An 80-year-old woman suffering from dementia lost the way to her home and came all the way to Rajkot from Gondal. Police reunited Mukta Rathod with her family members on Saturday. “Rathod was found sitting by the roadside on Thursday. We picked her up in the police control room van. She appeared to be homeless and seemed to have lost her address,” said an official from Rajkot B division police station. Initially, she said she had come from Ahmedabad and had lost her way. Then she said she had a relative in Gundavadi. “We went to Gundavadi and found Paresh Tank, who is Rathod’s nephew. Tank came to the police station and ascertained the identity of Rathod. He said Rathod lived alone in Yoginagar locality of Gondal,” said the official.“However, it is not clear that during her journey from Gondal to Rajkot as to how many kilometres she must have walked and whether she was given a lift by any vehicle,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cops-reunite-80-year-old-woman-who-lost-her-way-to-home-with-family/articleshow/76915420.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||Covid fear in public transport spurs used vehicle sales||NAGPUR: The ongoing restrictions on public transport and people’s apprehension about using it upon resumption has not just spurred sales of used cars and bikes, but has also led to price rise in Nagpur. Both, two-wheeler and four-wheeler associations are experiencing an increased demand, especially from people living in the city outskirts. In their interactions with customers, auto dealers at the city’s Chitra Talkies Square-located Bearing Market — which is said to be Vidarbha’s hub for used vehicles — have found that buyers do not wish to use public transport, out of fear of getting infected with Covid-19. The two-wheeler association has reported a 60-70% increase in demand after the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) allowed opening of non-essential shops on alternate days in the first week of June. The association secretary Sheikh Mehboob said fewer used two-wheelers were available in the city currently, because people were not buying new vehicles, and hence not letting go of their old ones. The trend is yet to reflect in Regional Transport Office (RTO) records. As per RTO data, just 52 transfer of ownerships were recorded for June, as compared to 543 in June 2019. Associations said that while purchasing vehicles was an urgency for many, buyers were in no rush to get them transferred in their names, which is the reason why RTO was yet to record the pattern. Anil Gohne (51), a resident of Kanolibara in Hingna taluka, had been relying on state transport (ST) buses to commute to Nagpur for the last 25 years. Gohne runs a garage and also has a small farmland. “I need to travel twice a week to Nagpur, about 35 kms from here. I feel it will be risky when the ST bus service resumes. New vehicles are unaffordable right now so I went for a used one,” he said. Gohne said he was short of money to complete the ownership transfer, and had put if off for a later date. Prasheel Shridhar Doifode, a resident of Trimurti Nagar, bought a scooterette bike for his sister. “She works in an IT company and used to take an auto to get there. There is no guarantee that the auto drivers will follow norms, so we immediately purchased our own vehicle,” he said. Auto dealer Abdul Aqueel, who is the former secretary of Vehicle Brokers’ Association, found the rush for vehicles a consequence of panic to fulfil basic needs. “We were surprised too. Most of our customers said they were buying to avoid public transport,” he said. Aqueel said people were not selling their vehicles as new vehicles were costly, and new technology (BS-VI) is high on maintenance. Atul Chotai, secretary of Nagpur Vehicle Brokers’ Association, said the sales were not as high now as they were in February, but most buyers were people who used to rely on public transport. “From 2000 cars a month, sales crashed to 200. Buyers are government officials, traders and professionals who wanted their own transport,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-fear-in-public-transport-spurs-used-vehicle-sales/articleshow/76915418.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: 9,000-year-old rock carvings in Pirla face rain fury||QUEPEM: With uprooted trees, stumps and other remains being deposited at the foot of Pansaimoll rock carvings due to the swollen Kushawati river, locals fear the 9,000-year-old invaluable artwork of Pirla village in Sanguem may be lost forever. Before the onset of monsoon, a huge tree came crashing down near the site. Before it could be removed, another tree debris came along with the flow and remained stuck at the same site. Discovered on May 8, 1993, these carvings on a laterite stone in Pansaimoll have put Goa on the rock art map of India. Though in a remote place, it has been attracting students, tourists and researchers from far and wide. Vithal Khandeparker, a retired agriculture officer and a Pansaimoll resident said, “The river flow has been partially blocked due to the debris of the two trees next to the rock art carvings.” The site becomes fully accessible after the monsoon when the river bed dries up. Every year, however, the sludge has to be removed to expose the carvings. “A huge retaining wall on the south side of the river bank has also collapsed,” Khandeparker said, adding, “Authorities have been informed about the tree debris and the likely damage it may cause to the carvings.” Khandeparker told TOI that an official from the archaeology department informed him that a tender has been floated to clear the uprooted trees. The rock carvings depict the symbol of a fertility cult, religious cosmology, triskelion, zoo-morphs like Zebu bull, deer, gaur, a scene of mating animals and large animals hooves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/9000-yr-old-rock-carvings-in-pirla-face-rain-fury/articleshow/76916492.cms||Johnny M
July 12, 2020||Mumbai||India ranks 8th among 10 Asia-Pacific countries in cancer preparedness: Report||MUMBAI: Cancer continues to remain a health concern in the Asia-Pacific, with its incidence expected to increase by 35%, and mortality rising by nearly 40%, found a report by the Economist Intelligence Unit. Among the 10 countries examined for preparedness by the report, India ranks a low eighth. The report, sponsored by drug company Roche, examines cancer preparedness and complexities of disease challenge in 10 countries: Australia, China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines, South Korea, Thailand and Vietnam. Even as India continues to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, it is weak when it comes to cancer preparedness, with an overall score of 51.6 (out of 100), below the regional average of 66.5%, just above Vietnam and Philippines. Others in the ‘Index of Cancer Preparedness’, like Australia (92.4), South Korea (83.4) and Malaysia (80.3), lead the region. With the cancer burden in Asia-Pacific reaching an estimated 8.8 million cases in 2018, the Index looks at different responses to disease challenge, and essential elements needed to enhance preparedness in the region. While India is recognised for its progress in tobacco regulation, further progress can be made as the country records below-average scores across all three pillars in the Index: policy & planning, care delivery and health system, and governance, it adds. Dr CS Pramesh, director of Tata Memorial Hospital and coordinator for the National Cancer Grid, said, “I do agree that there is work to be done to improve overall access to cancer care and demonstrate cancer preparedness in India. However, I would take this report with a pinch of salt. Any score or index which summarizes a topic as vast as 'national cancer preparedness' to a single score is fraught with problems. Cancer preparedness or access is far too nuanced to be reduced to a number”. The EIU research adds that India faces challenges in developing comprehensive cancer control plans and expanding its immunisation and cancer screening programmes because of its vast population. Like other lower-middle-income countries, India should focus on closing persistent access gaps and ensuring quality of services across the cancer continuum through better infrastructure and service supply, while prioritising on a healthy lifestyle promotion. Further, the research found the obvious strong association between income level and overall cancer preparedness, that high-income countries with established healthcare infrastructure outperform upper-and lower-middle income countries. A strong correlation was also seen between the overall score in the Index and cancer control outcomes as measured by ratio of mortality to cancer incidence in countries. This demonstrates that, in broad terms, better preparedness to manage the cancer burden equates achieving better cancer outcomes. Given that as many as 70% of cancer cases in low and middle-income countries are diagnosed at a late stage, an emphasis on preventive services and moving from opportunistic to population-based screening is needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/india-ranks-8th-among-10-asia-pacific-countries-in-cancer-preparedness-report/articleshow/76916362.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||Ignou students too appeal for promotion||Nagpur: On the lines of some universities proposing to promote students of intermediate semesters or years, Ignou students too have started demanding the same from the university. It has already deferred its Term End Examinations (TEE), which was scheduled to be held in July, with no new dates.Some online students are tweeting with hashtag #Ignou and many are commenting on Ignou’s official handle, asking what the varsity has decided with regard to their examinations. An user, who went by the name Sona Singh Rajput, tweeted on the varsity’s page, “what about first year and second year students examinations. Why are you not responding”.Tutor-marked assignments, which are integral part of evaluation in Ignou, saw their submission deadlines being extended multiple times. Without submission of these assignments, students cannot appear for the TEE. Due to the lockdown, Ignou gave an option of submitting the assignments online to its students. This is the first time ever such a step is taken, though it still has to be handwritten. In Ignou, some courses are offered in semester pattern while others are offered through the yearly pattern. Regional director of Ignou, Nagpur, P Sivaswaroop said the university has already started working on concerns raised by students. “At Ignou, we have to consider the condition of entire country because our students are spread all over. A committee has been formed at our Delhi headquarter which is deliberating on the issue. We expect that a decision will soon be taken, following which my office will convey to all registered students,” said Sivaswaroop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ignou-students-too-appeal-for-promotion/articleshow/76915413.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Ex-IT secretary created 34 posts in KSITL||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Days before M Sivasankar was removed as secretary of the information technology department, the government had created as many as 34 posts — 16 permanent posts and 18 temporary ones — in the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Ltd (KSITL) upon the recommendations of the officer. The KSITL, under which one of the prime accused in the gold smuggling case - Swapna Suresh - was working as operations manager, had asked the government that it needed more posts in the organization as the organization is running projects worth Rs 3,000 crore, including the Kerala fibre optic network (K-FON) project for providing high-speed internet connections for more than 20 lakh BPL families across the state. The new posts have been created when the government-appointed high-level committee had recommended that no new posts should be created and the existing posts should be streamlined. In addition, the action assumes more importance as there are widespread allegations of nepotism against several appointments in the IT department’s subsidiary organizations. “The IT department is being controlled by the chief minister’s office directly and M Sivasankar has been in charge of both. There are multiple ways of creation of the posts and appointing the preferred candidates in many such organizations,” government sources said. As per the order issued by Sivasankar on June 26 (GO (Ms) No 17/2020/ITD), accessed by STOI, other than the managing director, general manager, company secretary and chief financial officer, two posts of deputy general manager, two posts of managers, four posts of deputy managers, one post of estate manager, one post of deputy manager (finance) and two posts of assistant managers were created under permanent posts. This was done by abolishing the existing six sanctioned posts citing that they are grossly insufficient for the functioning of the company. Prior to the latest creation, there were 27 posts in the company, including six permanent posts. The 18 temporary posts include four posts of assistant managers, three posts each of deputy general managers, managers and deputy managers and one post each of administration assistant, junior accountant, junior office assistant, driver and house-keeping staff. The salaries of these posts have been fixed in the range from Rs 16, 500 to Rs 1,17,600, from the housekeeping assistant to the general manager, respectively, except that of the managing director. The salary of the MD has been left to the government to fix and revise from time to time. The salaries for the newly created posts alone would approximately amount to at least Rs 2 crore every year. As per the order, the method of appointments to these posts are through either direct recruitment or through deputation and through temporary appointments on the basis of project requirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ex-it-secy-created-34-posts-in-ksitl/articleshow/76915442.cms||KP Saikiran
July 12, 2020||Agra||AMC issues notice to NHAI for cleaning of nullahs||AGRA: Questioning the quality of cleaning work done ahead of monsoon, AMC administration has a sent a notice to the National Highways Authority of India. AMC teams conducted an inspection in areas affected with waterlogging after the rain on Wednesday which choked nullahs on both sides of the Agra-Delhi highway in city limits. During the ongoing six-laning project of the Agra-Delhi national highway, drainage system was developed by the NHAI on both sides of the highway in the city limit. However, the drainage construction is yet to be completed. After the rain on Wednesday, areas along the national highway, including Sultanganj-Ki-Puliya, DVVNL head office, water works crossings etc witnessed heavy waterlogging due to choked nullahs. Municipal commissioner Arun Prakash said, “A notice has been issued to the project manager of NHAI for the shoddy cleaning work done on both sides of the highway. Besides, the construction of drainage system which has not been completed yet is causing water-logging on roads and colonies near the highway. NHAI has been asked to take time-bound action to ensure the nearby areas do not suffer from waterlogging again.” Meanwhile, AMC has established suction pumps at 22 places in the city to clear the water which is posing to be a problem for the locals. These 22 places lack drainage system and waterlogging usually takes place after rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amc-issues-notice-to-nhai-for-cleaning-of-nullahs/articleshow/76914654.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Noida||Child labour cases rise during lockdown in Noida||NOIDA: Eleven-year-old Dheeraj (name changed) had to drop out of school four years ago to take care of his siblings — now aged six and four years. His father, an e-rickshaw driver, and mother, who works at homes, work hard so that the family can have two square meals. When the lockdown came into force in March, Dheeraj’s father couldn’t take his vehicle out and the Sector 100 society where his mother worked closed its doors to domestic staff. The young boy, who never had a normal childhood, has had to start selling vegetables to try and plug the income void. This is the plight of not just Dheeraj but several others like him. Childline India officials said that they have received around 17 calls related to children taking up jobs in Noida, Dankaur and Greater Noida between March and June. Satya Prakash, manager of FXB-India Suraksha that takes care of the helpline in Noida, told TOI that nine such calls were received in March, while two calls were received in May and six in June. “Prior to the lockdown, one or two such cases were reported but now we are receiving calls in bulk,” he said. Dheeraj’s mother said letting him sell vegetables was the family’s last resort. “He had scored 80% in his Class II exam and wanted to study further. But if he went to school, who would have taken care of his siblings? Also, with the lockdown, I lost my cooking job that would fetch me Rs 12,000,” she said, adding they are yet to pay rent for June and July. The boy has been selling vegetables in Hajipur area but his mother has stopped him from working now as there weren’t enough earnings. On June 15, TOI had reported about another 13-year-old boy who was forced to sell fruits during lockdown. In a similar case, hunger pangs forced an eight-year-old boy to drop out from the government school that he was studying in and take up shoe polishing. The boy was later rescued by Childline officials from Greater Noida’s Kasna area and his parents were also counselled. His parents had said that since they ran out of money after losing jobs, the boy was asked to earn. In yet another incident, a 14-year-old boy from Faridabad was sent to Tugalpur in Greater Noida before the lockdown to stay with his sister. However, the minor boy’s brother-in-law made him work in his photo studio for months. When Childline got to know of the incident, they intervened and the boy was produced before the child welfare committee and sent to his home in Faridabad. Mala Bhandari, president of NGO Sadrag, which handles Childline’s Greater Noida helpline, said, “Undoubtedly, there has been an increase in the number of calls received pertaining to child labour during the lockdown months. There have also been cases in which parents have asked their children to work as they couldn’t earn anything.” The lockdown, she added, has been a testing time for all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/child-labour-cases-rise-during-lockdown-in-noida/articleshow/76916365.cms||Shikha Salaria
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||NGO, cops stall 14-year-old’s marriage||Nagpur: Timely intervention of an NGO, police and staffers of women and child development department helped stop marriage of a 14-year-old girl. She was supposed to tie knot with a 28-year-old suitor on July 26.The teenager was produced before the child welfare committee (CWC) on Friday following which a counselling session of her was conducted to ensure she overcomes the dilemma. It’s learnt that the girl was lured by her beau to marry him. The family of the girl had prepared a fake Aadhaar card revealing her age as 19. The wedding cards were also distributed. As the preparation for the marriage was underway, NGO Childline got an alert call from the locality.The activists of Childline, working under the umbrella organization of Indian centre for integrated development (ICID), informed the district child protection officer Mushtaq Pathan and district child and women development officer Aparna Kolhe who swung into action. Juni Kamptee police too were alerted about the developments.ICID’s office bearer Chhaya Gurav, working under Father Herald D’Souza, said her team, along with police and other government officials, reached the place to meet the girl’s family. “Suspecting that the Aadhaar card was fake, we ensured the records of the Anganwadi, where the girl studied, was checked. It came to fore that she was supposed to turn 15 in December,” said Gurav. The family members were made to sign a declaration that they would refrain from engaging in such illegal act of child marriage and immediately put a stop to the undergoing preparation. “We have also summoned the man who was planning to marry the teenager half his age. He would be also made to furnish in writing not to repeat such an illegal act,” said Gurav.She also said that CWC and other government agencies, including NGO Childline activists, shall keep a close watch on the families and on the teenager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngo-cops-stall-14-year-olds-marriage/articleshow/76915436.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 12, 2020||Delhi||Harmony award for Old Delhi work||NEW DELHI: Jayshree Shukla isn’t your everyday heritage enthusiast. While she captures the daily street life of Emperor Shah Jahan’s capital on camera, she also tries to live it as much as possible. Last year, she even fasted on Ramzan along with Muslims and broke them at Jama Masjid. For being such a connoisseur who has “created understanding and awareness about Muslims”, Shukla has been honoured by Delhi Minorities Commission with its annual award in the Communal Harmony category for 2019. “Being a history graduate, I was always interested in documenting heritage. But I was mostly doing it in Lodhi Garden. I didn’t know much about the Walled City. But one day about five or six years ago, I decided to join a heritage walk in Old Delhi. And my journey of discovery started from there,” reminisced the 52-year-old St Stephen’s alumna, who comes from an upper-caste Hindu family. But during that first journey, somebody stole her purse right outside Sunehri Masjid — the place where Iranian invader Nader Shah had ordered a general massacre of Delhi’s populace in 1739. But she was back there after nearly four months. “I had gone there like foreign tourists do, carrying all my ID cards in the bag, too. I should have been careful,” Shukla said. She started documenting the street life, old homes, snaky alleys — everything that makes Purani Dilli so alluring. “Then I went to Jama Masjid during Ramzan and I was captivated. There was so much life, so much colour in the markets around the mosque! I would be clicking photos there and nobody would object. In fact, someone or the other would come and hand me a date, which is used to break the fast.” But she started fasting only last year. “The election results were announced during Ramzan. We started building walls around us, and I felt we need to build bridges. So, I started fasting along with the Muslims.” This year, she fasted only on the first and the last day of the holy month. Her partners in this exploration journey are her husband Raju Srivastav and driver Mohammed. Srivastav even organised an iftar at his ancestral home in Dinkarpur village, about 70km from Ayodhya. “There is no tradition of Hindu families hosting iftar for Muslims there. Some people were initially hesitant, but eventually everyone joined,” Shukla said. Mohammed helps her understand things she cannot experience herself like eating beef niharis and kebabs. “I don’t eat beef. Mohammed tastes them and tells me the difference,” Shukla said, pointing out that documenting food was an important part of a heritage enthusiast’s work. Historian and author Rana Safvi swore by Shukla’s commitment to preserving Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb. “Jayshree and Raju embody the India that I was born in, the India whose image I cling to, and the India which I want to die in,” Safvi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/harmony-award-for-old-delhi-work/articleshow/76916025.cms||Manimugdha S Sharma
July 12, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Nellore girl kills herself leaving mysterious selfie clip behind||VIJAYAWADA: A 21-year-old degree second year student killed herself after taking a selfie video at her residence in Bhaktavatsala Nagar, Nellore town on Saturday. The video, which went viral on social media, shows the woman with a scarf tied around her neck pleading an unidentified man named as ‘Shiva’ to talk to her. The video was then sent to three men pleading them to talk to her for at least five minutes. According to Nellore town police, her family members found her hanging at her room. Upon information, cops reached the spot for investigation. Police said that they had found messages being sent to three different men pleading them to talk to her. After there was no response, she sent the video to them, threatening to end her, though the men didn’t reply. The messages sought a man named Shiva alias Bharghav to talk to her. With no reply, she eventually hanged herself. Meanwhile, her parents told the cops that she was being harassed by the youth. Cops said that they are tracing the youngsters who are currently absconding and suspect that a love affair could be the reason behind the extreme measure. The police also ascertained that the three men that the victim messaged to weren’t studying in the same college and were friends from outside. A case under Section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death) was registered by the police and the body was sent to Nellore government hospital for post-mortem. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/student-kills-herself-leaving-mysterious-selfie-clip-behind/articleshow/76916026.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai case count falling, so are tests at fever camps||CHENNAI: As Chennai’s Covid-19 positive count drops steadily, public health experts and epidemiologists insist it’s too early to cheer as the number of people turning up at the fever camps in the city has dipped by nearly 40% over the last 10 days. They point out that the infection can spike again if more people aren’t screened and those with symptoms isolated. The Greater Chennai Corporation and state health department say they test between 9,000 and 10,000 people a day. But what has dropped is the number of people being screened for symptoms. On June 30, for instance, 34,880 people were screened at 537 fever camps and the swab samples of 2,536 were tested. But on July 10, just 2,745 people were screened at 498 camps and 1,508 were tested. “Good fever surveillance will help us keep active cases low for a fortnight. If we do that, we will be able to flatten the epidemic curve,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam. “The number has come down because people have started going to work and aren’t at home,” said a health worker, who has been assigned to visit at least 100 houses in Virugambakkam, where a fever camp was organised on Saturday. “Even during the door-to-door survey we only ask if everyone in the family is healthy. We don’t record the temperature of every member of the family anymore,” she said. With the reduction in screening and testing at the fever camps, several zones have reported a drastic drop in the positivity rate. Officials at Zone 4 in Tondiarpet said 8% of people in the zone tested in camps were positive on July 8 compared to 15% on June 30. “Drop in positivity rate is a good sign only when the testing numbers and targets don’t change. Reduction in symptomatic people indicates that we could be missing out on potential cases. We can’t drop our guard now,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur. The sudden drop in positive cases in the last few days can be misleading. Chennai, which reported 2,393 cases on June 30, reported 1,205 cases on Friday and 1,185 cases on Saturday. “There should be more screening of people in camps now than before,” said senior general practitioner Dr T N Ravishankar of Sundar Hospitals. With change in weather, infectious diseases experts say there is a spike in the number of people with cold, sore throat and fever. “Many people are out of their homes, and hence there is more chance of infection. Only a test can rule out Covid-19,” he said. Chennai Corporation joint commissioner (health) Madhusudhan Reddy said the civic agency was planning to conduct fever camps in commercial and industrial areas. “These are mobile camps that can go anywhere. We are drawing up a schedule to ramp up testing at fever clinics,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-case-count-falling-so-are-tests-at-fever-camps/articleshow/76916366.cms||Pushpa Narayan
July 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid +ve man dies in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: A 61-year-old man from MelGudalur in the Nilgiris died of Covid-19 in a hospital in Coimbatore on Saturday. While this is the fifth Covid death in the district, this is the first one to be listed in the state bulletin.The man had gone to Mysuru to attend his granddaughter’s wedding. After returning, he tested positive for the virus on July 9.The district also logged one more Covid-19 case, taking its count to 179. The new case is a 73-year-old man from Main Bazaar in Ooty. He was admitted to a private hospital a few days ago and test showed him negative for the virus. Later, he was referred to a hospital in Coimbatore, where he tested positive for the virus on Saturday. He is admitted to a private hospital. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-ve-man-dies-in-nilgiris/articleshow/76916027.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Rajkot||Suspect in five theft cases nabbed in Rajkot||Rajkot: After jewellery and cash worth Rs 22,500 were stolen from a flat in Lokmanya Tilak Township near Shivdhara Residency on Morbi Road in Rajkot, police rounded up a suspect on Saturday.While refusing to disclose the identity of the suspect, citing secrecy of the investigation, an official from Rajkot B division police station said, “With the detention of this suspect, we hope to solve five theft cases reported from the jurisdiction of A division, B division and University police stations.” On Thursday, an unidentified burglar had broken into the flat of Chatur Koshiya (57). “My wife Ranjan had locked the door of the flat and had climbed down the staircase to buy milk. Then she sat talking to her friends in the garden of the apartment. When I returned home, I found the door to my flat broken into and articles lying scattered around the room,” said Koshiya in his complaint. The suspected burglar had stolen Rs 4,000 cash, gold coins worth Rs 3,000, silver coins worth Rs 500 and gold bangles worth Rs 15,000. “The suspect whom we have caught has the habit of committing theft in broad daylight,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/suspect-in-five-theft-cases-nabbed-in-rajkot/articleshow/76915451.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Wife kills man for objecting to affair, four held||NEW DELHI: A tattoo and fresh leaves on an unidentified body helped the cops solve the murder of a man who was allegedly killed by his wife and her lover in south Delhi’s Maidangarhi area recently. The daughter of the deceased and one of her friends — both minors — were also involved in the crime. Police said the deceased, who was aware of the illicit affair, would often beat his wife and their daughter after getting drunk. According to police, a call was received on July 2 about a man’s body lying in a drain at Mahabalipuram. A tattoo with initials ‘ST’ was found on his arm. Since the body was covered with fresh leaves, the cops got a hint that the man was murdered elsewhere. “A car was found abandoned a kilometre away from the drain. On the basis of the registration papers, the body was identified as that of Mahender. He was also known as Sanjay Tanwar in the area. The deceased’s family was informed and the body’s postmortem conducted,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP, South. Mahender’s wife, her lover Manoj, Mahender’s 16-year-old daughter and her female friend were identified as accused. The wife later told the cops that the deceased objected to her relationship with Manoj. “Often the couple would have fights and the deceased would thrash her. Mahender even objected to their daughter having feelings for another female classmate who helped in the murder and has now been apprehended,” an officer privy to the investigation said. The wife and his daughter subsequently planned the murder and roped in their partners. On June 30, when Mahender was drunk, they strangled him using a dupatta. All the four accused then put his body in the car and dumped it in the drain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wife-kills-man-for-objecting-to-affair-4-held/articleshow/76916034.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Agra||UP roadways conductor who forced girl with ‘Covid symptoms' off bus booked for culpable homicide||AGRA: Two days after TOI reported that a 19-year-old girl was forced off a UP roadways bus and left on Yamuna Expressway allegedly by the conductor who suspected her to be a Covid-19 patient, police have booked the man on charges of culpable homicide on Saturday — nearly a month after the girl from Delhi died in the incident on June 15. A TOI report had highlighted the plight of the family from Delhi's Mandawali which had alleged police inaction in the case. The Delhi Commission for Women had also asked Mathura police on Thursday to submit an action taken report. The girl had been travelling from Delhi to Shikohabad with her mother on June 15 when she was forced off the bus. She died 30 minutes later and the postmortem report attributed it to a "cardiac arrest". On Saturday, Mathura SP (Rural) Shirish Chandra told TOI that an FIR has been registered under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC against the bus conductor on the basis of a complaint submitted by the girl’s mother at Maant police station. “The mother has alleged that it was the conductor who forced them off the bus. We will also investigate the role of drivers.” The bus had two drivers because it was on a long-distance route. Earlier, the Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) had also ordered an inquiry into what led to the death of the girl and recorded the statements of the two drivers and conductor Brijpal Singh. UPSRTC regional manager (Agra) Manoj K Pundhir said the inquiry was “delayed” since it took time to identify and trace who was on duty that day. “We have also found that the actual route of the bus was Agra to Jhansi and back. It was not scheduled to go to Shikohabad where the girl and her mother were headed. The conductor had issued them handwritten tickets so we are also probing this part.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-roadways-conductor-who-forced-girl-with-covid-symptoms-off-bus-booked-for-culpable-homicide/articleshow/76914691.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
July 12, 2020||Kolkata||South Eastern Railway uses drones and sniffer dogs for better surveillance||KOLKATA: South Eastern Railway (SER) has started using drones and sniffer dogs to secure its assets and installations. Though only a few special trains for passengers are running during the lockdown, a large quantity of freight continues to be carried across the country. Also, parcel specials are also being run. To maintain the movement, it has become crucial to provide security along the network. “RPF personnel have been working 24x7 to secure assets. This has proven to be a difficult task during the lockdown when movement has been severely restricted. It was decided to utilize all assets, including drones and sniffer dogs, as force multipliers across the network in Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. The drones have helped reduce the need for physical surveillance, while sniffer dogs are ensuring there is no sabotage attempt,” said Sanjoy Ghosh, CPRO, SER. According to Ghosh, the drones are maintaining vigil on yard signalling infrastructures, wagon stocks, goods sheds and station relay rooms among others. The drone cameras are providing clear images within a 2-km radius both during the day and at night, when operated from a certain height. Sniffer dogs are not only checking for explosives but successfully keeping miscreants from railway property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/er-uses-drones-and-sniffer-dogs-for-better-surveillance/articleshow/76916029.cms||Jayanta Gupta
July 12, 2020||Delhi||PM Narendra Modi hails united efforts in Delhi’s Covid fight||NEW DELHI: The success of concerted efforts and close coordination among the Centre, state government and corporations in bringing the Covid situation in Delhi under control points to the need to ensure swifter cooperation so that information does not remain sealed in silos and improves the Centre’s ability to share real time information with states, a high-level review held by PM Narendra Modi concluded. The Centre seems set to broaden its engagement with the states as the discussion on Saturday saw senior ministers and officials concluding that if coordination between the Centre and states could bring about a significant improvement in the situation in Delhi, it can work elsewhere. Feedback received by the Centre also showed that various authorities were often working in silos and this needs to change in order to quicken the response of the Centre and state agencies in identifying hotspots. Modi hailed measures taken by the Centre, state government and the local authorities in containing the Covid-19 in Delhi and tweeted that “priority is close monitoring and guiding the containment works in regions where the infection rate is high”. It is understood that the emphasis will remain on testing, which is approaching the 3 lakh a day mark, and reducing incidence and fatalities. The Centre feels a target of bringing fatalities under 1% should be set and all states work towards this objective. The effort to increase engagement with the states will be coordinated by the cabinet secretariat and the home ministry. The meeting was attended by Home Minister Amit Shah, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, members of NITI Aayog and other senior officials. An official statement said the PM has asked for real-time national-level monitoring and guidance to be provided to all affected states and places with high test positivity rates. The community outreach model in Ahmedabad, called Dhanvantri Rath, was seen to have been effective. It involves seeking out persons with symptoms, supplying medicines and immunity boosters and follow-ups to see if there has been any deterioration. “The PM appreciated the concerted efforts of the Centre, state and local authorities in containing the pandemic situation in Delhi,” the statement said. “He further directed that a similar approach should be adopted with other state governments in containing the Covid-19 pandemic in the entire NCR area,” it said. The PM reiterated the need to observe personal hygiene and social discipline in public places. Modi said awareness about the pandemic should be disseminated widely and a continuous emphasis on preventing the spread of the infection should be laid. He said there is no room for any complacency in this regard. In the context of Delhi, Shah had stepped in last month to work with Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to handle the coronavirus situation in the national capital amid steeply rising cases and criticism of lack of information on treatment, beds and facilities. Shah had discussed ways to check the spread of the virus in the NCR with the chief ministers of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Having attributed the measures against the pandemic to the collective efforts of state, centre and local authorities is also seen as a message that the PM is looking to de-emphasise political point-scoring to the extent possible. Watch Close monitoring is key: PM Narendra Modi at Covid review meet||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pm-hails-united-efforts-in-delhis-covid-fight/articleshow/76916367.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Noida||Insurance firm manager found dead||Ghaziabad: A 29-year-old man was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his flat at Savy Ville De, a highrise society in Raj Nagar Extension, on Saturday. Police said that they have found a suicide note from the house of the deceased, Vinod Bisht, a deputy manager at an insurance company in Noida. Dilip Singh Bisht, the SHO of Sihani Gate police station, said police got information about the death around 2.45pm. “Initial investigation has revealed that the man had a fight with his wife, Vandana, on Friday evening. One of Vinod’s friends had come to settle the matter but after some time, Vandana’s family members arrived and she went to her father’s house,” Bisht added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/insurance-firm-manager-found-dead/articleshow/76916369.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||South Central Railway sets up Covid ward at railway hospital||HYDERABAD: The South Central Railway (SCR) had set up an isolation cum Covid ward at Railway Central Hospital in Lallaguda after obtaining permission from the state government. The doctors and para-medical staff are being trained about the protocols for treating Covid-19 patients. In addition, all the required medical infrastructure and equipment is being supplied for the safety of medical staff. Further, SCR has taken initiative to engage additional medical staff at Central Hospital, Lallaguda to further strengthen the medical team there. Accordingly, a notification has been issued for hiring nince specialist doctors, 16 general duty medical officers (GDMO), 31 nursing superintendents, four lab assistants and 50 hospital attendants to work at Central Hospital, Lallaguda on temporary basis. “The hospital has started treating Covid-19 patients showing mild or very mild symptoms,” said SCR GM Gajanan Mallya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-sets-up-covid-ward-at-railway-hosp/articleshow/76916035.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Auto drivers told to raise awareness||Coimbatore: City corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar on Saturday directed three autorickshaw drivers, who were not wearing face masks, to create awareness about Covid-19 containment measures. The commissioner, along with officials of the flying squad, were inspecting the Olympus area, when the chanced upon the trio on Vysial Street near Town Hall in the city. To make them realize the importance of wearing masks in public places, Kumar asked them to create awareness. The three men rented a public addressing system and made announcements about the measures to be followed to contain the spread of the pandemic for half-a-day in the surrounding locality, a corporation official said. Kumar later sealed two fish stalls at Ramanthapuram, where huge crowds were seen. He also slapped a fine of Rs 2,000 on the owners of the stalls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/auto-drivers-told-to-raise-awareness/articleshow/76916031.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kolkata||Online concert raises ‘Hope’ from abroad||KOLKATA: Non-resident Indians and the Bengali community living abroad came together to hold a concert—Hope 2020 —in the aid of Amphan victims and to raise funds for Covid care in India. Held from July 3 to 6, the online concert saw a congregation of artistes, celebrities and singers. Organized by North American Bengali Conference and Cultural Association of Bengal, in partnership with more than 85 global NRI organizations, the concert managed to raise $150,000. The concert was preceded by a campaign, reaching out to 10 million people through emails, social media, messages and calls. The three-episode musical bonanza for charity witnessed a record online and TV viewership. The concert and the campaign united Indian and Bengali diaspora citizens from all corners, said Prabir Roy, member of the core team of organizers. “The donation collected and funds raised will go to recognized charities carrying out ground-level relief work. We will close our donation by July 31,” said Roy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/online-concert-raises-hope-from-abroad/articleshow/76916039.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Taxi owner arrested for stealing goats||Coimbatore: A 36-year-old taxi owner cum driver has been arrested for stealing goats from various parts of the district. The Vadakkipalayam police have recovered six goats from him. A police officer identified the arrested as Moorthy, of Navalpakkam in Tiruvannamalai district. He was residing in a rental house at Avvai Nagar at Chettipalayam on the outskirts of the city, along with his wife Geetha, 35. Moorthy, he said, was arrested based on a complaint lodged by G Gowtham, 31, of Mangalam Nagar at Chellappampalayam, stating an unidentified person had stolen his three goats, which were grazing nearby his house. “He said his neighbours had seen one man taking the goats away in the trunk of a white car that hadn’t any registration number plates. However, they had noticed a taxi aggregator’s logo in the vehicle,” the officer said. The cab, he said, was registered with Go Taxi. Vadakkipalayam police sub-inspector (SI) T Rajendraprasath collected CCTV footage of white cab without registration plates and begun inquiry with the taxi aggregator. The SI and team arrested Moorthy on Friday evening, seized his car and recovered six goats, two of which he had stolen from the Gudimangalam police station limits. Preliminary inquiry revealed he was not able to earn enough to make a living following the lockdown. “He has stolen around 20 goats from various places. Further inquiry is on,” the officer said. He said M Sathish Kumar, 32, a farmer from Mullupadi Road at Soolakkal, had also lodged a complaint with the Vadakkipalayam police, stating an unidentified person had stolen his goat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/taxi-owner-arrested-for-stealing-goats/articleshow/76916036.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala gold smuggling case: After NIA, ED also joins investigation||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After the Customs and the National Investigation Agency (NIA), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has also joined the probe in the gold smuggling case via diplomatic channel through Thiruvananthapuram airport. The ED’s zonal office in Kochi is learned to have opened a file (known as T1 file in the agency) and launched a preliminary inquiry into the matter, under the Section 3 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act. The agency is also set to register another case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on the basis of the FIR registered by the NIA by including the sections of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. The Section 3 of the FEMA says that except under the rules and regulations, no person should deal in or transfer any foreign exchange or foreign security to any unauthorised person, receive otherwise through an authorised person, any payment by order or on behalf of any person resident outside India in any manner or enter into any financial transaction in the country as consideration for or in association with acquisition or creation or transfer of any asset outside the country. As per the act, the financial transaction need not be in currency alone, but can also be as payment in any other form that can be gold as well. The preliminary inquiry will be conducted on the basis of the seizure report of the customs. As part of the probe, the agency will gather information about the crime from other agencies. The penalty under the Section 3 of the Act can be up to three times the value of violation. In this case, this could be calculated as thrice the value of the 30kg smuggled gold. Once the PMLA kicks in, the charges will be non-bailable, and several other measures like freezing of the bank document and attachment of properties, etc. would also follow. The penalty under PMLA can also include an imprisonment up to seven years. With the ED too joining the probe, the gold smuggling case has attained high importance, and it has become evident that the Centre has given top priority to the case. Formed in 1957 to look into foreign exchange violations, the ED, which is the economic intelligence and prosecuting agency under the revenue department of the ministry of finance, has been more than active in the past couple of years, especially after it started investigating criminal cases under PMLA. The agency has conducted over 1,700 raids in connection with 1,500-plus specific investigations under the PMLA in the past 10 years. The agency that had taken up cases against some top politicians across the country has also hit the headlines in the cases like that of Nirav Modi who left the country, in connection with the multi-crore Punjab National Bank fraud case. Though ED has been silently active in the state, the gold smuggling case could be one which will be an openly known high profile case for the agency in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/after-nia-ed-also-joins-investigation/articleshow/76915483.cms||KP Saikiran
July 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Dwarka residents protest ‘tree cutting’||NEW DELHI: Residents of Dwarka gathered on Saturday morning to protest against the alleged cutting of trees by National Highway Authority of India for developing an expressway through Sector-22 and Sector-23. Protesters claimed that a contractor appointed by NHAI had come to clear the trees in the area for construction and expansion work. Carrying placards reading “No to flyover in residential area” and “Save sector 22-23 trees,” protesters, including children, women and senior citizens, raised slogans against the project. Sudha Sinha, president of Federation of Dwarka Co-operative Group Housing Societies, said that the residents wanted to protect the environment of the area and so came out in large numbers despite the ongoing Covid pandemic situation. “We followed social distancing norms during the protest,” she added. Sinha claimed that over 2,500 trees would be removed from the area and suggested the use of an alternative route passing near Radha Soami Satsang Ashram. “Thousands of trees that the residents have planted over last 15-20 years will perish due to the project and the residential character of our peaceful community will be ruined,” said Niraj Kumar, a resident of New Millenium apartments. Environmental expert Dr Asha Sharma was also present among the protesters. “The expressway will involve cutting of many trees, which are more than 20 years old. Transplantation will not be a successful solution,” she said. She added that there are 12 schools in the vicinity and the expressway project will ruin the community and residential character of the area. “I have filed several RTIs but nothing is being shared with residents.” A senior NHAI official, however, said no tree was being cut and all the trees would be transplanted to a site within Dwarka. “We are not cutting a single tree. All trees will be transplanted as per the forest department guidelines. We have taken the requisite permission from the forest department regarding all the 5,700 trees of the entire project along the 7-kilometre stretch,” the official said. Regarding the alternative route, the official added that the alignments of the project being executed had been approved by UTTIPEC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dwarka-residents-protest-tree-cutting/articleshow/76916040.cms||Paras Singh
July 12, 2020||Rajkot||Three cops booked on bootlegger’s kin’s plaint||Rajkot: Three policemen of Rajkot have been booked for allegedly pressurizing brother of bootlegger to register a complaint against an Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) police inspector. The three Gandhigram cops had found liquor from the car of complainant Ankit Shah’s brother, who went underground after the incident. According to Shah, two D staff members of Gandhigram police station — Prashant Rathod and Pratap Kaprada — thereafter forcefully took him to Nanavati chowk where police sub inspector M B Jebalia was seating inside the car. According to the complainant, the trio then told him that they have personal grudges with Gandhigram police inspector K A Vala and asked Shah’s help to implicate him in an ACB case. However, Shah refused to be part of their devious plans. He was then threatened of being implicated in a false case. Shah tried to follow their plan but could not succeed and tired of their continues pressure, he finally registered a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-cops-booked-on-bootleggers-kins-plaint/articleshow/76915468.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur reopens creches for sanitary workers’ kids||Coimbatore: Almost a week after the video of a sanitary worker’s child being seated in a dustbin while its mother cleaning the road near Valipalayam in Tirupur went viral on social media, the Tirupur corporation has reopened the creches for the sanitary workers’ children in the city. A corporation official said, “The creches, which are run by us along with the NGO SAVE, saw 11 children at Poyampalayam in zone 2 and 16 at Kovil Vazhi in zone 3 when they were reopened on Friday. Saturday also saw the same number of children in both the facilities.” He said the children would be provided healthy food, including fruits and eggs, twice a day. “Precautionary measures like physical distancing and wearing of face masks are followed at the creches .” The official said the creches, which were inaugurated about two years ago, were temporarily closed in March following the Covid-19 outbreak. The Tirupur corporation said they had recruited contract sanitary workers for zone 2 and 3 as the number of permanent workers was less. “We have provided them safety gears and instructed them to follow the government guidelines for keeping Covid-19 at bay,” it said in a press statement. It also clarified that the video was taken when the worker was returning to her house after completing work. “We have issued a notice to the concerned contractor, who was also directed to ensure that the workers wear safety gears.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-reopens-creches-for-sanitary-workers-kids/articleshow/76916033.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt planning to set up wellness centre in city||Coimbatore: The ministry of health and family welfare proposes to open a Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) wellness centre in the city. Coimbatore MP P R Natarajan, along with MPs from the western region of Tamil Nadu and Palakkad had written to the ministry a month ago demanding the centre. In its replay, the ministry said a proposal is under examination to open the centres in Coimbatore and Madurai and sought the number of beneficiaries in the cities. The centre will benefit central government employees, pensioners, former and current MPs, Natarajan said. “Every month, a certain amount will be debited from the beneficiaries’ salary and used to cover their medical expenses at CGHS facilities.” The facility is now available only in the state capital, Natarajan said. “We have to travel to Chennai every time to avail the facility. CGHS can tie-up with private hospitals to perform surgeries or other major treatment for its beneficiaries at a fixed rate. A centre in the city will be useful for all those in the western region as they don’t have to travel to the state capital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-planning-to-set-up-wellness-centre-in-city/articleshow/76916028.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Agra||10 railway bridges of NCR get water-level check systems||AGRA: To constantly monitor condition of railway bridges over swollen rivers during monsoon, the railway authorities have installed water-level monitoring system at 10 major bridges in North Central Railway (NCR) zone. The system has been introduced at Yamuna, Tons and Sone bridges in Prayagraj division, Yamuna bridge in Agra division and Chambal,Yamuna Kalpi, Bagin, Yamuna South Bank and two bridges on Betwa river in Jhansi division. Sources said based on design, flow and other technical parameters, "regular level, high flood level and danger level" of water are identified for all railway bridges. In case water rises to critical level, precautionary action is initiated including regulation or stoppage of trains till the water recedes below the threshold level. “In this advanced water-level monitoring system, the instrument continuously sends out ultrasonic waves which reflects back from top of the water flowing in the river. Time taken for ultrasonic waves to return to the instrument gives accurate measurement of water level in the river. The data is compared with prefixed reference level to assess actual level. The data is transmitted to the central server every five minutes, after which railway authorities take a decision on whether to continue the train operation on the bridge or not,” said a railway official. In addition to 10 functional systems, five more major bridges in Jhansi division have been identified for the water-level monitoring system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/10-rly-bridges-of-ncr-get-water-level-check-systems/articleshow/76914704.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Simplify plan approval process, say builders||Coimbatore: Speedy building plan approval, a single window system and district-level offices for approvals are the need of the hour, representatives of the Coimbatore chapter of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai) said. In a representation to the chief minster on Saturday, they sought friendly procedures to boost the real estate sector. There should be a definite timeframe for approvals as the approval process through the local planning authority (LPA), directorate of town and country planning (DTCP) and the corporation, takes anywhere from six months to one year, said Surender Vittel, president, Credai Coimbatore. “We have to submit the plan to the LPA, which forwards it to DTCP, which sends it back to LPA, and the plan is sent to the corporation, which gives the licence. It takes more than eight months to get approval as it has to go to Chennai and come back,” he told TOI. “When we submit the blueprint for approval, the technical aspects are scrutinised here and in Chennai, which takes time. We are all for the authorities to scrutinise plans. But it should be done within a timeframe.” There should be local offices for the approval process in districts, similar to the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) in Chennai, Vittel said. “This will decentralise the approval process and reduce the time involved in travel to Chennai for approval.” “We have to obtain no-objection certificates and recommendations from panchayats. This procedure is unclear. To rectify this, there should be an online single-window application and tracking system,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/simplify-plan-approval-process-say-builders/articleshow/76916041.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kochi||NIA probe team meets customs sleuths in Kochi||Kochi: A team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday visited the customs office in Kochi as part of their initial probe into the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. Customs sources said that a team, including an ASP and two inspectors, visited the office and took information from them on the probe so far. NIA officer also held a meeting with customs commissioner. Sources added that the statements taken by customs, including the initial statement of accused P S Sarith, was given to NIA to continue their probe into the incident. Sarith is presently in customs custody till Wednesday as per the order of ACJM (economic offences) Kochi. Official sources added that Sarith was at customs office on Saturday. NIA is set to record the arrest of Sarith once the customs custody is over. The agency is also likely to record the statement of another accused, Sandeep Nair’s wife Soumya. She had told customs that Sandeep and co-accused Swapna Suresh were both involved in smuggling of gold. The issue pertains to the customs foiling an attempt to smuggle gold through diplomatic channels and seizing more than 30 kg of gold which arrived at Thiruvananthapuram airport. NIA registered a case on Friday to probe angles including terror funding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nia-probe-team-meets-customs-sleuths-in-kochi/articleshow/76915521.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kolkata||Boy, mom barred from home||Howrah: A woman and her son, who returned from Delhi on Friday, was barred by locals from entering their home at Raghudevpur in Howrah. They demanded that Mahua Mukherjee, who now lived in Delhi and looked after their family business there, should produce a certificate saying both of them were Covid-negative to enter her home. She, with her son, went to her father’s home under Panchla police station but even there, locals forced them to leave. With no option left, the two spent the night near a crematorium. The next day, police convinced the locals to let them enter their home. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/boy-mom-barred-from-home/articleshow/76916047.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Vijayawada||CM Jagan Reddy may not insist on abolition of Andhra legislative council||VIJAYAWADA: If the political development in Velagapudi are any indication, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy may not insist the central government to introduce the bill seeking abolition of the state legislative council. The state Assembly had earlier passes a resolution seeking the Centre to abolish it. However, government sources have told TOI that the state government would not insist on the development now. The re-election of TDP MLC Dokka Manikya Varaprasad to the legislative council seems to have breathed life into the upper house with some MLCs reportedly willing to back the ruling YSR Congress. The opposition TDP, which now holds its sway with a 28-member strength in the 58-member House, is losing its majority now. Manikya Varaprasad had quit the MLC post and the TDP in January 2020 before joining the ruling YSR Congress. Six months after he joined the ruling party, he was re-elected to the post unopposed in the Assembly quota. While his resignation is a loss to the TDP and re-election is a gain to the YSR Congress, it had also given hope to some of the MLCs who have plans to cross the fence and save their term. As of now, there are two more vacancies in the council from the Assembly quota, which are likely to be filled in the next couple of months. Besides, there are three vacancies from the local bodies. However, as they will arise on June 18, 2021 it is not known whether the election commission would fill them or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-may-not-insist-on-abolition-of-andhra-legislative-council/articleshow/76916044.cms||Gopi Dara
July 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai markets to be shut if norms violated||CHENNAI: Any market in Chennai city that does not follow norms on social distancing and use of face masks will be summarily shut, Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner G Prakash has warned. The authorities are also mulling heavy monetary penalties for those violating norms. Monitoring committees have been formed to regulate the 70 markets in city limits and efforts are on to install CCTV (Closed Circuit Television) camerasto continuously monitor whether traders and the public wear masks and maintain physical distancing, Prakash said on Saturday. An assistant engineer with the city corporation, a sub-inspector from the local police, and members from the market and other departments will be part of the committees, which will assess the functioning of their markets every day. Special teams from the revenue and disaster management department will also supervise the functioning of markets. “All these teams will observe the functioning of markets regularly and file periodical reports. All departments will have to work together as a team,” Prakash said. Youngsters do not take face masks seriously: Corporation chiefChennai corporation commissioner G Prakash said an informal survey by the civic body has shown that about 70 –75 % of the population wears masks. “Ruthless enforcement is the way. We have to ensure that the entire population wears masks,” Prakash said and added that it is the younger population that is not taking ‘mask wearing’ seriously. They should understand that it is important for them to wear masks to protect the elderly at home. Civic body had also held meetings with officials from civil supply departments to ensure that token system is adhered to in all ration shops in the city. There are 1,761 ration shops in the city. The commissioner noted that for the 11th continuous day, there has been a downward trend in number of positive cases in the city because of the intense lockdown and doubling of testing. To sustain this downward trend, it is possible only if there is strict enforcement, the commissioner said and added that they are also considering strict monetary penalty for flouting norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-markets-to-be-shut-if-norms-violated/articleshow/76916370.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Sub-inspector tests positive in Tirupur||Coimbatore: The Veerapandi police station in Tirupur city was closed for fumigation and sanitisation on Saturday after a sub-inspector tested positive for Covid-19. The health department had collected swab samples from the 57-year-old officer on Thursday after he experienced body pain. After the SI tested positive on Saturday, he was admitted to the Tirupur Government Medical College and Hospital. The police station was subsequently closed and disinfected. Police officers were shifted to the old taluk office building. This is the first case reported in the Tirupur city police, a senior officer said. “The cops were advised to self-quarantine till the result is declared by the health department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sub-inspector-tests-ve-in-tirupur/articleshow/76916038.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Panic buying before lockdown throws Covid caution to wind||PUNE: The local administration’s decision to enforce a 10-day total lockdown from Tuesday is likely to have unintended consequences due to people crowding market places to purchase essentials, experts and public servants have warned. The World Health Organisation too has said spontaneous mass gatherings of people during an infectious disease event amplify a pathogen’s transmission and have the potential to disrupt the host country or city's response capacity. In Pune, medical experts said the large crowds of customers outside shops — seen throughout Friday and Saturday — can defeat the very purpose of a lockdown. “People venturing out in large numbers and queuing up outside shops will most certainly aid in the spread of the contagion,” said Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association’s Hospital Board of India, Pune chapter. Virologist Renu Bharadwaj said, “A lockdown only gives us breathing space to ramp up medical facilities. It does not help in arresting the spread of the virus. People mingling and overcrowding outside shops ahead of the proposed lockdown will spread the infection.” An epidemiologist told TOI that for a lockdown to have full effect, it has to be for 14 days — the incubation period of Covid-19 and at least another week for the residual infection to die out. “One is aware of this 21-day rule for a lockdown. What is 10 days?” the expert asked. A retired bureaucrat said, “Just 3% of PMC limits is under containment. We just had to focus on these areas and not punish the rest.” Others said previous lockdowns were not handled well. “If they believe it is the people’s responsibility, then a lockdown is not the answer. What they could not implement effectively in the past two to three months cannot suddenly be implemented again,” a senior official said. A serving bureaucrat said he does not believe in lockdowns. “Such curbs are not in the interest of people or the economy. Epidemiologists have shared studies that prove their ineffectiveness,” he said. Within the city’s political circles, criticism was swift. The BJP city unit chief, Jagdish Mulik, said the new lockdown was an attempt by the government to hide failures. “I wonder why there is no lockdown in Mumbai, where the situation is far more serious,” he said. “The local administration should have come out with a stronger plan that seeks to increase testing, contact tracing, distribution of masks and social distancing. Elected representatives and political parties were not consulted before announcing the lockdown, which will also have a widespread impact on livelihoods,” Mulik added. Ajay Shinde, the city head of MNS, said the decision to re-impose a lockdown has created a lot of confusion. “It has led to panic buying at shops. Why is the administration not being strict on those violating curbs? Why is it putting everyone under a lockdown again,” he asked. (With inputs from Nisha Nambiar, Sarang Dastane)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/panic-buying-before-lockdown-throws-covid-caution-to-wind/articleshow/76916368.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 12, 2020||Noida||Couple found hanging, toddler taken to ICU in Noida||NOIDA: A couple, who had allegedly eloped from a village in Bihar, was found hanging inside a rented accommodation in Sector 51 here on Saturday, the police said. The woman’s eight-month-old daughter was found inside the room and was immediately taken to Shivalik Hospital, said an officer, adding that she is currently in the ICU. The police said the 22-year-old man — Aniket from Bihar’s Siwan — and the woman, who was also likely in her 20s, were staying in a rented room in Hoshiarpur village from July 7. Their neighbours told police that a foul smell was emanating from the room when they informed house owner Munshi Ram Yadav. They also heard the infant crying and Yadav then called the police. ADCP (zone 1) Ranvijay Singh said a team from Sector 49 police station reached the spot and broke open the door to find the couple hanging from a ceiling fan. The infant was found sitting on the floor. “Prima facie, the two hanged themselves a day or two before their decomposed bodies were found. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem,” said Singh. “Aniket’s brother said he had eloped with the married woman and her daughter on July 4. The woman’s kin has been informed,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/couple-found-hanging-toddler-taken-to-icu/articleshow/76916371.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
July 12, 2020||Agra||One killed, five injured in accident on Agra-Lucknow expressway||AGRA: One person was killed and five were injured when a speeding SUV met with an accident on Agra-Lucknow expressway on Saturday morning. The accident occurred at 26km stone of Fatehabad police limit in Agra district. According to police, the SUV hit into the rear of a truck parked in the extreme left lane of the expressway at around 6am. Deceased, identified as Sandeep, was a resident of Panipat. The injured have been identified as Vikram the car driver from Rohtak, Babita, Maduri, Manju and Savita. The victims were heading back home to Rohtak from Deoira district after attending a wedding ceremony. Injured were admitted to SN Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/one-killed-five-injured-in-accident-on-agra-lko-eway/articleshow/76914709.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Bareilly||35 more Covid-19 positive cases in Meerut, man dies in Agra||MEERUT/AGRA/BAREILLY: Two police officers and three health workers were among at least 35 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Saturday. The latest cases took the tally to 1,434, including one found in Kanpur, according to Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer. In Agra district, at least one person died of Covid-19 on Saturday. The 75-year-old man, who was being treated at the SN Medical College, was a resident of Devri Road. He was a patient of diabetes and hypertension, and had suffered respiratory failure. The Covid-19 patient died due to co-morbid conditions. So far, 94 Covid-19 patients have died in the district. At least 14 fresh Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra, till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 1,388. Also, 15 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Saturday. Of the 1,388 cases, 81.41% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 166 active cases in the district. In Bareilly, an additional chief medical officer (ACMO) and five other staff of the health department were tested positive for Covid-19. Though the ACMO was tested positive on Friday through a TrueNat machine in Moradabad district, five staff of the health department were among 33 people to test positive in Bareilly on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/35-more-covid-19-ve-cases-in-meerut-man-dies-in-agra/articleshow/76918700.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Salem dist reports 136 new cases||Salem: At least 136 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the district on Saturday, taking its total figure to 1,767. Dr J Nirmalson, deputy director of health services, said, “Of the 136, 64 were from the Salem Municipal Corporation (SMC) limits, 13 each from Mettur and Thalaivasal, seven from Vazhapadi, four from Nangavalli, eight from Pethanaickenpalayam, two each from Tharamangalam and Attur and 11 from Veerapandi.” He said another five had travel history from Chennai, Kanchipuram and Namakkal districts. Dr S Balajinathan, dean, Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital appealed the public not resort to self-medication if they were having Covid-19 symptoms of cold and cough. The district collecotrate campus was, meanwhile, closed on Saturday for disinfection activities after two officials with the office of assistant director of town panchayat tested positivefor the virus on Friday. The neighbouring Erode reported three imported and 39 indigenous cases, while Krishnagiri district recorded 15 new cases. Dharmapuri and Namakkal district reported 14 and 12 cases, respectively. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/salem-dist-reports-136-new-cases/articleshow/76916048.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Agra||35 more Covid-19 positive cases in Meerut, man dies in Agra||MEERUT/AGRA/BAREILLY: Two police officers and three health workers were among at least 35 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Saturday. The latest cases took the tally to 1,434, including one found in Kanpur, according to Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer. In Agra district, at least one person died of Covid-19 on Saturday. The 75-year-old man, who was being treated at the SN Medical College, was a resident of Devri Road. He was a patient of diabetes and hypertension, and had suffered respiratory failure. The Covid-19 patient died due to co-morbid conditions. So far, 94 Covid-19 patients have died in the district. At least 14 fresh Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra, till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 1,388. Also, 15 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Saturday. Of the 1,388 cases, 81.41% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 166 active cases in the district. In Bareilly, an additional chief medical officer (ACMO) and five other staff of the health department were tested positive for Covid-19. Though the ACMO was tested positive on Friday through a TrueNat machine in Moradabad district, five staff of the health department were among 33 people to test positive in Bareilly on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/35-more-covid-19-ve-cases-in-meerut-man-dies-in-agra/articleshow/76914723.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist may allow home quarantine||COIMBATORE: The district administration on Saturday said they were open to allowing Covid-19 patients remain in home isolation, which would, however, be decided only on a case-by-case basis. The move comes after the district’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 1,000-mark a day earlier than projected. An official said they had tried out home quarantine once and were not satisfied with the results. Home isolation of asymptomatic patients is widely practiced in Chennai and Madurai, where all hospital beds are occupied. Officials had begun ramping up bed strength in hospitals and care centres after it was projected that the district was likely to see a total of 4,000 cases by August 1, going by the current doubling time of cases. Collector K Rajamani said, “Home quarantine could be allowed for patients who are asymptomatic or those with extremely mild symptoms. They should not have any comorbidities and not be in the age group of 50 and above.” There are other factors to be considered as well, says another official. “We need to know the number of members in the house, whether there is enough space and room for the patient to remain in quarantine and if the patient is educated enough to understand the importance of isolation.” If the house is cramped and there are people above 60 and small children, he said, they might not allow even a 30-year-old to home quarantine if there are beds available in Covid care centres. According to sources, an asymptomatic patient from Podanur was allowed to home quarantine last week after he refused to get admitted to the government hospital in Pollachi. “Three days later, his mother was rushed to the ESI Hospital with breathlessness and tested positive for the virus. His wife also contracted the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-may-allow-home-quarantine/articleshow/76916046.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Meerut||35 more Covid-19 positive cases in Meerut, man dies in Agra||MEERUT/AGRA/BAREILLY: Two police officers and three health workers were among at least 35 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Saturday. The latest cases took the tally to 1,434, including one found in Kanpur, according to Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer. In Agra district, at least one person died of Covid-19 on Saturday. The 75-year-old man, who was being treated at the SN Medical College, was a resident of Devri Road. He was a patient of diabetes and hypertension, and had suffered respiratory failure. The Covid-19 patient died due to co-morbid conditions. So far, 94 Covid-19 patients have died in the district. At least 14 fresh Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra, till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 1,388. Also, 15 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Saturday. Of the 1,388 cases, 81.41% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 166 active cases in the district. In Bareilly, an additional chief medical officer (ACMO) and five other staff of the health department were tested positive for Covid-19. Though the ACMO was tested positive on Friday through a TrueNat machine in Moradabad district, five staff of the health department were among 33 people to test positive in Bareilly on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/35-more-covid-19-ve-cases-in-meerut-man-dies-in-agra/articleshow/76918699.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Collector inspects Covid care centres||Coimbatore: Collector K Rajamani on Saturday inspected the Covid-19 care centre in Codissia and reviewed work of the 200-bed Covid-19 ward at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The collector was accompanied by city health officer M R Rajan, deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar, joint director of medical services Dr Krishna and CMCH dean Dr Kalidas. He interacted with the nurses and doctors at the care centre. The ward at CMCH will be used if the beds in ESI Hospital are full. ESI Hospital, which has 400 beds, can be upgraded to 800 beds and once that is exhausted, patients will be sent to CMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/collector-inspects-covid-care-centres/articleshow/76916045.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Noida||Noida: Two booked for duping aspiring actor of Rs 18 lakh||GREATER NOIDA: At least two people have been booked for allegedly duping an aspiring actor of nearly Rs 18 lakh on the pretext of helping him in getting launched in Bollywood. The victim, a 22-year-old resident of Sector Beta II, has alleged that he met Mavelin Messi, the main accused, through his childhood friend Jonah David few months back. Mavelin claimed to have contacts in advertisement, modelling and casting agencies in Mumbai and allegedly took Rs 18 lakh from him in two instalments for registering him with talent promoters. But later, Mavelin went incommunicado. An FIR under IPC sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 506 (criminal Intimidation) has been registered against Mavelin and Jonah, and few unnamed persons, on the complaint of the victim’s father Sunil Chaudhary, a real estate developer. “Mavelin had earlier worked with a PR firm in Mumbai and was in Noida for his wedding. He told my son that he can introduce him to various talent managers in Bollywood and can also get him modelling assignments. He also took my son to Mumbai a couple of times, where they attended parties hosted by Bollywood personalities,” Chaudhary told police. Chaudhary alleged that Mavelin made his son transfer around Rs 9.5 lakh into his account on the pretext of getting him registered with talent management companies and acting classes. “He later took around Rs 8 lakh in cash, saying he needs help to make arrangements for his wedding,” he said. “When we asked him to fulfil his commitment, Mavelin threatened my son with dire consequences, and now, he is incommunicado.” Rajesh Kumar Singh, DCP (zone 3), said: “The allegations are being investigated, relevant action will be taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/two-booked-for-duping-aspiring-actor-of-rs-18l/articleshow/76916373.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
July 12, 2020||Kochi||Engagement ceremony triggers biggest Covid infection chain in Ekm||Kochi: An engagement ceremony held at Kuttamassery, ward number four of Keezhmad panchayat, a fortnight ago set off the biggest chain of Covid infection in the district with 13 more persons, associated with the function, testing positive on Saturday. The ceremony, attended by nearly 150 guests, was held on June 27 in violation of Covid protocols. A building contractor who attended the ceremony developed symptoms the next day and sought treatment at three hospitals unfolding the details of the ceremony and sent the whole village unsettled on July 5. He was later tested positive. The 13 persons tested positive on Saturday are members of two or three families who attended the function. A total of 122 primary contacts of the building contractor have been identified till Saturday. Besides his wife and son, samples of 16 primary contacts were taken of which 13 tested positive. His wife and son tested positive earlier. Of the 13 posytive cases, 12 belong to Keezhmad panchayat and one person hails from Kavalangad panchayat. “Total 21 active cases hailing from the panchayat are undergoing treatment. The source of infection of the building contractor has not been identified so far since he travels to various places as part of his work. We also don’t know whether he contracted the virus from any asymptomatic person who attended the function. When the case of the building contractor came out, we started to trace his contacts from June 26. But lack of cooperation from the family, which hosted the function, made it difficult to trace people. They gave us details of only 44 people to draw a veil over the actual number of people attended it. Nearly 500 people, both primary and secondary contacts of the positive cases, have been quarantined so far and the tracing is still continuing. But lack of cooperation is marring our efforts,” said Keezhmad panchayat health standing committee chairperson Abilash Asokan. All wards of the panchayat have been declared as containment zones and all roads have been closed. “Samples of 44 primary contacts of the building contractor have been taken on Saturday,” he said. Additional district medical officer S Sreedevi said they expect more cases from Keezhmadu. Keezhmad is one of the neighbouring panchayats of Aluva market, where 27 positive cases were reported till Friday. “Most of the people working in the market, where vegetables and fish are sold mostly, are from neighbouring panchayats. The first case related to the market was reported in an autorickshaw driver at an auto stand functioning near the market under the flyover. Around 150 people including headload workers work in the market per day. The first case was reported not from the market but from Kadungalloor panchayat,” says Aluva municipality chairperson Lissy Abraham. Health officials said they would conduct widespread testing of people who came in contact with the infected persons in Aluva region. “We have taken 367 samples randomly from the area. Besides, 200 samples of primary contacts of infected persons were also taken till Friday evening,” said a district health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/engagement-ceremony-triggers-biggest-covid-infection-chain-in-ekm/articleshow/76915506.cms||T C Sreemol
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Ghatkesar love triangle claims another life||HYDERABAD: Ten days after his five-year-old daughter was murdered by his wife’s friend, a 37-year-old man committed suicide by throwing himself in front of a train at Bhongir on Saturday. At 2 pm, a few children, who reside abutting the railway track, saw the body and informed their parents, who in turn alerted the local railway staff, Bhongir police said. Police, who reached the spot after making enquires with locals, identified the 37-year-old victim. During investigation, they came to know that he was a resident of Ghatkesar and, on July 1, his daughter was murdered by one Karunakaran, an alleged paramour of his wife. The accused killed the girl as he was angry that his lover had been avoiding him and was moving closely with another man. Since the death of his daughter, the 37-year-old man had been staying at his brothers’ residence in Bhongir. He was upset with his wife and disturbed over the murder of their daughter. Around 9.30am on Saturday, he left his brothers’ residence and went up to the railway track. He switched off his mobile phone and later committed suicide. Police did not find any suicide note on the person. Ghatkesar police had already arrested Karunakaran, who killed the five-year-old by slitting her throat. On July 1, when Karunakaran went to meet his lover at her residence in a gated community, he saw her allegedly in another man’s company and this upset him. He threatened the woman to come out otherwise he would harm her daughter, who was standing close to him. As the woman refused to come out of the room, an enraged Karunakaran slit the child’s throat with a blade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghatkesar-love-triangle-claims-another-life/articleshow/76916049.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Mumbai||Assistant civic chief from CM’s ward dies of Covid in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A 57-year-old assistant municipal commissioner from the BMC’s H-East Ward (Bandra East and Santacruz East), succumbed to Covid-19 on Saturday afternoon. Matoshree, the CM’s private residence, is located in Bandra East. The deceased, Ashok Khairnar, is the second senior civic official to die after being infected by the virus, which since April, has claimed more than 100 civic employees and infected over 2,000. A Thane resident originally from Dhule, Khairnar was being treated at Mulund’s Fortis hospital. Civic sources said despite various rounds of treatment, his condition deteoriorated. His death has sent “shockwaves” among civic officials. On June 8, Shirish Dixit, a 55-year-old deputy municipal commissioner, had passed away at his Mahim residence, hours after testing positive for Covid-19. Khairnar is survived by his wife, two children, a daughter-in-law, a brother, two sisters, and a large extended family. He was diabetic and civic sources said this worsened his condition as he kept working continuously. Khairnar was with the BMC since 1988 after completion of his BTech from VJTI, Mumbai. In 2018, he was appointed as an assistant municipal commissioner in BMC’s G-North Ward, which comprises Dadar, Mahim and Dharavi. Around a year later, he was transferred to the H-East Ward where, since the past few months, he was involved in containing the Covid pandemic. Although the ward was among the first few to have reported 1,000 Covid patients and also over 100 deaths, currently it has the lowest growth rate of cases in Mumbai, at 0.5%, and the highest doubling rate of 116 days compared with the city’s 49-day average. In June, Khairnar had told TOI that stringent containment measures with police assistance coupled with aggressive screening of Covid suspects had helped the BMC slow the spread of the virus in the H-East Ward, which has a population of around six lakh.Tulip Miranda, local civic corporator, H-East, said Khairnar was very hands-on and was efficiently managing the Covid outbreak in the ward. “Despite the challenges he would systematically answer all our queries patiently, and would also ensure that steps were taken to improve the situation,” said Miranda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/asst-civic-chief-from-cms-ward-dies-of-covid/articleshow/76916553.cms||Richa Pinto
July 12, 2020||Goa||Guv reminded of Parrikar’s promise on Saligao plant||Panaji: The government must adhere to the promise of former chief minister Manohar Parrikar and ensure that thewaste treatment plant at Saligao is meant for only the Calangute and Saligao constituencies, Congress stated in a letter addressed to Goa governor Satya Pal Malik. Congress general secretaries Agnelo Fernandes and Yatish Naik requested the governor to intervene and stop the expansion of the treatment plant proposed by the government.  Fernandes, the former Calangute MLA, questioned if the government had conducted a study on the amount of garbage generated in the two constituencies and other places along with an assessment of the environmental impact on the surrounding villages.  Naik also took the opportunity to take a broad swipe at GFP MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar and former Saligao MLA Dilip Parulekar. “Let Jayesh bring out a letter of dissent that he submitted to the cabinet. Did Jayesh write a single letter since February 18 2019, when the cabinet approved the expansion till he was dropped from the cabinet?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/guv-reminded-of-parrikars-promise-on-saligao-plant/articleshow/76916496.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nashik||Goods worth Rs 92,350 stolen||Nashik: Unidentified people allegedly broke into a grocery store in Achanak Chowk in Old Cidco area and stole goods worth Rs 92,350 between Wednesday night and Thursday morning. Ishwar Pawar, a 39-year-old resident of Sucheta Nagar, lodged a complaint with the Ambad police. According to the complainant, who runs the grocery store called Tanvi Enterprises, he locked his shop on Wednesday at around 11 pm and returned on Thursday around 10 am only to find that the door was forced open. He found goods from his godown missing including, a computer, a printer, basmati gold rice packets, other rice packets of various companies, detergent powder, various creams, soft drinks, perfumes, toilet soaps along with the electronic weighing scale, all collectively amounting to Rs 92,350. The shop has a godown at the back with a separate entrance. Some unidentified person(s) had broken the door of the shop using tools and thus got access to the godown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/goods-worth-rs-92350-stolen/articleshow/77042825.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kochi||Authorities mapping areas to take mitigating measures||Kochi: In the wake of more areas in Ernakulam becoming Covid clusters, district authorities are planning mitigating measures in four such clusters. Authorities are carrying out extensive measures to map areas that need to be included in these clusters based on number of contacts. As per cluster containment strategy, primary contacts and secondary contacts of those who tested positive will be identified. Mapping will be done on the basis of their contacts and those who have developed disease symptoms. “Officials with the health department and ASHA workers will visit houses in each cluster and collect details of persons with symptoms. Then, swabs of primary, secondary contacts and symptomatic persons will be tested continuously. Testing will be done until everyone tests negative and normalcy returns. Till that time the area will be a containment zone,” said an official with the district administration. Ernakulam market is one of the major clusters in the district. Till date, over 15 cases have been identified in the area. More persons from the area are being tested now. Officials hinted that the chances are less for getting high number of positive cases from the area. At the same time, the condition in Chellanam, another cluster, is a tad serious. Of the total 21 wards in the panchayat, three wards are critical areas. Focussed testing will be done in these areas. Authorities have already tested around 150 persons. Aluva market and Keezhmad panchayat are the other clusters. All wards of Aluva municipality and Keezhmadu panchayat are containment zones. When swab samples of 400 persons, who are the primary and secondary contacts of patients, around 40 tested positive in the past couple of days. District authorities requested people not to visit hospitals directly if anyone has fever or other symptoms. They should use telemedicine system or contact health department officials. They will arrange ambulance to transport the person to hospital. Meanwhile, 14 places in the district, including Panayapilly (8) in Kochi corporation, have been decalred as containment zones. Palarivattom (43), Karanakkodam, (44), Chakkaraparambu (46), Girinagar (55) and Panampilly Nagar (56) divisions in the corporation limit, and Paravoothara (8) in North paravur have been removed from the list of containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/authorities-mapping-areas-to-take-mitigating-measures/articleshow/76915528.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||At Casa Paradiso in Hyderabad, residents team up to tide over Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Residents at Lodha Casa Paradiso, Sanathnagar, have worked to make the complex a self-sufficient space as part of their fight against the pandemic, Covid-19. Several teams have been formed to help residents through the crisis, which continue even post-lockdown. R Ramanan, joint treasurer, Casa Paradiso Owners’ Welfare Association, said: “We have a team of volunteers, comprising residents and doctors, to help in case of an emergency during the pandemic. The team would be available whether a Covid case develops, but also for other patients.” Dr R Naresh, a physiotherapist, who is in this group, said for any problem residents did not have to step out. “Among the general instructions we provided to people was what to expect if they contact Covid, what to do, precautions for caregivers and a list of hospitals they can reach out and necessary medicines.” Besides this, the management also created teams for electrical and plumbing needs. “Members of the team have some expertise in the area. We planned for any eventuality when domestic helps and other service providers would not be able to come.” The complex has 719 apartments in 12 blocks. But what makes the community stand out is its gate management system. Members of the volunteer team would ensure the protocol – sanitisers, masks and temperature checks – was in place. Someone from the team was always there to monitor if restrictions on movement of people were being followed. Team members were even there at shop for fruits and veggies. Entry and time taken to buy fruits and vegetables were regulated. The elderly could just call and everything that they need would be delivered right at their doorstep. “We became so self-sufficient that people would put in-house advertisements for items they can provide. Even for something like a cupcake, one would not have to step out, ” Ramanan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/at-casa-paradiso-residents-team-up-to-tide-over-covid-19/articleshow/76916495.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Vadodara||Godhra, Halol shops to close at 4pm||Vadodara: With Covid-19 cases spiralling in Godhra and Halol in Panchmahal district, traders in these two towns have decided to keep their establishments open only till 4pm. Earlier, they were working till 8pm in the night. Panchmahal district has witnessed 248 Covid-19 cases so far. These include 108 from Godhra and 103 from Halol. With the steady rise in the number of cases in these two towns, traders had held separate meetings to take a decision regarding the timings. Representatives of traders in Godhra also met the district collector on Friday and discussed the Covid-19 situation and the steps required to control it. As a voluntary step, the traders in Godhra decided to shut shops at 4pm itself. While a similar decision was being mulled in Halol since the last couple of days, it was finalized on Friday. The timings here will be similar to those in Godhra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/godhra-halol-shops-to-close-at-4pm/articleshow/76915496.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||50 +ve convicts shifted to govt hosps||Nagpur: The Nagpur Central Jail authorities on Saturday shifted 50 Covid positive prisoners to government medical college and hospital (GMCH) and Mayo hospital for examination on Saturday. While 23 were sent back, two have been admitted at the GMCH. Around 219 prisoners have tested positive so far making it the highest from any state prison. Till date, 57 jail staffers and around 40 of their family members too have tested positive. 40 staffers were discharged on Saturday.As per a reliable source, there is a serious co-ordination issue cropping up between the prison authorities and the government hospitals. “The prisoners were brought for testing after a delay of several hours which caused inconvenience to other Covid patients. Also, there should proper bifurcation of the responsibilities between the GMCH and Mayo hospital regarding the treatment of the prisoners and jail staffers,” said the source. After checking, the prisoners are to be shifted back to the makeshift barracks-turned-Covid care centre (CCC) in the prison if found asymptomatic. Till going to the press, the X-rays and other tests of the prisoners were under way at the two government hospitals. Additional DG Sunil Ramanand, who is camping in the city, said a community hall on the Home Guard’s Dhantoli premises has been earmarked to be developed as CCC for the Central Jail instead of the earlier thought about sports complex at Mankapur. “We are now in the process to shift the prisoners,” he said.District collector Ravindra Thakare said testing would be continued in the prison but only of the older prisoners, the ones with co-morbidities and also for anyone developing symptoms, in random manner. “There are only two doctors at present in the prison. They look after treatment and other medical needs of prisoners and staffers for treatment, totalling around 2,000. We are now increasing the number of doctors by two to four who have been finalized by the civil surgeon,” said Thakare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/50-ve-convicts-shifted-to-govt-hosps/articleshow/76915533.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Think of resigning as min: Kodiyeri to Muraleedharan||Thiruvananthapuram: Citing the contradictions on the versions by National Investigating Agency and Union minister of state V Muraleedharan on the ‘diplomatic’ status of the cargo in which gold was smuggled to Trivandrum International Airport last week, CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said the statement of Muraleedharan could be suspected as an attempt to whitewash the planners and executors of gold smuggling. “Muraleedharan had said that gold was not carried in diplomatic baggage. But NIA made it clear on Saturday that gold was smuggled in a diplomatic baggage. This has cast shadows on Muraleedharan. It may be recalled that a clearing agent having Sangh Parivar connections had threatened the customs officials to release the baggage. Though clearing agents have no role in releasing diplomatic baggage, he had intervened. It can be suspected that Muraleedharan’s statement was for whitewashing planners and conspirators of the deal. In this circumstance, it will be ideal for Muraleedharan to think whether it is proper on his part to continue in the office of the MoS external affairs,” Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said in a statement here. He said the advocate who is representing Swapna Suresh is a leader of Hindu Economic Forum. “It is interesting that an advocate who believes in a movement that heralds patriotism has taken the vakalath of an accused in a sedition case. All these point to the fact that the thief is within the ship,” he said. The CPM state secretary also alleged that aides of the accused are engaged in a vociferous protest in the streets of Kerala and BJP and UDF are united in that. “People of Kerala will realize the ulterior motives of UDF-BJP alliance during the time of a pandemic,” he said. Kodiyeri said transferring the case to NIA has underlined the state government’s stand that any central agency could probe the case. “Several people pointed fingers at many and claimed that there was evidence against them. The 43(f) clause of UAPA facilitates that. Let them hand over evidence to NIA. But, note that those who provide false evidence will be penalized. If they are not giving any evidence, we can say whatever they had claimed were false,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/think-of-resigning-as-min-kodiyeri-to-muraleedharan/articleshow/76915544.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||NCLT to decide on Mehul Choksi assets’ attachment soon||HYDERABAD: The NCLT, Hyderabad, has told the resolution professional (RP), appointed under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), and ED that it will soon adjudicate and answer their conflicting claims on the attachment of Rs 2,600 crore assets belonging to Mehul Choksi. A bench of NCLT judicial member Ratakonda Murali and technical member A Veera Brahma Rao heard the plea of RP KV Srinivas, who wanted the building and two-acre land owned by AP Gems and Jewellery Park on Road No. 10, Banjara Hills, released from ED’s attachment so that he would take forward the corporate insolvency process of AP Gems and Jewellery company. However, ED argued that AP Gems and Jewellery was a Choksi-owned company with 89% stake in it. Its counsel Anjali Agarwal told the NCLT bench that Choksi through his Gitanjali Group of Companies — Gitanjali Gems, Gili India and Nakshatra Brand Ltd colluded with some officials of PNB, others and defrauded PNB to the tune of Rs 6,097 crore. ED said PNB officials in connivance with Choksi fraudulently issued letter of undertakings and foreign letter of credits worth Rs 3,011 crore and Rs 3,086 crore to Choksi’s entities without following the due procedure of obtaining applications and approval of the authorities concerned. It also said no entries were made in the core banking system. “Summons issued under section 50(2) and (3) of PMLA to Choksi thrice in February 2018 had gone in vain,” ED recalled. It was then ED sought an NBW and a fugitive economic offender tag on Choksi and got them issued against him. The case pertains to the embezzlement of Rs 6,097 crore public funds by Choksi. National Company Law Tribunal, however, reserved its judgment||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nclt-to-decide-on-choksi-assets-attachment-soon/articleshow/76916498.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Call to fund Telangana workers’ return fare from Gulf||HYDERABAD: As the fourth phase of Vande Bharat flights from the Gulf countries began on Saturday, calls for funding the travel fare of stranded Telangana workers are growing. “In Kerala, industrialists, film stars and several organisations are funding stranded workers’ return tickets. If this initiative is also taken in Telangana, many workers could benefit,” said Mandha Bheem Reddy, president of Emigrants Welfare Forum. On Saturday, a special flight from Doha took off for Hyderabad. The flight was organised by Indian embassy in Qatar with help of Telangana Jagruthi, Qatar, Telangana Gulf Samithi and Telangana Praja Samithi. Venugopal Sriramulu, who was on the flight, said his father expired five days ago and was able to return with ticket provided by Kavitha Kalvakuntla and Telangana Jagruthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/call-to-fund-t-workers-return-fare-from-gulf/articleshow/76916499.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 12, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: No temporary shelter to house rescued kids||KOCHI: Agencies working in child rescue in the city are running from pillar to post trying to accommodate children rescued from different points. Officials say the need for a temporary shelter has not been so desperate as in these Covid-19 times especially because of the quarantine regulation. Officials at child welfare committee, which is the official agency that monitors and ensures that the rescued child is under proper care and safe shelter until he or she is sent back home or transferred to a permanent home in the event of the home not being a safe place, said there are several practical issues that can be addressed if there’s a temporary home. During the lockdown period, several children were rescued by the railway child help desk and transferred to CWC custody. “We had a 12-year-old boy who came from Mumbai. We needed a shelter for the quarantine period. He was housed in a shelter home in the city but he twisted the window bars and escaped. He was tracked at Kollam and then brought back on Sunday. Since he got out and was in our care, we had to take him back as the missing complaint is filed in the North police station. We arranged for an ambulance to bring him back and now he is housed in another home with the support from the district administration,” said Bitty Joseph, CWC chairperson. She said they have had quite a few cases during the lockdown which has necessitated the urgent need for a temporary shelter. Child help volunteers who work with police, Childline and railways said they often find a reluctance to accommodate street children in permanent shelter homes because of the errant behaviour of the newcomers. “They often fear that their own inmates will catch the habits including bad behaviour, withdrawal symptoms of drug abuse and violent acts. If we have a temporary home, we could spend at least a week with the child and bring him/her around to a near normal behaviour and then transfer him to a permanent home if he/she is showing a better behaviour,” said a Childline official. Also, most rescue takes place late at night or early in the morning and homes hesitate to admit these children. The railway child help desk has rescued 282 children between April 2019 and March 2020. These include 248 male and 34 female children. Meanwhile, officials with the women and child development in the state said many districts do not have temporary shelters. “We have no immediate plans to open any but if any NGO is willing to support with infrastructure, the government will do the needful to ensure its functioning,” said Anupama T V, director, women and child department. Officials said in every city, there will be buildings of local bodies which are either abandoned or not in use. They can be renovated and used for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-temporary-shelterto-house-rescued-kids/articleshow/76915546.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Indians in US court senators, rally against Trump’s visa move||HYDERABAD: Perturbed with the F1 visa decision, the Indian community in the US is doing all that it could to get justice to the Indian students. Several groups are petitioning politicians as well as universities to give students the freedom to take online classes during the pandemic. The American Telugu Association (ATA) is reaching out to multiple members of US Congress urging them to influence US President Donald Trump to rescind the order that directs international students to leave the US this fall, if classes are online. Through ATA members across the country, the group has submitted memorandums to over 50 senators in key states. The senators, especially those from the Republican party, have lot of influence with the Trump administration. The ATA memorandum, signed by president Parmesh Bheemreddy, reads: “International students contribute significantly to the American economy, innovation, and growth. According to NAFSA: Association of International Educators… international students studying at US colleges and universities contributed $41 billion and supported 458,290 jobs to the US economy during the 2018-2019 academic year.” Arguing against the current decision, the statement adds: “Requiring international students to depart from the country during these challenging Covid times is not a practical approach and puts them under immense financial and health risks, while also causing budgetary shortfalls to universities and colleges. This is also an inhumane action and is against the founding principles of this country.” Another student organization, North American Association of Indian Students (NAAIS) has started a movement “#suethegovernment”. The Association says: “Asking your university to sue the Trump administration for their misguided policies is imperative to protect the globally acclaimed higher-level education system America prides itself upon.” This follows Harvard and MIT suing the Trump administration over its guidance to prevent international students from taking online courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indians-in-us-court-senators-rally-against-trumps-visa-move/articleshow/76916501.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Goa||‘Govt transferring those opposing IIT project in Melauli’||Valpoi: A day after the press conference held by 12 sarpanchs from the Sattari taluka to declare their support to the proposed IIT project at Melauli, the Valpoi block of the Congress slammed the village representatives stating that they lacked knowledge on IITs. “The sarpanchs don’t even know the difference between an IIT and an ITI, as while speaking to reporters one of sarpanchs even referred to it as an ITI,” Dasharath Mandrekar, president of the Valpoi Block Congress Committee, said. Mandrekar alleged that Melauli villagers employed in government departments are being punished for opposing the IIT project by being transferred to far off places. “Lata Gaonkar, a handicapped anganwadi worker, who was posted at Murmune-Sattari has been transferred to Quepem just because her husband has opposed the IIT project,” he said, questioning how a handicapped person was supposed to travel daily to Quepem. “Congress fully supports the Melauli villagers in opposing the IIT project. I challenge health minister and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane to fight legally, instead of harassing and threatening the poor villagers,” he said. Congress member Nandakumar Kopordekar said that most villagers from Melauli are dependent on agriculture and the IIT project will take away their livelihood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-transferring-those-opposing-iit-project-in-melauli/articleshow/76916505.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: Religious services waft down from Mandur church||PANAJI: In these stressful days of the Covid-19 pandemic, parishioners of Our Lady of Amparo Church at Mandur in the Tiswadi taluka have largely been able to keep their spiritual quotient buoyed from the comfort of their homes. While many faithful from other parishes presently avail live-streamed religious services — often interrupted by network glitches — parishioners in Mandur wait to hear the resonant voice of their parish priest, Fr Roland Carvalho, over the church’s public address system early in the morning to begin their spiritual connect with God as they sip a cup of tea or go about their daily chores. By increasing the volume of the church’s sound system by a few decibels, Carvalho has been able to reach out to most of his parishioners and even border residents of Neura and Azossim, on either side. “We feel like we are in church when Mass begins at 7am or 8am on Sundays,” Albert Fernandes, an elderly parishioner, said. Ensconced on a hill slope, the elevated location of the 300-odd-year-old church provides an optimal platform to transport religious services to several areas, including the scenic Dongorim island which is now connected by a culvert. “Parishioners in eight wards, except Manxebhat beyond Dongorim hill, and nearby villagers have responded well to the daily service,” Carvalho said. This new normal in Mandur began on curfew day, March 22, before the nationwide lockdown begun. “On March 21, I celebrated the last Mass with my parishioners, a simple service instead of the solemn one I had planned earlier to mark the silver jubilee of my priesthood,” Carvalho said. Although Mandur has reported a few Covid-positive cases recently, villagers like Joaquim Fernandes say the daily religious services are crucial to keeping their spirits up. “The morning service has now become even more important for us to prayerfully connect with God,” Fernandes said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/religious-services-waft-down-from-mandur-church/articleshow/76916390.cms||Paul Fernandes
July 12, 2020||Kochi||CPI censures Jayashankar for hitting out at LDF||Kochi: CPI has censured party member and political observer advocate A Jayashankar for continuously engaging in the moves to destabilize LDF. Jayashankar, a member of the party Kerala high court committee had criticized the LDF’s move to include Kerala Congress (M) faction in the front. During a TV channel discussion Jayashankar said that even the constituents which are already there in the LDF are feeling the pinch. He had also opined that even CPI had been facing difficulties in LDF. Following this, CPI leadership is learnt to have asked the high court branch committee of the party to discuss the issue and take disciplinary action against him. When the high court branch committee met, most members said that the views aired by Jayashankar were derogatory to the party and LDF. So, the branch committee decided to censure him. Meanwhile, Jayashankar said that he was ready to comment on the issue. But, Jayashankar made it clear that he would move appeal before the party control commission against the decision of the branch committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpi-censures-jayashankar-for-hitting-out-at-ldf/articleshow/76915555.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Goa||SEC to take final call on Covid care proposal||Panaji: After submitting their plan to the chief minister and health secretary for setting up Covid care centres across the state based on a PPP model, the Goa unit of the Indian Medical Association is now waiting to present their plan to the state executive committee (SEC). “We spoke to the chief minister personally. The health secretary was also very positive and asked us to be prepared to present the plan before SEC,” past president IMA-Goa, Dr Shekhar Salkar said. The plan which involves converting hostels and halls not only across constituencies but even in each taluka into Covid care centres for asymptomatic patients, will also rope in Covid angels - those who have recovered from the disease. “We have a list of Covid angels who we will contact after we receive a go-ahead from the government. Before we bring them on board to help Covid positive patients, we will ensure that an antibody testing is done on them. We don’t want to risk their lives,” he added. The plan suggested by IMA-Goa has responsibilities set out for the minister in charge, local MLA, deputy collector, health officer, local IMA doctor, Covid angels, local panch or councillor and social workers. According to the plan, the deputy collector will ensure beds, water, toilets, food, cleaning/mopping, bio medical waste coloured bags with bins, sanitation, hot water, smart TV cable connection and security while the health officer will make arrangements for nursing and ward boys 24x7, medicines, oxygen with accessories and look after ambulance logistics. IMA will help in thermometer/oximeter sourcing, data charting, assessment with nurse, daily doctors teleconference with patients, video IEC (information, education and communications), while Covid angels will be used for counselling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sec-to-take-final-call-on-covid-care-proposal/articleshow/76916389.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress, BJP trying to disrupt communal harmony: TRS||HYDERABAD: Alleging that both Congress and BJP are trying to disrupt communal harmony in the state, TRS leaders reminded that even in Gujarat, several religious places were bulldozed for road widening during Narendra Modi’s tenure as CM. GHMC mayor Bonthu Rammohan, MLA Danam Nagender, MLCs MS Prabhakar and M Srinivas Reddy said the state government has started demolition of old secretariat buildings only after the HC nod. Leaders said that the CM had also clarified on building a temple and a mosque in the new complex.  “Opposition parties are trying to spread communal disharmony,” Bonthu Rammohan said. Danam Nagender said the government decided to construct a new secretariat as the existing one did not have proper facilities, lacks fire safety measures and is in a dilapidated state. On debris removal, the mayor said that the task is entrusted to an agency and it would be shifted to two construction and demolition waste (C&D) plants in Fatullahguda and Jeedimetla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-bjp-trying-to-disrupt-communal-harmony-trs/articleshow/76916502.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kochi||Lack of cold chain infra hits farmers||Kochi: Over the past one month, the price of cassava dropped to Rs 7 per kg hitting the farmers in the district who were struggling to find a market for their produce amid the Covid-19 lockdown. In the absence of avenues to process the produce or make value-added products the farmers had no option but to suffer in silence or feed them to cattle after cooking them. Pineapple farmers too had faced the same situation as tonnes of produce rotted away with no takers in March and April this year. “This would not have happened if there was a cold chain infrastructure in our area,” says Antony P M, a farmer in Kothamangalam who lost 50 tonnes of pineapple in April this year. The maximum price he got was Rs 10 per kg. A year ago they had fetched him up to Rs 48 per kg. State government had tried to revive Nadukkara Agro Processing Company to help the Vazhakkulam farmers in distress but it was of little help because they were unable to provide a price that would help them break even. “Our biggest issue is lack of avenues to market the produce and infrastructure to preserve the produce till we get a better price. We spend Rs 25 to cultivate one kilogram of pineapple and unless farmers get at least Rs 30 they will lose money,” said Antony. According to experts, establishing a cool chain, with a cold store at the farm and refrigerated trucks are important if the quality of the product is to be ensured. Currently the district does not have such infrastructure. “In Maradu market, agricultural department has five cold storages but they have been rented out to private players. If suddenly there is a surplus we don’t have any facility to stock produce,” said principal agricultural officer Dileepkumar. There are several central schemes which offer subsidies to develop such critical infrastructure but they have not been explored. Farmers are fearing fall in prices in the coming months as many have ventured into farming, especially tubers like cassava. Horticorp is currently procuring cassava for Rs 18 per kg but most farmers who have no avenues to market their produce are forced to sell them as low as Rs 7. “A major consumer of cassava were hotels, bars and wayside eateries that spring up during the night time. Because of the lockdown we lost out,” said Nedungapra Karshaka Sangham Vipani president V G Jaimon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lack-of-cold-chain-infra-hits-farmers/articleshow/76915553.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Patient shifted to Gandhi hosp without consent||HYDERABAD: It turned out to be a traumatic Saturday for Priyanka Rao (name changed) and her family after her aunt went ‘missing’ from the government-run Chest Hospital, where she was admitted on July 7. The 71-year-old patient, tested Covid positive on Saturday. “We got a call today (Saturday) morning that my aunt had tested positive. When I went to check at the Chest Hospital at 5pm, she was missing,” said Priyanka. “After much persuasion, we were told that my aunt has been shifted to Gandhi Hospital. No other detail was shared,” said Priyanka. When she tweeted about her plight seeking help, the family got a response from health minister Eatala Rajender stating: “She was shifted to Gandhi and admitted @5th floor (sic).” Speaking to TOI, Priyanka said: “How can they shift my aunt without intimating the family?” She also cast doubt over health officials’ claims that patient was ‘stable’.  To add to the family’s fears, on Friday they had been told that her aunt’s oxygen levels had been fluctuating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/patient-shifted-to-gandhi-hosp-without-consent/articleshow/76916503.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||CII rolls out Centre for Innovation & Startups in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Apex industry body Confederation of Indian Industry on Saturday rolled out its Centre for Innovation, Entrepreneurship & Startups in Telangana. The centre, which is supported by the Telangana government, will be housed in the T-Hub premises. CII said the centre aims to provide a robust platform for building a stronger entrepreneurial ecosystem in India by helping innovative start-ups collaborate with corporates and will focus on deep tech start-ups in the manufacturing sector by creating a pool of potential start-ups from the young researcher community. The centre will forge partnerships with over 9000 CII members from the private as well as public sectors, including SMEs and MNCs, along with its indirect membership of over 3 lakh enterprises from 288 national and regional sectoral industry bodies, it said. “The centre will provide the right mix of entrepreneurial elements – mentorship, access to capital, safety net for experimentation, coupled with the conviction to follow up on a grand vision and will do wonders for strengthening the start-up ecosystem in not just Telangana but across India,” Telangana IT & industries minister KT Rama Rao said at the centre’s digital launch. S Gopalakrishnan, chairman, CII National Start-up Council, said the centre will spur research translation from lab to market, generate society-ready innovation, explore new business models and encourage funding for the entire value chain from proof of concept to business models. It will give a huge fillip to an innovation driven entrepreneurship by bringing start-ups to work with large business houses and corporates through CII’s network on the lines of the Silicon Valley model||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cii-rolls-out-centrefor-innovation-startups-in-city/articleshow/76916506.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Goa||Oppn leader wants Army to manage ESI hospital||Panaji: With Goa’s Covid-19 toll hitting 12, including three deaths in less than 24 hours, opposition leader Digambar Kamat demanded that the state government ask the Indian Army to take over management of the Covid hospital at Margao. The Margao Congress MLA also asked if the government has prepared a healthcare plan for Goa to tackle the pandemic. “How many more deaths does the government need in order to show sensitivity towards Covid patients and provide proper food and other facilities?” Kamat said. On Friday, chief minister Pramod Sawant and Union minister of state for defence Shripad Naik met with high-ranking officials of the Armed Forces to discuss the way forward if Covid-19 cases increase in Goa. Kamat has been asking Sawant since March to create a task force comprising experts from all sectors, including the army, to handle the pandemic. He had also written to PM Narendra Modi with a similar request. “Now when the government has realised the importance of taking help from army, it is important to not waste any more time,” he said. South Goa Lok Sabha MP Francisco Sardinha also voiced his criticism against the state government’s strategy to combat the pandemic. “It has failed totally because from a Green Zone, we have come to the current situation. There is no proper planning here,” Sardinha said after attending a virtual meeting of all Lok Sabha MLAs with Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppn-leader-wants-army-to-manage-esi-hospital/articleshow/76916392.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Madurai||Students beat lockdown by selling veggies||Madurai: If the lockdown has spurred some to be creative, it has also made others entrepreneurial and support their families in these troubled times. For a month now, a group of youngsters in Dindigul, mostly college students, have been earning a living by selling vegetables in a shop they have set up. Among them is B Sabari who was employed at a BPO in Chennai before returning to his hometown at Eriyodu in Vedasandur taluk of Dindigul district during the lockdown. Three others — T Matheesh Kumar, an MBA student, R Manikandan, BSc final year student, and T Venkatesh, who is pursuing BCom, — decided to join hands with him to ease the financial burden on their families during the period. “We pooled the money we had and mobilised Rs 8,000, and thus was born our vegetable shop,’’ they said. They take turns in going to the Dindigul market to procure vegetables and bring back about 150 kg everyday. “We procure for about Rs 5,000 every day and keep our margins low to meet the competition from already existing shops. But we make a reasonably good income, which is helping all of us,’’ said R Manikandan. If the retail price of tomato is Rs 60 a kg, they price it at Rs 50, which has already earned them a group of 20 regular customers, among the 100-odd daily customers. The friends say their venture has given them a lot of hope and made them realize that self-sustenance always helps. “When the Covid-19 crisis ends and go back to college, they have decided to continue with their shop. Perhaps, we will develop it into a supermarket selling all essential commodities including meat and fish,” said Sabari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/students-beat-lockdown-by-selling-veggies/articleshow/76916110.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Shimla||'Exempt Himachal Pradesh from forest laws for water supply mission'||SHIMLA: Pleading on the behalf of the state, Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatraya has demanded an exemption for the state from Forest Conservation Act, 1980 and the Forest Rights Act, 2006, to implement Jal Jeevan Mission. Dattatraya has written a letter Union minister of environment, forests and climate change Prakash Javadekar in this regard and requested him to look into the matter personally and issue necessary directions. He assured there would not be any felling of trees nor any damage would be caused to the ecology of the areas where these schemes would be executed. Most components of the project such as pipes and trenches would be either underground or not cause damage to trees, he added. He brought to the notice of the Union Minister that the state was facing a peculiar problem in implementing the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) as most ridge lines in the state were forest lands and no non-forestry activity was allowed there. Dattatraya said all the activities related to construction of gravity-based water supply schemes such as storage and conservation structure; laying of main pipelines and distribution network were classified as non-forestry activities. As a result, almost all the schemes being built under the Jal Jeevan Mission were lift water supply schemes, he said. He said instead of holding the water along the ridges, it was first allowed to drain to the valley and then lifted up with electric power to be supplied to the villages. This added to the cost and created other problems too. The governor said the exemption could be one time under the Forest Rights Act, 2006. He said it was estimated that the state would save an amount of Rs 700 to 750 crore, annually that was spent on construction and maintenance of these schemes. Himachal Pradesh was a hilly state and most of the area was covered with forests, he said, adding that the state had a successful afforestation programme which was evident from the fact that the forest cover had increased by 33.52 square kilometer between 2017 and 2019. He said that the recorded forest area of the state has 62.32% of total geographical area and had declared all non-private land as forest land in line with the provisions of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/exempt-hp-from-forest-laws-for-water-supply-mission-guv/articleshow/76916393.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: Spiti valley to get helipad close to China border||SHIMLA: Located close to China border, Spiti valley of tribal Lahaul-Spiti district in Himachal Pradesh is set to get another helipad at Key village, as the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change has given in-principle approval for diversion of 0.92 hectare of forest land in favour of the public works department for the purpose. In a letter to Himachal additional chief secretary (forests), the ministry has informed about the in-principle approval for the diversion of forest land to construct helipad at Key village in Lahaul-Spiti district. Agriculture and tribal affairs minister Dr Ram Lal Markanda, who also represents the Lahaul-Spiti assembly constituency, said the construction of this helipad would be of great benefit to the residents of surrounding villages, as during the winters, helicopter would be able to airlift them in case of an emergency. He said the availability of helipad would also boost tourism-related activities in the area, as Key monastery receives visitors from across the globe. Situated at an altitude of over 13,000 feet above the sea level, Key village is known for its monastery. Local resident Chhering Dorje said the issue of helipad had been pending since long, but after the central government’s approval, it is likely to be constructed soon. “A helipad in Key is surely going to boost tourism, besides making life easier for the local residents, as during medical emergencies, people need to be airlifted,” he said. This helipad will be the 15th one in Lahaul-Spiti district, with others being located at Satingri, Udaipur, Tindi, Tingrit Baaring, Rawa, Tandi, Gondhla, Sissu, Jispa, Chokhang, Losar, Kaza, Sagnam and Tabo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/spiti-to-get-helipad-close-to-china-border/articleshow/76916391.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi-Bengaluru flight service from Monday||HUBBALLI: After a gap of three months, flight services from Hubballi to Bengaluru will start from Monday. Earlier, more than 10 flights were being operated from Hubballi to various destinations including Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai and other cities. All flights were suspended after the lockdown was imposed. When the government announced that it would allow only 30% of flights to operate, a flight to Kannur in Kerala was started from the Hubballi airport. Now, a service to Bengaluru is all set to resume. Airport director Pramod Kumar Thakare told TOI, “IndiGo airline has finalised its schedule to start its operation to Bengaluru from Monday.” “Other airlines are now ready to operate flights from Hubballi, but they are reviewing the situation. There will be more flights from Hubballi airport in August,” he added. Sources from IndiGo confirmed that the flight to Bengaluru will be operated four days a week on every Sunday, Monday, Wednesday and Friday from July 13. Bookings have already started. The flight will depart Hubballi at 9.25am and reach Bengaluru 10.35am. It will depart from Bengaluru at 7.30am and reach Hubballi at 8.55am. The IndiGo flight to Kannur, which is operated on every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday, sees an occupancy rate of 10 to 20%. Air traffic is likely to increase in the days to come, said sources. Sources said both airport authorities and airline operators have taken all precautionary measures as per the SOP prescribed by the government of India to ensure the safety of passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hubballi-bluru-flight-service-from-monday/articleshow/76914596.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
July 12, 2020||Goa||State govt appoints nodal officers to deal with Covid cases in industry||Panaji: With Covid-19 cases rising in industrial estates, the state government has appointed nodal officers at the North Goa and South Goa collector’s office to liaison with the industrial units and monitor the spread of the virus. Industrial estates have also put up their own standard operating procedures to be followed to ensure that the spread of the coronavirus in manufacturing facilities is halted. Goa State Industries Association has also said that industrial units are ready to comply with additional guidelines put in place by the state government, but warned that long periods of shutdown was detrimental to the industrial units, the economy and the workers employed at the units. “The government has appointed two nodal officers, one for each collector’s office and we have the president of each industrial estate as the nodal officer for each estate,” said GSIA president Damodar Kochkar. “If any cases are detected by either of the nodal officers then they will inform the authorities quickly so that preventive steps can be taken.” The SOP for industrial units requires all employees to be screened with thermal scanners. All employees must wear face masks at all times, including during travel. The SOP restricts non-staff members from entering industrial units while workers and non-staff members from containment zones are prohibited from entering the company premises. The SOP also makes it mandatory for all industrial units to maintain details of all employees along with their travel history. “If at all any employee is found with symptoms, then do be open and transparent, and contact the local Industrial estate president and local health officer and ensure that he or she is positively tested and isolated till results are available,” said Kochkar. The SOP has been shared with all the industrial units who have been asked to take proactive measures to curb the spread of the virus. The units have also been asked to maintain strict confidentiality about the identity of workers who test positive for Covid-19. “The info should only be shared with the local industrial person that is the local COVID-19 nodal officer, the local health officer and the respective collector only,” said Kochkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-govt-appoints-nodal-officers-to-deal-with-covid-cases-in-industry/articleshow/76916397.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kochi||Amballur transforms waste dump to park||Kochi: For years the Millunkal canal and its banks, right at the heart of Amballur panchayat, were convenient spots for waste dumping. Commuters in the Ernakulam-Kottayam route would remember the stench emanating from the canal, which was once used for transport of cargo from areas like Perumbalam, Poochakkal and Panavally, as they drove by. With the inauguration of the first phase of the Rs 5-crore Kanjiramattam Millunkal tourism project on Friday, Amballur panchayat successfully showed the way to address a civic issue with bearing on local environment and health of its populace through a development project. “We repeatedly cleaned the canal spending lakhs of rupees from plan fund, installed surveillance cameras to check the menace of waste dumping. But nothing seemed to work. Then it dawned on us that unless we make use of the canal we could not save the waterbody or solve the issue of waste dumping,” says Amballur panchayat planning committee vice-chairman Mukundan P A. Both sides of Millunkal canal used to be cultivable land which were abandoned and became a convenient spot for dumping of waste because it was not inhabited and was located close to the highway. The panchayat cleaned up the 750m-long canal, which connects Konothu Puzha, with the help of the irrigation department before commencing work on the park. The park landscaped with buffalo grass and Mexican grass has an open stage, selfie point, play station for children, an open gym, a 3,000 sq ft restaurant space and a toilet block. A small sewage treatment plant has also been built to handle the waste generated by the project, said Mukundan. The first phase of the project was completed at a cost of Rs 2 crore. “In the second phase we are planning to develop a walkway along the canal and a rainbow bridge. Tourism minister has said that the government would consider granting funds for the second phase after the end of the pandemic,” said Mukundan. The panchayat expects the project would generate income for the local body and also help businesses in the surrounding areas. “We are thinking of launching a boat service with the help of a private agency soon as the second phase might be delayed,” said Mukundan. Panchayat has also plans to tap the tourism potential of spots like Njandukadu Thuruthu once the project is completed. The project was inaugurated by tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran through videoconferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/amballur-transforms-waste-dump-to-park/articleshow/76915567.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Goa||Verna policemen endure tough time at Zuarinagar shelter||Vasco: The Verna police personnel manning the Umiya building point of the Zuarinagar containment zone in Sancoale are have a harrowing time due to the stink emanating from the garbage dumped near the shelter put up to shield them from the rain. Mosquito menace due the thick vegetation and rain water gushing through the shelters also add to the problem. Plastic and other waste flows in with the water, leading to unhygienic conditions inside the shelter. Snakes are a common sight and the fear of them entering the shelters, especially during the night has been keeping the police personnel guarding the five entry points 24x7 on the edge. Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha said, “I will direct the Sancoale panchayat to get the contractor remove the garbage and also to clear the thick vegetation from the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/verna-policemen-endure-tough-time-at-zuarinagar-shelter/articleshow/76916399.cms||Ruvina Khan
July 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Kharkhoda scam: Sacked cop took 1,100 liquor cases from kingpin||CHANDIGARH: In what appears to be significant revelation in the Sonipat liquor theft scam, it has been learnt that sacked inspector Jasbir Singh had settled with 1,100 cases of illicit liquor out of the 2,200 cases that were seized from kingpin Bhupender Singh in March. According to sources, this information first came to light in the confessional statement of Bhupender Singh and the same was further corroborated by ASI Jaipal Singh, a close confident of Jasbir Singh and the investigating officer in the case. It is alleged that a total 2,200 cases of IMFL were seized from Bhupender Singh. While the kingpin and his driver were supposed to be booked by the police, Bhupender brokered a deal with Jasbir and gave him 1,100 cases. As ASI Jaipal Singh was the investigating officer in the case, he dropped Bhupender’s name and arrested the driver of the vehicle in which the liquor was ferried. Notably, all this came to the fore when the special investigation team (SIIT) had arrested Jasbir in a that was registered into this particular incident. Jasbir was in SIT custody and SIT as well cops remained accessible to comment over the issue. “Investigations are still in progress,” a cop remarked when asked to about the 1,100 liquor cases that were to be recovered from Jasbir Singh, It may be recalled that the incident dates back to May 1-2 when the Sonipat police registered a case into theft and misappropriation of 9,000 cases of liquor that had gone missing from the godown in Kharkhoda It was alleged that the liquor had been smuggled out by Bhupender’s group, allegedly in connivance with Inspector Jasbir, the then SHO of Kharkhoda police station. Jasbir was the last person to be arrested by the SIT earlier this month. Prior to him SIT had arrested Bhupender, his aide, ASI Jaipal and excise inspector Dhirender. Bhupender’s brother is on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kharkhoda-scam-sacked-cop-took-1100-liquor-cases-from-kingpin/articleshow/76916401.cms||Manvir Saini
July 12, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to provide net connectivity to 5,991 gram panchayats by December 2021||DEHRADUN: The Centre has sanctioned Rs 2,000 crore for Uttarakhand under the BharatNet phase II programme to ensure last-mile internet services to 5,991 gram panchayats in 65 blocks of the state, especially in border areas, by December 2021. Chief minister TS Rawat said that barring Haridwar, where the project has been completed already, works would be started in the other 12 districts to ensure better connectivity to villages. “We have already distributed 300 satellite phones in the villages close to border areas. We know that the call charges of these phones are high. Hence, we are working on a plan to bear at least a part of the bill thus generated. Be it border issues with China or Covid-19, none of it is permanent. However, the BharatNet project will have a long and lasting impact, especially in areas with tough geographical conditions,” he added. The CM said, “The Centre has approved Rs 2,000 crore for the project. The start of internet services in all gram panchayats will usher in a new era of development and the rural economy will gain pace. The project is funded by the Universal Services Obligation Fund under the Union ministry of telecommunications. The project is being implemented in two phases by the Bharat Broad Band Network Limited (BBNL).” According to Rawat, the implementation of phase II of BharatNet project would facilitate e-governance, e-office, e-district, e-health, tele-medicine, e-education, e-banking and e-Naam (eNAM) to help people become self-reliant and garner opportunities through self-employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-provide-net-connectivity-to-5991-gram-panchayats-by-dec-2021/articleshow/76914828.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 12, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD demands probe into ‘fake’ Covid-19 reports in Amritsar||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has demanded an independent probe by a central agency or a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court into fake Covid-19 reports in Amritsar. The SAD said the latest order of Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan taking the inquiry from the vigilance department and entrusting it to the Amritsar police had shaken people’s faith in the state Congress government. SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia said concerted efforts were being made by Congress leaders to shield those involved in the diagnostic centre and hospital in Amritsar which declared Covid-19 negative patients as positive and kept them with positive patients in isolation centres to extort money from them. Majithia said that the vigilance department was entrusted with the probe after Amritsar police failed to make headway due to alleged political pressure. The Majitha MLA added that an attempt to murder case was registered against owners of the diagnoistic centre and two technicians associated with it. Also, a case of fraud was registered against the owner and doctor of the private hospital. The Akali leader alleged that the about turn in the case occurred after the private hospital owner held a meeting with senior officers two days back. He alleged that one of the OSDs to the chief minister played a major role in sabotaging investigations and acted as a “sales person for the private laboratory.” The Akali leader said a nine month pregnant woman was wrongfully shown as Covid-19 positive by the private laboratory and kept in an isolation ward with positive patients, putting her life at risk. Subsequently, two tests conducted by the Guru Nanak Dev Medical College laboratory proved that she was Covid-19 negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-demands-probe-into-fake-covid-19-reports-in-amritsar/articleshow/76916398.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Hubballi||In Sindhanur, five members of one family murdered||HUBBALLI: Five members of a family were allegedly murdered by another family over a love marriage of a couple in Sindhanur of Raichur district on Saturday. It is said Mounesh and Manjula, residents of Sukalpet in Sindhanur, were in relationship, and that they got married last year against the wishes of their elders. Enraged over this, the relatives of Manjula allegedly attacked Mounesh family with deadly weapons, killing his mother Sumitra, 55, father Erappa, 65, sister Sridevi, 36, brothers Hanumesh, 35, and Nagaraj, 38. Mounesh and Manjula are safe, and are currently under police protection. Raichur SP C B Vedamurthy rushed to the spot and took stock of the situation. He told reporters that love marriage is the reason for the murders. “Sindhanur police have registered a case, and also arrested three accused in this regard. A special team has been formed to investigate the case,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/in-sindhanur-five-members-of-one-family-murdered/articleshow/76914046.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||No curbs on permanent work from home for STPI units||HYDERABAD: Here’s some good news for IT/ITeS companies with STPI (Software Technology Parks of India) units that are looking at a permanent work from home play as part of their business strategy. Not only are there no restrictions on long term WFH, STPI units can take out duty-free equipment like laptops and desktops on a permanent basis and also reduce their operational area within STPIs on account of WFH, STPI authorities have clarified to apex IT sector body Nasscom. Nasscom in June 2020, made a representation to STPI authorities highlighting industry requirements related to permanent WFH in light of the outbreak and sought clarity on certain rules and regulations. STPI said that WFH is now a common practice in the IT/ITeS industry and years before the Covid-19 outbreak it had taken up the matter at the appropriate level to ensure that necessary provisions were introduced in foreign trade policy (FTP) and handbook of procedures (HBP). “STPI is encouraging units to take precautionary measures by enabling their staff to WFH for continuity of business operations. Provisions enabling WFH are vital ingredients of FTP and would certainly remain in force even after the pandemic,” STPI has clarified, Nasscom informed its members. On the issue of reduction in operational area on account of permanent WFH, STPI said SPTI directors are already authorised to issue permissions to units for reduction in operational area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-curbs-on-permanent-work-from-home-for-stpi-units/articleshow/76916510.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
July 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Ramesh Chennithala insists on FIR by Kerala cops in smuggling case||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The failure of Kerala Police to register an FIR was a ruse to help the accused, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said here on Saturday. He warned of opting for legal recourse if state police fail to file an FIR in the case immediately. Ramesh said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan was trying to trivialize the gold smuggling case and the connections the key accused have with the CM’s office. “How can he simply wash off his hands by saying that it’s just another customs case. His arguments that the smuggling happened inside the airport and Kerala Police have nothing to do with it hold no water. It’s clear that his office was involved in the case,” the opposition leader said. The police have to adhere to the laws of the country including Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), Indian Penal Code and orders of the court while functioning, and cannot act as per the whims and fancies of any person, he argued at a press conference here. He said he has “written a letter to the state police chief in the issue with a copy to SHO Valiyathura police station, Thiruvananthapuram. It is really a matter of worry that the police have not registered an FIR, even a week after the smuggling case was reported. It is because of the delay in registering an FIR that Swapna Suresh could move a bail application in Kerala high court, pointing out that she doesn’t have a criminal background.” Ramesh said, “CBI investigation is needed simultaneously to probe the corruption and other criminal aspects as the case has direct links with the chief minister’s office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ramesh-insists-on-fir-by-state-cops-in-smuggling-case/articleshow/76915583.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Chennai||Out of touch?||Chennai: It’s been five months since Shibu Joseph saw his family. And four months since he has shaken hands with anyone. The corporate trainer, who flies to Doha every month on work, has been stranded there after the coronavirus pandemic broke out. But though he is put up in a five-star hotel and lacks no amenities, what he misses is basic human touch."I still remember shaking hands with my colleague after a seminar on March 1. I never thought it would be the last time I would be touching another human being," says the 45-year-old, adding that strict social distancing norms were put in place by his company after the first coronavirus case in Qatar was reported end of February. "I have virtual meetings every day but am anxious about my family back home and all I want sometimes is a reassuring hug."The pandemic has impacted lives in many ways, depriving many people of jobs, company of friends and family, and most importantly, human touch. Months into lockdown, many are suffering from touch starvation, or skin hunger, and that can increase the sense of isolation, loneliness and anxiety, say experts.Human beings are wired to touch and be touched. "Human beings are social animals; we want social connectedness and physical bonding. Touch is important, whether it’s a mother hugging her child, an adolescent cuddling his girlfriend, or the healing touch older people yearn for," says psychiatrist Dr M Suresh Kumar. "Right now, I am practising telemedicine but people miss the warm handshake a doctor gives. Physical contact is a form of communication."A touch can mean many things — it can comfort, demonstrate support, reassure, or demonstrate love. In ‘Munna Bhai MBBS’, the protagonist speaks of the power of ‘jaadu ki jhappi’ (magical hug).According to a 2018 study by scientists at the Medical College of Wisconsin in Milwaukee, US, skin, the largest organ, communicates positive and negative touch stimuli to sensory neurons. The outermost layer of the skin, the epidermis, is mainly made up of billions of keratinocyte cells that release the chemical adenosine triphosphate, which activates receptors on the sensory nerve to convey the sensation of touch to the brain.When one feels a friendly touch, the brain releases oxytocin, the love hormone which promotes feelings of trust, positivity, bonding and well-being, and also decreases fear and anxiety.The touch does not have to be sexual, any positive touch is beneficial. And with the pandemic, when anxiety levels are high and people crave a soothing touch, many are deprived of even the occasional pat on the back or warm handshake at the workplace or social gathering. Even in families, the fear of passing on infection can keep you from displaying physical affection."I began going to work before the intense lockdown, and would head straight for a shower when I returned home. My two-year-old cries when I don’t pick her up, but I am scared to even kiss her cheeks now," says Manoj Subramaniam, an engineer."When you are deprived of touch, it can affect people, especially those who are huggers. Changing a handshake to a namaste, is also new behaviour you have to learn," says Dr R Padmavati, director, Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF) India.What is the impact of touch starvation? "Being starved of physical contact can have physiological effects, with the body releasing cortisol, the stress hormone. It can trigger a cascade of negative physiological effects. It can also cause problems with sleep, create a feeling of not being wanted, and augment a sense of loneliness over a period of time," says Dr Padmavati. Release of cortisol can increase heart rate, blood pressure, respiration and muscle tension, and can suppress the digestive system and immune system.Family therapist Brinda Jayaraman says it can also result in emotional starvation. "People do talk to me about how to deal with it during the pandemic. The precautions we have to take do breed anxiety but as long as you follow protocol, you needn’t be scared," she says.While social distancing is an absolute must to keep the pandemic in check, people should be careful not to obsess over it. "People who are psychologically vulnerable and have marked anxiety are more afraid of passing it on to other people," says Dr Suresh Kumar.How do people cope with it? Communication is key, feel experts. "If your loved ones are far away, a video call will help. When you talk about your feelings, it provides catharsis," says sexologist Dr Narayana Reddy.Brinda feels that adults understand why distancing is necessary. "In our society, people are not physically demonstrative with elderly people, but it is the children who will long for it and feel insecure if we don’t hug or touch them," she says, adding that’s why adults need to keep explaining the situation to them."If they show you something they have done, tell them how you feel like giving them a hug but cannot right now. Keep talking about it and they will feel safe and secure," says Brinda. "And, if you have sanitised your hands and haven’t stepped out, don’t hesitate to give them an occasional pat or hug."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/out-of-touch/articleshow/76915560.cms||Priya Menon
July 12, 2020||Vadodara||MSU to hold exams from August 5||Vadodara: M S University will start conducting terminal exams from August 5. Through a circular, the university has informed that all the terminal or semester-end exams of graduate degrees, diplomas, all semester exams of post-graduate degrees and diplomas and exams of BEd, LLB, BLIS programmes will be conducted in online mode. The exams will be conducted in phased manner from August 5. Guidelines for students will be released by the university on July 28. The exams will be conducted in two phases including phase one stretching from August 5 to August 14 and phase two from August 18 to August 27. The decision to conduct the exams online has been taken to avoid risk involved in conducting the exams on the campus. The online exams will be multiple choice questions (MCQ) based and of nearly two hours duration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-to-hold-exams-from-august-5/articleshow/76915516.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Madurai||Good progress on convention centre in Madurai||Madurai: Construction work on the Rs 45.55 crore convention centre at Thamukkam ground under the smart cities mission is making good progress even as other projects are moving at a snail’s pace due to various issues stemming from the lockdown restrictions. Officials have estimated that at around 20% of the work has been completed with workers from Erode district engaged for the project, after several migrant workers left for their home towns. “Although soil exaction work started in March, it had to be stopped following lockdown restrictions. It resumed only in May. Work on other Smart City projects such as reconstruction of Periyar bus terminal, Vaigai river front development and multi-level car parking have slowed down,” an official said. The official admitted that the Smart City projects are not getting much attention as Covid-19 control works are in full swing. However, projects such as Kunnathur Chatram and laying of cobble stone around Meenakshi Amman Temple are nearing completion. Landscaping Masi streets are inching completion in West Masi Street, while works are under way in other Masi streets, the official added. The convention centre will have larger space for parking to accommodate 500 cars and more than 700 two-wheelers. There will be seven halls, which can be used according to requirement and crowd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/good-progress-on-convention-centre-in-madurai/articleshow/76916113.cms||V Devanathan
July 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Pandemic takes a toll on pregnant women||MANGALURU: Sonam Nishan Bolar, who gave birth to her first child on May 7, had to video call all her near and dear ones from the hospital, to introduce and welcome the new member into the family. “We missed those good moments where family members would visit and congratulate us for bringing a new member into the family. However, it is okay, as we are battling against a pandemic,” said Sonam. The pandemic has taken away from the joys of pregnancy and motherhood. Like Sonam, many others have had the same experience. Some have witnessed extreme hardship and mental trauma during the Covid-19 crisis. Some of the pregnant women who tested positive for the novel coronavirus, had a harrowing time, especially those who returned from abroad and gave birth here. Sonam, who delivered her child during the lockdown, said that only her husband was allowed to stay with her in the hospital. Further, during regular check-ups, as the scanning centres were closed, they had to go to hospital. “The hospitals had serpentine queues and it was difficult for a pregnant woman to wait in the queue with the bladder being full. We had to finish everything on time and reach home before the curfew hours. We wanted to invite everyone to share our joy, but had to do with a low-key affair,” said Sonam. The experience of Deekshitha Prashanth, who is pregnant for a second time, is a lot different from her first pregnancy. “The major concern was safety. I was scared and confused on selecting a hospital to deliver my child. Even getting a regular check-up done done was scary, as there was always the fear that the doctor could be infected,” says Deekshitha. Divya (name changed), now eight months pregnant, who flew down from Dubai in a repatriation flight, says that no pregnant woman should undergo such trauma. “After I and my attender tested negative, we left for our hometown of Chikkamagaluru, for home quarantine. Due to some miscommunication, my attender’s name was missing from the list. After a tedious journey from Mangaluru, the officials forced us to wait at the Chikkamagaluru border for several hours to clear the doubts. We had no food and reached home very late,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-takes-a-toll-on-pregnant-women/articleshow/76914920.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 12, 2020||Mysuru||Armed gang loot jewellery shop in Chikkamagaluru||CHIKKAMAGALURU: A jeweller was injured after a gang of youths, who raided his jewellery shop, opened fire, damaging a windowpane in Chikkamagaluru, in a broad daylight robbery on Saturday. Jeweller Jayaprakash Jain has suffered minor injuries and has been hospitalised. The incident took place around 11.30 am on Saturday, soon after his shop was opened. The youths came to the shop on a motorbike, and had covered their faces. The rider had covered his head with a helmet, while the other two robbers were wearing face masks. They entered the shop and later came out threatening the staff. A fellow shopkeeper explained that when Jayaprakash tried to catch the robbers, they opened fire, thrice, in the shop. Chikkamagaluru superintendent of police H A Machindra said that they have recovered two live bullets from the crime spot.  The shop owner is in shock, and not in a condition to give a statement about the missing jewellery from the shop, if any, he said. He added that a special team has been formed to investigate the case, and efforts are on to arrest the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/armed-gang-loot-jewellery-shop-in-chikkamagaluru/articleshow/76914114.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Tik Tok ban: Cyber criminals cash in on withdrawal symptoms||MANGALURU: TikTok ban has not only led to a rise in withdrawal symptoms, but has also helped cyber-criminals chalk out new modus operandi to blackmail users. An undergraduate student in Bengaluru has approached police after falling prey to cyber criminals. She had uploaded nearly 10,500 videos on TikTok and she was one among thousands to receive a link to download TikTokPro. With the hope of getting back her videos, she clicked on the fake app link that took control of her data and stole her pictures. She received threats that some of her content would be posted on social media, said Gagan Jain, CEO, Cybersafe Bengaluru. He told TOI, “TikTok was a rage. Users addicted to the app are trying to see if the app is live. This practice has become an easy bait for hackers. People are searching for India’s version of TikTok which has resulted in several fake messages doing rounds,” he added. Cybersecurity expert Ananth Prabhu G said, with any addiction comes withdrawal symptoms and in the case of TikTok, withdrawal symptoms are strong. In the current scenario, the dopamine rush happens when people get more likes, views, and comments. Huge subscribers make them celebrities overnight. “Since the dopamine rush happens through likes and subscribers, shifting to a new platform means building a subscriber base from scratch and when most TikTok users received this TikTok Pro, an apk file, downloading it meant giving permission to access camera, gallery and microphone. Search engine analytics indicate that several people have searched for how to download banned TikTok and queries around the popular app,” he added. Dr Ravichandra Karkal, associate professor, department of psychiatry, Yenepoya Medical College, said few apps are designed to give a surge of dopamine in the reward pathway of the brain giving an immediate gratification. Occasional use for pleasure is one thing, but a significant number of users may use it as an escape from negative emotions such as sadness, anxiety, and loneliness. Users report feeling restless and annoyed when they are unable to use the app. Youngsters should not attach their self-worth to the number of followers on these platforms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/tik-tok-ban-cyber-criminals-cash-in-on-withdrawal-symptoms/articleshow/76913814.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 12, 2020||Dehradun||Views spike for Pahadi food vloggers in lockdown||NEW DELHI: Even as the lockdown bulldozed businesses and robbed livelihoods, confinement helped several residents who are creating videos of Uttarakhand’s cuisine. A shared longing for the traditional “pahadi” food led them to start their channels, using nothing but household tools and operating out of their kitchens. These food vloggers say views and comments on their videos have considerably increased during the lockdown as people have been trying out the recipes with enthusiasm. YouTuber Renu Dhatola Chilwal, 34, said she has been getting more ‘likes’ and ‘comments’ than ever on her channel even though she took a break during the lockdown due to an increased workload. “Stuck at home, natives of the hills are looking to go back to their roots,” she said. Smita Rawat from Naugaon, Uttarkashi, said, “I cannot definitely say that my viewership has increased during the lockdown. It keeps fluctuating. It is true that many people are searching for recipes right now. However, as a lot of professional chefs have also started putting up videos, people prefer those.” “Everyone knows someone that is fussing about, failing at or flaunting their culinary skills. One doesn’t need a fancy degree to earn money from cooking. I am doing it from my kitchen!” said Aakanksha Pant Tiwari, 31, a food vlogger from Haldwani. For 46-year-old Kumud Lohani, a homemaker and a food vlogger from Almora, it was the simplicity of the cuisine that had her hooked. “I moved to Uttarakhand from Uttar Pradesh after my wedding and the food seemed to have undergone a paradigm shift. The diet of the hills has none of the richness you find in common gravy-based North Indian dishes. They are simple and wholesome. Take ‘jaula’, for example. All you need is rice and curd and your meal is ready. The ingredients are also relatively inexpensive,” she said. Experts believe there’s a reason Uttarakhand’s dishes don’t require a lot of effort and use only readily-available ingredients. Chef Samta, who works with boutique hotels across Uttarakhand that are famous for serving local cuisine, said the state’s cuisine mostly uses what grows in nature. “Most ‘pahadi’ dishes are prepared in ghee (clarified butter) or mustard oil. This is because most families in the hills used to own livestock and grew mustard seeds in farms. Some still do,” Samta said. “It’s food for the poor,” said chef Avtar Singh Rana, a native of Tehri Garhwal who has been experimenting in ‘pahadi’ food for some time now. “You don’t have to go out of your way to cook a Uttarakhandi dish. All you need are basic spices like coriander, turmeric and green chillies. Our ancestors would have this food before going to work in the fields and stay full for the better part of the day. The ingredients having been grown in pollution-free heights, the food happens to be extremely pure and keeps you hale and hearty,” Rana said. Pankaj Aggarwal, a Mussoorie-based chef with 30 years of experience, believes Uttarakhand’s cuisine hasn’t been promoted enough. “Not only Uttarakhand, all Himalayan states have a distinct cuisine and should be preserved in all its authenticity. A tourist in Uttarakhand is highly unlikely to find an eatery that serves local food. People of the hills should value their food culture and the government should work towards preserving it. If we start now, we can maybe get there in 10 years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/vloggers-putting-uttarakhands-cuisine-on-the-digital-map-get-increased-viewership-during-lockdown/articleshow/76914831.cms||Megha Adhikari
July 12, 2020||Goa||With 3 more Covid deaths, port town’s tally surges to 7||Vasco: The port town continues to remain on the edge after three more residents succumbed to Covid-19 on Saturday. An 80-year-old woman from Sada, a 31-year-old man from Sasmollem-Baina and a 75-year-old man from Khariawada died at the Covid hospital in Margao on Saturday. With this development, the port town has so far accounted for seven of the 12 Covid deaths in the state. The woman, Mangala Mayekar from Rumdawaddo in Sada, died early Saturday morning. Sources close to the family said that seven members, including Mayekar, had tested positive about 12 days ago. While six members were lodged at the Colva quarantine facility, Mayekar, who was partially paralysed and was suffering from other complications, was shifted to the Covid hospital. The other six family members had returned home two days back after their recovery. Mayekar’s final rites will be held at the Sada crematorium on Sunday. Even as news of the tenth Covid victim began to spread across the state, Vasco residents received another jolt after Shafi Hussain, a taxi driver from Sasmollem-Baina, succumbed to the virus. Hussain was admitted to Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital, about 10 days ago for jaundice and was discharged on July 8. On Friday afternoon, his condition worsened due to breathlessness, and a swab test was conducted at the Chicalim sub-district hospital. After he tested positive for Covid-19, Hussain was shifted to the ESI hospital, where he passed away on Saturday morning. His last rites were performed at the kabrastan in Maimollem-Vasco in the evening. The third death was reported of a 75-year-old man from Khariawada Saturday evening. ESI hospital in-charge, Dr Ira Almeida said the victim, Rahim Beig, was shifted to the ESI hospital from GMC on Wednesday. He was brought in unconscious condition and was placed in ICU as he suffered breathlessness. A day later, his lung congestion improved and he was brought out of ICU. However, a CT scan revealed he had multiple cerebral strokes. He did not return to consciousness and died on Saturday. He used to sell dry chilles at Vasco market, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-3-more-covid-deaths-port-towns-tally-surges-to-7/articleshow/76916402.cms||Ruvina Khan
July 12, 2020||Goa||Art and culture department to soon start online classes in Goa||PANAJI: Keeping with the virtual training trend during the pandemic, the department of art and culture has pivoted its conventional teaching methods to adjust for online learning, allowing students to enroll in interactive courses. “Due to the limitations in social gatherings, there are no cultural activities. As a result, we are training our staff to opt for online classes in this time,” director of art and culture, Sagun Velip, said. The training is aimed at how the online classes are to be conducted through social media platforms like Skype. Velip said that the department has begun training a batch of 30 teachers since last week. Of these, 24 are almost ready to begin the online sessions while the remaining are attempting to learn the system as soon as possible. Once the training is done, online sessions of Bharatnatyam classes, Indian classical music lessons, western music lessons, drama and art classes will commence in the state. Prior to the lockdown, these teachers who are with the art and culture department would otherwise go from school to school teaching music, dance and art lessons to students. Throughout the lockdown, these activities by its teachers were dormant.  “Now that schools have started, and students are getting a hang of the online classrooms, we are trying to resume art and culture classes as well in the best way possible, through our online classes.” Velip further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/art-and-culture-dept-to-soon-start-online-classes/articleshow/76916513.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kochi||Lockdown makes lives of elderly more lonely||Kochi: Life has never been easy for this octogenarian couple living in a gated community on Karshaka Road since the announcement of lockdown. The couple say that they have been living a lifeless life with hardly any visitors and no outings. “We are confined to the house. Entertainment is confined to television, internet and reading. Our children live in other cities and we talk to them over phone,” said Gopal Krishna Kurup, who retired from Hindustan Newsprint Ltd. He said though people are generally helpful, he has difficulties in getting some of his supplies, especially ayurvedic medicines. “We are also not able to go to banks. Shopkeepers and others deliver us provisions and medicines,” he said. Similar is the situation of another couple in Kaloor. The man is 72-years-old, while his wife is 70. George Korah, the secretary of Kairali apartments in Panampilly Nagar said they have 72 flats in the complex and 45% of these flats are occupied by senior citizens. They said the elderly people have adjusted to the lockdown and restrictions. “The problem is senior citizens are forced to depend on others. Other than health workers, we do not allow visitors. The restrictions have affected their well-being. There are very healthy people above the age of 70. Why should they be confined to the house,” he said. However, he agreed that these restrictions are imposed for the safety of elderly people. “I see it in a good spirit though there are inconveniences. We have to take care of ourselves. Medicines and provisions are delivered to them regularly,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lockdown-makes-lives-of-elderly-more-lonely/articleshow/76915592.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand varsities, degree colleges to get high speed internet||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand’s higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat announced on Friday that degree colleges and state universities will get the facility of high speed internet within one month. Besides, the state government will also install solar power plants in each degree college in the same time period. The high speed internet facility will be installed with the support of ITDA (Information Technology Development Agency) while the solar power plant will be installed with the technical support of the UPCL (Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited) and UREDA (Uttarakhand Renewable Energy Development Agency). Meanwhile, the state government has made it clear that the students from other states who are pursuing a course in degree colleges and universities in Uttarakhand will have to present their Covid-19 test certificate in order to be allowed to sit for the exams proposed to be held from next month. The outstation students also need to get themselves registered for exams by August 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-varsities-degree-colleges-to-get-high-speed-internet/articleshow/76914841.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 12, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Cops pin hopes on IP address||BATHINDA: The police team investigating the hacking of the Central University of Punjab’s question bank and its keys to solve the questions has written to Proton Mail to provide the IP address from where the email might have been sent to the faculty members of the university informing them about the hacking. The police have sent a communication to ProtonMail, run by Proton Technologies from Geneva, Switzerland, under Section 91 (summons to produce documents or similar other things) of the CrPC, under which a company is liable to provide information for investigations into crucial issues. An email from ProtonMail server was delivered to some faculty members on Thursday from some unknown person, claiming that the question bank had been hacked. A link was also given in the mail, on clicking which the question bank and the keys would get unlocked. The faculty members brought the matter to the notice of the vice chancellor, after which a police complaint was filed. Both investigators and university are also keeping an eye on nearly 10 students, who had got exceptionally good marks in the exams held from July 6 to 8 as compared to their previous academic performance. Due to the restrictions related to Covid-19, the university had gone for the online option for the final semester exams. When contacted, VC Prof R K Kohli said, “All exams, which had been held or were to be held, have been cancelled. The faculty will decide by Monday when again those will be conducted. The faculty members have been asked to prepare fresh questions. The site and the server which was compromised have been closed.” Bathinda DSP (City-2) Ashwant Singh, who is investigating into the case, told TOI that after getting the IP address from ProtonMail from where the mail had been sent, they would proceed further in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/central-varsity-hacking-cops-pin-hopes-on-ip-address/articleshow/76916403.cms||Neel Kamal
July 12, 2020||Madurai||10 bootleggers arrested, 148 bottles seized||Madurai: At least 10 people were arrested and 148 liquor bottles were seized from them on Friday in the city. Vehicles used for the illegal activities are also being seized. A considerable number of liquor cases are being registered on a daily basis, ever since intense lockdown in Madurai city limits was introduced. Police teams and prohibition enforcement wing unit in Madurai city have increased vigilance to curb the illegal activity. However, bootleggers flout the rule and enter into illegal sales at nights in secluded places. According to the police officials, bootleggers stock liquor purchased from rural parts of Madurai and other neighbouring districts. The price of liquor is fixed as per the demand in the black market. Liquor outlets in the neighbouring areas adjacent Sivaganga district too are witnessing brisk sales. “Although city police and rural police have increased police checks to curb their movement, tipplers always find ways to circumvent the checking,” a police officer from the Anna Nagar range said. Meanwhile, residents from places like Alanganallur have started complaining of overcrowding in retail liquor shops due to the increasing number of tippers from the city. They have petitioned the district administration to close down the liquor shops there as overcrowding might result in spreading infection there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/10-bootleggers-arrested-148-bottles-seized/articleshow/76916116.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Chennai||When the virtual verse goes viral||CHENNAI: There’s a question that has been doing the rounds on social media since the pandemic broke out — can you imagine a lockdown without art? While it is rhetoric and intends to shine the spotlight on the creators of music, art and cinema during these testing times, poetry clubs across the country have found the perfect atmosphere to remind weary souls the power of the verse virtually. Only this time, you can ruminate over the gentle wisdom of Rumi and fiery spirit of Sarojini Naidu while getting an opportunity to recite a few lines of your own, as open mics and spoken word events move online. The Spoken Wave Festival, founded by Chennai’s Nimisha Sara Philip and Varshita Ravindranathan, was supposed to take place on a ship in Mumbai in November. But Covid-19 struck and pushed them to reimagine the platform into a virtual collaborative project that will launch soon. "We will bring together artists from across the globe to give voice to people who have experienced abuse. The spoken word will portray their undaunting courage. We hope to hold online discussion rooms and encourage people to share their story," says Nimisha. While most organisers agree that going digital with poetry sessions that rely on intimate gatherings, shared spaces and little distance between performers and audience has been tricky, it has also opened a bigger market, one that has brought world communities together. "It would take up to a year of planning to organise a physical festival, but it takes less than a month to conduct an online event. All it needs is coordination," says Nimisha. Recently, artists like Price and Indian Raga (who combine Bharatanatyam with spoken word), have gone viral, demonstrating how the online format is emerging in its own right. Mocking Birds, a Chennai poetry club, saw more first-timers signing up for their open mics now than they ever did. Michelle Ann James, who founded it with Aashika Suresh, says this could reflect people’s need to find a voice and express themselves in an almost cathartic way that poetry enables. "There are connectivity issues when we go live, it can be awkward to look into a laptop camera and perform for the first time, but we have overcome these glitches," says Michelle. "People are finding comfort and new love for poetry. When we opened up to requests, people asked me to read A K Ramanujan, Dylan Thomas and Khalil Gibran. Some people listened to it like podcasts," she says. Varun Krishnan, a law student from Kerala, used these months to take his passion for poetry a step ahead, performing at one of Mocking Bird’s sessions. "I have always been writing poetry but the recent events have pushed me to break out of limitations, including stage fright," says Varun, who enrolled in a poetry workshop. "Performing online gave me a sense of security, of coming together."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-the-virtual-verse-goes-viral/articleshow/76915585.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
July 12, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: St Albert’s College to organize youth parl on Covid-19||KOCHI: In an effort make students aware about the country’s parliamentary affairs and democratic values, St Albert’s College, Ernakulam, will be organizing an online youth parliament to discuss Covid-19 scenario in India. More than 300 students would take part and play roles of the Indian President, prime minister, speaker, opposition leader and MPs in the youth parliament session that would be conducted through Google Meet. The two-day event will be held in the last week of July and feature all activities held in Lok Sabha sessions like presidential address, policy speech, zero hour, bill presentation, adjournment motion and so on. Also, students will be given training in parliamentary affairs by officials from the parliament. Students, attending the parliament session, will be selected through a screening test based on their knowledge on Covid-19 and parliament sessions. Once selected, they will have to contact around 150 selected incumbent MPs in various states to know about the situation in their respective constituencies and actions taken by them. Based on this info, they will be presenting bills, conducting discussions and debates. College authorities said the initiative is aimed at making students aware of democratic procedures and legislation of the country. Moreover, it will be an engagement for students during lockdown. The college had earlier conducted an online session of Kerala legislative assembly in May and it was well-appreciated by many officials including the speaker P Sreeramakrishnan. A total of 140 students were imparted training by legislative assembly secretary before the session took place. “Initially, the plan was to conduct a youth parliament in the college. Due to the pandemic, we thought of conducting it online. As we had earlier conducted an youth assembly online, students are confident. We have contacted some MPs from Kerala and they have offered their support. We would select 250 MPs from the present parliament and they will be contacted by the students to discuss about their constituencies. Parliament officials have already offered the support and we are now awaiting their confirmation for giving the training,” said Shine Antony, a faculty and the coordinator of the youth parliament. All the topics to be discussed will be about Covid and the medium of interaction will be English. Though the initial plan was to include 543 students as the MPs, the online platform has its own limitations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/st-alberts-college-to-organize-youth-parl-on-covid-19/articleshow/76915598.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
July 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Districts set pace for family planning procedures||Chandigarh: On the occasion of World Population Day, Mansa district recorded maximum tubectomy procedures, Jalandhar had maximum vasectomy procedures and Amritsar emerged at the top in mini laparotomy or mini lap. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu honoured the best performing districts under the family planning programme on Saturday. Sidhu said World Population Day has been observed in all government hospitals to make people aware about free services of family planning methods being provided by the state government. The health minister added that this year’s theme is, “Aapda Doran Parivar Niyojan Di Tayari, Samrath Rashter Te Parivar Di Puri Jimmedari”. He underlined the need to reduce mortality rate of mothers and newborns. The health minister urged people of Punjab to get delivery done in government hospitals and keep their family limited by adopting family planning methods. He said these services are provided free of cost by the state government. Director, national health mission, Punjab, Dr Parvinderpal Singh Sidhu said according to the 2011 census, Punjab’s population was over 2.77 crore, which has now risen to over three crore, which is a matter of concern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/districts-set-pace-for-family-planning-procedures/articleshow/76916407.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Amritsar||Amritsar still prefers local, fresh supply over packaged milk||AMRITSAR: The packaged milk industry here is yet to win the confidence of consumers, who still prefer buying loose milk from friendly “dodhi” (milkmen), who delivers “fresh” milk at their doorstep every morning after milking it straight from cows and buffaloes at his “tabela”. Although there have been numerous cases of loose milk adulteration, the packaged milk, dubbed as “made in factory” milk, remains the second choice. Of the nearly five lakh litre daily demand of milk in Amritsar, the packaged milk had a share of nearly one lakh litre, said Verka Milk Plant general manager Harminder Singh Sandhu while talking to TOI on Saturday and added that out of this one lakh litre packaged milk daily demand, their share is over 80,000 litre. There are several measures for checking milk adulteration with the packaged milk industry, whereas the loose milk is always at risk of being laced with various adulterants, he underlined. In the recent past, the Punjab government had issued an advisory to all the milk processing plants on milk fortification due to prevalence of vitamin A and D deficiency. “We are already doing fortification of double toned milk and have now begun fortification of standard milk by adding additional vitamin A and D as prescribed by the government,” he said. However, the very idea of fortification is alien to the loose milk seller. “What is fortification? Milk itself is a complete food having all the required minerals and vitamins. There is no such need,” said Parkash Singh, a dairy owner. He claimed that the packaged milk industry would not be able to come close to them in terms of competition. “Everyone knows that we supply fresh milk and not factory made. we have earned the faith of our customers,” said Parveen Kumar, a loose milk seller, adding that not only the loose milk, but the packaged milk is also adulterated. Harminder said Verka would soon begin an awareness drive to make their reach to every household by holding camps in residential localities, telling people about the benefits of packaged milk over loose milk and also provide them free milk testing service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/amritsar-still-prefers-local-fresh-supply-over-packaged-milk/articleshow/76916408.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 12, 2020||Dehradun||3-day lockdown in Kashipur as Covid-19 cases surge||RUDRAPUR: The US Nagar district administration has imposed a three-day lockdown in Kashipur from 10 am on Saturday due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. Officials said that the three-day lockdown will continue till Monday night and may be extended if the need arises. While the town recorded 24 new cases on Friday, the same was 10 on Saturday morning. The decision was taken as US Nagar alone accounted for 41 out of a total of 68 Covid-19 cases reported in the state on Friday. The total number of cases in the district now stands at 402. Sub-divisional magistrate Gaurav Kumar said, “As many as 100 swab samples were sent for testing, out of which 24 tested positive for Covid-19. At least 14 of these cases are of a group of people from the same locality who had attended a wedding. We are trying to trace their contacts. Till then, lockdown has been imposed in the area.” He added that only medical shops, hospitals and shops dealing in essential items like milk would remain open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-day-lockdown-in-kashipur-as-covid-19-cases-surge/articleshow/76914856.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||M K Jayaraj is new Calicut Univ VC||Thiruvananthapuram: Putting an end to speculations and political manoeuvering, state governor Arif Mohammed Khan in his capacity as the chancellor, has appointed Prof M K Jayaraj as the new vice-chancellor of Calicut University on Saturday. The chancellor shed his procrastination nearly two-and-half months after the selection panel had submitted him two lists of candidates to the post, which had been remaining vacant for almost a year now. While the state government nominees in the search panel had professor K M Seethi of M G University as the main contender for the post, the UGC nominee in the panel had put his weight behind CTCRI principal scientist Prof C A Jayaparas, who incidentally was the only SC candidate in the list of eligible ones for the coveted post. M K Jayaraj had never been the top candidate to both the state government and the Centre. However, he was one of the candidates the state government favoured in case the most preferred one lost. Jayaraj is currently a professor in Physics, Cochin University of Science and Technology. He has been appointed to the post for a period of four years from the date on which he assumes the office. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/m-k-jayaraj-is-new-calicut-univ-vc/articleshow/76915606.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kochi||Covid fear: Call to stop public hearing||Kochi: The National Highway Samara Samithi leader Hashim Chenampilly has asked the government to immediately stop public hearing related to land acquisition for widening of Edappally-Moothakunnam highway. The members of the protest council said that there are many senior citizens who have to attend the hearing. “In the context of Covid-19 and its impact on citizens, particularly elderly people, the government should direct district administration to stop all activities which require people to present in a crowd,” he said. Pointing out the high court order which require filing of an application seeking postponement of public hearing, Chenampilly said: “Even for filing that application people have to go out and interact with others.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-fear-call-to-stop-public-hearing/articleshow/76915610.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Gurgaon||Girls to get passport with graduation degree: Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar||By: Amit Kumar KARNAL: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday announced that girl students in the state would get their passports alongwith their graduation degree. It will be very beneficial for them as they will not have to go anywhere to get make the passport, he added. Khattar was at Dr. Mangalsen Auditorium to participate in “Har Sar Helmet” programme in which learning licenses and helmets were provided to 137 students of various schools, colleges and ITIs. The event was organized by an international helmet manufacturing company with the help of Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia. While addressing the students, Khattar said every year thousands lost their lives in accidents due to not wearing helmet. “Most of the deaths occur because of head injuries. All students will be provided learning driving licence after giving basic training in their educational institutions.” He urged the students to follow traffic rules and wear helmet while riding two wheelers. Bhatia said such camps would also be held at all nine segments of Karnal parliamentary constituency. On this occasion, the CM also inaugurated a 35-feet-tall mural of astronaut Kalpana Chawla, 10 days after her birthday. The mural was made by the Karnal municipal corporation on the wall of Dr. Mangalsen auditorium. The CM was accompanied by Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan, Indri MLA Ramkumar Kashyap, Nilokheri MLA Dharampal Gondar, CM political secretary and former minister Krishna Kumar Bedi, former Assandh MLA Bakhshish Singh Virk, district BJP president Jagmohan Anand and Karnal mayor Renu Bala Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/girl-students-will-get-passport-with-graduation-degree-khattar/articleshow/76916413.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: 17 opt for home isolation||DHARWAD: As many as 17 asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in the twin cities have opted for home isolation and are being treated through tele-consultation. Of the 17 persons 11 are from Hubballi and six from Dharwad. They are being given treatment for the infection in their respective houses. The state health department commissionerate has allowed asymptomatic positive patients and those with mild symptoms to be isolated in their homes. However, this facility is permitted only after the health team conducts primary investigation and based on triage.  Deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil has asked officials to closely monitor the asymptomatic positive persons. He asked them to document a video on the procedure of treatment and the guidelines to be followed during the treatment period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/17-opt-for-home-isolation/articleshow/76914852.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 70% Covid-19 beds lying empty; 11,500 in home isolation||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 1,781 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.1 lakh. The death toll from the disease, meanwhile, climbed to 3,334. A total of 34 fatalities were recorded in the past 24 hours, according to the state health department bulletin. Delhi’s active cases on Saturday stood at 19,895. Further, 2,998 people have recovered, according to the government, taking the total number of recovered persons in the city to 79%. The national recovery rate, meanwhile, stands at around 63%. A city-based doctor said the epidemic curve seemed to be flattening in Delhi. She, however, said that preventive measures, such as physical distancing and wearing masks, would have to be continued until a vaccine is ready. With the decline in the number of new cases, the occupancy rate at Covid hospitals has also reduced significantly. Of the 15,243 Covid-19 beds across the state, 10,667 (70%) were lying vacant on Saturday. More than 11,598 Covid-19 patients are recuperating at home, while few others are under isolation at Covid Care Centres and Covid Health Centres. “We aren’t seeing too many seriously ill patients. Rush for hospital beds has reduced significantly,” said a senior doctor at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. Even ICU beds with ventilator facility lay vacant in many hospitals. Data updated by hospitals on Delhi Corona app showed 503 (49%) out of 1,025 ventilator beds lying vacant at 10pm on Saturday. “Aggressive testing and isolation of positive cases have helped reduce the spread of the disease. We are also stepping up measures to save more lives by making sure anyone who has severe symptoms is admitted to hospital on time,” said an official. The state health department recently ordered all public and private hospitals to nominate a nodal officer for coordination, requisition and issuance of convalescent plasma from Delhi Plasma Bank at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/70-covid-19-beds-lying-empty-11500-in-home-isolation/articleshow/76916410.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Aurangabad||NGO joins police & AMC to give medicine||AURANGABAD: The city police, civic body and an NGO of medicos have joined hands to distribute immunity boosters among citizens in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. In the first phase of the initiative, the three organisations have pledged to cover 10 lakh people. Raghunandan Lahoti, head of Arunima Foundation, has played a key role in floating the idea. “It was decided to take the help of police and civic body because it is almost impossible for any NGO to reach a vast population like it is in Aurangabad,” he added. Those associated with the initiative said homeopathic medicine Arsenic album 30, which has been prescribed by the Ayush ministry, will be given for free in slum and low-income group areas. Aurangabad municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey, along with Aurangabad police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad went to Chota Murlidhar Nagar, Osmanpura area, Kabranagar, Sadatnagar, Silk mills colony and Annabhau Sathe Chowk to distribute of the immunity booster, along with pamphlets on precautionary and other measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ngo-joins-police-amc-to-give-meds/articleshow/76914879.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad records first Covid death of policeman||Aurangabad: A 51-year-old policeman serving with the Aurangabad city police succumbed to Covid-19 on Saturday, making him the first policeman from the district to die of the contagion. He was one of the eight people who died while undergoing treatment on Saturday, taking the total number of Covid-19 deaths to 350 in Aurangabad. Authorities said the policeman was deployed with an assistant commissioner of police’s office. About four days back, after complaining about fever, he underwent tests. After testing positive, he was shifted to a private hospital, where he remained under treatment for three days, before succumbing on Saturday. Police said so far, 52 policemen, including an inspector, have tested positive for Covid-19 and 32 of them have already been discharged. The news came as a setback for the district police, which until now, had managed to avoid Covid-19 related deaths. Senior police officers have unanimously said that all personnel aged above 55 years have been given side postings. Even those above 50 years of age have been moved away from field postings. Meanwhile, on Saturday, 267 new cases were reported, taking Aurangabad district’s tally to 8,216. So far, 4,834 people have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-records-first-covid-death-of-policeman/articleshow/76914865.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jewellery stores bear the brunt of weak gold sales in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Paresh Kumar (name changed) used to run three jewellery stores in Ahmedabad. In the first week of July, he was forced to shut one of them, located in the tony Prahladnagar area of the city. The slump in demand due to higher gold prices and a visible shift in consumer preference towards essential products post lockdown forced him to close down the outlet. “With the sharp fall in earnings it was a constant challenge to meet the high overhead costs including rent and salaries. I had no choice but to shut the shop,” said Paresh. Gold price stood at Rs 50,880 per 10 gram on Friday and has remained above the Rs 50,000-mark since early July. “Such a high price of the yellow metal is not palatable to people, who are already facing uncertainty with their jobs, business and an income shortfall. So sentimental buying of gold and gold jewellery will not take place. Only those who need jewellery for an upcoming occasion are making purchases, albeit, against exchange of old gold. Due to this, the income of jewellers has taken a big hit,” said Chirag Sheth, owner of three jewellery showrooms in Ahmedabad who was recently forced to shut one outlet on CG Road. “We were forced to reduce staff because our only way to survive was to cut costs,” Sheth added. According to industry players, many small shops in Ratanpole, Bhimjipura and Manek Chowk are yet to open doors post lockdown because sales remain insignificant. Some have permanently shut down their businesses. “These small traders were mostly dependent on sales from rural areas and job-work from jewellery showrooms. However, as demand declined, revenues began to get affected. Roughly 3% of around 5,000 small shops and jewellery making units in the city have shut their operations,” said Rohit Choksi, president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA). “If sales continue to remain low, more shops will be forced to close down,” he added. Industry sources revealed that several jewellers have laid off their sales and other support staffers to cut overhead costs. Jewellers also highlighted that since the lockdown, an increasing number of people are coming to sell old jewellery. “Many exchange old jewellery against new jewellery of the same value or more, but some are also making the exchange against cheaper jewellery and taking home the balance cash to address cash flow problems. The new jewellery becomes their safe-haven investment and the balance is liquidated,” said Chinubhai Choksi, president, Manek Chowk Choksi Mahajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jewellery-stores-bear-the-brunt-of-weak-gold-sales/articleshow/76916133.cms||Niyati Parikh
July 12, 2020||Dehradun||Rudrapur roads riddled with potholes, add to the miseries of locals during monsoon||RUDRAPUR: After barely a few days of inconsistent rain, potholes have resurfaced on roads across Rudrapur. Though the Rudrapur Municipal Corporation (RMC) has claimed to have repaired roads ahead of the monsoon, most of the stretches in the city are still pothole-ridden. The road infrastructure deteriorates due to frequent rain during the monsoon, causing potholes to widen, which invariably causes waterlogging and accidents. Locals alleged that the roads as well as rainwater drains are in a bad state. “Whenever vehicles pass over the accumulated water, potholes are created, and with the increase in number of vehicles, the size of pothole increases,” said Sanjay Juneja, president of the traders union of the city. “Newly repaired roads, such as the Kashipur bypass and the road connecting Adarsh Colony and Civil Lines also do not have a clear and continuous drains, which causes water accumulation and later potholes are created,” he added. “The situation of city roads is worst for pedestrians, bikers and other vehicle owners, as potholes form a major safety hazard and make them susceptible to accidents,” said Sushil Kumar Gava, a resident of Rudrapur’s Singh Colony. The Nainital-Delhi highway, which caters to thousands of commuters going to Pantnagar industrial area, is one of the most prominent roads of the city, but it is not devoid of problems. There are potholes at several places and the worst is in front of the Dabur Private Limited. Gava Chowk, Bhagat Singh Chowk, Bata Chowk, Agrasen Chowk and Awas Vikas Colony are most susceptible to rainwater accumulation as the drainage system in these areas has failed, said municipal councillor Ramesh Kalra. “Water accumulates up to a height of three feet at these places during the monsoon as the drainage system is blocked,” he added. "Given the volume of traffic on the arterial roads of the city, potholes in these areas make the road susceptible to accidents. Even as the monsoon has arrived, the road remains riddled with potholes and is broken in patches. There is a threat of waterlogging as the run-off water goes to low-lying slum colonies,” Kalra further said. Congress city president Jagdish Taneja said, "Nothing has been done to fix the roads ahead of monsoon. We have complained to the RMC often. Potholes on almost every road of the city have become a perennial problem, exposing vehicles to risks. The roads in the city and outskirts are in bad shape and the problem needs to be addressed at the earliest.” Avtar Singh Bisht, a resident of Metropolis Colony said, “The drainage here is blocked. This adds to woes of the residents who are not able to carry out their daily duties during heavy rains because of water accumulation.” Long traffic jams are also frequent in the area during monsoon, said locals, due to the huge potholes and waterlogging because of the incomplete drainage system. “The drains are not clean and they fill up fast and spew water on the road,” said Gaurav Raj, a resident of Awas Vikas Colony. Former Congress minister Tilak Raj Behar also lashed out at the RMC officials and political parties’ representatives. "The RMC is run by BJP and the legislator is from BJP, but the city which was once known for its high-quality roads does not have a single stretch of even 50 metres without potholes. The BJP office-bearers and the local administration should understand and execute their duties well. The lives of people are in peril due to bad roads,” he said. Meanwhile, RMC’s mayor Rampal Singh said, “Most of the potholes have been mended and 90% of the roads across the city have been fixed. With the arrival of monsoon it is difficult to regularly mend the roads. We will take the construction work at priority after the monsoon season is over.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rudrapur-roads-riddled-with-potholes-add-to-the-miseries-of-locals-during-monsoon/articleshow/76914885.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 12, 2020||Madurai||Tirunelveli cop dies of Covid-19||TIRUNELVELI: A police inspector attached to the armed reserve unit of Tirunelveli city police died of Covid-19 on Saturday. Inspector Sadhu Chidambaram, 56, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital for 15 days died around 2am. Police said that he is the second in the family to die to the disease. His son-in-law Srinivasan, 35, a software professional in Chennai, also died of Covid-19 two weeks ago. Srinivasan had come to Tirunelveli about a month ago and tested negative. He developed symptoms five days before his death and could not be saved. “Sadhu Chidambaram was entrusted with the task of deploying armed reserved personnel for check-post duty and other Covid-19 related duties,” DCP A Saravanan said. The inspector’s body was laid to rest with full state honours by firing 21 rounds in Kalvai, his native village near Srivaikuntam in the district. His wife has tested positive and is being treated at the Tirunelveli government medical college and hospital. This makes him the second police personnel to die of Covid-19 in the southern region. Last Sunday a head constable died in Virudhunagar district. The surge in Covid-19 cases has not spared the police force that is in the fore front of maintaining law and order and crowd management to prevent spread of the virus. In Tirunelveli city, 22 police personnel including two inspectors were infected, of which two of them got discharged while the rest are undergoing treatment at TVMCH. As many as 208 police personnel and officers in Madurai have been infected by the virus till date. This includes 160 in the Madurai city police unit and 48 in the Madurai district police unit. While 80 recovered and have been discharged in the city unit, 39 recovered and have been discharged in the district unit till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tirunelveli-cop-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/76916127.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Madurai||As cases rise, new tankers give Madurai hosps oxygen backup||Madurai: With the number of people detected with Covid-19 due to enhanced testing, rising in Madurai district, the demand for oxygen therapy has grown for patients admitted to hospitals with severe conditions. Meanwhile, the newly-installed liquid oxygen tankers at the Thoppur hospital, is expected to help more patients get oxygen. The Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) has 1,400 beds for Covid-19 treatment, including 150 in the ICU with dedicated ventilators. About 20% of the patients require oxygen as they suffer from breathlessness coupled with comorbidities. Treatment co-ordinator for Covid-19 at the GRH, Dr K Senthil said they had found that high flow nasal oxygen therapy to be effective in many of the patients, and they are recommending it for many severe patients. “The outcome had been more positive when compared to ventilators,” he said. They now have a team of 16 doctors dedicated for oxygen treatment at the GRH, with four of them working in each shift. The GRH uses two 5kl liquid oxygen and smaller capacity ones. The flow of oxygen could be monitored from 60 to 100 % as per patients’ requirements. On Saturday, minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udayakumar inspected the oxygen plants at Thoppur. He said that the GRH has 462 beds with oxygen connection, while there are 250 beds in taluk hospitals and 117 in primary health centres. With this, Madurai district government hospitals will have around 800 beds with dedicated oxygen supply. Now, with the installation of the two liquid tankers of 1kl capacity, the beds for oxygen therapy at Thoppur could be enhanced from the present 47 to 200. “This will reduce the patient load in the designated Covid care hospital and GRH, which can now be used for patients with severe disease intensity and advanced life support,” said Madurai collector Dr T G Vinay. Meanwhile, 17,000 patients have been screened in Madurai district between July 4, and July 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-cases-rise-new-tankers-give-madurai-hosps-oxygen-backup/articleshow/76916135.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Bareilly||NTCA to draft plan to translocate Amaria tigers: Official||PILIBHIT: National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) will soon chalk out a plan to translocate the tigers living in the agricultural belt of Amaria in Pilbhit district. Today, the cane fields along Devha river and Deuni dam have become home to an estimated 12 tigers. NTCA deputy inspector general Nishant Verma is here on a two-day visit for the purpose. He is accompanied by senior scientist of the Tiger Cell in Wildlife Institute of India (WII). On Saturday, they inspected a part of the Amaria sugar belt. Later, Verma told TOI that the translocation of the tigers will be conducted in consultation with WII experts and Pilibhit Tiger Reserve officials. Timely translocation of these tigers was the only way to protect them from poaching, said Verma. “We will identify optional forest regions having appropriate shelter, abundant prey base, drinking water resources and safe environment for translocating the tigers," the NTCA official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ntca-to-draft-plan-to-translocate-amaria-tigers-official/articleshow/76914051.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Man bludgeoned to death over old enmity in Maharashtra||AURANGABAD: A criminal on police record was bludgeoned to death over an old enmity in Wadgaon Kolhati area, which falls under MIDC Waluj police station. Police have arrested one of the rival gang members, identified as Ajay Dahatunde and booked others in connection to the murder. The deceased has been identified as Balu Vaman Patole (38). The incident came to light on Friday night. Patole’s brother, Ramkishan, lodged a complaint. After Patole’s mother, who was the deputy sarpanch of Wadgaon Kolhati village, passed away, his sister-in-law won the election to became a gram panchayat member. This escalated the existing enmity between Patole and the rival gang. On Friday evening, when Balu had stepped out of his house, the member of the rival gang attacked him with iron rods and other articles. Ramkishan tried to rescue his brother but he too was attacked. Balu was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-bludgeoned-to-death-over-old-enmity/articleshow/76914883.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: 3 siblings kill selves after mom's death||BAREILLY: Three siblings — one of whom was a former school teacher and another an ex-employee of a private company — allegedly hanged themselves in Lakhimpur Kheri’s Shantinagar as they were unable to cope with the trauma of their mother’s death from prolonged illness last year. The siblings — aged between 28 and 35 — had quit their jobs soon after their mother’s demise. According to police, a suicide note found on the bodies said the siblings were “unable to bear the loss of their mother”. The two brothers, including one who was disabled, and their sister allegedly took their own lives on Friday night when their father — an engineer who retired from the agriculture department — wasn't home. Aditya Prakash Awasthi, 60, told police his wife had died of illness in September last year. Since then, his three children Preeti (25), Gagan (35) and Pawan (30) were disturbed. While Pawan had been employed in a private company in Lucknow, Preeti was working as a schoolteacher at the time of their mother’s demise. “They quit their jobs after my wife passed away. I could not fill the void left by her death as all my children were very close to her,” said Aswathi. When Aswathi returned home on Friday night, no one answered the door. He finally called a Dial 112 team which broke open the door. The three siblings were found hanging in the dining room. SHO Kotwali police station Ajay Mishra told TOI that neighbours told police that the children had no contact with anyone after their mother passed away and kept to themselves. “It appears to be a case of suicide and a suicide note was also found. Bodies have been sent for autopsy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/unable-to-cope-with-moms-death-3-siblings-an-ex-teacher-a-pvt-employee-their-brother-kill-selves/articleshow/76914042.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 12, 2020||Goa||New forecast system to help city take real-time decisions||Panaji: Keen on addressing the effects of the ongoing weather situation in state capitals across the country, the India meteorological department (IMD) recently introduced an impact-based forecast system for each capital, including Goa’s capital city, Panaji, on an experimental basis. As per the system, heavy rainfall on Sunday and Monday may cause water to pool on some roads or in rural settlements near Panaji. Minimal traffic congestion is also likely. IMD said impact-based forecasting is aimed at helping the city administration ascertain how the quantity of rainfall will affect local infrastructure or daily activities in the state capital. IMD scientist Rahul M said the probability flooding or of weak structures collapsing can also be ascertained. As a result, this technique doesn’t just help in monitoring the impact of rainfall but also helps authorities take real-time decisions. “A vulnerability map can consequently be drawn out for the area. If conditions are such that vulnerable parts may be affected, the city administration can take precautionary action.” he said. Currently, there is an offshore trough prevailing in the Arabian Sea resulting in isolated incidents of heavy rainfall over the state. On Saturday, the highest amount of rainfall was received at Sanguem with a total of 10cm. The rain gauge stations at Pernem, Panaji, Canacona and Quepem received 8cm each. IMD has forecast the likelihood of heavy rainfall at a few places on Sunday and Monday and very heavy rainfall at a few places on Tuesday and Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-forecast-system-to-help-city-take-real-time-decisions/articleshow/76916518.cms||Nida Sayed
July 12, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Manager of NGO shoots self||BAREILLY: The manager of an NGO Rahul Verma shot himself in the Behjam town in Neemgaon area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Saturday morning, just three days after the birth of his son. At the time of the incident, the family members of the deceased were at the hospital to look after his wife. Police, along with forensic experts, arrived at the spot and sent the body for autopsy. Statements of the family members, including his wife, were recorded and it was identified that Rahul was under stress due to unknown reasons for the past few days. Station house officer (SHO) of Neemgaon police station Amar Singh said, “Rahul was under some stress and he shot himself in his head with his licensed pistol while other members of the family were at the hospital. We recovered the pistol from his hand but there was no suicide note. The body has been sent for autopsy. The family members have refused to file a complaint against anyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/manager-of-ngo-shoots-self/articleshow/76914060.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 18 TMC water added to major dams in Marathwada||AURANGABAD: Barring major dams in Osmanabad district, nine other reservoirs in Marathwada have received over 18 thousand million cubic (TMC) feet water till Saturday morning after considerable rainfall in the region. The overall water levels are higher than those recorded at the same time last year. Jayakwadi dam has received 6 TMC since June, rising water levels to 41% compared with 10% stock last year. The Lower Dudhana dam in Parbhani and Vishnupuri dam from Nanded have received 2.5 TMC and 2.36 TMC, pushing their water levels to 18% and 86%, respectively. Both dams were in dead storage at this time last year. Yeldari dam from Parbhani district has added 1.5 TMC water, Majalgaon dam from Beed district (1.2 TMC) and Sidhheshwar dam from Hingoli district (0.9 TMC) since June 1. These three dams were in dead storage last year. Manjra dam from Beed district has reported addition of 0.4 TMC water, whereas Lower Manar from Nanded district has 49% live storage as compared to only 9% stock last year. Lower Terna and Sina Kolegaon dams from Osmanabad district have not received any inflow since June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-18-tmc-water-added-to-major-dams-in-marathwada/articleshow/76914899.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Beach development work in Visakhapatnam slated to start in October||VISAKHAPATNAM: Tenders for the proposed redevelopment project for RK Beach funded by the World Bank are expected to be finalised by the end of August 2019. As per the schedule, the tenders were to have been finalised by the end of May this year but were delayed by the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. Work on the proposed project is now slated to begin in October. The project will be completed within 12 months. The World Bank is funding the project at a cost of Rs 109 crore. The detailed project report was prepared a year ago. The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), however, is optimistic that work will begin by October. “We have to meet the norms of the World Bank and have taken all measures for the project to take off,” a senior engineer at the GVMC said. Proposed over a length of 3.5 km from RK Beach to the Park Hotel junction, the project will be executed without affecting environmental parameters and coastal regulation zone (CRZ) norms. GVMC commissioner G Srijana told STOI that the project would include soft and hard lanscaping. Water fountains will be set up and public utilities such as toilets, bus terminals and parking lots be placed every one kilometre. “Parking space and bus terminal will come up at Kalimata temple. Full width carriageway in the existing service road would be developed by constructing culverts in a couple of areas. Once the service road is developed, a considerable percentage of traffic can pass through this road,” the commissioner said. Further, construction of retaining walls along the beach on a stretch of 1.5 km will also be taken up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/beach-devpt-work-slated-to-start-in-oct/articleshow/76915620.cms||Siva G
July 12, 2020||Dehradun||17-yr-old girl dies by suicide at Dehradun residence||DEHRADUN: A 17-year-old girl commited suicide at her residence in Dehradun. She didn’t leave a note. Talking to TOI, Amarjeet Singh, Raipur station house officer (SHO) said, “During the investigation the family told us that the teenager was fixated on the suicides of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and a 16-year-old TikTok star from Gurgaon”. The girl had recently appeared for her class 12th board examinations and lived with her family of two brothers, mother and businessman father. She was found dead in her room on Friday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/17-yr-old-girl-dies-by-suicide-at-doon-residence/articleshow/76914900.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Bareilly||Leopard strays into Moradabad house, attacks two; beaten up||BAREILLY: A leopard entered the house of one Murtaza Ali of Thakurdwara colony in Moradabad on Saturday morning, sending its inmates scurrying for cover. Two of the householders -- Murtaza and his mother -- who came face to face with the big cat were attacked and injured. Pandemonium broke out on a lockdown-induced sleepy Saturday morning in Thakurdwara as news spread like wildfire that a leopard had made itself at home at Murtaza's house after attacking two people. Neighbours rushed to rescue the family. Once the family was safe, the mob turned its ire on the leopard. Armed with sticks, they attacked the animal. In the face of a shower of blows by sticks, the leopard fainted. The mob tied the unconscious animal's limbs before summoning help from the authorities. The leopard has been administered first aid and will be taken to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly, said forest officials. Giving details, Shaiq Pathan, a resident, said, “On hearing cries for help, we rushed to Murtaza's house and rescued the mother-son duo from the leopard. We then attacked the animal and managed to tie up its legs. The house has no door at the entrance and animals can easily stray in.” Forest department officials said Moradabad district borders Uttarakhand’s Ramnagar, where Jim Corbett National Park is located. Wild animals easily stray out of the forest to Moradabad. There have been similar incidents before, they added. Satendra Pawar, SHO Thakurdwara police station, said, “No complaint has been registered by the forest department. The injured have been admitted to the community health centre."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/leopard-strays-into-moradabad-house-attacks-two-beaten-up/articleshow/76914095.cms||Maria Khan
July 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag gym instructor leads the way through 100-km cycling mission||VISAKHAPATNAM: A gym instructor in the city has come up with a different kind of fitness programme for his students at a time when social distancing has become the norm and gymnasia across the country are closed. Every weekend, Mohan Rao, who owns a gym in Akkayyapalem, and his students take to the roads to realise their mission: Cycling 15 kilometres every day. The initiative also plans to raise awareness on the benefits of cycling and its part in keeping the city pollution-free. Rao’s student, SV Prabhu Kumar who has cycled 41 km so far, said the exercise is a good way to reconnect with friends with whom he had no contact since the lockdown was imposed. “Time is spent differently now. Gymnasia are closed and with the lockdown I lost contacts with my gym mates all of a sudden. This a good way to keep yourself fit and stay in touch with your friends,” said Prabhu, who works at Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. “We are yet not sure when the government would allow us to open our gymnasium. Since end- March, my students and I are working out at home. But once the lockdown eased in May, I started motivating my students to do some cycling on the roads and set them a target – each and every one should complete 100 km within two months. The target is simple; around 15 km a day. But the fun in reconnectting is huge,” Mohan Rao, who is also the working secretary of Visakha District Gym Owners’ Union, told STOI. Rao has cycled 94 km so far and will cover the last lap of six kilometres this Saturday. Eight of Rao’s students now take to the roads every Saturday or Sunday. Their task is simple: cover a distance of 100 km over eight days, an average of around 15 km every day. “It is really fun to cycle on the roads of the city. Normally we take the Beach Road from RK Beach to Bheemili. Sometimes we also ride on the highway to NAD Junction and then to Simhachalam Road via Gopalpatnam,” added one of Rao’s students, Bagathi Krishnamraju, who runs a travel business in Kancharapalem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gym-instructor-leads-the-way-through-100-km-cycling-mission/articleshow/76915628.cms||Arpit Basu
July 12, 2020||Goa||Community transmission is here: Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: Two weeks after chief minister Pramod Sawant said that there was no community transmission in the state, health minister Vishwajit Rane on Saturday said that the state has already witnessed the phenomenon. “It has been established that community transmission has taken place in the state,” he said. “At this stage, we cannot deny that there is no community transmission.” Rane said that Vasco’s Mangor Hill, the state’s first containment zone, was a learning experience for the government. The contagion in the area, which has reported over 400 cases, was termed “local transmission” by the government. On June 27, TOI reported that Sawant said that community transmission had begun in the state. However, on July 1, he retracted his statement, saying there was no community transmission. “I had said it earlier,” he said. “But when I studied the matter, I found all cases are connected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-health-min-says-community-transmission-has-started/articleshow/76916421.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Goa||Sakhali locals say no to ore transit during monsoon||Bicholim: Upset about the frequent transportation of iron ore through the Bicholim-Sakhali stretch of the highway during heavy rain, citizens from Sakhali blocked iron ore-laden trucks at Gokulwadi, in Sakhali, on Friday evening. This led to long queues of trucks on one side of the busy road. Bicholim PI Sanjay Dalvi and a team of policemen rushed to the spot and tried to pacify the protesters, but those agitating refused to budge. Ore transportation, however, resumed later only after truck drivers agreed not to ply on days when it rains heavily. Former Sakhali sarpanch Praveen Blaggon, Sakhali councillor Raya Parsekar, Congress member Khemlo Sawant, former councillor Riyaz Khan and Anand Verekar were among those who blocked the mining trucks. “Our anger is not against the truckers but against the government for permitting transportation of mineral ore along the main road during the monsoon,” Khan said. Trucks carrying e-auctioned ore have been plying from Sirsaim in Bardez on the Bicholim-Sakhali route towards the jetty at Amona, even as locals have been complaining about frequent traffic congestion. On Friday, despite incessant rain, the truckers continued ore transportation causing sludge to spill onto the road and resulting in several two-wheeler riders skidding and falling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sakhali-locals-say-no-to-ore-transit-during-monsoon/articleshow/76916519.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Daily testing capacity must improve to meet 50,000 target||AURANGABAD: The target of carrying out 50,000 Covid-19 tests during the current lockdown may prove to be a challenge for the civic authorities given the relatively low number of tests conducted in the first two days. The target includes RT-PCR tests, which involve the collection of swab samples, as well as rapid antigen tests in containment zones and other areas, including different entry points to the city. Civic officials said testing capacity would be increased. “The rapid antigen tests and swab collections are going on satisfactorily. We are hopeful of meeting the target before lockdown ends,” a senior civic health official said. Day-1 of the lockdown saw 1,947 tests being conducted, including 874 rapid antigen tests at entry points. A total of 593 tests were conducted at entry points of the city on Saturday (Day-2), whereas the exact number of tests performed in city areas could not be ascertained till Saturday evening. As per primary reports, over 1,167 tests were performed on the second day in areas other than the entry points. Activists said the civic administration must increase daily testing capacity. “We were expecting increased testing in the containment zones first. The civic staff should focus on these areas instead of the entry points,” civic activist Rajendra Datey Patil said. Authorities also appealed to the citizen to voluntarily come for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/daily-testing-capacity-must-improve-to-meet-50000-target/articleshow/76914904.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Dehradun||Mudslide blocks Yamunotri highway for 18 hours||UTTARKASHI: Yamunotri national highway remained blocked for nearly 18 hours near Kuthnor region due to heavy mudslide on Friday evening. According to the sources, heavy rainfall on Friday evening triggered mudslides in the region. Due to the mudslide, traffic movement got blocked at the Yamunotri national highway. Muck and debris flown with the rainwater also entered into several houses and farm lands of Kuthnor village, triggering panic among the locals. National Highway of India authorities restored the stretch on Saturday morning after the weather cleared. Meanwhile, local villagers have asked the administration to construct safety walls alongside the village and to compensate affected villagers. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, told TOI, “A team of revenue department has visited the affected village for the assessment of losses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mudslide-blocks-yamunotri-highway-for-18-hours/articleshow/76914905.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
July 12, 2020||Vijayawada||APSRTC chief transferred, R&B secretary in-charge for now||VIJAYAWADA: The state government transferred has vice-chairman and managing director (VC&MD) of Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) Madireddy Pratap. Chief secretary Nilam Sawhney issued orders on Friday night handing over the post of VC&MD of APSRTC as additional charge to principal secretary of roads and buildings (R&B) department MT Krishna Babu. Pratap was appointed in place of Krishna Babu as VC&MD in January. He has been transferred in less than a year and the charge handed over again to Krishna Babu, who was earlier given additional charge of the post after NV Surendra Babu was transferred. On transfer, Pratap has been posted as additional director general (ADG) of Andhra Pradesh Special Police (APSP) battalions. Breaking the convention of posting an officer of the rank of director general of police (DGP) as VC&MD of APSRTC, Pratap, an ADG-rank officer, had been given the post. The convention was followed in combined Andhra Pradesh and also after the state was bifurcated. The post of VC&MD assumes significance in view of a commonly-held belief among IPS officers that whoever gets the post is set to become the next DGP of the state. For now, however, the convention of the APSRTC VC&MD becoming DGP has come to an end. The last such officer who went on to become DGP of the state was M Malakondaiah who held additional charge of VC&MD of APSRTC after becoming the DGP. After his retirement, NV Surendra Babu, a DGP-rank officer, was posted as VC&MD of APSRTC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/apsrtc-chief-transferred-rb-secy-in-charge-for-now/articleshow/76915641.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Dehradun||Doon girl scores near-perfect 99.75 %||Dehradun: Bhavya Madan, 17, Uttarakhand’s top scorer in Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) class 12th Boards with a near-perfect score of 99.75 % told TOI that hard work and focused efforts are behind her success. She was also the class 10th ISC topper in 2018, scoring 98.2 %. “Even the word ‘impossible’ has ‘possible’ in it,” the Dehradun resident quoted Audrey Hepburn, while talking about her preparation strategies. “I was tense before the exams and flustered before the results appeared like every other student. I received 100 marks in Maths, Biology and Physics and scored 99 in English and 98 in Chemistry,” Madan said. “The Biology exam was cancelled due to the pandemic. I got 100 on the basis of the average of top three subjects and internal assessment,” she added. Madan studied in the city’s Brightlands School. Her father Vineet Madan is head of department (HOD) in the Chemistry department at Forest Research Institute (FRI). Her mother is a teacher. Even though she opted for both Maths and Biology in the intermediate, Madan is more inclined towards becoming a doctor. Talking about her preparation process, Madan said she dedicated seven to eight hours to self-study every day, apart from her school hours. Meanwhile, Sanvi Arora of Convent of Jesus and Mary in Dehradun emerged as the top scorer in class 10 ISC boards with 99 per cent marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-girl-scores-near-perfect-99-75-/articleshow/76909575.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 12, 2020||Mysuru||Eight people die of Covid-19 in Mysuru||MYSURU: Eight people have died of Covid in Mysuru and 75 others were infected on Saturday. The death tally has gone up to 28 and total positive cases are 773. Two men aged 51 and 71 were brought dead to hospital while six others including a woman died after being in hospital for one day to eight days. Saturday’s Covid positive figure is highest ever in Mysuru since the pandemic outbreak. Chamarajanagar on Saturday reported its first Covid death with the death of a 58-year-old. The district reported 18 Covid cases on Saturday ,taking the number of cases to 163.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/8-die-in-mysuru/articleshow/76914912.cms||---
July 12, 2020||India||Govt OKs use of skin ailment drug for Covid patients||NEW DELHI: Drug regulator Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has approved Itolizumab, for restricted emergency use on Covid-19 patients with moderate to severe acute respiratory distress. Itolizumab is already in use to cure skin ailment psoriasis. The approval is based on clinical trial data submitted by drug maker Biocon, health ministry said. Biocon — that has been selling the medicine under brand Alzumab in India for psoriasis since 2013 — submitted phase 2 clinical trial data to the regulator to repurpose the drug for Covid-19 patients. Officials said the results of these trials were deliberated in the subject expert committee of DCGI’s office. The government said the drug is likely to bring down the cost of treatment of Covid-19 as compared to other investigational drugs allowed under the clinical management protocol for Covid-19. The company, however, did not disclose the price at which it will be selling the drug. Several other drugs such as Tocilizumab, Favipiravir and Remdesivir are being repurposed in India to treat Covid-19 patients. Watch Govt allows use of skin ailment drug for Covid patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-oks-use-of-skin-ailment-drug-for-covid-patients/articleshow/76916667.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 700 ICU beds to be added in July||NEW DELHI: The government is working to increase the number of ICU beds with ventilators by over 700 and most of them are likely to be added to the existing Covid-19 hospitals by the end of this month. Currently, there are 2,050 ICU beds in different government and private hospitals of the city, a major chunk of them being in Delhi government hospitals. Lok Nayak Hospital has 230 ICU beds—175 ICU beds with ventilators and 55 without ventilators, while Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital has 76 ICU beds with ventilators and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital 170 ICU beds with ventilators. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has asked all three hospitals to enhance ICU beds’ capacity as much as possible. “The number of existing ICU beds has already been doubled. The government is working to enhance the capacity as fast as possible,” he said. Only a few days ago, Delhi had only 1,650 ICU beds. In June, the total number was just around 1,000. Since the increase in the number of ICU beds will need more healthcare professionals, the government has already started hiring postgraduate students from medical colleges. Interview of around 100 PG students for deployment in Lok Nayak Hospital will be completed by July 25, while GTB Hospital has already given appointment letters to dozens of students. Currently, the city has 15,243 Covid-19 beds out of which 10,667 beds are vacant. Out of the 2,050 ICU beds, only 967 ICU beds are vacant. Since the occupancy rate of the ICU beds is far higher than the general beds, the government is now focused on increasing the number of ICU beds, which are considered critical in checking the number of Covid-19 deaths. Medical director of Lok Nayak, Dr Suresh Kumar said that the number of ICU beds with ventilators has significantly increased in the last one month. “By the end of this month, we will be adding nearly 300 beds,” said Kumar. Earlier, Lok Nayak Hospital had only 60 ICU beds. GTB Hospital had only 30 ICU beds in the first week of June. “We have increased the number of ICU beds to 76 and in a couple of days, 24 more beds will be added for which we have ventilators and other equipment. The target is to get 400 more ICU beds with ventilators in a few weeks,” said Vinay Bhushan, who is the nodal officer for GTB Hospital. A total of 170 ICU beds are functional at RGSSH and the hospital administration wants to make 200 beds functional soon, said an official. The government has already placed orders for ventilators and other equipment necessary for setting up ICU beds in the government hospitals. “The ICU beds are being prepared to keep the infrastructure ready for emergency situations because Covid-19 is not predictable and the medical assets created now will ultimately boost the infrastructure in the hospitals,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/700-icu-beds-to-be-added-in-july/articleshow/76916416.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 12, 2020||Dehradun||45 new Covid-19 cases surface in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: With 45 new cases being reported from the state, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally jumped to 3,417 on Saturday. The maximum of 21 cases surfaced from Dehradun. Among these cases, two were healthcare workers. On the day, 14 new cases were reported from Udham Singh Nagar, followed by three cases each from Almora and Haridwar, two from Tehri, one case each from Chamoli and Rudraprayag districts. In a relief, no death of Covid-19 patients was reported on the day. The toll of Covid-19 patients in the state remains at 46. On Saturday, as many as 2,009 additional samples were sent for testing. At present, 5,649 patients await their sample results in Uttarakhand. Meanwhile, 12 recovered from the virus on Saturday taking the total count of such cases to 2,718. Uttarakhand has 82 “hotspots” of Covid-19, according to the health department. Among these, Haridwar district has 58 such areas, followed by Udham Singh Nagar (13), Dehradun (4), Uttarkashi (4), Nainital (2), and Tehri (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/45-new-covid-19-cases-surface-in-state/articleshow/76914918.cms||Shivani Azad
July 12, 2020||Dehradun||Minor fire due to gas pipeline rupture causes panic in Rudrapur market||RUDRAPUR: A minor fire due to gas leak caused by a rupture in the pipeline led to a flutter at the main market here on Saturday. Panic-stricken, traders closed their shutters to prevent any untoward incident. However, the fire was doused by locals within minutes. Trade union president Sanjay Juneja said that municipality workers accidentally damaged the pipeline while digging drains using an excavator near Hari Mandir. “The leaked gas caught fire probably by a cigarette butt. The flames rose to around 15 feet and we alerted the fire department immediately. Even before the fire tenders could arrive, locals along with the driver of the excavator heaped mud on the pit to extinguish the flames.” Chief fire officer SS Yadav said, “The area was immediately cordoned off and the staff of the gas company were alerted to do the necessary repairs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/minor-fire-due-to-gas-pipeline-rupture-causes-panic-in-rudrapur-market/articleshow/76914923.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 12, 2020||Lucknow||Population rise a major challenge for Uttar Pradesh: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: There has been just a marginal rise in the number of men adopting family planning measures in the state while women still continue to shoulder the major responsibility of having fewer children. According to state health department data, against 3,884 men adopting family planning measures in 2017-18, 5,693 men came forward in 2019-20. The contribution continues to be miniscule compared to participation of women. For every man coming forward for family planning, there were 53 women adopting the measures. The data, released on World Population Day on Saturday, calls for concerted efforts for a paradigm shift. Speaking at a programme while emphasising the importance of family planning during pandemic, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said population is a challenge for the state. “There is need to bring the total fertility rate (number of children born during reproductive span) in the state to 2.7. As of now, UP’s TFR is more than the national average of 2.2,” he said adding, “The matter directly relates to the good health of women and children in the state.” The TFR of UP is 2.9 as per the recently released Sample Registration Survey 2018. Additional chief secretary health and family welfare Amit Mohan Prasad said the goals of population control fortnight have been included in the to-do-list of front line workers, ASHAs and ANMs. “The front line soldiers will be providing family planning and spacing material to eligible couples during the 15-day dastak campaign starting on July 15,” he said. General manager, family planning, National health mission, UP, Dr Alpana Sharma said the number of women adopting family planning measures in the state had increased significantly over the years. Trend indicates that women preferred non-invasive methods such as oral pill ‘Chhaya’ and injectable ‘Antara’ over invasive methods of IUCD (copper-T) insertion. In 2017, 23,217 women registered for Antara injections which increased to 3,45,481 in 2019-20. Likewise, Chhaya users increased from 2,13,327 in 2017-18 to 6,86,464 in 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/population-rise-a-major-challenge-for-state-cm/articleshow/76916423.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Total lockdown in Maharashtra's Solapur city||KOLHAPUR: A total lockdown of 10 days from July 17 has been announced in Solapur city, which has been reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases. Announcing the decision, district collector Milind Shambharkar said only essential service providers like milk vendors, medicine shops and hospitals have been excluded from the lockdown. All other transactions will be closed during the lockdown. Entry of all vehicles will be prohibited. All other activities, shops and institutions will be closed from July 16 midnight to July 26 midnight. Shambharkar said the decision on lockdown for neighbouring tehsils of South Solapur, North Solapur and Akkalkot would be taken soon. Lockdown decision comes a day after district guardian minister Datta Bharne authorised the administration to take a final call after a review meeting. Administration and police officials have been pressing for a lockdown since last week of June but the decision was not taken at a ministerial level. The situation in Solapur is critical because of the mortality rate and the continuous rise in the number of patients. The first positive patient was found in April but the city now has 3,075 Covid-19 patients. The city has recorded 296 deaths till July 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/total-lockdown-in-solapur-city/articleshow/76914917.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Newlyweds in Satara quarantined||KOLHAPUR: A newlywed couple and their family members from Patan tehsil in Satara district have been quarantined for three days after the wedding as three of the bride’s relatives tested positive for Covid-19. Officials said the bride’s relatives, who had come for the wedding from a village in Jawlin taluka in Sangli district, came to Patan in a private vehicle after getting the travel permission. However, some of them showed symptoms of Covid-19 after they returned to their village and three of them tested positive. The throat swab samples of all the family members have been sent for testing. Meanwhile, Satara district registered 46 new Covid patients since late Friday night, taking the total number of cases to 1,062. Satarahas recorded 65 deaths and has 586 active cases now. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/newlyweds-in-satara-quarantined/articleshow/76914943.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Dehradun||As hotel business reels under Covid, Uttarakhand sees over 1 lakh out-of-work chefs, cooks return||DEHRADUN: With hotel business among the worst-affected sectors by the pandemic, Uttarakhand -- which estimates suggest accounts for up to 50% of the industry workforce — is seeing an influx of unemployed chefs and cooks return to the hill state. In the past two months, as many as 1 lakh people who were manning kitchens in hotels and restaurants in metro cities have returned. According to Chefs’ Association of Garhwal, at least three lakh people from Uttarakhand were working as chefs outside the state or abroad before the pandemic. “The number is expected to have plunged to less than two lakh now,” said Vikas Kuriyal, president of the association. In fact, a returnee chef can probably be found in every quarantine centre in the state. K S Agarwal, in charge of a quarantine centre in Dehradun, told TOI that of 16 passengers who flew in from other states and were brought to the centre on May 30, at least nine had been working as chefs in metro cities. Hotel management is a popular choice of career in the hill state which has four government-run hotel management institutes and several private ones. The colleges churn out an estimated 5,000 graduates every year. The out-of-work chefs have now sought help from the government under various employment and funding schemes to start ventures related to poultry farming and dairy. The district administration in Dehradun alone has received several such applications. Chief development officer (Dehradun), Nitika Khandelwal, told TOI that of the 2,000 applications they received in May and June, a sizable number was from those previously employed in the hotel and hospitality sector. “We have approved 39 projects in the first round,” she said, adding that preference is being given to ideas that would generate employment. Many chefs TOI spoke to said they did not want to return to cities in these uncertain times and with few employment opportunities back home, government funding for their own ventures was their only hope. “I spent six years in Delhi as a chef but my hotel closed during the lockdown, forcing me to return. I was earning well but now there is no clarity on when normalcy will return and whether I will still have a job if I go back. So I have applied for seed funding for a poultry business,” said Sundar Singh Sobat from Tehri district’s Ramol village. In Kandarsyun village, Maan Singh Kandari, who lost his job in China’s Xian as a chef, said at least 13 people from his village —all of whom were employed as chefs in metros — have returned home and are now unemployed like him. Bablu Negi, who worked in a five-star hotel as a chef in China’s Wuhan and returned in an evacuation flight in February, told TOI from Khand village in Tehri that he has been living on his savings for the past few months. “I have to take care of my parents, a disabled brother, wife and two kids. We have fallen on hard times.” The Chefs’ Association of Garhwal is now helping returnee chefs look for alternate employment. “I get as many as 15 calls every day from those who had been employed in the hospitality business in metro cities but came back during lockdown. I’m helping connect them with employers as well as providing them training on authentic recipes from the hill state to boost their chances of employment,” said Kuriyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-hotel-biz-reels-under-covid-ukhand-sees-over-1-lakh-out-of-work-chefs-cooks-return/articleshow/76914931.cms||Abhijeet Singh
July 12, 2020||Delhi||Dignity in a box: Plight of dead prompts coffin drive in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Last month, A R Shaheen Qasmi went to the Delhi Gate cemetery to attend the funeral of a neighbour’s sister who had succumbed to the novel coronavirus. “At the graveyard, I saw two men put down the plastic-wrapped body on the mud and dirt before lowering it into the grave roughly with the help of ropes,” Qasmi said, wondering whether this was the way to remember the final image of a loved family member. With Covid deaths increasing in the capital, the final rituals and the way in which citizens mourn their dead have also been affected. For one, in normal times, the grave is around five feet deep, and relatives are able to gently hold the body while it is lowered down. The coronavirus pandemic has led to deeper graves, sometimes 16ft deep, as a protective measure against infection. But this means the body can no longer be lowered into the grave by hand. Ambulance staff these days use ropes for this task, robbing the final rite of its dignity and solemnity. Seeing this, Qasmi, 41, decided that he would provide coffins for those who are brought to the cemetery from the hospital, trussed up in protective plastic sheets and dumped unceremoniously into the grave. The maulana contacted Fida Hussain, a carpenter in his locality of Shaheen Bagh in southeast Delhi, to plan the venture. Qasmi buys plywood from Jaitpur, and Hussain works on the rectangular boxes every morning. Qasmi has given away 85 coffins to families of Covid victims, including around 12 to members of the Christian community. “The coffins cost around Rs 2,700 to make, but I give them free to low-income families that cannot afford to buy them,” said the maulana. Graduate of Darul Uloom in Deoband and earlier a Sanskrit teacher at the Tajweedul Quran Madrassa in southeast Delhi’s Batla House, Qasmi is now associated with NGO World Peace Organisation. He has been conducting spiritual classes in Tihar Jail since 2011 “Having reading the Quran and Gita, I feel it is our duty to give the coronavirus victims a peaceful departure,” he said. “We may not be able to dress them up or spruce up their appearance, but by giving them coffins, we can ensure that they rest in peace.” Watch Delhi: This man is giving away free coffins to grieving families||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dignity-in-a-box-plight-of-dead-prompts-coffin-drive/articleshow/76916418.cms||Anindya Chattopadhyay
July 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Modern weapons for Andhra Pradesh police||VIJAYAWADA: IPS officers in the state have been given Glock-19X pistols as personal service weapons. DGP D Gautam Sawang handed over the weapons to the officers on Saturday. DGP D Gautam Sawang handed over the weapons to IPS officers.Sawang also tested the Glock pistol and X-95 assault rifle at the APSP 6th Battalion firing range in Nulakapet. Besides the Austrian-made Glock-19X, the government has also procured weapons manufactured with Israeli collaboration like Masada, Uzi Pro, X95-CQB carbine and X95 for AP police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/modern-weapons-for-ap-police/articleshow/76915653.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: District education department to process complaints daily||DEHRADUN: The district education department has announced that complaints against private schools of the district will be processed on a daily basis. The decision has been taken by the Chief Education Officer (Dehradun) Asha Rani Painuly to check the growing number of complaints against private schools regarding overcharging of tuition fees or of pressuring parents to submit their ward’s fees. The block level education officers have also been directed to send the day’s complaints to the CEO on the very same day only. The district education department has also released the email addresses of the block level education officers for parents of children studying in city-based schools so they can send their complaints directly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/district-education-department-to-process-complaints-daily/articleshow/76914942.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 12, 2020||Dehradun||‘Homeguards, PRD jawans to keep eye on Covid-19 suspects’||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has directed all the 13 district magistrates (DMs) to deploy homeguards and Prantiya Rakshak Dal (PRD) personnel at all tourist places in the state to keep an eye on Covid-19 suspects and inform the authorities concerned at the earliest. Their services would also be used to keep an update of those people who have been put under home quarantine, the CM said. In a video conference with the DMs on Saturday morning, CM Rawat said that surveillance has to be increased so that no one violates the norms as it can “risk the lives of others”. He said that besides the police force, the DMs should also take services of homeguards and PRD jawans, who would visit the houses of home quarantined people. A special focus would be put on major hill stations and tourist locations like Rishikesh and Mussoorie in Dehradun district, Nainital, Tehri Garhwal, Almora, and Bageshwar. The CM also asked the DMs to ensure that chief development officers take up the role of nodal officers and keep an eye on home quarantined people. Lauding the efforts of staff involved in treating Covid-19 suspects and positive cases, CM Rawat said that the recovery rate of Uttarakhand is only second to Ladakh in the country. He pointed out that special vigilance is required in the four plains districts of Dehradun, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar, and Nainital and thus, the authorities must conduct proper sanitisation. At present, these four districts have 473 out of total 558 Covid-19 active cases in the state. There are 85 active cases in the remaining nine districts, said the CM. He also suggested that containment zones should be made on micro-level so that monitoring work is smoothly done without causing problems to others. Meanwhile, CM Rawat directed DM Nainital to make sure that a 500-bed Covid-19 care hospital is built in the district with the help of State Disaster Response Force. On being asked about the lockdown in Kashipur, the CM said, “At present, there are around 50 active cases in the area. In June end, a wedding function was held in Kashipur and it was attended by a Covid-19 postive person. Thus, the infection spread there. Similarly, a domestic help who worked in eight houses was tested Covid-19 positive and a chain of infection was formed. Kashipur is a small town and 50 active cases is a high number. A total of 150 positive cases have so far been reported from Kashipur. In view of this, the decision to impose the lockdown was taken.” He added that if such a situation arises in other areas, similar measures would be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/homeguards-prd-jawans-to-keep-eye-on-covid-19-suspects/articleshow/76914939.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 12, 2020||Mysuru||Health department staff accused of leaving behind half-cremated body in Shivamogga||SHIVAMOGGA: Charging the personnel of the Shivamogga district health department of negligence during the final rites of a Covid-19 victim at a crematorium in the neighbourhood of Rajiv Gandhi Extension, the residents on Saturday held a protest by blocking the Shivamogga-Bhadravathi Road on the Tunga River bridge. The residents demanded that the health department perform the cremation of Covid-19 victims elsewhere. The protesters accused the personnel of the health department of not completing the cremation of a Covid victim on Friday night, when they left the venue without completing the final rites of the deceased. Leader of the opposition in the Shivamogga City Municipal Corporation (CMC) HC Yogish, on being informed about the incident, visited the crematorium and informed the officials about the same. Local elected representatives too, on learning of the incident, rushed to the spot around Friday midnight, and took photographs of the partially cremated patient. “Shivamogga district administration needs to be more careful in overseeing the funeral of Covid victims. This incident is evidence of negligence on the part of the officials and the health department personnel concerned. We have seen personal protective equipment (PPE) kits that have been discarded at the crematorium,” Yogish told STOI. Shivamogga deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar, however, dismissed the allegations of the health department staff having left the crematorium without completing the last rites of the deceased. “Shivamogga tahsildar and police were present during the cremation. Action will be initiated against those who entered the crematorium without permission,” Sivakumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/health-dept-staff-accused-of-leaving-behind-half-cremated-body-in-shivamogga/articleshow/76914951.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kochi||Landslides at Munnar Gap Road: Spl tahsildar’s report calls for probe into ‘illegal mining’||Idukki: A report submitted by the Munnar special tahsildar to Idukki district collector pointed out that the unscientific widening works at Gap Road stretch of Kochi-Dhanushkodi national highway resulted in repeated landslides in the region. The report states that the contractor engaged in the road widening works has illegally mined rocks in the region, making huge profits. It calls for a probe into the issue. The unscientific and excessive use of explosives has resulted in a series of landslides in the region. “The large-scale mining is posing threat to over 1,500 families living near the Gap Road,” states the report. “A landslide damaged nearly 500 metres of road and destroyed nearly 50 acres owned by farmers on June 17,” said the report. It also makes recommendations to protect the stretch from future landslides. The recommendations include check on overuse of explosives in the region, inspection by Indian Army’s road construction wing before resuming the works and construction of a bridge in the region. It also recommends that if the contractor is found responsible for the landslides and resultant losses, they should be made to pay compensation for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/landslides-at-munnar-gap-road-spl-tahsildars-report-calls-for-probe-into-illegal-mining/articleshow/76915667.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Delhi||Boycott China clamour leaves Delhi traders mulling options||NEW DELHI: Atmanirbhar Bharat, the call to reduce dependence on imports, may have enthused many, especially in the wake of the hiccup in India-China relations, but traders and businessmen have begun asking whether it is entirely plausible to avoid the influx of materials and products from India’s ambitious neighbour. Many Delhiites caught in this nationalistic dilemma point out that over 5,000 items, from toys and lighting to fabrics and kitchenware to cosmetics and furniture, come to the city from China. TOI visited commercial hubs in Delhi where the Chinese presence has always been conspicuous and asked traders how the self-reliance appeal has influenced their business plans. Sadar BazarBefore the Covid-19 lockdown, round 300 cargo containers reached Sadar Bazar every month with Chinese toys, lights, cloth, watches and sewing machines. Those who once had shops in the Hardware & Agricultural Tools Market in Sadar Bazar shifted, in 2005, to the more lucrative business in toys imported from China as the demand for agricultural and iron products decreased. After 15 years, these traders are again required to make some crucial decisions. “In 2005, there were six shops in Sadar Bazar selling imported toys. Today these are more than 2,000,” disclosed Sumit Matta, a toy seller. “We have logged losses due to the Covid pandemic, and now the rising din about boycotting Chinese products seems set to break our back.” Matta imported around three containers of Chinese goods every month till February, but since has barely placed orders for three. But replacing Chinese imports will not be easy, noted Rajendra Sharma, general secretary of Federation of Sadar Bazar Traders Association. “There are some toy manufacturing units in Mumbai, but their product range is limited. Moreover, their capacity for mass production, cost of production, variety and technology are not advanced,” Sharma said. “I don’t think it is as easy to boycott Chinese goods as it sounds. As it is, each trader in Sadar Bazar has stocks worth over Rs 1 crore. Where will these go?” Bhagirath PlaceKnown for its lighting-related offerings, Bhagirath Place draws huge crowds during festival time and the marriage season. But unlike most years, there are uncertainties about sales this Diwali, the busiest season in the year. They argue that the central government hasn’t imposed restrictions on imports from China, the prevailing sentiments have forced them to start looking at alternatives. Bharat Ahuja, president, Bhagirath Market Association, revealed, “We have had meetings and discussions in groups to decide our future course. But one thing is sure, we are not going to place fresh orders.” Ahuja blamed the government’s indifference in promoting the Indian lighting business to the shutting down of all decorative light manufacturing units in Moradabad and Firozabad in UP. Traders at the market urged the Centre to clear its stand and at least publish a list of products that cannot be imported. “We also want uniform implementation of policy for everyone, or in other words, not just for small importers but also multinational companies getting their products manufactured in China and importing them to India,” said Rakesh Yadav, president of the market association. Karol BaghGaffar Market in Karol Bagh is a popular hub for China-made mobile phones and accessories like power banks, headphones, data cables, pen drives and memory cards. There are over 5,000 shops selling phones and gadgets and 25,000 people work here. They make business into 20-25 crores every day Shopkeepers admit that 80-95% of mobile accessories sold there are imported from China and sell well because they are affordable, trendy and well-designed. “We aren’t against the atmanirbhar movement, but if we boycott Chinese products, where can we source alternatives?” asked shopowner Bhairav Rajpurohit. “Mobile phones are assembled in India, but the raw material comes from China. Before boycotting Chinese products, we have to prepare ourselves in terms of technology, machinery and raw material sources.” Karol Bagh’s Wholesale Footwear Association relies on China for only 20-25% of its wares, but traders feel these imports still offer better quality at lower costs than local products. Dharampal Arora, president of the trade body, observed, “Branded shoes cost a minimum of Rs 2,000, but buyers have the option of buying shoes starting at Rs 700 that are either manufactured in India or in China. Of the latter, of course, people opt for the Chinese shoes because of their designs and quality.” Arora said the shops had stopped orders, but will have to sell the remaining inventory. Sarojini Nagar“You name it and we will show it you,” declares Ashok Randhawa, president of the Mini Market Traders’ Association in Sarojini Nagar. Indeed, that market there could well adopt that line as its tagline. Though there is no guarantee about the available products, mostly from China, they are popular because of their affordability. Buyers can take home a lighter at Rs 10, a packet of needles of Rs 10, lipstick for Rs 20 apiece, mascara at Rs 60, and among other low-cost products, shoes, curtains, bedsheets, apparel, and decorative items. While most traders are clearing their old stocks or getting earlier consignments released by Customs, they are unsure whether to place fresh orders or not. “Considering the people’s emotions, we have summoned meetings to discuss the sale of Chinese goods,” said Randhawa. “But frankly speaking, no shopper cares where the product has been made if they are low-cost.” Kirti NagarThe wholesale market at Kirti Nagar offer a one-stop solution for all furniture requirements. A decade ago, China made a slow but steady inroad into the market, providing furniture suitable for working couples and the younger generation. Today, it has a 30-40% share in the market. “The best part about Chinese furniture is their price, design and colours, and the capacity to fit all spaces,” said a trader. Furniture importer Manish Khandelwal also pointed out that Indian furniture cannot usually be assembled or disassembled quickly, making it a problem when shifting house. “The products from China are available for a fourth of the Indian cost, and at that price a buyer need not worry about keeping them for a lifetime.” The atmanirbhar call is yet to create a crisis in Kirti Nagar. “Every day, we are getting hundreds of orders for imported furniture, and can admit our sales are satisfactory,” said a store owner. “The boycott call might not impact everyone here. Only those who deal fully or in a major manner could face a dilemma.” Tilak Nagar, Jagatpuri and Chawri BazarThe building and construction business, concentrated around Tilak Nagar, Jagatpuri and Chawri Bazar, importing goods as small as screws, taps, bath fittings, locks, hinges, water pumps, fire doors and plastic pipes from China. “Directly and indirectly, 70-80% of what we sell in these markets are Chinese imports,” disclosed a member of the Builders’ Association of India. “Even Indian companies dealing with similar products get them manufactured in China to cut the cost of production and for bulk supply.” He also said that the traders supported the government decision to reduce imports, but advance notice, either in the form of increased import duty or imposition of restrictions on specific products, should be given to help businessmen placing infructuous orders. “At present, orders placed three-six months ago are yet to reach us, and the prevailing situation represents a loss to us,” the member said. Construction material sellers believe that if this situation persists, prices of such goods will eventually shoot up across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/boycott-china-clamour-leaves-traders-mulling-options/articleshow/76916420.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 12, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Adityanath Yogi tells NRIs to be brand ambassadors||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has appealed to NRIs from Uttar Pradesh to act as brand ambassadors and encourage people to invest in the state. Addressing a session — Atmanirbharta: Global Indians and Uttar Pradesh: A Partnership’ at the India Global Week 2020 — on Saturday, the CM said a strong law and order system was the first condition for investors to move to UP and his government had shown zero-tolerance to crime. “The state’s perception has changed in past three years. People want security for themselves and for their investments. I assure you that both will be safe in UP,” he said. The CM highlighted various sectors in which new investments were possible, including the defence corridor, tourism, electronic vehicle manufacturing, logistics and food processing. “We used the lockdown to our advantage and began producing sanitizers and PPE kits. Now, we are in a position to export PPE kits. With Unlock 2 in place, we have managed to kick-start 80-90% of our industries. New policies have been brought in for MSMEs, logistic and private industrial parks,” the CM said, adding for 1,000 days, almost all labour laws had been suspended to ease setting up of industries. The chief minister also spoke about the network of expressways in the state, airports, freight corridors, giving industry status to warehousing and launching ease-of-doing business to showcase UP’s investment potential. He added that UP was emerging as a tourism hotspot in South Asia and had the potential for religious, heritage, adventure and eco-tourism. Yogi Adityanath said, by virtue of its population, UP was the largest market in India. He said, the state had the third largest GDP and contributed 8% to national growth with 17% Indians living in the state. “At least 56% of the population is of working age. During lockdown, almost 40 lakh migrant workers returned and we set up a Shramik Ayog and managed to place more than 11 lakh migrant workers in various industries,” he said. The CM added that under Garib Kalyan Yojna launched by PM Narendra Modi recently, UP had provided employment to 1 crore people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-tells-nris-to-be-brand-ambassadors/articleshow/76916424.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 12, 2020||Kolkata||Govt hospitals running out of beds in Kolkata as Covid cases spike||KOLKATA: It is not only private hospitals that are running out of Covid beds. Government health facilities in Kolkata, too, have started feeling the pressure with Covid cases spiralling rapidly in the city and its vicinity. Even as the hospital bed occupancy across the state is only a little above 26%, it is close to 70% in Kolkata. The state health department has already started increasing the number of beds and health facilities in Kolkata and neighbouring districts in the wake of the increasing demand for Covid beds in the government sector as well. Some private hospitals, too, have already started augmenting its bed capacity. Out of the 10,830 Covid beds in the government facilities, including the private units the government has acquired in the state, 2,062 beds spans across seven hospitals in Kolkata. As on Saturday, 1,402 of these beds remained occupied. “The number of Covid cases in Kolkata is higher than in other districts. Neighbouring districts like Howrah, North and South 14 Parganas are badly affected as well. Hence, the pressure is mounting on Kolkata hospitals. We are working out on how we could increase the number of beds,” said a senior health department official. Beds in Medical College Hospital Kolkata, the last to be designated as Covid hospital among the seven, are filling up fast. Almost 90% of the 500-bedded tertiary-level Covid hospital is currently occupied. While the occupancy at AMRI Annexe, Salt Lake, and Desun hospital is 100%, the occupancy at KPC Medical College is 87%, ID Hospital 82%, CNCI New Town 58% and MR Bangur Hospital is 35%. More than one third of the fresh Covid cases reported in the past 24 hours are from Kolkata. The state had 1,344 new cases on Saturday, out of which 421 were from the city alone while neighbouring North 24 Parganas reported 327 cases, Howrah and South 24 Parganas had 130 and 149 cases, respectively. Earlier, the government had set up safe homes to monitor asymptomatic patients who did not need hospital care to ease off pressure on hospitals. “In Kolkata the number of beds in MCH is being enhanced while the number of beds in Sanjiban Hospital has been increased from 300 to 500. We expect Narayana Multispcecialty Hospital in Howrah that has been acquired as a level IV Covid hospital with 100 beds to become functional in a day or two. The hospital was previously serving as a level II Covid hospital catering only to suspected cases,” said the health department official. Most demanded among the government hospitals for Covid treatment in the city is MCHK because of the multispecialty services involving experienced doctors. It started functioning as a Covid hospital on June 7. On Saturday, only 50 beds were vacant out of the 500 beds. According to sources in Swasthya Bhawan, health department officials wanted to covert MCHK into a full-fledged Covid hospital. But the plan was shelved owing to pressure from resident doctors and interns who wanted non-Covid services to be reopened in the hospital. Of the 9,588 active cases in the state, Kolkata has 3,280 cases, followed by North 24 parganas with 2,285 cases, Howrah 1,119 and South 24 Parganas 945 cases. On Friday, senior health department officials had met private hospital administrators to ramp up beds, following which some hospitals have already increased bed capacity while others are planning on the same line. In the government sector, the health department is also looking for hospitals especially in North 24 Parganas for transforming them into Covid hospitals to tide over the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-hosps-running-out-of-beds-as-covid-cases-spike/articleshow/76915674.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 12, 2020||Kolhapur||147 Sangli villages have Covid cases||KOLHAPUR: One-fourth of alll villages in Sangli district have people who have tested positive for Covid-19. Of the 588 villages in the district, 147 villages had at least one Covid patient until July 19. Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad municipal corporation jurisdiction has recorded 90 Covid-19 cases while areas of municipal councils have 65 patients. Rural parts of Sangli district has registered 462 Covid patients. The official record indicates that the cases in rural areas is increasing in comparison to urban and semi-urban regions. Of the 97 villages in Shirala tehsil, 27 have Covid patients, which is the highest in a tehsil. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/147-sangli-villages-have-covid-cases/articleshow/76914963.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Bareilly||Two booked for duping woman on the pretext of sending her son to Malaysia||PILIBHIT: Police on Friday booked two persons for duping a 45-year-old woman of Rs 2 lakh on the pretext of sending her son to Malaysia for work. The men arranged a tourist visa for the Ram Devi's son instead of a work visa. The accused threatened the woman when she demanded the refund of her money. The accused has been identified as Prempal and Harnarayan. The woman had paid Rs 1.50 lakh to the duo in three equal instalments. She had also spent another Rs 50,000 for repeated visits of the accused for visa arrangements, Ram Devi said. Her son, however, flew to Malaysia on May 29, 2019. There he was told by airport authorities that he was travelling on a tourist visa that is valid for just three months. Following this, Dharmendra (24) returned home immediately. On her demand of refund, Harnarayan signed an agreement to refund all her money within a month but finally retracted on December 20 and threatened her of dire consequences, the victim said. She filed written complaints to police station concerned, the superintendent of police and even sent a copy of it DIG of Bareilly range but her FIR was not lodged, she alleged. She got justice when she filed a complaint to the court of additional chief judicial magistrate on February 18. The SHO, Kamal Singh Yadav said that the two accused have been booked under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-booked-for-duping-woman-on-the-pretext-of-sending-her-son-to-malaysia/articleshow/76914122.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Shift plant away from human habitation, demand locals||RR Venkatapuram: After the high power committee in its recent report to the government mooted shifting the LG Polymers plant away from human habitation, similar calls have been made by locals of the five affected villages. When STOI interacted with the residents of the villages, many agreed it would be in public interest to shift a red category industry away from the area in view of the risks it poses to the public. Left parties have also been demanding that the plant be moved away from human habitation. Local TDP MLA PGVR Naidu (Ganababu) on Friday wrote a letter to chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, requesting him to implement the high power committee’s suggestions on shifting the plant and to carry out a study on the long-term health and environmental effects of exposure to styrene. Meanwhile, it was learn that several locals from RR Venkatapuram and its neighbouring villages have been working in the plant on a contractual basis, while some are permanent employees. In its report, the high power committee stated that the industries and commerce department take the lead in developing industrial estates away from human settlements, with a buffer zone, especially for hazardous industries. The report mentions that every industrial estate should have a buffer zone around it, which should not be diverted for any other use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/shift-plant-away-from-human-habitation-demand-locals/articleshow/76915671.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||DCA cracks whip on oxygen distributors in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: After hospitals in Hyderabad reported an acute shortage of oxygen cylinders — following panic buying by domestic users — the Drug Control Administration (DCA), on Saturday, said that it is conducting raids on all oxygen cylinder distributors in Telangana to “ensure that the cylinders are supplied only to the hospitals and license holders”. In a late evening release, DCA said 44 distributors and 16 manufacturing units were inspected, revealing discrepancies at 14 distributors and one manufacturing unit. “Notices shall be issued to the entities where discrepancies were reported and action shall be taken against them,” the release added. The crisis around oxygen cylinders was first reported by TOI in these columns on July 9, when members of the Indian Medical Association and Telangana Nursing Homes and Hospitals Association met the state government to report the matter and suggested that industrial cylinders be cleaned and used for this purpose. The TOI report had also highlighted how some dealers, taking advantage of the crunch, were selling oxygen cylinders for double the price in the open market. In fact, the Golconda police, on Saturday, even arrested a man who has been illegally hoarding oxygen cylinders and seized seized 25 cylinders from his possession. The accused, Mohammed Omer (34) had eight cylinders of 70 kgs each, seven cylinders of 40 kgs each and 10 cylinders of 10 kgs each, sourced from Gujarat. The role of Omer came to light after police, a few days ago, nabbed a person named, Ibrahim, near a government hospital in Red Hills, when he was trying to sell oxygen cylinders to people. From Ibrahim, police recovered four cylinders. When he was questioned, Ibrahim disclosed the name of Omer, who was illegally selling cylinders from a place at Golconda. “He had been charging Rs 11,000 for a 10 kg cylinder and Rs 1,100 for refill of gas. He was arrested,” a police official said. “Surprise checks of distributors shall be carried out periodically to ensure this and stern action will be taken if malpractices are found. Cases will be booked if the oxygen cylinders are sold at prices higher than the ceiling prices fixed by NPPA,” the DCA release stated. While TOI tried to contact the director public health, Dr G Srinivas Rao, over the issue, he did not respond. Calls made to other health officials also went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dca-cracks-whip-on-oxygen-distributors/articleshow/76916153.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Bareilly||Covid-19 level one hospital shifted from Bithri to 300-bed government hospital||BAREILLY: After receiving complaints about food and cleanliness, the Covid-19 level one hospital at CHC in Bithri Chainpur has been shifted to the third block of 300-bed government hospital on Saturday. Officials said 110 beds have been placed in the third block for treatment of asymptomatic patients while suspected cases will be quarantined at the second block. CHC in Bithri Chainpur with 30 beds was designated as Covid-19 level one hospital in Bareilly. Later, the city’s NER hospital with 65 beds was given the same status for treatment of asymptomatic patients. According to sources, inmates at CHC in Bithri Chainpur had complained about food and cleanliness in the past. Sources said as Bithri is situated outside the city, it was decided to shift Covid-19 level one hospital in the heart of the city where all facilities can be improved and officials can make random inspections. Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “We have shifted patients from CHC in Bithri to a 300-bed hospital. The Covid-19 patients are kept in a separate block while the flu corner for examination and samples collection of patients and 220-beds quarantine centre are at the other blocks of the hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-19-level-one-hospital-shifted-from-bithri-to-300-bed-govt-hospital/articleshow/76914130.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 12, 2020||Goa||Goa records three more deaths in 24 hours as Covid toll rises to 12||PANAJI: The state’s Covid-19 death toll rose to 12 on Saturday after three persons, all from Vasco, died of the infection. Goa’s active case count also crossed the 900-mark for the first time, after 117 new infections were detected and 81 patients cured. The three deaths — an 80-year-old woman, a 31-year-old man and a 75-year-old man, all having co-morbid conditions — took the port town’s death toll to 7. All three were at the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao. While most of the day’s cases were reported from Vasco — specifically, Baina, New Vaddem and Zuarinagar — and Valpoi, other areas such as Dharbandora, Cuncoliem, Nerul, Carambolim, Shiroda and Sakhali also saw a marginal rise. Meanwhile, health minister Vishwajit Rane said that an apheresis machine — for plasma therapy — has arrived at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, and is ready for installation. “I’m closely monitoring the same along with the GMC dean. Four doctors who are specialists in transfusion medicine are joining GMC,” he said. Apheresis is the process of collecting specific blood components, such as plasma. Rane said that the machine would be commissioned at the earliest for the treatment of Covid patients. Earlier this week, the state government declared its plan to introduce plasma therapy for treating critically-ill patients. Rane also lauded volunteers who have come forward to donate their plasma after recovery from Covid-19. GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar also appealed to patients who have recovered from the infection to approach the hospital to donate their plasma. The state is also in the process of starting antibody and antigen tests, and expects to receive kits shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-records-3-more-deaths-in-24-hrs-as-covid-toll-rises-to-12/articleshow/76916425.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Lucknow||Eleven more policemen test positive for coronavirus in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: After railway police personnel and provincial arms constabulary jawans, Covid-19 now seems to be spreading its tentacles in the civil police cadre in the city. Eleven more police personnel, including one on VIP security duty, were diagnosed with the disease on Saturday. Another cause of worry was that three KGMU doctors, including a senior faculty member posted in Covid ward, contracted coronavirus. The three doctors included a senior faculty of the medicine department deployed in ICU and junior residents of the ENT department posted in Triage area. “Their contacts are being traced and tested,” said KGMU media cell in charge Prof Sandeep Tiwari. So far, 28 KGMU staff members have tested positive. Among civil police personnel, three constables posted at Mahanagar police station, three sub-inspectors and a constable deployed in Mohanlalganj police station and three constables at the office of Inspector General of Police (Lucknow zone) tested positive, said health officers. IG Lucknow zone and commissioner of police (CP), Lucknow, are working from home as their offices were closed for sanitisation after cases were reported. Earlier, offices of the JCP (law and order), DCP (traffic), DIG (prison) and ACO were sealed. So far, 59 civil police personnel and their family members have tested positive, while a head constable posted at Anti-Corruption Organisation (ACO) died due to Covid-19 on June 30. Earlier, 113 PAC jawans and 47 railway cops have tested positive. Meanwhile, 12 more employees of 102 ambulance service tested positive, taking the number of staffers tesing positive to 104 since June 29. Six employees of Mandi Parishad were also diagnosed with the virus, besides nine neighbours of real estate businessmen in Rakabganj tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/eleven-more-policemen-test-positive-for-corona-in-capital/articleshow/76916433.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
July 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra toll crosses 10,000, last 5,000 came at 1,000 deaths every 5 days||MUMBAI: Maharashtra not only went past countries such as Germany and Canada to reach the death toll of 10,000 in the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, it also registered on Saturday its highest ever singleday tally of positive cases. The addition of 8,139 new cases took the state’s tally to 2,46,600—making up 30% of India’s cases. The state added 223 deaths on Saturday to take its toll to 10,116. It accounts for 45% of the country’s death toll of 22,123 so far. The last 5,000 deaths in Maharashtra have been added over a period of 25 days, with 1,000 deaths being added to the tally every five days. Maharashtra’s peak likely to be 2-3 weeks away: ExpertsWhile Maharashtra on Saturday reported its highest single-day tally of cases (8,139), Mumbai, in contrast, looked slightly stable with the daily update showing 1,284 cases and 39 deaths in the past 48 hours. The financial capital's total tally is now 91,745 cases (including 22,782 under treatment) and a death toll of 5,244. Health minister Rajesh Tope chose to focus on the recoveries instead of the death toll. He said 4,360 patients got discharged on Saturday, with the state's recovery rate reaching 55.55%. He said, 1.36 lakh people had recovered so far. 6.8 lakh people are under home quarantine and over 47,000 are in institutional quarantine. "Of the total 12.85 lakh samples tested, 2.46 lakh resulted positive," Tope said. Experts said that the rise in Maharashtra's overall cases is due to the surge of cases in Greater Mumbai (minus the BMC area), Pune, Aurangabad and Jalgaon. Maharashtra's peak is likely to be at least two to three weeks away, they said, while Mumbai peaked almost two months back and has now hit a plateau. The state's case fatality rate dipped a bit to 4.1% in the last 10 days from 4.49% on June 30. Mumbai's fatality rate decreased slightly to 5.7% from 5.86% on June 30. The BMC update said of the 39 deaths reported on Saturday, 32 patients had comorbidities. While 25 patients were men, 14 were women. The age-wise breakup showed only three victims were below 40 years of age, 10 were between 40 and 60 years old and 26 were over 60 years of age. Once the city's hotspot,, Dharavi reported only 11 new cases. "The new goal for Mumbai should be to achieve a mortality rate of less than 1%," said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force. On Saturday, the mortality rate was around 3% with 39 deaths reported for the day and 1,284 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtras-peak-likely-to-be-2-3-weeks-away/articleshow/76916672.cms||Malathy Iyer
July 12, 2020||Kolkata||House parties: The new challenge in virus fight||KOLKATA: The cops and healthcare workers in certain pockets of the city are facing a new adversary in their fight against Covid-19 — ‘get-togethers’ and ‘house parties’ that are termed high-risk activities as they take place in an enclosed space and make social distancing difficult. Stumped by the new-found form of recreation in the times of corona, the local administration have now been requesting residents’ welfare associations (RWA) in Rajarhat, New Town, VIP Road, New Alipore, Tollygunge and pockets of EM Bypass to keep an eye on such residents, along with taking a few other measures. In several western countries, such indoor programmes where people from different parts of the city coming under one roof has been termed as “super-spreader events”. “Contact tracing of a few people who have tested positive has revealed that they may have attended a get-together or were part of a house party. Most of them said they would stay at home most of the time and step out only to either visit a friend or a relative or attend a get-together at somebody’s place that they felt was safe,” said a doctor in a private hospital off EM Bypass. “One doesn’t know if a guest is infected but asymptomatic. Or, they are yet to manifest the symptoms. In closed environments, there are chances of more people getting infected.’ With bars and night clubs shut and eateries only allowing takeaways to prevent the spread of the virus, people have not been able to meet friends and socialise. To beat the boredom, many of them are organizing high-teas or house parties during weekends to regain some of their pre-pandemic social life. Medical experts say it borders on high-risk activity. “Restaurants, movie halls and clubs have been kept shut for the same reason so that people cannot come in close proximity of each other. Even in a house party, people from different neighbourhoods are assembling under one roof. They might dance near to each other or sit across the table while eating. This helps the virus to hop from one person to another,” said the doctor. According to cops, they have received reports of several such get-togethers from different pockets of the city. “Standalone houses or those inside gated communities provide complete privacy. We are speaking to several RWAs, requesting them to sensitize their members and report to us if any activity like this takes place,” said an officer. Medical experts feel it is better to shift the activity area to the terrace or a verandah for proper ventilation. It is also preferable to sit facing the same direction rather than sitting across each other. Maintaining social distancing outdoors is easier than it is inside an apartment with many guests. This is the reason places like multiplexes, nightclubs and bars have not been allowed to open. There have been cases in other cities in the country where almost all guests attending a marriage ceremony have tested positive. In Kolkata, not more than 50 people can attend a marriage ceremony. Even religious shrines have been advised to only allow few people inside for prayers. Several places in the city have been turned into containment zones again due to the spike in cases. “People who have elderly parents or other family members with co-morbidities may be putting them at risk too. It is fine to have a couple of friends over but even then one must make sure if they reside in a containment zone or a hotspot. They may bring the virus inside the house,” said another doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/house-parties-the-new-challenge-in-virus-fight/articleshow/76915682.cms||Zeeshan Javed
July 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||District reports 6th Covid death||Thiruvananthapuram: The district recorded the sixth Covid death on Friday. The mortal remains of the deceased person, Seyfudeen, 66, a resident of Poonthara were buried as per Covid protocol at Poonthura Puthenpally Muslim Jamaat at 3.45pm on Saturday. The health team of city corporation carried out the burial procedure. Seyfudeen had lot of comorbidities along with neurological issues, according to authorities of Medical College Hospital. He was tested positive for Covid-19 on July 4. His son who is employed as a medical representative was also tested positive for Covid-19 and is under treatment at Medical College Hospital. He had to be put on ventilator at Medical College Hospital owing to his deteriorating health condition. His was among the first series of cases to be reported from Poonthura where clustering became rampant and nearly 300 cases have been reported till date. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/district-reports-6th-covid-death/articleshow/76915688.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman chases down molester||Ahmedabad: A 31-year-old woman lodged a complaint at the Dariapur police station on Friday, stating that a scooterist had molested her. The woman has alleged that earlier on Friday while she was riding her two-wheeler to Naranpura, the man on the scooter touched her inappropriately. She said she fell off her two-wheeler. She said she managed to pick herself up and chased the man. She intercepted him near Topiwala Pol in Dariapur. According to the FIR, the accused — identified as Kumarpal Rathod, 29, of Naroda — abused the woman and assaulted her. “As the incident occurred near the Dariapur police station, we rushed to the spot and detained the accused,” said inspector J B Chavda. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-chases-down-molester/articleshow/76915684.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Styrene leak survivors remember night of horror||RR Venkatapuram: Sixteen-year-old Pinapolu Pavan, a class X student, remembers the intervening night of May 6 and May 7, when life as he knew it, changed forever. As the temperature of a tank storing styrene at the LG Polymers plant at RR Venkatapuram reached 180 degrees Celsius, vapourised styrene leaked and spread over the area, killing several and hospitalising hundreds. Pavan’s mother succumbed to the fumes and left him hospitalised for a week at King George Hospital (KGH), Visakhapatnam. Two months later, Pavan and his younger brother are now in the care of their ailing grandmother. The family has received a compensation of Rs 1 crore from the state government, but grief and uncertainty mark the future. Pavan’s grandmother, A Mahalakshmi, is still inconsolable from the death of her eldest daughter. Pavan is one among hundreds of victims struggling to come to terms in the aftermath of the styrene vapour leak. The tragedy claimed 12 lives and led to the hospitalisation of 585 people across RR Venkatapuram, Nandamuri Nagar, Kamparapalem, Padmanabha Nagar and SC/BC Colony. When STOI visited these villages, where life is limping back to normalcy, survivors complained of symptoms of persistent fatigue, skin rashes, problems with vision and gastrointestinal issues. Memories of the fateful night — people rushing out on to the streets in panic, others falling unconscious — are still fresh. Recounting how events unfolded, Ch Ramanamma from Venkatadri Nagar said people initially mistook the vapours to be part of the regular fogging operations of the municipal corporation. “The fumes fully enveloped the village. I partially lost consciousness and couldn’t remember how I ended up at the government-run shelter for vapour leak victims,” she told STOI. M Apparao, an RR Venkatapuram local, said victims of the styrene leak continue to experience ailments, “even though they are currently mild in nature, long-term health effects of exposure to styrene vapour should be studied,” adding that he frequently suffered from stomach aches and body pains. Like Apparao, Gantla Lakshmi, who spent nine days at KGH after inhaling styrene, complained of peristent weakness. The state government recently launched a 10-bed Dr YSR Health Clinic in RR Venkatapuram to offer round-the-clock medical assistance to victims of the tragedy. At the clinic, Dr K Santhi said oxygen cylinders and pulse oximetres are ready for patients, apart from other treatment facilities. “We have been receiving about 80 to 90 patients a day. Health cards were issued to locals of all five villages, which have a population of around 10,800. Specialist medical care will also be offered at the clinic,” Dr Santhi said. Meanwhile, the high power committee constituted by the state government to probe into the causes of styrene leak, recommended in its recent report mentioned that a detailed study be entrusted to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to study the long-term effects of styrene on the health of people in the affected areas, especially the vulnerable groups of children, senior citizens and pregnant women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/styrene-leak-survivors-remember-night-of-horror/articleshow/76915685.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 12, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: BEd student commits suicide over failed relationship||BAREILLY: A B.Ed student allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in his room in Moradabad on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as 25-year-old Sumit, a resident of Kashiram Nagar colony under Majhola police station. A four-page suicide note has also been recovered, police said. The family told police that they were not aware of any relationship of their son or whether he was undergoing any stress. In the suicide note, he had mentioned that he was undergoing stress as his relationship with a woman didn’t work out. The deceased also stated that he had no support system and he was feeling helpless. CO, Deepak Bhuker said, “An enquiry has been ordered in the incident and the body has been sent for post-mortem. The relationship angle will also be probed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bed-student-commits-suicide-over-failed-relationship/articleshow/76914141.cms||Maria Khan
July 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur civic chief limits cremation presence to 10||KOLHAPUR: Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti has ordered not to allow more than 10 people for cremation after incidents of quarantining the relatives of deceased, who attended the cremation, were reported. On Friday, over 100 people from Rajaram Chowk area had been quarantined after they attended the cremation of a deceased, who had Covid-19. The Covid report had arrived after the cremation. Similar incidents were reported in Gadhinglaj and Ichalkaranji. People in contact with the deceased tested positive later on. Kalshetti said, “We have observed that despite restrictions in place, people visit the house of the deceased. They should call them to express condolences instead of going to their houses. So, not more than 10 people will be allowed at the cremation of any deceased.” Kalshetti has also appealed to the private hospitals and laboratories to immediately communicate the details of suspected Covid patients admitted or arrived for testing. Legal action will be taken if the private hospitals and laboratories hide information.  “I have also appealed to the citizens to not invite relatives from outside the city for weddings or any other functions. They should organise the functions with a limited number of relatives,” said Kalshetti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-civic-chief-limits-cremation-presence-to-10/articleshow/76914975.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: CMO office shut as clerk tests Covid-19 positive||LUCKNOW: Novel coronavirus on Saturday reached none other than the office of the chief medical officer (CMO). He will work from home for two days as his office building has been sealed for sanitization after an accountant was diagnosed with Covid-19. Though the CMO office advises suspected cases to stay at home, the clerk who got himself tested on Thursday after developing sore throat had come to office on Friday. Officers pressed the panic button on Saturday when the test report of the clerk found him positive. “The 30-year-old accountant was deployed for work related to the National Health Mission on the second floor of the office. He got himself tested at Red Cross Society centre after developing sore throat on Thursday. His test report came on Saturday. Despite being a suspected case, he came to office on Friday,” said CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal. “About 15 personnel who came in close contact with the accountant are being tested and the office has been sealed for 48 hours for sanitization,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cmo-office-shut-as-clerk-tests-positive/articleshow/76916445.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district registers 46 Covid cases||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district on Saturday registered 46 fresh Covid-19 patients, including four from Kolhapur city, taking the total number of cases to 1,175. The death toll has reached to 24 after one person from Ichalkarnaji succumbed to the infection. Meanwhile, Ichalkaranji reported five Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 106. The ten-day lockdown in Ichalkaranji is set to end on Monday. However, the cases continue to surge. Local authorities said that the case count during the lockdown phase was just 52, however, it surged to over 100 after the government announced relaxation in lockdown. Authorities have attributed the rise in the number of cases to the community spread. According to local authorities, most of the newly detected patients are close contacts of earlier positive patients who were traced before the lockdown and are currently in quarantine centres. 2 booked for misbehaving with civic staff Two people have been booked by Kolhapur city police for misbehaving with civic staffers on lockdown duty. The staffers were slapping fine on people for violating norms such as not wearing masks in public and not maintaining social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-district-registers-46-cases/articleshow/76914988.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Goa||Classes for school students via DD likely from month-end in Goa||PANAJI: Internet connectivity, or the lack of it, has been proving a hurdle for schools since they started teaching online due to the pandemic. Realising these shortcomings, the state government through the directorate of education and the State Council for Education Research and Training (SCERT) is set to telecast recorded teaching sessions for Classes I to VIII from the last week of July, sources said. A dedicated Youtube channel of the directorate of education and the SCERT is also in the works, according to those in the know. To begin with, recorded classes are likely to be telecast for an hour a day on Doordarshan, and talks are also on to rope in other local channels. Preparation of scripts for the videos has already begun. Teachers have been shortlisted from across the state and recording of the sessions will start from Monday. “Schools were asked to carry out survey among its students about how many have access to television and Doordarshan, and also other local channels. The figure was found to be satisfactory at around 95%. Accordingly, it was decided that teaching sessions can be recorded and then telecast on Doordarshan. Proactive teachers have been chosen from across Goa to prepare these videos,” said a source. The classes via TV will begin with science, mathematics and social science subjects for Classes I to VIII. Different subjects have been distributed among teachers to prepare the videos. “The teachers were trained by an expert linked to the field of broadcasting. He trained them in how to convert the lessons into scripts. The recording of the videos begins from July 13 at the government-owned studios at the Goa University campus. The editing of the videos will then be carried out by a separate team,” said a source. The plan to record videos for an initial period of two months, to be extended based on the Covid-19 situation. Though the duration of the sessions is still being discussed, videos are being shot in units of ten-minute sessions, keeping in mind the attention span of children, as young as six years old. Any particular subject of a certain class will be taught twice a week. “The videos will include a lot of visuals to keep students engaged. Students will also be allotted activities based on what is taught. Efforts to contact students through other online or offline methods for teaching are working well and will continue simultaneously,” the source said. The idea of the television telecast is to at least keep all students in touch with the basic concepts and expand slowly on them, even in cases where students do not have access to gadgets or internet connectivity. Many educationists, including former state board chairman Pandurang Nadkarni had earlier suggested that local Doordarshan channel should be used to telecast teaching sessions, rather than attempt to conduct classes online amidst poor internet connectivity and the lack of access of gadgets for some students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/classes-for-school-students-via-dd-likely-from-month-end/articleshow/76916448.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Five held for murder of NCP leader||KOLHAPUR: Sangli police on Saturday arrested five suspects in connection with the murder of NCP’s Sangli district vice-president Dattatreya Patole. The suspects have been identified as Nilesh Vithoba Gadade (21), Sachin Adnyan Chavan (22), Vaibhav Vishnu Shejal (21), Kiran Shankar Lokhande (19), all resident of Waghmode Nagar, and Mrutunjay Narayan Patole (27), a resident of Yashvantnagar. Patol used to stay in Waghmode Nagar with his family. The suspects brutally murdered Patole due to some personal enmity on Friday noon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/5-held-for-murder-of-ncp-leader/articleshow/76914999.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Delay in seeking medical help increased Covid-19 fatalities: Panel||MANGALURU: An audit of 35 out of 38 Covid-19 deaths in Dakshina Kannada has indicated delay on part of patients seeking medical help as the cause. Medical experts have appealed to the people not to neglect symptoms. Fear of hospitals and lack of trust in doctors, in this time of pandemic is irrational, and a majority of the deaths could have been avoided had the patients come forth, the experts held forth candidly on Saturday. If 26 of these deaths categorised ‘Covid associated,’ occurred due to co-morbid conditions being present in the patients, four deaths have been termed coincidental Covid-19, including a patient who succumbed to liver cirrhosis. In four others, it was case of Covid pneumonia and one was a non-Covid death. Incidentally, 21 out of 35 deaths have been reported in those above 50, with those in the age-group of 60-70 accounting for 11 of them. Even in the deaths reported in those aged below 50, patients had severe co-morbid conditions, and Covid-19 only accentuated the same. The audit surmised that five of these deaths were in patients outside Dakshina Kannada district (three from Bhaktal and one each from Chitradurga and Kodagu), and the rest were residents of the district. The experts had a simple message – take care of the elderly and bring them for treatment at the first instance of illness. Admitting that while the statistics are scary, Dr Sharath Babu, one of the 13 experts, said on the contrary, the medical team at the designated Covid-19 hospital have affected 15 critical recoveries from the ICU of Wenlock Hospital. Barring the first five deaths in the district, the ICU has managed these critical recoveries in six cases among patients with co-morbidities only because they were diagnosed on time and treatment initiated promptly, he said. This reversal of Covid deaths is possible only when patients come to doctors on time, noted Dr Hansraj Alva, dismissing notions that hospitals are seeking to profit from the situation, he said that the pandemic can be handled only with patient-doctor trust. Noting that the district does not have the capacity for mass testing as of now, he said till such time is imperative for every citizen to treat self as positive, and take all mandated precautions to ensure they do not infect others. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said the district will receive rapid antigen detection kits on Monday. It will be used primarily to test foreign travellers who are placed in institutional quarantine. RT-PCR, that is current the gold standard front-line test for Covid-19 diagnosis will continue, she said, adding four other medical colleges in the district are expected to get their laboratories up and running soon, as directed by minister for medical education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/delay-in-seeking-medical-help-increased-covid-fatalities-panel/articleshow/76914994.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 15-year-old girl commits suicide after another sister is born||AHMEDABAD: A Bapunagar teenager has killed herself apparently because she was dejected that her mother delivered another girl child. The 15-year-old killed herself on Thursday. According to police sources, the girl’s mother had given birth to her fourth daughter earlier that day. The girl, a Class VIII student, had wanted a brother. According to the girl’s father, she was a devotee of Goddess Dashama and had told her mother that this time she would surely give birth to a boy. On Thursday, the girl was sent to her uncle’s house when her mother was taken to Civil Hospital. At her uncle’s house, the girl sat in front of the idol of Goddess Dashama, praying for a brother. “However, news came in that another girl child had been born,” said a police official. “The girl was terribly upset.” The girl then told her relatives that she was going to the bathroom. But she headed to the kitchen and hanged herself, using a sari. Shortly later, her uncle saw her body hanging from the ceiling. “The family is in great shock,” the official said. “A life was born but at the same time, another ended.” Police said no other suspicion surrounded the suicide so they handed over the body to the girl’s family after the postmortem examination. “While the mother was in hospital with the newborn baby, her eldest girl was cremated,” the official said. “We don’t know if the mother has been informed of the death of her daughter.” Inspector N K Vyas of the Bapunagar police station said: “We have registered a case of accidental death and are probing the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/15-year-old-girl-commits-suicide-after-another-sister-is-born/articleshow/76915702.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai's case doubling rate slows to 50 days, but it's 12-20 in MMR||MUMBAI: The city's doubling rate for Covid-19 cases is 50 days now, said the BMC's daily update on Saturday. "A doubling rate of 50 days means Mumbai can think of further reducing the lockdown rules," said a doctor. From 11 days in the first week of May to 50 days is a big achievement as far as public health department's containment measures are concerned, the doctor added.  Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the state task force on Covid-19, said, "If the effective reproduction number 'R' for Covid-19 reaches 1, and the doubling rate crosses 45 days, it paves the way for a smarter unlocking for Mumbai." He said the city cannot go for complete relaxation as it could lead to a surge in cases. By comparison, Mumbai's satellite cities have poor doubling rates. The worst is 12 days in Kalyan-Dombivli, the current Covid hotspot in the region. In Thane, another municipality with over 12,000 cases, it is 20 days. Want to up doubling rate to 30 days: TMCThe present doubling rate of Covid cases in Thane is 20 days, as 6,132 cases were reported as on May 20 that shot to 12,053 by June 9, stated latest civic records. The numbers have increased during the past month after Unlock.01 was implemented, and civic officials say they are aggressively working towards stretching the doubling rate to 27-30 days. “We are working towards identifying patients and their contacts in the early stages and treating them before they require hospitalisation. Our survey team is being strengthened,” said a senior bureaucrat on Saturday. In the Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar belts, the doubling rate is 15 days and 17 days, respectively. The doubling rate at both the places was 10 to 12 days in May-end, and had increased to 17 days in mid-June. “Since the second week of June the doubling rate has been hovering around 15 days, which is worrying,” said a doctor. Civic officials are hopeful because contact tracking ratio is now 1:20 and testing has gone up. In Vasai-Virar, though, contact tracing continues to be poor. The doubling rate in Bhiwandi-Nizampura City Municipal Corporation is 23 days while in Ulhasnagar, where cases have crossed 3,000, it is 14 days. (Inputs by Malathy Iyer, Sandhya Nair, Manoj Badgeri & Pradeep Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-case-doubling-rate-slows-to-50-days-but-its-12-20-in-mmr/articleshow/76916676.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||23 lakh unintended pregnancies likely due to lockdown||NAGPUR: As a fallout of nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19, over 2 crore couples in the country have been deprived from availing contraceptives. This is expected to result in around 23 lakh unintended pregnancies across the nation. While observing World Population Day on Saturday, the Foundation for Reproductive Health Services India (FRHS), which provides contraception and safe abortion services through multiple channels, released a policy brief to estimate the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on family planning in the country. A week before the lockdown was imposed from March 25, provision of clinical family planning services including sterilization and intra uterine contraceptive devices (IUCD) were suspended. Subsequently, ministry of health and family welfare issued a guidance advising that sterilizations and IUCD services should not be resumed till further notice. FRHS estimated the impact on family planning based on three scenarios. The best-case scenario considers that clinical family planning services will resume in a phased manner from the third week of May and will operate at full capacity from July. Under this, commercial sales of contraceptives will be impacted for 50 days and 24.55 million couples would not be able to access contraceptives this year. “This is likely to result in an additional 1.94 million unintended pregnancies, 1.18 million abortions and 1,425 maternal deaths,” the policy brief stated. Under the likely-case scenario which estimates that family planning services will resume from third week of May and commercial sales of contraceptives will be impacted for 60 days, 25.63 million couples will not be able to access contraceptives, resulting in 2.38 million unintended pregnancies and 1.45 million abortions. Apart from this, 27.18 million couples will not be unable to access contraceptives in the worst-case scenario, leading to 1.8 million abortions and 2,165 maternal deaths. This scenario considers that family planning services will resume in a phased manner from third week of May and commercial sales of contraceptives will be impacted for 75 days. To manage the effect of the pandemic on family planning, FRHS has issued some recommendations which include expanding choice for long-acting reversible contraceptives, increasing access to safe abortion services, easing restrictions for advertising and promotion of over the counter contraceptives and increasing involvement of NGO sector. “The number of live births may be actually higher, since access to abortion services have also been impacted during the lockdown period. Many women who ended up with an unintended pregnancy may be forced carry their pregnancy to term, since they may not have been able to access abortion care,” said VS Chandrashekar, chief executive officer at FRHS. Chandrashekar added that the overall adverse impact on family planning programme in 2020 is estimated to be between -15% to -23% . “The disruption in family planning services during the lockdown will result in increased demand for sterilization and abortion services once the lockdown is lifted. That can be an added pressure on our health systems and can be overwhelming,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/23l-unintended-pregnancies-likely-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/76916167.cms||Manka Behl
July 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||2 kids’ dream of a meal, home comes true||Thiruvananthapuram: They starved. Didn’t have a proper shelter to stay. Their father had abandoned them after he came to know about their mother’s illness and their grandfather was bed-ridden. For the two kids at Alachalkonam ward at Ottasekharamangalam grama panchayat, who studied in Class I and II at a nearby government school, a meal a day was a distant dream, let alone online classes. Most days they survived eating wild fruits and slept hoping for a better tomorrow. One day, a chance call from a volunteer to a representative at Bhavana Library, Poozhanad, changed the children’s lives, for better. The volunteers had called to inform that the children didn’t have a television to access lessons broadcast through Victers channel. But when the representatives of the library, who have been arranging facilities for children in their region to attend online classes as part of reading month observance, visited the children’s house to verify the claim a few weeks back, they found that more than a television, the kids needed a proper house and food. They were living with their grandfather and mentally ill mother under a structure covered with plastic sheets. Soon, they decided to renovate the structure into a proper house for the children through crowd funding. According to Alachalkkonam ward member Cherupushpam R, the attempt to get them registered under Life Mission was not possible as they did not have any documents. “We tried to help them financially, but the mother used to drive us away. When the library representatives approached us to help the family, we all extended our support. We took the mother to a hospital in Peroorkada and spoke to her husband who was staying at his home in Poovachal. Now, the woman, who returned after treatment, is now staying with her husband and children at his house temporarily. We recently took them to the construction site and they were happy to see the work,” said Cherupushpam. The earlier structure was removed and the basement of the house has been constructed. “It was a pathetic sight when we first visited them. We started crowd funding to build a house and we could complete the basement work with some financial help. We hope that more people will support the initiative to complete the work so that the children can return to their house soon,” said Poozhanad Gopan, president of Bhavana Library. The construction work began on Friday and Gopan has made an open call for volunteers who may join the work for a day or more to complete the project on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/2-kids-dream-of-a-meal-home-comes-true/articleshow/76915720.cms||Anasooya.S
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC upholds lecturers’ hiring policy||HYDERABAD: Welcoming the efforts to sharpen the existing teaching methods, the Telangana high court has upheld the new policy of the state government to take only those securing high marks in PG courses as lecturers to teach in government junior colleges. A bench of chief justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this while dismissing a batch of appeals filed by temporary guest lecturers who wanted the government to continue them. The bench, however, made a suggestion to the government to take talented persons on a regular mode so that the education sector would see a rapid growth in the key area of Intermediate education. “Considering the fact that Telangana is a new state it is required to pay close attention to laying the foundation of a great tradition of education,” the judges said, while making a suggestion to do away with the practice of hiring temporary teachers. The commissioner of Intermediate education on July 25, 2018, had issued new guidelines and the government issued a memo notifying them on June 29, 2019. These guidelines specify that merit in the PG exams would be the sole criterion for hiring lecturers henceforth. The temporary guest lecturers in the meantime approached the court, seeking directions to continue them or to provide weightage to their teaching experience in the new selections. Though a single judge stayed the government’s memo initially, his final judgement upheld the guidelines and the state policy. Aggrieved by this, the guest lecturers filed an appeal and bench headed by CJ dismissed their appeals stating that it found no legal infirmity in the state’s policy. The judges said: “The importance of education cannot be doubted. Education is the bedrock for the growth and prosperity of any country. For, education transforms a person from a brute animal to a noble soul.” They further said, “A country without a strong educational system would continue to live in the dark ages with a population with a closed mind. Education has been given a prominent place in the Preamble. There cannot be a freedom of speech and expression without education. It is imperative that the state should not only protect and promote, but also strengthen the education system within the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-upholds-lecturers-hiring-policy/articleshow/76916174.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Homeless get shelter, food||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has launched a special drive to trace homeless people and rehabilitate them in five shelter homes run by it under the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) of the Centre. Surendr Patil, the NRLM project director, said the strict lockdown till July 18 would make it easy to find homeless people within the municipal limits. “These individuals live on food and other kind of help offered by citizens and NGOs. They may face hardships during the lockdown. As a part of the drive, we are covering main roads, large squares, flyovers and temples,” he said. Those rehabilitated will be subjected to health screening before being offered tea, breakfast and meals twice daily at the shelter homes. Around 55 such destitutes roaming in and around the city were traced and sent to shelter homes by Saturday evening, the civic authorities said. The authorities have appealed to citizens to share information on homeless person or people staying in their area for necessary rehabilitation. Sant Gadge Maharaj Educational and Cultural Board, Bodhi Multipurpose Social Organisation, Jeevan Jagruti Medical and Social Organisation and Tejaswini Vastighar are among expert groups and NGOs which are part of the AMC drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/homeless-get-shelter-food/articleshow/76915009.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ranchi||Gumla police plan livelihood options for villagers in rebel-hit pockets||Gumla: As part of its social policing initiative and as a confidence building measure, Gumla police are working out plans to link poor families in the Maoist-hit areas of the district with income-generating activities under the Special Central Assistance (SCA) scheme. Gumla SP Hrudeep P Janardhanan said, “The idea is to make policing people- friendly because without the support of the locals, nabbing rebels or curbing criminal activities will not be possible. We are going the extra mile by providing the villagers with jobs to win their confidence.” The SP added that police will soon start identifying poor families to link them with livelihood activities under the SCA scheme. Police will help the villagers with different activities like goat rearing, piggery, duck farming and beekeeping, among others. “We are also focussing on improving the roads for better connectivity of the villages,” Janardhanan said. Police will also arrange for educational tours for students in the hinterlands. Janardhanan said they plan to send local students for educational tours within the next few months that will give them an exposure to the outside world. In addition to this, preparations are on to hold football tournaments at the thana-level to encourage sporting activities among the youths. “Football is the most popular game in the district and police will organise tournaments at the station and district levels to keep the locals engaged in a positive manner,” the SP said. The SP further said that every police station will have a Jan Pramarsh Kendra to sort out petty issues of the villagers. “A Jan Sahyog Samiti will be set up at the thana-level by roping in people from all walks of life. The Samiti will mediate on petty issues. They will also be our volunteers and help us in maintaining law and order in the district,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gumla-police-plan-livelihood-options-for-villagers-in-rebel-hit-pockets/articleshow/76915935.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ranchi||School turns into temporary jail to lodge Covid violators in Lohardaga||Gumla: The Lohardaga district administration on Friday threatened to arrest people who venture out of their homes without wearing masks and do not follow social distancing norms. A temporary jail has also be set up at a school to lodge the violators. Deputy commissioner Akanksha Ranjan said, “An order has been issued to set up a temporary jail at a school to lodge those found violating the guidelines of Covid -19 like mass gatherings at public places, venturing out without face masks etc.” Violators will be booked under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Ranjan further said. Sundari Devi Saraswati Shishu Mandir at Baksideepa has been turned into a camp jail and magistrates have been deputed for maintenance of law and order by the DC. “Fresh prohibitory orders restricting assembly and curbing movement have been imposed in the district on Thursday,” Lohardaga SDO Jyoti Jha informed. Meanwhile, representatives of the Lohardaga Chamber of Commerce and Industries on Friday demanded a stricter lockdown for 15 days. Its president Rajesh Kumar Mahato said, “A sense of fear is gripping the residents of the district as positive cases are being reported not only from migrants, but even among locals. We are pressing the administration for a 15-day lockdown to break the chain of infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/school-turns-into-temporary-jail-to-lodge-covid-violators-in-lohardaga/articleshow/76915881.cms||K A Gupta
July 12, 2020||Ranchi||Mukhiya shunted in Itkhori over corruption charges||Chatra: State rural development department (panchayati raj) directed Itkhori block development officer (BDO) Vijay Kumar to remove Manju Devi, the mukhiya of Saharjam panchayat, from her post after she was found indulging in corrupt activities. The order said Chatra deputy commissioner Jitendra Kumar Singh had set up an inquiry after receiving complaint against her and found all allegations to be true. Kumar has been asked to handover the charge to the deputy mukhiya. An administrative officer told TOI on Saturday that Manju Devi was charged of misusing government funds of schemes like installation of LED lights and payment to contractors who set up handpumps without physical verification. She was also charged with not convening a meeting of the executive committee at the pancahayat office and not informing the members on time. “She had a habit of neglecting recommendations of the gram sabha which is responsible for taking up new schemes in the area,” said the official of the factfinding team. The officer said they had received directives in this regard after which the block development officer of Itkhori, Vijay Kumar has been directed to take action under Section-64 of the Panchayati Raj Act, 2001. “An order has also been passed to recover the misused fund from Manju Devi,” the official added. The BDO said, “Action has been initiated and the process to recover the embezzled money is underway.” Meanwhile, Manju Devi said she was made a scapegoat. “It is a conspiracy against me,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mukhiya-shunted-in-itkhori-over-corruption-charges/articleshow/76915923.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Jamshedpur||East Singhbhum admin takes over two pvt hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients||JAMSHEDPUR: To tackle the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the East Singhbhum administration has taken over two private hospitals to treat the patients. The St Joseph hospital and the UMA Specialty hospital have been acquired to house the patients. Till now, the Tata Main Hospital, Tata Motors Hospital and Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital (MGMMCH) had dedicated beds for Covid-19 patients. While the three hospitals have 730 beds, the two newly acquired facilities have 60 beds, deputy commissioner Ravi Shankar Shukla said. Moreover, a fresh drive has been initiated in the district to stop crowding in public places and ensure compliance when it comes to wearing masks. On Friday, traffic police and district transport officials conducted a drive in the city to stop pillion riding. Inspections were also carried out at Sakchi Market to see whether traders and buyers are wearing face masks. “From today, municipal and police officials have started surveillance in the market area to ensure that there’s no gathering of more than five persons at the shops,” SSP Tamil Vanan said. In total, 135 people have been arrested from different police station areas for the violation rules in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/east-singhbhum-admin-takes-over-two-pvt-hospitals-for-treating-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76915903.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Mild Covid-19 Cases Can Be Discharged 10 Days After The Onset Of Symptoms||Vijayawada: Patients with mild symptoms will no longer need any testing prior to discharge as per the revised discharge policy stipulated by the state health department. The patient can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days. At the time of discharge, the patients will be advised to isolate themselves at home and self-monitor their health for further seven days. If the patient’s oxygen saturation dips below 95% during his stay at the Covid Care Centres, the patient will be shifted to the district-level Covid hospital. Even the cases classified as ‘moderate infections’ will be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset with no testing. But this comes with some caveats. The fever should resolve within three days and the patient should maintain oxygen saturation level above 95% for the next four days without any external oxygen support. There should be complete resolution of breathlessness. If the moderate cases required oxygenation during the hospital stay, resolution of clinical symptoms, oxygen saturation levels above 95% for three consecutive days, resolution of breathlessness and normal inflammatory markers are mandatory before discharge. However, Covid testing with rapid antigen kits will be conducted on these cases. Even if the test result is positive, the case will remain under medical observation only for three days and discharged without any testing. As per an order released by the state health department, severe cases will only be discharged after being tested negative in the RT-PCR testing. The patient will be deemed ready for discharge only after meeting the clinical recovery criteria, including no fever/symptoms for the last three consecutive days before discharge, saturation levels above 95% for the last four days before discharge, normal inflammatory markers resolution of clinical signs and symptoms. If the patient tests positive in the RT-PCR before discharge, the test will be repeated after 72 hours. The mild or asymptomatic Covid-19 patients can choose the home isolation facility if they have certain facilities, such a separate room for isolation, at their homes. The remaining mild cases are currently treated at the Covid Care Centres. Only the moderate and severe cases are being shifted to the Covid-19 hospitals. Even then, the severe cases, patients aged above 60 or the persons suffering from comorbidities and other vulnerable people, will be treated only at the five state-level Covid hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mild-covid-19-cases-can-be-discharged-10-days-after-the-onset-of-symptoms/articleshow/76901072.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Ranchi||Covid-19: One death, 145 fresh cases in Jharkhand||RANCHI: A 55-year-old Giridih man died on Saturday morning at a private hospital here after testing positive for Covid-19, taking the state's toll to 24. On Saturday, Jharkhand also reported 145 fresh cases of coronavirus from 23 of the total 24 districts. Khunti is the only district which did not report any new cases. For the past few days, the state has been witnessing a steep rise in the number of positive cases. State health officials said he passed away during treatment at the Medanta Hospital. He was a resident of Hesla village under Bagodar police station limits in Giridih district. A hospital official said, "He was admitted to our hospital on July 8. The patient was suffering from high fever and diabetes. He tested positive on July 6 and died during treatment around 5am." Of the total new cases reported, Garhwa topped the chart with 21 fresh infections. The district recorded a huge surge as it reported only 11 cases in the last one week. In Ranchi, fewer cases were reported in comparison with the last two days. The entire district reported a total of 15 new infections. Among 15 infected are a senior police officer, a journalist and six members of a family. "A DSP-rank officer of Jharkhand Police and a journalist have tested positive in Ranchi on Saturday. Besides, six members of a family residing in an apartment in Kanke Road area have also tested positive," a health department official said. The Ranchi district administration has sealed the residential society with immediate effect and will start the contact-tracing exercise from Sunday. With Saturday's fresh cases, the cumulative figure of positive cases in the state has reached 3,663, of which 2,256 have recovered and 1,083 are active. Moreover, 24 people have succumbed to the viral infection. Meanwhile, Koderma and East Singhbhum also reported a high number of cases at 13 each on Saturday. In Chatra, 12 persons were found infected while Ramgarh detected 10 cases. Districts which reported only single-digit cases included Gumla which had eight cases and Palamu with seven cases while Giridih and Bokaro reported six cases each. Lohardaga and Dhanbad reported five cases while Sahebganj, Saraikela detected four cases each. Latehar and Pakur also had three cases each. Two cases were also reported from Hazaribag and Jamtara while Godda, Simdega, West Singhbhum and Dumka reported one case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/one-death-145-fresh-cases-in-jkhand/articleshow/76915910.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur goes into partial lockdown||Guntur: District collector Samul Anand Kumar has declared partial lockdown in Guntur and allowed shops and establishments to open only till 12 noon. The overall number of cases in the district has nearly touched 2800. Guntur city itself has 1,000 cases with over 150 cases in the last few days. The chamber of commerce has agreed to open the shops between 6 am-12 noon keeping in view of the growing cases. The previously Covid-19-free zone of Brodipet has now become a hotspot with most number of cases. The entire Brodipet, the busy commercial zone, has been declared as red zone. Similarly, Nallacheruvu, IPD colony, AT agraharam areas have been declared as containment zones. The collector Anand Kumar, urban SP Ammireddy and GMC commissioner Ch Anuradha inspected containment zones in the city and took stock of the situation. The collector directed the GMC commissioner to make arrangements for supply of vegetables and groceries to the residents in containment zones. He asked R&B officials to barricade the containment areas immediately. He asked the urban SP to post police personnel in all the containment areas. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-goes-into-partial-lockdown/articleshow/76901127.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||Full lockdown if violations continue: Tukaram Mundhe||NAGPUR: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Saturday warned of reimposing full lockdown and curfew on lines of other cities if violations of guidelines meant for containing spread of novel coronavirus continued. Alarmed by the steep rise in Covid-19 positive cases as well as deaths since easing of lockdown norms from June 1, Mundhe appealed to people to follow restraint and discipline. He also stated that FIR will be registered against violators from Monday. As per data released by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Saturday, 1,337 corona positive cases were registered between June 1 and July 10 in the city whereas the number was 495 between March 11 and May 31. Doubling rate also drastically reduced to 18 days from 49 while number of deaths surged to 17. Following spike in cases since ease in lockdown, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli and Mira-Bhayander municipal corporations have reimposed full lockdown. Lockdown will be reinforced in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad from July 13. Mundhe told TOI that there were less cases in city during full lockdown when guidelines were followed. “Rules were relaxed to resume economic activities and social life but people stopped following government and NMC guidelines, leading to spike in cases,” he said. He emphasized that pandemic can be “controlled easily if all ensure Covid distancing, wear masks in public, follow respiratory etiquette and avoid spitting in public places.” “Norms formulated for shops and private establishments too are not being followed. Enough chances have been given but from now on stringent action will be taken against violators,” he said. Citing cases when some people had tried to refuse admission in isolation wards after testing positive, he said, “It will further increase cases. They should get admitted immediately for the sake of own and society’s safety. Some people are not consulting doctors despite showing symptoms, which might lead to deaths as has happened in the last few days.” “Testing has increased, rapid antigen tests and antibody tests have started, Covid-19 patients are also being treated at private hospitals, all types of facilities are being given at quarantine centres, and Covid Care Centres have been set up for asymptomatic patients. Now people should cooperate with authorities. Anybody having health problems should compulsorily consult doctors. Anyone can call the NMC control room and seek help,” he said. Mundhe said Nagpur Central Jail has emerged as new hotspot as over 300 tested positive while many prisoners yet to be tested. “Early detection of cases and treatment will help in keeping mortality low and containing spread of Covid-19. We will have to prevent emergence of new hotspots,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/full-lockdown-if-violations-continue-mundhe/articleshow/76915898.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||Five dead as Vidarbha records over 200 cases for 3rd day||NAGPUR: Vidarbha recorded five Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, taking the total death toll to 199 in the region. The youngest deceased was a 40-yr-old man from Gondia district. Two patients died in Buldhana, which surpassed Yavatmal in number of cases (445) and deaths (17) and became 4th worst-hit district of Vidarbha. A woman died in Akola while a patient from Washim who was admitted in Akola also succumbed to Covid-19. With Vidarbha recording 235 new cases, it was for third day in a row and fourth in July when the region reported more than 200 cases. Total cases have now reached 6,792. Nagpur continued to record highest cases (61) in Vidarbha. Amravati witnessed the highest single day spike with 60 cases, one of them being an MLC from the district, followed by Buldhana (32), Washim (22), Yavatmal (20), Akola (10), Gadchiroli (8), Gondia (8), Chandrapur (7), Wardha (4), and Bhandara (3). On the recovery front, 82 patients got discharge from hospitals. They include Amravati (30), Akola (14), Buldhana (11), Bhandara (7), Gondia (7), Washim (5), Nagpur (3), Yavatmal (2), Wardha (2), and Chandrapur (1). With 4,584 patients getting well till date, the recovery rate of Vidarbha is 67.50%, ahead of Maharashtra’s 59.77% and national average of nearly 63%. BULDHANA: Two patients died during treatment in the district. A 65-yr-old man from Khamgaon, and a 55-yr-old woman from Chikhli died at the General Hospital. This took the total number of Covid-19 deaths in Buldhana to 17. Minister of food and drugs administration Dr Ravindra Shingle, who is from the district, assured that Buldhana will get separate stock of life saving Remdesivir injections by Monday. Total number of Covid-19 cases in Buldhana surged to 445 with 32 new cases. Total 11 patients have recovered taking the number of such patients to 235. It has recorded 17 deaths so far. Total 193 patients are undergoing treatment. WASHIM: A patient from Washim who was referred to Akola for further treatment died on Friday, taking the death toll in the district to 5. Washim also reported 22 new cases, while 5 patients got discharge. Total number of under-treatment patients is 95. AKOLA: A 67-year-old woman died during treatment in one of the private hospitals acquired by the Akola district administration for Covid-19 treatment. The deceased was from Balapur and was admitted on July 3. This was the 92nd death in Akola where the fatality rate is 5.90%, the highest in Vidarbha. With 10 new patients and 14 recovered in a day, the number of under-treatment patients is 303. GONDIA: A 40-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment at Covid health centre of a hospital of Tiroda, died. On the same day, 8 persons tested positive while 7 patients returned home after recovering. AMRAVATI: Posting its highest single day spike of 60 since the lockdown, the district crossed the 800 cases mark in just five days. It had reached 700 cases on July 6. The 60 cases took the district’s count to 855. Among these was a Subhash Colony-based 55-year-old MLC of the district who had been frequenting Mumbai over teachers’ problems in last three months. He got himself tested by rapid antigen test at PDMC here and when found positive, was referred to Nagpur for treatment, a health official said. Total 30 patients got discharge to take the number of recovered patients to 595. The number of active cases is now 230, including 15 taking treatment in Nagpur. CHANDRAPUR: Seven more Covid-19 cases were detected here, taking the total to 169. However, 94 patients have been cured so far while the remaining 75 are under treatment and stable. Of the seven positive patients, three are Hyderabad returnees. The youngsters were working for a biscuit factory. Two are from Gadisurla in Mul tehsil and one hails from Bagad Khidki locality in Chandrapur city. They were close contacts of an earlier positive patient from Gadisurla and used to live with him in the same flat in Hyderabad. Apart from the trio, a 30-year-old from Tadali, a 24-year-old woman from Urjanagar, a 14-year-old boy from Ghugus and a 45-year-old from Neri in Chimur tehsil tested positive on Saturday. All have a travel history and were either in home or institutional quarantine. WARDHA: The district registered five new Covid-19 positive patients, including a senior officer in the collector’s office. Of them, two are women who are close contacts of a 33-year-old newly wed man of Pipri (Meghe). A 44-year-old man from Arvi and a 27-year-old woman who had come from Akola for treatment are among the new patients. The 53-year-old senior officer at the collector’s office had returned from Dhule and was under quarantine. Following increase in cases in connection to the marriage function in Pipri (Meghe), district collector Vivek Bhimanwar issued an order on Saturday tightening norms for such ceremonies. In modification of an earlier order which allowed 50 guests at marriage ceremonies, now only 20 persons — 10 each from groom and bride’s side — can take part and they all have to be in quarantine for the next 14 days. No person from containment zones will be permitted to attend the function. If rules are violated, offences will be lodged. GADCHIROLI: Six CRPF Jawans and two women from Sironcha tested positive here, taking the total number of cases here to 171, including 8 from other districts/states. YAVATMAL: 13 men and 7 women from Yavatmal tested positive, taking the number of Covid-19 cases to 418. Two patients got discharge with which total number of recovered patients reached 285. Cases are now coming from Yavatmal city as five of the 20 are from Lahan Wadgaon and Tayade Nagar area. Others are from Digras, Pusad, and Pandharkawda tehsils. Total 118 patients are under treatment here. BHANDARA: Three new cases were reported while 7 patients recovered from Bhandara. Now, 87 of the 164 pateints in Bhandara have recovered. Total 77 are under treatment here. Bhandara and Chandrapur are the only two districts in Vidarbha where no Covid-19 death has been reported yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-dead-as-vid-records-over-200-cases-for-3rd-day/articleshow/76915813.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 12, 2020||Thane||Navi Mumbai joins other parts of MMR in extending lockdown||MUMBAI: After Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Thane city, Kalyan-Dombivli and Mira-Bhayander on Friday, more cities, towns and rural parts in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region announced an extension of lockdown on Saturday. Navi Mumbai, Shahpur, Murbad, Ambernath, Kulgaon and Badlapur will be under lockdown till July 19. Ulhasnagar will be shut till July 22, while Panvel, which is under lockdown till Monday, is still to announce an extension. Vasai-Virar has been spared another round of lockdown so far. While residents, local traders and elected representatives criticized extension of the lockdown in MMR and in Thane rural, civic officials said breaking the transmission chain of Covid-19 requires people to stay indoors. They said a lockdown, coupled with increased testing, will help improve the case doubling rate. In Navi Mumbai, the APMC wholesale market and Thane-Belapur TTC industrial area, along with essential services, will continue functioning during the lockdown, said civic chief A B Misal. People in Navi Mumbai can shop for essentials like grocery, vegetables, fruits, milk and bread till 10 am, officials said. Navi Mumbai recorded 253 cases on Saturday, taking the case tally there to 9,132. The death toll reached 292 there, with eight succumbing on Saturday. Panvel, with 169 positives, moved to 3,680 cases on Saturday. Two deaths took the toll to 94 deaths. Rural Panvel had 54 new cases and Uran taluka had 30 positives. No death was reported from these two areas. Thane touched a new high with 456 fresh cases, taking its tally to 12,925. Seven deaths took the toll there to 480. Municipal commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma interacted with corporators via video and urged them to form ward-level action panels to battle the crisis. Thane, where there has been confusion on shop timings, has been running out of essentials. People complained of fresh vegetables, fruits and foodgrains becoming scarce. “The main markets are shut and daily requirements are not available online and offline,” said Madhumati Choudhary, resident of Wagle Estate. While there is no written order on grocery shop timings, most in Thane have been shut through the lockdown. Some locals are travelling to Mumbai to get their purchases. “I went to Bhandup to pick up groceries. Some shops here are illegally selling foodgrains but at exorbitant rates,” said Asmith Kandhare, a resident of Ghodbunder Road. BJP RS MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe has written to CM Uddhav Thackeray asking him to reconsider the lockdown. “All shops should be allowed to stay open for a limited time every day,”he said. In Mira Road, ex-MLA Narendra Mehta asked the collector to reconsider lockdown. Mira-Bhayander saw 243 fresh cases, taking the total to 5,449. Four deaths took the toll to 184. In Vasai-Virar, 322 fresh cases and 10 deaths were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/navi-mumbai-joins-other-parts-of-mmr-in-extending-lockdown/articleshow/76916702.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai joins other parts of MMR in extending lockdown||MUMBAI: After Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Thane city, Kalyan-Dombivli and Mira-Bhayander on Friday, more cities, towns and rural parts in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region announced an extension of lockdown on Saturday. Navi Mumbai, Shahpur, Murbad, Ambernath, Kulgaon and Badlapur will be under lockdown till July 19. Ulhasnagar will be shut till July 22, while Panvel, which is under lockdown till Monday, is still to announce an extension. Vasai-Virar has been spared another round of lockdown so far. While residents, local traders and elected representatives criticized extension of the lockdown in MMR and in Thane rural, civic officials said breaking the transmission chain of Covid-19 requires people to stay indoors. They said a lockdown, coupled with increased testing, will help improve the case doubling rate. In Navi Mumbai, the APMC wholesale market and Thane-Belapur TTC industrial area, along with essential services, will continue functioning during the lockdown, said civic chief A B Misal. People in Navi Mumbai can shop for essentials like grocery, vegetables, fruits, milk and bread till 10 am, officials said. Navi Mumbai recorded 253 cases on Saturday, taking the case tally there to 9,132. The death toll reached 292 there, with eight succumbing on Saturday. Panvel, with 169 positives, moved to 3,680 cases on Saturday. Two deaths took the toll to 94 deaths. Rural Panvel had 54 new cases and Uran taluka had 30 positives. No death was reported from these two areas. Thane touched a new high with 456 fresh cases, taking its tally to 12,925. Seven deaths took the toll there to 480. Municipal commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma interacted with corporators via video and urged them to form ward-level action panels to battle the crisis. Thane, where there has been confusion on shop timings, has been running out of essentials. People complained of fresh vegetables, fruits and foodgrains becoming scarce. “The main markets are shut and daily requirements are not available online and offline,” said Madhumati Choudhary, resident of Wagle Estate. While there is no written order on grocery shop timings, most in Thane have been shut through the lockdown. Some locals are travelling to Mumbai to get their purchases. “I went to Bhandup to pick up groceries. Some shops here are illegally selling foodgrains but at exorbitant rates,” said Asmith Kandhare, a resident of Ghodbunder Road. BJP RS MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe has written to CM Uddhav Thackeray asking him to reconsider the lockdown. “All shops should be allowed to stay open for a limited time every day,”he said. In Mira Road, ex-MLA Narendra Mehta asked the collector to reconsider lockdown. Mira-Bhayander saw 243 fresh cases, taking the total to 5,449. Four deaths took the toll to 184. In Vasai-Virar, 322 fresh cases and 10 deaths were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-joins-other-parts-of-mmr-in-extending-lockdown/articleshow/76916698.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 death toll in Maharashtra rising by 1,000 every 5 days||MUMBAI: For the last 25 days, the toll due to Covid-19 in Maharashtra has been rising by 1,000 deaths every fifth day. Casualties in the state, one of India’s most populated regions, is now ahead of many countries; the toll in Germany stands at 9,069 deaths while Canada has 8,811 deaths. China, where the pandemic started in November, has less than half of Maharashtra’s fatalities at 4,641 so far. Maharashtra accounts for 45% of the country’s toll of 22,123 so far. It was 5,537 on June 16 when public health authorities launched a big ‘death reconciliation’ exercise following criticism that it was hiding Covid-19 deaths; 1,329 deaths were added in a single day. Barely five days after the June 16 revision, the figure jumped from 5,537 to 6,170 on June 21. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on CoronavirusThe surge in Maharashtra has come from Covid clusters emerging in the satellite cities of Mumbai. Thane district (with nine municipal corporations and councils around the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation) recorded only 641 deaths until June 16, but the increase there has been sharp – 957 – since then. The overall Thane district toll is 1,598 so far. Read AlsoIndia at good position in Covid-19 battle: Amit ShahIndia is at a "good position" in the battle against the coronavirus pandemic and the country will fight the disease with determination and enthusiasm, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday. Shah spoke after participating in a mega plantation drive initiated by the Central Armed Police ForcesMumbai has only recorded 2,077 deaths since June 16 (3,167 before that). “It is clear that Mumbai has flattened out after hitting a peak in the second half of May. Now Maharashtra is on the verge of reaching a peak,’’ said Dr Shashank Joshi, dean of the Indian College of Physicians, who is also a member of the state’s task force on Covid-19. Dr Joshi said cases are likely to continue rising at the current pace in Maharashtra for another two weeks. Proximity to Mumbai has been often cited as one of the reasons for the toll in the rest of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. In addition, Pune, Jalgaon and Aurangabad are the areas that officials are worried about. A doctor from the state public health department, however, felt that rising numbers could also be a function of increased testing. “Maharashtra has over 110 testing facilities now,’’ said the doctor. However, another doctor said it should be checked if the rise is due to an increase in cases from areas that were unlocked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-death-toll-in-maharashtra-rising-by-1000-every-5-days/articleshow/76916703.cms||Malathy Iyer
July 12, 2020||Mumbai||Vice-chancellors write to governor for clarity as Maharashtra and UGC differ on exams||MUMBAI: On the question of whether to hold the final semester exams in the state or not, vice-chancellors (V-Cs) of all state universities have dispatched a note to the chancellor seeking his advice on moving forward on the sticky issue. After several twists and turns, V-Cs decided to step up and write to the governor about the timeline of the events around the exam issue, the abrupt stalling of the academic year, the pending exams, the mandate they received from the state government from time to time and the guidelines from the UGC. "We realised that he [governor] was not being involved in this entire process," a stakeholder said. "After all, he is the chancellor, the supreme boss for us, and it is important that we keep him in the loop and follow what he asks us to do. While the state is asking us not to hold exams, the fresh UGC guidelines and the letter from home affairs make it mandatory to hold exams. We are confused and we want to seek his guidance." There is also the possibility of people approaching the courts for justice. "The ATKT formula is irrational," another stakeholder said. "It may push someone with backlogs ahead of a candidate who has cleared all subjects on merit. Moreover, professional apex bodies have stated that they will not award practising licence to students who are not assessed before they graduate. The state has not given universities anything in writing. To move forward with the decision of not holding exams and graduating everyone with ATKT, an ordinance will have to be passed and will have to eventually be signed by the governor." The V-Cs seemed unhappy with the manner in which higher education minister Uday Samant has been "mandating" them to draw up various formulae to clear final year students, as also graduate those with backlogs. "After forcing V-Cs and directors into all this, he held a press briefing and made it all look like it was all our unanimous decision to not hold exams and to clear candidates who have backlogs," a stakeholder said.In the minutes of the state-level meeting of VCs and directors, university bosses mentioned that all points were prior to any fresh guidelines from the UGC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vice-chancellors-write-to-governor-for-clarity-as-maharashtra-and-ugc-differ-on-exams/articleshow/76916711.cms||Hemali Chhapia
July 12, 2020||India||Bengaluru, Mumbai & NE cities go for lockdown||BENGALURU: Amid a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases in the state capital and signs of the contact-tracing model crumbling, Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa on Saturday announced a complete lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts from 8pm on July 14 to 5am on July 22. An unnamed senior cabinet minister was among the 2,798 new Covid cases reported across the state during the day, 1,533 of them in Bengaluru alone. The 24-hour spike was the third highest in the country after Maharashtra (8,139 cases) and Tamil Nadu (3,965). The tech capital’s overall case count stood at 16,862, with 229 deaths. Several other cities and towns — from Maharashtra in the west to Guwahati and Shillong in the Northeast – on Saturday got either an extension or a return to lockdown. After Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Thane city, Kalyan-Dombivli and Mira-Bhayander on Friday, more urban and rural pockets of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region joined the list of places where the lockdown will continue. In the Northeast, the Assam government extended the ongoing 14-day lockdown in Guwahati and other pockets of Kamrup (Metro) district by another week till July 19. For the Meghalaya capital of Shillong, the Covid-induced total lockdown will make a comeback for two days, beginning Monday. Watch Covid-19: 10-day total lockdown in two phases from July 14 catches Pune by surprise||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengaluru-mumbai-ne-cities-go-for-lockdown/articleshow/76916722.cms||Kiran Parashar
July 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Pharmacist, aide nabbed for blackmarketing Covid drug||Mumbai: While patients' relatives are queuing up to buy Covid-19 drugs from distributors, a Mira Road pharmacist and his accomplice were arrested for blackmarketing ramdesivir, the main medicine undergoing trials as a possible treatment for the virus. A private Bandra hospital's in-house pharmacy, from where the injections were allegedly sneaked out, is under the scanner. Though the drug can be available only through government and hospital channels, kin of patients are procuring it illegally in desperation. Acting on a tip-off, Mira Road police set a trap on Friday evening. A decoy customer called up pharmacist Sonu Darshu (25), from a medical shop in Saibaba Nagar, Mira Road. Darshu agreed to meet after the cost of a 100mg vial (single dose) was fixed at Rs20,000. Four doses were seized from Darshu and Raul Rodriques (31). It was mentioned on the packaging of the injections 'For use in hospital/institutional set up only'. The actual cost of a vial is Rs5,400, said inspector Sanjay Kadam but the accused tried to sell each vial for Rs30,000 and settled for Rs20,000. They told police they procured them from the in-house pharmacy. Two hospital pharmacy staff are being questioned. Police said batches of the seized drugs will be matched with the hospital's quota. The two were booked under IPC section 420 for cheating, sections of Essential Commodities Act, Drug Price Control Act and Food Drug Administration Act. Police are ascertaining how many injections the two, now in police custody, sold illegally. Home minister Anil Deshmukh had appealed to people not to hoard the drugs and said they were placing bulk orders for remdesivir and tocilizumab. Palghar district collector Dr Kailash Shinde said remdesivir was being given free where required, while Thane civic chief Dr Vipin Sharma said they were in talks with a pharmaceutical firm. Thane's Dr Sushil Indoria said that he lost a 60-year-old patient as he could not get the drug.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-pharmacist-aide-nabbed-for-blackmarketing-covid-drug/articleshow/76916733.cms||Sandhya Nair
July 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Household Ganesh idols can’t be over 2ft||MUMBAI: After restricting the height of Ganesh idols to 4 ft for mandals, the state home department has also capped the size of household idols at 2 ft, urging all to keep the festival low-key this year. A circular issued on Saturday by the department’s principal secretary Amitabh Gupta urged devotees to worship a metal or marble idol at home instead of installing the customary idol made of clay or Plaster of Paris. In case devotees do bring home clay idols, the state has requested them to carry out immersion within their premises or in artificial tanks nearby. The ten-day festival starts on August 22. Defer Ganesh immersion till next year if possible: GovtThe home department circular has also recommended postponing immersion till next year if possible. The period cited for immersion in 2021 is either Maghi Ganeshotsav, which is in February, or the Bhadrapad Ganeshotsav of August-September 2021. Gupta appealed to all mandals to scale down festivities to avoid crowds amid the pandemic. They have been instructed to avoid organising ‘aagman’ and ‘visarjan’ processions and make online arrangements for darshan through cable TV, websites and social media instead of encouraging physical darshan. Mandals may accept only voluntary donations, giving preference to displaying health advisories or social messages. Instead of cultural programmes, mandals are urged to organise health camps. Arrangements must be made for thermal screening near pandals and attention paid to adhering to physical distancing, use of masks and sanitisers for devotees. BMC has begun accepting online applications from July 10 from mandals who wish to erect pandals or a stage on roads and footpaths. The final date for applying is August 19. Inputs by Bella Jaisinghani||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-household-ganesh-idols-cant-be-over-2ft/articleshow/76916728.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||Std XI admissions: Junior colleges to drag education dept to court||NAGPUR: Around 50 junior colleges from the city are in the final stages of preparing documents to drag the education department to court over the ‘centralized’ system of Std XI admissions. On Friday, an informal group of colleges wrote to the local education officer expressing their unhappiness of admissions continuing in the ‘centralized’ mode. The group says admissions should continue via online mode but modified so that students can apply directly to colleges, rather than through the education department. The centralized admission process (CAP) is applicable to colleges within the city limits, whereas those that are outside, deal with students directly. This has resulted in an increase in the number of tie-ups of colleges with coaching classes located just outside the city limits. Ravindra Fadnavis, a trustee of an educational institute, is leading the agitation which is all set to land up in courts. “Our plan is to file a petition within a week before the court. In Mumbai and Pune, even junior colleges from the metropolitan area are covered. Similarly, Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority colleges must also be brought under the online admission ambit,” said Fadnavis, adding, “In this way, colleges will get a level playing field.” Students take nominal admission in colleges outside the city limits because it’s not part of CAP. “But for the next two years (XI & XII), they don’t go to college at all, and instead, spend time at coaching centres,” said Fadnavis. Many city colleges feel that they lose out on admissions because of this arrangement. “The education department has no role to play in the admissions except for providing a common online platform where colleges can display their cutoffs. Students can then directly apply to colleges for admissions without going through the guidance centres,” said Fadnavis. He alleged that once students land at the guidance centres opened for CAP, their preferences are manipulated. “Last year, a college got a list of 150 students who had chosen it as a preference. But only 15 took admission. Why? Who (at the guidance centre) is convincing students to change track?,” said Fadnavis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/std-xi-admissions-junior-colleges-to-drag-education-dept-to-court/articleshow/76915985.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 12, 2020||Jaipur||Intense monitoring at highest level was critical to our success: Rajasthan additional chief secretary (home)||Rohit Kumar Singh, the newly appointed additional chief secretary (home) and former ACS (health), tells TOI’s Syed Intishab Ali in an exclusive interview that Rajasthan has so far handled Covid-19 extremely efficiently and assured that the war on the virus will continue till everyone was safe. Excerpts You were in charge and the key person taking crucial decisions to combat Covid-19 after the first case was reported in the state as additional chief secretary (health). How do you rate yourself in leading the crucial battle against the virus?The battle against Covid-19 has been a dynamic learning experience and our goal has always been to ensure that no citizen is left out. Rajasthan embraced the novelty and uncertainty surrounding the virus, proactively planning and implementing bold interventions. In a state as large as Rajasthan, rapid communication channels were crucial to coordinate the response. Since guidance and notices were shared in a timely manner, problems could be addressed promptly. As cases began rising, Rajasthan launched Mission LiSa - a coordinated effort for following-up with the health of vulnerable groups (infants, pregnant women, those with chronic diseases and the elderly) in medically and socially high risk geographical areas. I owe the promising recovery rate to our frontline health workers, who worked round-the-clock to actively screen, follow-up and take care of thousands of citizens for both Covid and non-Covid concerns. Moving forward, it has been planned to digitally enable our health workforce, which will be key for longitudinal and comprehensive community-based health tracking and efficient resource deployment. Do you think the situation is under control in Rajasthan and why?Fortunately, Rajasthan has been doing very well compared to other states. In March, we were early to opt for a statewide lockdown and a ban on inter-state as well as inter-district travel. Later, we were the first to adopt comprehensive screening, aggressive testing, contact tracing and quarantine measures in Bhilwara, which served as an example at national and international levels. Today with our improved PCR capacity, hospital and quarantine infrastructure, we have tested 9,20,600 citizens, confirmed 20,688 cases and helped 16,278 citizens to recovery. Now we have allowed more relaxation to people. Do you think that it is a major cause of spike in cases in June and July?Given the highly contagious nature of Covid, relaxation is likely the cause of the spike in cases. At the same time, our surveillance measures are continuing in a dedicated manner. We are investing significantly in information, education and communication through several platforms: physical pamphlets and posters, our WhatsApp chatbot and automated, targeted, dialect specific awareness voice calls. In the state, more than 400 people have lost their lives to the virus. Do you think that deaths could have been prevented if movement relaxations were not withdrawn?Restrictions on movement have continued for over three months and although it has helped control the spread of the virus, it has also caused severe economic, social and health problems for people, especially the poor. Now, I believe maintaining primary healthcare access, protecting the vulnerable and educating the masses to follow safety guidelines will be most relevant for uplifting public health. Are you satisfied with the way the state has fought against Covid including doctors, medical staff and police?Night and day, our frontline staff went door-to-door to screen families, tested citizens and traced contacts, while our physicians, nurses and technicians ensured timely diagnosis and appropriate treatment. Overall, our health workforce has done tremendously well in balancing Covid and non-Covid care. On the other hand, police have been vital in ensuring adherence to social distancing measures and lockdown restrictions, which is a difficult task in socio-demographically challenging areas. To enable physicians address Covid and general primary health concerns in containment zones where movement is yet restricted, we have deployed mobile OPD vans. How close we are in achieving herd immunity. Since vaccine against Covid is not available, do you think achieving herd immunity is the only hope?Globally, the disease pattern for Covid is evolving and we remain uncertain in predicting the extent of the pandemic and its outcomes. Although many experts feel that achieving herd immunity is India’s only hope, we should continue to place confidence in vaccine trials which are being conducted in India and around the world. How difficult was it to contain the spread of Covid in one of the biggest hotspots of the country, which is Jaipur's Ramganj area. How it was different from other hotspots in Bhilwara, Jodhpur, Bhatatpur and Pali. Did we have different strategies to contain the spread of virus in different districts?Addressing the outbreak in Ramganj was challenging because of the sheer density of the population and the lack of adherence to social distancing and lockdown measures. For Covid response in Ramganj and other hotspots, we placed the citizens at the centre: primary health care access was ensured through mobile van deployment, essentials were delivered at doorstep and social and cultural practices were respected. Since each outbreak is unique and local knowledge is vital to appropriately address it, the state government provided general guidelines, we strongly encouraged district administration to make independent decisions based on local conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/intense-monitoring-at-highest-level-was-critical-to-our-success-rajasthan-additional-chief-secretary-home/articleshow/76916731.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||K Chandrasekhar Rao’s adopted daughter now a nurse, waits for Telangana CM’s call||HYDERABAD: “I am scared. She (stepmother) is coming in my dreams.” Those were the words uttered by Pratyusha when chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao went to see her in a corporate hospital in 2015. Moved by her tear-jerker, KCR declared Pratyusha as his adopted daughter and vowed to take care of her till she is settled in her life. Five years on, 24-year-old Pratyusha, who was subjected to torture by her stepmother, has been making desperate attempts to meet her adopted father. She last met KCR on July 29, 2015, when she was invited for lunch with KCR’s family members at the CM’s camp office. Since then, neither could she meet him nor speak with him over the phone. File photo of Pratyusha having lunch at CM's camp officePratyusha, who is working as a nurse at a hospital and nursing college in Khairatabad, is keen to meet the CM to discuss her future. “I want to meet KCR garu and discuss personal issues, including my future, after he made me his daughter. I had conveyed my wish to the officials several times in the last two years. I had even shared my wish with an Intelligence officer when he came to see me in March but my request does not seem to be reaching him,” Pratyusha told STOI. Pratyusha: Always grateful to KCR, who gave me lifePratyusha’s alleged torture came to light in July 2015 after she was rescued by an NGO. The stepmother forced Pratyusha to consume bathroom cleaner, phenyl and large quantities of chilli powder and branded her with hot rods in the presence of her father, who was a BSNL engineer. The father was suspended after he was arrested along with the stepmother. “I am always grateful to the CM, who gave me life at a time when I was on the verge of death,” she recalled. “If the CM is busy, at least I would like to talk to ‘Kavitha akka’ (CM’s daughter and former MP K Kavitha).” KCR in fact went along with Kavitha and wife Shobha to meet Pratyusha when she was undergoing treatment in the LB Nagar hospital. Her intestines were damaged and it took more than six months of treatment for her to recover. Pratyusha, who had a desire to become a nurse, completed her nursing course in November 2019 and now earns Rs 12,000 a month. Interestingly, when she was invited to the CM’s camp office for lunch after she recovered from her wounds, KCR had even assured her to look for a ‘nice boy’ for her once she completed her studies. The 24-year-old says she has no problems as far as facilities are concerned. “I got Rs 5 lakh from CMRF, Rs 2.50 lakh compensation and a house was registered in my name upon the instructions of the CM. I am told that the rent amount and fixed deposits are with the Hyderabad district collector,” Pratyusha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/k-chandrasekhar-raos-adopted-daughter-now-a-nurse-waits-for-telangana-cms-call/articleshow/76916739.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||Growth of 58% plantation units dismal||NAGPUR: An evaluation report for 3rd year plantations by the state forest department taken up in 2015 has revealed that 58% sites (97) of the 166 units evaluated show dismal growth below 40%. The report was released last month, a year after the evaluation was done. The report number 509 published in June, a copy of which has been procured under the RTI Act, has asked CCFs to take action against staff involved in violation of norms. The report states that of the 166 sites, only 25 (15%) have survival above 66%; 44 (27%) have survival between 41-65% and remaining 97 (58%) have survival rate of 40% or below 40%. Of these, survival at 23 sites is below 10%, below 24% at 29 sites, and below 40% at 45 sites. In 2018-19, 166 plantation units in 3,385 hectare (11 % of total plantation) area were evaluated. The objective was to judge quality and standard of work as well as to study deficiencies. The ultimate objective is to ensure maximum efficiency in implementation and take timely steps wherever necessary. But the report states that most of the instructions and guidelines in respect of plantations have been violated leading to failure in most of the sites. Treatment maps were not prepared in 21 sites, it stated. ACFs verified treatment maps of only 37 units (26%) & RFO verified maps of 111 units (78%). At many places, RFO did not sign treatment maps for which CCF (evaluation) recommended action for gross negligence, but none has been held accountable. “Measurement books of plantations have not been maintained properly as per norms as well as showing grid wise details of works carried out, leading to problem to check the quantum of works in the plantation site. Such irregularities have been found in Nagpur, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Yavatmal, Amravati and Thane circles,” says the report. Due to improper and poor fire protection works, 26 of the 166 units have been damaged. CCFs and DyCFs have been asked to take action for bogus casualty replacement figures shown in the records. The report has observed serious technical and financial wrongdoings in Nagpur, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Yavatmal, Pune, Aurangabad and Thane circles. Over Rs 11 crore was spent on 57 successful plantation sites, while expenditure on 62 partially successful sites was Rs13.08 crore. It also states that 62 partially successful plantations are also likely to be unsuccessful in coming days. “An expenditure of Rs 7.34 crore on 38 failed sites has become wasteful,” the report says. “These plantation units are randomly selected and team visits the spot and does evaluation in the presence of forest officials. We have recommended an inquiry in case of failed plantations to find out reasons of failure and if required, accountability may be fixed for the same,” said CCF (evaluation) Mukul Trivedi. However, despite repeated instructions, there does not seem to be improvement in record keeping, protection, maintenance and supervision of three years plantations taken during 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/growth-of-58-plantation-units-dismal/articleshow/76915993.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 12, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Healthy inflows into dams boost ryots’ hopes, ease water tension||VIJAYAWADA: The water row between AP and Telangana is likely to cease for now as Krishna and Godavari rivers have received early inflows this monsoon. With inflows in the catchment due to heavy rains, the water level in major dams in both the Telugu states is higher than last year. The upper reaches of Godavari, including Kaleshwaram, have also received copious inflows. Earlier, as water levels dipped in summer, both Telugu states had locked horns in Krishna and Godavari river management boards, accusing each other of taking up irrigation schemes without permission. The generous monsoon has made farmers hopeful of a good yield. Farmers across the two states have already started sowing seedbeds. Increasing inflows to reservoirs have also come as a relief to officials of the two states. In the upstream of river Krishna, the Almatti reservoir, which had just 40.9 tmcft of water in July last year, is now brimming with 76.6 tmcft. Water levels have already reached 1,693 ft against the full reservoir level of 1,705 ft. The reservoir has received 8,525 cusecs of inflow and discharged 1,130 cusecs as of Saturday. The situation is the same at Narayanpur reservoir, also in the upstream. The reservoir has 25 tmcft of water this year against 19.1 tmcft last July. Water level at the reservoir is already 1,605 ft against its full capacity of 1,615 ft. Srisailam reservoir has received 36.5 tmcft against 31.9 tmcft in July last year. Nagarjuna Sagar reservoir has already touched 168.5 tmcft as against 127.1 tmcft last July. Pulichintala too has raised the hopes of farmers in the downstream with the reservoir storing 7 tmcft now against 0.8 tmcft last July. The Pulichintala reservoir level is already 131 ft; it was 100 ft last year. “The monsoon so far has been good and promising. There is above average rainfall in the state. The farmers are busy with their work, the governments are busy ensuring better utilisation of the water available in the rivers and reservoirs,” said MVS Nagi Reddy, vice-chairman of AP Agriculture Mission. Due to heavy rains in the catchment areas, the water flow in Godavari is also rising. Irrigation authorities are discharging 1.21 lakh cusecs of water from Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage into the sea. The water level recorded at the barrage was 7.7 ft as on Saturday. The water level at Coffer Dam in Polavaram has already reached 20.4 ft, while it is 16.6 ft at Bhadrachalem, 6.5 ft at Kaleswaram, 5 ft at Peruru, 6.3 ft at Dummugudem, 6.7 ft at Kunavaram, 4.2 ft at Kunta and 8.7 ft at Koida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/healthy-inflows-into-dams-boost-ryots-hopes-ease-water-tension/articleshow/76915375.cms||Gopi Dara
July 12, 2020||Nagpur||Pen-down strike in NMC after MLC Datke ‘abuses’ asst town planning director||Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation officials and employees resorted to pen-down strike after MLC Pravin Datke allegedly used abusive language against assistant director of town planning Pramod Gawande. Barring essential services of water supply, health and fire, and emergency services departments, the NMC officials and employees in property tax, town planning, market departments etc from its headquarters and 10 zonal offices have joined the strike. A delegation of the officials, including additional municipal commissioners Ram Joshi, Sanjay Nipane, deputy municipal commissioners Mahesh Moroney, S Jaidev, assistant municipal commissioners Harish Raut, Vijay Humne, superintending engineers from water works and public works departments Shweta Banerjee and Manoj Talewar among others met mayor Sandip Joshi and condemned the incident. They also demanded the mayor to take action against Datke who is a former mayor. Datke told TOI that he had used abusive language while talking to Gawande on phone. “I realized my mistake and instantly offered an apology to him,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pen-down-strike-in-nmc-after-mlc-datke-abuses-asst-town-planning-director/articleshow/76938274.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 12, 2020||Amaravati||Excess rainfall brings joy to Andhra Pradesh’s farmlands||VISAKHAPATNAM: Generous rains in Andhra Pradesh this time is expected to come as a boon for the state’s farming communities during the kharif season. According to Andhra Pradesh State Development Planning Society (APSDPS), the state has received 208.2mm rainfall, 45.9% more than the normal— 142.77mm during the southwest monsoon, since June 1 till Saturday. The excess rainfall is being attributed to active monsoon conditions such as frequent showers, favourable atmospheric conditions, low pressure and troughs along the Bay of Bengal, an IMD official said. Speaking to TOI, K Sridhar, the joint director of the agriculture department in Srikakulam said that the current rainfall has really helped the farming sector. At present, nearly 80% farmers have taken up direct sowing while 20% went for the transplantation process, he said while adding that districts such as East Godavari, Krishna and Guntur have preferred direct sowing. “The rainfall has come as a boon for direct sowing and is helping farmers across the state. Intermittent rains or light showers are required for the direct sowing of paddy,” Sridhar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/excess-rainfall-brings-joy-to-aps-farmlands/articleshow/76920667.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Excess rainfall brings joy to Andhra Pradesh’s farmlands||VISAKHAPATNAM: Generous rains in Andhra Pradesh this time is expected to come as a boon for the state’s farming communities during the kharif season. According to Andhra Pradesh State Development Planning Society (APSDPS), the state has received 208.2mm rainfall, 45.9% more than the normal— 142.77mm during the southwest monsoon, since June 1 till Saturday. The excess rainfall is being attributed to active monsoon conditions such as frequent showers, favourable atmospheric conditions, low pressure and troughs along the Bay of Bengal, an IMD official said. Speaking to TOI, K Sridhar, the joint director of the agriculture department in Srikakulam said that the current rainfall has really helped the farming sector. At present, nearly 80% farmers have taken up direct sowing while 20% went for the transplantation process, he said while adding that districts such as East Godavari, Krishna and Guntur have preferred direct sowing. “The rainfall has come as a boon for direct sowing and is helping farmers across the state. Intermittent rains or light showers are required for the direct sowing of paddy,” Sridhar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/excess-rainfall-brings-joy-to-aps-farmlands/articleshow/76915397.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 12, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Covid-19 test results within 24 hours soon||VIJAYAWADA: In a bid to provide better and timely treatment to Covid-19 patients, the Krishna district administration has made arrangements to release Covid-19 test results within 24 hours. Krishna district registered 123 new cases on Saturday taking the Covid-19 tally to 2,298. There are 781 active cases in the district at the moment, 1,440 patients were discharged on Saturday. With three more deaths in last 24 hours, the district’s death toll reached 77. Considering the rise in cases, the district administration is focused on improving the medical infrastructure. During the inauguration of the triage centre at Bishop Azraiah High School, officials said that they wish to release Covid-19 test results within the shortest possible time. Krishna district has conducted the highest number of tests in the state. More than 5,000 samples are tested in the district every day. On Saturday, joint collector L Siva Shakar inspected sample collection at the iMASQ Centre at Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium and interacted with the people there. He said that the administration is monitoring the situation continuously and urged the public to not venture out of homes without good reason and to wear masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-19-test-results-within-24-hours-soon/articleshow/76915417.cms||Venu Lanka
July 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Medical students wary of sitting for exams now||VISAKHAPATNAM: Undergraduate medical students and students of dental colleges are unhappy with the government’s decision to conduct examinations over the months of August and September amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Students say that taking the exams is fraught with risks as most of their college hostels have been converted into quarantine centres. Moreover, students will have to travel to various districts to take the exams, which also puts them at risk, they say. Speaking to TOI, a medical student said, “While various academic institutions are postponing exams, our university seems adamant. We have tried to reach out to the government and university officials on social media. We are not saying that they should promote students without exams, but the exams should be held after a few months.” Another student, who studies BDS at a private medical college, raised the point about clearing exam and college fees. “As per norms, we need to submit demand drafts in favour of NTRUHS by July. However, our colleges are forcing us to clear dues by going to the colleges. Most of us study far from our hometowns and many of us are currently in containment zones. Travelling now can be really risky.” Dr K Sirisha, senior faculty at Gitam Dental College said, “We have sent a note to college principals regarding difficulties involved in travelling to colleges to pay fees. The colleges are working on a solution. However, with regard to the examinations, the respective universities are the ultimate authority.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/medical-students-wary-of-sitting-for-exams-now/articleshow/76915434.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 12, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra’s focus shifts to Kalyan, with hopes of emulating Dharavi model||KALYAN: With Covid-19 cases rising fast in Kalyan-Dombivli, the municipality’s commissioner, Dr Vijay Suryawanshi, has decided to implement the ‘Dharavi model’ in the area to curb cases. He has appealed to all 122 corporators to form a team of volunteers from all fields to work together with KDMC. The plan is to conduct door-to-door surveys with the help of volunteers; those found with fever and symptoms will be kept in isolation centres, which will be set up in each ward where suspect cases will be tested. The decision on the ‘Chase the Virus’ campaign on the lines of Dharavi was taken on Saturday during a meeting at Wadhwa Spots Club, Kalyan. The attendees included environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde and assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Dighavkar from Mumbai’s G North ward, which contains Dharavi. They interacted with officers from KDMC, Bhiwandi-Nizampur City Municipal Corporation, Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation and Ambernath Municipal Council. Thackeray said jumbo health facilities are being set up in these cities and towns of MMR on the lines of Mumbai and Thane. Dighavkar said BMC focused on institutional quarantine as asking Dharavi residents for home quarantine was not a feasible option.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtras-focus-shifts-to-kalyan-with-hopes-of-emulating-dharavi-model/articleshow/76916765.cms||Pradeep Gupta
July 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 100 files cleared for concessions in building projects||MUMBAI: Over 100 files seeking concessions for realty projects, pending in the municipal commissioner’s office since the lockdown in March, were cleared last week. There are 120 files still waiting to be cleared, said municipal sources. Plans can be processed only after the concessions are approved. “In 99% of the proposals, concession has been sought in open space deficiency. Mumbai mostly has redevelopment projects, very few are greenfield projects. Concessions are necessary for a project to be viable and for the entire floor space index (FSI) available to be utilised,” Harish Kumar Jain, vice-president, Brihanmumbai Developers Association, said. Jain said that with fungible FSI, a redevelopment project can utilise FSI ranging from 2.7 to 3.4 in the suburbs depending on the road width. In the island city, with fungible FSI, this can go up to 4. A key concession pertains to parking deficiency. “In several projects, it is not possible to provide parking for all flats. This is a significant concession that is needed,” architect Vilas Nagalkar said. Nagalkar said fungible FSI and FSI concession in staircases are not granted without the commissioner’s approval though these are routine matters. “Today, nearly all files go to the commissioner. If rules are modified, then concessions that are routine can be granted at the zonal level and only a few files need to go to the commissioner,” Nagalkar said. BJP MP Gopal Shetty had raised the issue of pending files. In a letter to the commissioner last month, Shetty had suggested a list of concessions be made and, in view of the Covid-19 situation, powers be delegated to the chief engineer (development plan) and executive engineers to approve some of these. Iqbal Chahal took charge as the municipal commissioner in early May, when the Covid crisis was severe in Dharavi and Worli Koliwada. Jain said construction activity had ground to a halt in the pandemic. Now, lack of labour is a challenge. “Obtaining permissions will help us assure residents that the redevelopment plans will certainly take off,” Jain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-100-files-cleared-for-concessions-in-building-projects/articleshow/76916779.cms||Clara Lewis
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Telangana govt yet to take action against hospitals flouting norms to cap fees||HYDERABAD: A repeated complaints from patients and their families, the state government capped the fees for Covid-19 treatment across private hospitals in the state, last month. But while residents continue to complain about the order being flouted, healthcare experts say that the authorities haven’t done much to take these errant hospitals to task. This, in contrast to many other states where the governments have been proactive in either slapping charges against errant facilities or setting up concrete mechanisms to tackle the violation. In Mumbai, for instance, the authorities lodged an FIR against a prominent hospital for overcharging patients and even posted auditors at all private hospitals to look at the bills being generated. Back home in Telangana, the government has still not initiated any action on that front. Closer home, in neighbouring AP, the government has taken over some private hospitals (designated for Covid-19 treatment) and are treating patients free of cost under its Aarogyasri scheme. The government is not just paying for the treatment (fixed as per Aarogyasri package) but also offering Rs 2,000 in cash to every Covid-19 patient discharged from hospitals for continuing a ‘nutritious diet’. “In Telangana, however, even after the tariff cap, hospitals are billing huge amounts for PPEs and medicines flouting norms. The state government needs to directly get involved to control the bills. Else, private hospitals will continue to charge at will. Even taking over few private hospitals is an option — on the lines of AP — to plug loopholes,” said Dr M Karuna paediatrician and healthcare activist. While the state government had announced that a task force will be set up to look into the issue of excessive bills, no further action has been taken so far. Instead, the state has started appealing people to utilize government facilities instead of going to private facilities and paying exorbitant fees. “The fact that the government is not monitoring their own order shows that they are not interested in implementing the order. As a result, private hospitals are encouraged to loot patients. On the one hand they are not providing better facility in the public sector and on the other hand they aren’t monitoring private hospitals. It is criminal to deny public the right to health,” said Chikkudu Prabhakar, high court advocate and activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-telangana-govt-yet-to-take-action-against-hospitals-flouting-norms-to-cap-fees/articleshow/76916782.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 12, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra ATS nab two of Vikas Dubey men in Thane||MUMBAI: Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) on Saturday detained two henchmen of the recently shot dead gangster Vikas Dubey from a chawl in Dhokali, Thane. The two are accused in the killing of eight cops on the intervening night of July 2 and 3 in Kanpur when a police team had gone to arrest Dubey. The chawl where the duo was caught is a Covid containment zone. The two have been identified as Arvind alias Guddan Trivedi, 46, and his driver Sushilkumar alias Sonu Tiwari, 30. They will be handed over to UP police on a transit remand. Last week, an Uttar Pradesh police team went to Bikru village, Kanpur, to arrest Dubey, a known gangster in the northern state who faced more than 60 criminal cases. Dubey and his gang allegedly opened fire on the police and killed eight cops and injured several others. On July 9, Dubey surrendered in Ujjain. The car carrying Dubey reportedly overturned. UP police said he tried to snatch a firearm to flee and was shot dead. Now, UP police have released posters of all key gang members who are on the run.  On Saturday, the Juhu unit of Maharashtra ATS led by inspector Daya Nayak got a tipoff about an accused reportedly hiding in Thane. ATS laid a trap for Trivedi and his driver and nabbed them on Kolshet Road in Thane. The operation was supervised by ACP Shripad Kale and ATS chief Deven Bharti. No weapon was found on the two accused.  "The duo left UP on a bus and later travelled by a tempo and a truck. They first came to Pune and then went to Thane on July 7. Two brothers, in the movers and packers business, are from Guddan's village and live in Thane. Guddan sought shelter for one night. The room owner cited the Covid situation but he insisted. We got information about new faces in the area," said Nayak. ATS said during preliminary inquiry they learnt Trivedi was involved in several crimes with Dubey, including the 2001 murder of state minister Santosh Shukla. UP government had announced a reward for his arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtra-ats-nab-two-of-vikas-dubey-men-in-thane/articleshow/76916789.cms||Mateen Hafeez
July 12, 2020||India||UP, MP cops differ on Dubey’s ‘escape bids’||LUCKNOW: A day after gangster Vikas Dubey was gunned down in an encounter near Kanpur, the STF team that brought him from Ujjain to UP claimed that the don was taken from one police station to another on a motorcycle after his arrest at Mahakaal temple and that he tried to escape on two occasions while being ferried. The MP police, however, denied that Dubey was brought to the police station on a motorcycle or he made any escape bid. A senior officer in the STF who was a part of the team constituted to bring Dubey to UP said: “Cops asked us to come at a police station in Ujjain but when we reached there, we were informed that Dubey had been kept at another police station. They asked us to wait. We saw a constable leaving on a motorcycle to bring Dubey.” “When Dubey reached, he got off the motorcycle and tried to run away. When my team and MP cops caught him, he started abusing us,” he said. Later, Dubey was taken in an SUV with proper security as per protocol and legal procedures, he said. “We stopped near Shivpuri (MP) to check tyre air pressure and Dubey again tried to escape. But this time he was nabbed by the STF team,” he added. A police officer at Shivpuri denied the claim that Vikas tried to escape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-mp-cops-differ-on-dubeys-escape-bids/articleshow/76916792.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Heavy rain expected on Monday-Tuesday, says IMD||MUMBAI: India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a yellow alert for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for July 13-14, indicating heavy rainfall at isolated places being very likely. However, for July 15, IMD has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places. Weathermen said that these may be short spells of heavy rain and a continuous heavy downpour or extremely heavy rainfall is not expected. Over the last few days, the city has reported only on-and-off showers, with no steady downpour, like was witnessed over the last weekend. IMD Colaba and Santacruz observatories reported very light rain of 0.2mm and 4.9mm from 8.30am to 8.30pm on Saturday. Rain recorded this season at the Colaba and Santacruz observatories had crossed the 1,000mm mark on Wednesday. Weathermen had issued a green alert till the weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-heavy-rain-expected-on-monday-tuesday-says-imd/articleshow/76916796.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi scraps exams in state-run universities||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday announced that state-run universities would not be conducting any exams for their intermediate and final-year students amid the pandemic. Sisodia said that holding exams in the current pandemic period would be unjust to students. “The government believes that since there was no study done for this semester, there should not be any exams. We believe what CM Arvind Kejriwal said that in these extraordinary times, we need to take extraordinary decisions,” he added. He said the government has asked state varsities to evaluate students on the basis of previous semesters’ exams and internal assessments and also come up with progressive ways to promote students. Will help all who couldn’t study due to Covid: SisodiaThe ones who were appearing for semester examinations should be promoted to the next semester on the basis of internal assessment and performance in mid-term exams. And the final-semester/year students should also be evaluated on the basis of previous semesters, performance in internal assessments and should be awarded degrees,” Sisodia explained. “This move will give relief to lakhs of students who couldn’t study due to the pandemic,” said the education minister. “While the issue of conducting examinations at schools was sorted out, the decision on conducting examinations at university level was more complicated,” Sisodia said. There are eight state-run universities in Delhi. Of these, AUD, IIIT-D and IGDTUW have already conducted their exams, while DTU finished off exams of its finalyear students and was in the process of conducting exams for intermediate years. “We will now assess the situation and decide on how to go about the exam procedure,” said DTU PRO Anoop Singh Lather. At IP University, exams were not announced. “With the decision of the Delhi government, the university will now decide on the future plans,” said joint registrar Pradeep Upamanyu. Earlier, there were protests by students against exams at DPSRU. “While we suspend all our exams for now, we will speak to the government as there are many intricacies involved,” said vice-chancellor Ramesh Goyal. The Delhi government order is not applicable on central universities in the capital, including Delhi University. At NSUT too, where many students have objected to holding the exams in the pandemic situation, DU is likely to go ahead with the exams. “It is on DU to decide on what they will do. Since NSUT is now a university for only a year, only firstyear students’ exams come under its purview, while all other years follow the system designed by faculty of engineering at DU,” said Sachin Maheshwari, NSUT professor. Watch Delhi: No exams for state universities, including final year, due to pandemic situation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-scraps-exams-in-state-run-universities/articleshow/76916791.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
July 12, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Migrant’s daughter, living on footpath, scores 80%||ROHTAK: Pooja Rani, whose father is a migrant worker from Madhya Pradesh, has scored 80.4% marks in Class X examinations of the Haryana Board of School Education, whose results were announced on Friday night. Living with parents and three sisters in a 10x10 tin shed on a footpath of an upscale Rohtak colony, Pooja says her matriculation result means a lot for her. “Five years ago, I started my education from ‘Gandhi school’— then an informal school under a streetlight — where scores of children of migrant labourers get education,” said an elated Pooja. Her father, Kailash Kumar, is a daily wager and mother works as a part-time cleaner in many houses. Both Kailash and his wife are illiterate and are busy most of the time struggling to earn a livelihood. “I am proud to announce today that I secured more than 80% marks and my parents are on the top of the world with joy, especially my mother who has to do odd chores like sweeping, cleaning to support the education of four daughters,” Pooja added. “My daughters have found their lives in books,” Pooja’s father said about her exemplary Class X result and added that he finds his four daughters studying all the time — when he leaves for workin the morning and when he returns late at night. Pooja wants to teach children of migrant labourersThe ‘Gandhi school’ is like a ray of hope for the migrant labourers in this area of Rohtak as they are slowly starting to expect that they can transform their lives through education, said Pooja, who hopes to become a teacher. She wants to teach children like her, from families of migrant labourers, who often get behind due to lack of financial support or guidance and become uneducated adults. “If I can achieve this, then children of other migrant labourers can also do so provided they get timely help like I got at ‘Gandhi school’,” Pooja elaborated. Naresh Kumar, a social activist who runs ‘Gandhi school’ in Rohtak, said he started this informal school 15 years ago after realizing that the children of migrant workers faced discrimination in local schools. “Often, such children start working with their parents from a young age and are deprived of the opportunity of education and transforming their lives. I started evening classes under a street light gathering the children of migrant workers. Initially, lots of hurdles came but later people started helping us and today we have our own building where children come to study as they don’t have conducive environment at home,” Kumar explained and added that Pooja’s result had inspired other children belonging to migrant families from Bihar, UP and MP, who are studying in the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-migrants-daughter-living-on-footpath-scores-80/articleshow/76916809.cms||Sat Singh
July 12, 2020||Delhi||ED searches travel agents in Delhi, Ghaziabad linked to alleged Rs 200 crore e-visa racket||NEW DELHI: Searches carried out by Enforcement Directorate teams at eight locations in Delhi and Ghaziabad on Thursday on several travel agents revealed that they were processing Indian e-visas of foreigners, falsely claiming authorisation from the government, and had received remittances to the tune of over Rs 200 crore. The scam is now under investigation. The large foreign remittances raised a security alert with agencies being asked to investigate the case as the main travel agent who carried out most of the transactions had been operating out of a very small “chawl” (jhuggi-jhopri) kind of place, explained a senior official. The probe began after several complaints poured in against the agents from foreign nationals in US, UK, Spain and other countries who failed to get e-visas even though these operators had offered guarantees on their website for issuance of the documents based on a fake claim of being authorised by the government of India. Though there are many travel and tour operators who have been authorised by the government for processing e-visas for India, the scamsters were not the ones, said an officer. “These entities were also involved in high value suspicious transactions,” the ED said in a press note, adding that the racket was run with the help of some chartered accountants. Officers said Rs 3.5 crore unaccounted cash was seized during the raids along with other “incriminating” documents and digital records. Watch Delhi: ED raids tour and travel companies; seizes Rs 3.57 crore||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ed-searches-travel-agents-in-delhi-ghaziabad-linked-to-alleged-rs-200-crore-e-visa-racket/articleshow/76916810.cms||---
July 12, 2020||India||Hydrogen vehicles to sport ‘H2GAS’ identification mark||NEW DELHI: Hydrogen-fuelled vehicles will have a separate identification mark as in the case of CNG vehicles for easy recognition. The identification mark will mention H2GAS in white on a red background. The road transport ministry on Friday issued a draft notification proposing to include standards for safety evaluation of hydrogen fuel cell propelled passenger vehicles (cars and above) and trucks as well. The ministry said the standards would be in accordance with Automotive Industry Standards (AIS) 157 of 2020 till the BIS specification is notified. This comes at a time when the government is focussing on zero-emission vehicles. The AIS norms specify the compliance norms keeping in mind the safety requirement of these vehicles. It says, “Vehicle identification labels must be used to indicate to rescue services that the vehicle is powered by hydrogen and compressed gaseous hydrogen.” According to the standard, the petroleum and explosive safety regulator, PESO may evaluate hydrogen cylinders based on BIS Standards. It also specifies that the hydrogen supply line must be secured with an automatic shut-off valve mounted directly on or within the container. “In the event of an accident, the automatic shut-off valve mounted directly on or within the container shall interrupt the flow of gas from the container,” the AIS standard says. Moreover, it says that the automatic valve shall close, if a malfunction of a hydrogen system requires or any other event that results in leakage of hydrogen. “When the propulsion system is switched-off, the fuel supply from the container to the propulsion system must be switched off and remain closed until the system is required to operate,” the AIS specification says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hydrogen-vehicles-to-sport-h2gas-identification-mark/articleshow/76916807.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Can’t expect witness to have photographic memory: Punjab and Haryana high court||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that a witness in a criminal case cannot be expected to have photographic memory. Justice Anil Kshetarpal of the high court ruled that “one cannot be expected to have eidetic/photographic memory. Natural variations do happen and such depositions are considered and relied upon by the courts after its careful analysis.” He passed the order while dismissing a petition filed by two convicts, including a woman who was convicted along with her brother-in-law (sister’s husband) for sexually harassing her own underage daughter. The woman was living separately from her husband and had an illicit relationship with her sister’s husband, who had also tried to sexually exploit her daughter. The woman took the side of her brother-in-law when he tried to molest her daughter and even thrashed her whenever she complained about it. The girl had filed a complaint in the public window of Chandigarh police in November 2014 after which an FIR was registered against her mother and uncle. The main complaint of the girl was that her uncle used to harass her sexually by making unwanted advances towards her. Woman, her relative convicted by district courtShe had also alleged that whenever she complained about it to her mother, she used to rebuke, beat and threaten her. The girl’s father had left the house in 2009 after a marital discord with her mother. However, after the complaint, her father and brother supported her in pursuing the matter in court. The woman and her brother-in-law were convicted by Chandigarh district court — the man was convicted under Pocso Act and other sections of IPC and sentenced to a four years in jail and the mother got a three-year sentence. Aggrieved by their conviction, the woman and her brother-in-law had approached the HC. In their appeal, their main contention was that there were several improvements in the statements/depositions made by the girl in the FIR, statement made under Section 164 before magistrate and the final deposition before the trial court. These improvements were regarding dates and timings of the incidents of sexual harassment and similar other details. They argued that there were a lot of improvements in the girl’s statements and therefore, the case of the prosecution should be rejected by the court. However, after dismissing their plea, the HC observed that it is well settled that an FIR is not expected to be an encyclopedia of the entire case of the prosecution. “An FIR is mere first information sent to the prosecuting agency for setting criminal law in motion. In these circumstances, it is wrong to expect that in the FIR, complete details of all the incidents must be disclosed. An FIR is not expected to contain the proposed evidence to be produced by the prosecution,” the HC observed while dismissing their appeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cant-expect-witness-to-have-photographic-memory-punjab-and-haryana-high-court/articleshow/76916817.cms||Ajay Sura
July 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Rs 50 lakh compensation for death of frontline warriors only on paper, find kin||MUMBAI: The state Covid-19 death toll crossed the 10,000-mark on Saturday. Among the victims who have fallen prey are many frontline warriors in civil attire—policemen, doctors, nurses, and civic employees. Of 2,198 BMC workers who were infected, 103 have died so far. On Saturday, an assistant municipal commissioner passed away. Times ViewSeveral civic employees and police personnel, apart from healthcare workers, have been frontline fighters in the Covid crisis. At great risk to their lives they performed their duties, and several died on duty. Their families must not be made to face the trouble of red tape, but must be given the compensation at the earliest. The procedural hassles for the grieving families must be done away with immediately.In June, BMC announced Rs 50 lakh compensation to the kin of employees who died from the disease, but family members interviewed by TOI were yet to receive the amount. Municipal union general secretary Ramakant Bane said mostly class IV staff have been infected. “Solid waste workers, fire brigade staff, health workers travelled to work in crowded buses. The BMC must ensure compensation,” he said. Imran Shaikh (32) lost his father Rafique (58), who worked at the Goregaon fire station. Rafique was involved in sanitation works that the fire brigade undertook in affected areas. Imran, himself unemployed, said, “My father was due to retire on May 31, but died on May 28.” Imran’s efforts at securing the claim have been thwarted by cumbersome formalities. License department staff Surendra Khandagale (47) was shuttled between four hospitals before he passed away last month. Khandagale was supervising the wholesale vegetable market at BKC. The men and women warriors in white coats have borne the brunt of the crisis. Ashfaq Shah (36), who ran a nursing home in Govandi, died in April. He was initially treated at his own hospital, and later shifted to a private facility. His sister Hima Shah said, “People had spread rumours about my brother having comorbidities but that isn’t true.” Dr Shah has a young son and wife. A total of 45 policemen from Mumbai have lost their lives to Covid, and 75 in Maharashtra. Many of them had no comorbidities. The state government and police welfare department started releasing compensation amounts and initiated the process of providing a job to a family member. Assistant sub-inspector Sunil Kargutkar (54) of Vinoba Bhave Nagar police station died on May 8. “My mother has gone into depression. The government is helping us. I have asked for a job in Mantralaya,” said his son Sushant. Police constable Deepak Hate (53) of Bandra police station died May 29, hours after being discharged from Worli’s Covid Care Centre. His wife Nalini said, “We lost our breadwinner and are still to receive compensation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-rs-50-lakh-compensation-for-death-of-frontline-warriors-only-on-paper-find-kin/articleshow/76916816.cms||V Narayan
July 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Mom donates kidney to son after both win Covid battle||KOLKATA: In perhaps the first instance of Covid survivors participating in an organ transplant surgery in India, a 65-year-old mother donated one of her kidneys to her 38-year-old son at a city hospital last week, days after both recovered from an attack of the novel coronavirus.  The mother-son duo from Bangladesh successfully underwent the transplant that saved the life of the son who had been suffering from end-stage renal failure. Uttam Kumar Ghosh had arrived in Kolkata along with his parents, wife and daughter in end-January. But by the time doctors at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTTICS) could schedule a surgery after getting all necessary permission from the state health department, the lockdown had been imposed. Then came an advisory from the Union health ministry that advocated transplant surgeries only in emergency cases in view of the ongoing Covid scenario. “We decided to conduct the surgery once we got more clarity on how to go about it. According to an SOP, both donor and recipient had to be tested for Covid. Unfortunately, both mother and son tested positive,” said nephrologist Deepak Shankar Ray, head of the nephrology department at RTIICS. Ray said: “Since the family had financial constraints, we decided to send both of them to the state-run MR Bangur Hospital for Covid treatment. It helped that the hospital has good dialysis facility, which the recipient needed while being treated for Covid.” The duo was released from M R Bangur on June 12 after they tested negative. But the doctors had to wait for another two weeks due to the mandatory home quarantine period. The transplant surgery was finally conducted on July 3. “Covid infection can prove very nasty for renal-failure patients but luckily, this patient had very mild infection,” said Ray, who conducted the surgery. Both the donor and recipient are recuperating well. While the mother will be discharged in a couple of days, the son will have to be in hospital care for few more days. “We were looked after very well at M R Bangur. None one made us feel like outsiders. They did not let us lose hope even once,” said Uttam, a private firm employee from Siraz Ganj in Bangladesh. Mother Kalpana said she was initially worried when she tested positive for Covid. “But I told myself that I had to come out of this infection because my only son needed me to infuse life into him.” The family had earlier visited a few hospitals in south India but were told that they did not accept donors above 60 years. At RTIICS, Ray and his team found that the mother’s kidney function was good enough for a transplant. The unit accepts donors till the age of 69 if the organ is fit. Watch Mom donates kidney to son after both win Covid battle in Kolkata||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mom-donates-kidney-to-son-after-both-win-covid-battle/articleshow/76916481.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Not cool to ‘take lite’, say cops as Hyderabadis give masks a miss||It’s been just over a month since Telangana has unlocked and people have begun going out and about in the city again, but many are doing so without wearing a mask, which is mandatory. It seems Hyderabadis’ chalta hai attitude is reflecting in their approach towards wearing masks as well. Telangana police have registered over one lakh cases in the last month against people for not wearing masks in public places, with over 15000 cases being registered in Hyderabad alone. Hope is that the Rs 1,000 fine will make more people wear masks and maintain social distance, but that doesn’t seem to be happening. “People are flouting the mask rule everywhere, be it at banks, ATMs or markets,” says Anil Kumar, Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Hyderabad. CITY FOLK GET CREATIVE WITH BAHAANAS FOR NOT WEARING A MASK Police officials tell us that people come up with a range of excuses when caught without wearing a mask. From blaming the hot weather in Hyderabad to telling cops that they just forgot it at home, or that the mask is stuck in laundry....the bahaanas are endless.  “Many people tell us that they don’t wear masks as they feel suffocated. ‘Helmet unappudu mask enduku bhaiyya’, they say. One youngster even told us that he didn’t wear a mask as it ruined his ‘look’,” shares M Ravi, a traffic inspector at Punjagutta.  “There was another instance when I stopped a motorist. He told me, ‘Mask kharaab ho gaya, abhi mask khareedne ke liye hi jaara hoon aap pakad liye’. It’s amusing but we don’t fall for such excuses,” Ravi adds. MASKS ARE FOR NOSE AND MOUTH, NOT FOR YOUR CHIN! In major street markets in the city, people can be spotted either not wearing a mask or hanging it around their chin or dangling it from an ear.  Pranav Krishna, a shopkeeper in Kukatpally, says, “Masks have become like helmets in the city. People wear them only when they spot cops or cameras on roads. Just like how they hold helmets in their hand while driving, they have started putting masks in their pockets or just hang them around their chin. I am not allowing anybody to enter my store without masks.”  Many are refraining from going to crowded markets going by the way people are flouting the no-mask rule. N Parthu, who works at a Pharma company in Balanagar, says, “I recently visited a store in Abids to get my phone repaired. When I went there, I saw 10-15 people crammed into a small space and many of them were not wearing a mask or maintaining social distancing norms. I left the place immediately.” STOP PULLING MASKS OFF INSIDE MALLS, SUPERMARKETS Since masks are mandatory to enter places like malls, supermarkets etc, many people wear the mask while entering, but remove it once they’re inside. Vijay Anirudh, an IT student, says, “I visited a mall recently for a brief period and was surprised to see that many people decided to remove their masks after getting through the security areas. Some of them wear it below their chin or dangling by the ear or some remove it altogether. I decided not to step out after that.” Mask rule violations in numbers 1,00,000 cases registered in Telangana for not wearing masks in public places  15,000 cases booked by Hyderabad Traffic Police in the last one month  10,000 cases booked in city in the first 10 days of lockdown  Rs 1000 fine for violating no-mask rule  1.5cr Revenue collected by traffic cops in Hyderabad in fines Most common bahaane Helmet unappudu mask enduku bhaiyya  Abhi auto mein bhool gaya!  Mere ko bahut suffocation hota sir  It ruins my look!...  Garmi bahut hai saab  Abhi mask khareedne ke liye hi jaara hoon aap pakad liye||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/not-cool-to-take-lite-say-cops-as-hyderabadis-give-masks-a-miss/articleshow/76915937.cms||Thadhagath Pathi
July 12, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro begins sealing of community halls to curb social gathering||Bokaro: After sealing several banquet and marriage halls the last two days, the Bokaro district administration has also decided to seal community halls of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), Central Coalfield Limited (CCL), railways and other public sector companies in the wake of spurt in Covid-19 cases in the district. Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar on Saturday held a review meeting with JIADA secretary (Bokaro region) Sandeep Kumar in this regard and asked the district officials to identify the number of halls in their areas and seal them. Bokaro Steel Township, which has 10 sector areas, has one community hall each. Several local branches of Institute of Personnel Managers, Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Engineers India Limited (EIL) among others have their halls on their premises and rent them out for marriage and other functions. Kumar said, “Covid-19 cases in the district are growing and it is important to comply with social distancing. People gathering in community halls can pose serious threats. We have initiated sealing of banquets halls belonging to hotels and those located in the township. We had come to know that marriages and other functions were organised in these establishments without following Covid-19 norms.” Bokaro on Friday recorded its highest spike with 29 persons testing positive taking the total tally to 80 in the district. The number of active cases now stands at 41. The surge has put the administration on tenterhooks as the majority of the cases surfaced in urban localities. “About 10 new micro-containment zones have been declared in Bokaro Steel and Chas townships,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-begins-sealing-of-community-halls-to-curb-social-gathering/articleshow/76915805.cms||Divy Khare
July 12, 2020||Ranchi||Districts take steps to curb virus spread||Ranchi: With the Covid-19 infection rate in Jharkhand surpassing the national average, several district administrations are stepping up localised efforts to curb the virus spread by preventing mass gatherings and enforcing safety norms. After 156 cases were detected on Friday, Jharkhand’s seven-day growth rate touched 3.84%, breaching the national average of 3.46%. The doubling rate has also narrowed with Jharkhand recording 18.41 days vis-à-vis the national average of 20.36 days. Unabated infection among government staff, policemen and other frontline workers further rattled the administration after a cabinet minister and a ruling party lawmaker tested positive for the virus a few days back. Despite the grim situation, the state government is, however, still undecided over a fresh lockdown. Demands for fresh and brief lockdowns have already been made by trade bodies based in Jamshedpur and Lohardaga to the government. Meanwhile, the district administrations have begun rolling out micro-level measures and imposed curbs in vulnerable localities and public places. Jamshedpur, a part of East Singhbhum district, enforced a 17-hour closure of vegetable markets under all three municipal areas from 3pm on Saturday to 7pm on Sunday, citing area-sanitisation. A district administration source told TOI over the phone, "We now have plans to extend such closures in other market places for brief periods to break the transmission chain as the government is unlikely to go for total lockdown." With close to 650 total positive cases so far, East Singhbhum district tops the chart among all the 24 districts. Ranchi has also re-intensified steps to enforce safety norms and maintain social distancing. It has sealed 32 big and small shops in the city for violations of virus protocols. The district administration is sealing its borders with West Bengal to prevent unauthorised entry. Ranchi shares direct borders with Purulia in Bengal. Ranchi ADM (law and order) Akhilesh Kumar Sinha said, "Strict directions have been given to officials manning check posts to ban entry of vehicles without e-passes. Though this rule existed since the lockdown for all districts, it is time to once again enforce it without any compromise." Other key towns, such as Bokaro and Dhanbad, rolled out stricter curbs by sealing places that are potential crowd magnets like banquet halls, which were earlier granted permission to operate. Coal town Dhanbad began a drive since Friday against roadside eateries and handcarts, as they were leading to unwanted gatherings. Ramgarh converted its main market in the town area into a containment zone and banned commercial activities and enforced prohibitory orders until further notice. Deoghar district administration on Saturday clamped Section 144 in Madhupur sub-division, which covers vast parts of the district as a precautionary step and announced curbs on all kinds of ceremonies in the district. After a review in the morning, DC Nancy Sahay directed all government offices of the administration, except emergency wings like police and fire department, to reassess their manpower requirements||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/districts-take-steps-to-curb-virus-spread/articleshow/76915788.cms||ASRP Mukesh
July 12, 2020||Kolkata||Didi urges PM to restore UGC’s April guideline on final-yr exam||Kolkata: Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to get the revised UGC guideline on holding of final-year examinations “re-examined” and restore the advisory it had issued in April. “I would request you to get the matter re-examined immediately and restore the earlier advisory of UGC issued on April 29. This will facilitate state governments to implement their decisions taken on the basis of the UGC April guideline to protect the interests of the students at national/international levels,” Banerjee wrote. The Bengal CM, while intimating the PM about the state advisory, said state universities haven’t dumped the UGC advisory making it compulsory for universities to hold formal examinations for final-year students. UGC wanted it with an eye on “academic credibility, career opportunities and future progress of students globally”. Banerjee stated that state universities will hold a special examination for students willing to take it after the public health situation becomes normal across the country. For others, state universities have devised an alternate evaluation method providing “due weightage to internal assessment and performance of the candidate in the previous semesters”, Banerjee wrote. The CM threw her weight behind the state plan while writing to the PM two days after education secretary Manish Jain made the “re-examination” appeal to the MHRD, sending out signals that Bengal isn’t quite confident about the Centre’s stance on the issue. Banerjee wrote to the PM a day after Bengal vice chancellors approved the state plan on Friday. “It may be noted that state-aided universities have taken steps based on the state higher education department advisory. Students, their parents and stakeholders have overwhelmingly appreciated the June 27 state advisory. In fact, I am now receiving hundreds of e-mails from students and the teaching community raising concern over holding examinations according to revised UGC guidelines,” she said. Banerjee held that in the prevailing situation, the revised UGC guideline would “adversely affect” students. The Bengal CM also made a mention that some states have “raised concern and voiced their disagreement” on the revised UGC guideline. They include Maharashtra and Punjab. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has announced that he would write to the Prime Minister and the Union home minister seeking cancellation of final-year examinations in universities and colleges in view of the rising Covid-19 graph. Singh also asked for scrapping of the MHA orders dated July 6. A section of the academia and bureaucracy feels shaky over the “stepping up” of stance in the UGC-versus-state “standoff”. A senior state official pointed out that UGC should have consulted states before coming up with its revised guideline. An administrator in the education front, however, put forward another view. “UGC is the degree-giving authority. There is no point confronting UGC that might put careers of students at stake,” he said. An official pointed out that higher education is in the Concurrent List. “States should have been consulted before UGC came up with a revised guideline,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-urges-pm-to-restore-ugcs-april-guideline-on-final-yr-exam/articleshow/76916486.cms||---
July 12, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 in Kolkata: Iconic Eden Gardens turns quarantine centre for affected cops||KOLKATA: Eden Gardens, the first stadium to host a cricket World Cup final outside England and the venue of India’s first day-night Test, has had another first thrust on it by Covid-19: it is now going to be the first cricket stadium of its stature in the country to be converted into a quarantine centre. A part of the sprawling space under the stadium’s galleries will be used to quarantine Kolkata Police personnel suspected to have Covid-19. This space can easily accommodate 1,000 people and the required medical infrastructure plus a makeshift kitchen, say Cricket Association of Bengal office-bearers. Kolkata Police has been desperately hunting for a large quarantine facility after the 120 beds reserved at Dumurjola stadium were filled up. An attempt to convert the outpost at Rabindra Sarobar into a quarantine facility failed following objections from morning walkers. Lalbazar officials then turned to Eden Gardens and wrote to the CAB, seeking to convert a section of the stadium into a makeshift quarantine centre for police personnel “with immediate effect”. Work under some of the galleries started on war footing on Saturday. The space under the galleries in E, F, G, H and J blocks will be converted into a quarantine centre because they are segregated from the rest of the stadium. “The Club House and some other blocks used for administrative work and indoor sporting activities will not be used,” CAB president Avishek Dalmiya said. The past 48 hours have seen 14 fresh cases, including an East Division officer-in-charge and seven Kasba police station personnel. The force so far has logged 540 infections, of which around 125 are active; two have died and the rest have recovered. “The quarantine centre details were finalised at a meeting in Lalbazar on Friday after police officers wrote to the CAB. It is our responsibility to help the administration in this hour of need,” Dalmiya said. Board of Control for Cricket in India president Sourav Ganguly on March 25 offered the stadium’s indoor facility and the players’ dormitory to the state government for use as a temporary medical centre. “We will hand over the facility if the government asks us. We will do anything that is the need of the hour. There is absolutely no problem,” Ganguly had said. Doctors attached with major city hospitals who are members of CAB medical committee have offered help in the quarantine facility. On Saturday, the association hony joint secretary Debabrata Das along with medical committee chairman Pradip Dey visited Eden Gardens to relocate groundsmen and other staffs to the dormitory and other makeshift staying arrangements in blocks closer to Club House and vacate the area under the galleries for the quarantine centre. Sports facilities across the globe have pitched in by allowing use of their facilities as makeshift hospitals or isolation units. The 42-acre USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Centre in New York has been turned into a Covid-19 hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iconic-eden-turns-quarantine-centre-for-affected-cops/articleshow/76916478.cms||Zeeshan Javed
